-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls IV: Knights of the Nine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/theelderscrolls4knightsofthenine/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features a big, multipart quest as good as of some of Oblivion's finest.
 Retail package includes seven other pay-per-download content updates.
 Audiovisual presentation still top-notch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clocks in at about six to 10 hours, which is short by Oblivion standards.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,921 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 21, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This retail package containing Bethesda's downloadable content updates for its groundbreaking role-playing 
 game gives you more quality for a budget price. 

  One of the many great things about The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is that even though it features 
 well over 100 hours of excellent role-playing gameplay out of the box, it includes the potential 
 for much more. Following the release of Oblivion for the PC and Xbox 360, publisher Bethesda Softworks 
 proceeded to supplement both versions of the game with downloadable content packs, leading up to 
 the most ambitious one yet in Knights of the Nine. Knights of the Nine is a full-on quest line 
 along the lines of Oblivion's main series of subquests, such as for the fighters guild or the thieves 
 guild. It involves you seeking out a way to defeat a dangerous villain once thought to be dead, 
 while restoring a sacred order of knights to its former glory. The six to 10 hours it takes to 
 fight through this quest is time well spent, and though this download is priced higher than the 
 previous Oblivion downloadable content packs, there's a lot more to it.  

          Knights of the Nine tells a compelling side story in the Oblivion saga. Even more make-believe 
 fame and fortune can be yours!     

  Unlike the other Oblivion content downloads, Knights of the Nine is seamlessly integrated into 
 the game. With the other downloads, as soon as you install them and load up a saved game, your 
 character automatically receives a quest update telling him or her where to go; it's pretty contrived, 
 but at least you know exactly what to do. With Knights of the Nine, you don't get a convenient 
 quest update, but must instead ask around for rumors to get your first clue that something's up. 
 It's not that hard to figure out, but apparently it's hard enough that the retail PC version spells 
 it out for you as part of the meager documentation. This particular story begins in the town of 
 Anvil, where you find that the local chapel has been desecrated, its priests slaughtered. An outspoken 
 prophet preaches doomsday nearby to all those who will listen. He informs you that the evil Umaril 
 the Unfeathered has come back to life and will bring about all kinds of wrongdoing if left unchecked; 
 unfortunately, he's immortal. If only there were a way to stop him!  

  There is a way, of course. It involves questing for the long-lost weapons and armor of the divine 
 crusader, a man who once slew Umaril but didn't entirely succeed. So you'll embark on a very traditional 
 sort of quest: Scour the world for some powerful, ancient artifacts, and use them to kill the bad 
 guy. As your first order of business after taking the prophet up on his challenge, you must gain 
 the favor of the Nine -- the gods who preside over the land of Cyrodil -- by visiting the wayshrines 
 devoted to them, which are scattered throughout the land. This may or may not take a while, depending 
 on how much of the map you've already uncovered; you may or may not have already discovered fast-travel 
 locations near the different wayshrines. Since Knights of the Nine simply adds another set of things 
 to do in Oblivion, it's yours to decide at what point in your character's life to try to tackle 
 its challenges, and it'll naturally be easier if you go into it with a stronger character. However, 
 the foes populating Oblivion's world gain experience levels as you do, so the challenge does scale 
 to a certain extent.  

  Things get more interesting after the initial world tour is over. Without spoiling much, you find 
 the ruined sanctuary of the Knights of the Nine, the order of knights who once stood against Umaril 
 but met with an unfortunate fate. As you find the lost relics that were once protected in this 
 priory, word of your quest will spread, and you'll meet characters looking to join your cause. 
 One day you'll come back to the priory to find it all spick-and-span, populated with noble knights 
 who hail you as their leader. Some of Oblivion's other main quest lines did something similar, 
 giving you the sense that characters in the gameworld are increasingly impressed with your actions, 
 and the effect is still remarkable and rewarding in Knights of the Nine. Plus, the armor and weapons 
 of the divine crusader are pretty sweet. Once you have everything you need, it's time for the ultimate 
 showdown, which is fairly predictable but has a suitably epic feel.  

          It ain't no Dark Brotherhood, but the Knights of the Nine quest is rewarding and entertaining 
 on the level you'd expect from Oblivion.     

  Knights of the Nine is available as a stand-alone download for about $10 for either the PC or Xbox 
 360 versions of the game; there's also a $20 retail content pack available for the PC, which includes 
 Knights of the Nine as well as the seven previous content packs. Either way you slice it, this 
 is a solid value. Not all of the content packs are winners, such as the infamous "horse armor" 
 pack, which was the first content piece Bethesda charged for. But later ones like the Wizard's 
 Tower and the Orrery are more substantial, giving you some more questing to do and some worthwhile 
 rewards at the end of it all. If you haven't bought any of the content piecemeal for the PC, then 
 it's nice to be able to get all eight of the downloads on a single disc. Of course, Oblivion also 
 has a thriving player community that's created an untold number of original, free content updates 
 and mods for the PC version, but there's still appeal in having access to all of the official content 
 updates to Oblivion. And Knights of the Nine, in particular, stands out as having the same very 
 high level of quality as much of the original game.  

  The content seems to be identical whether you play it on the PC or the 360, and the inherent strengths 
 of the respective versions once again come into play. Don't expect much in the way of different 
 graphics and sound from what you've already seen in Oblivion, but Knights of the Nine features 
 plenty of new voice acting, a couple of powerful new enemies, and a few new effects. It's mildly 
 disappointing that the Xbox 360 version of Knights of the Nine doesn't include any new unlockable 
 achievements to commemorate your accomplishments, considering the other main quest lines all have 
 achievements tied to them. But all in all, Knights of the Nine gives you a good day or two's worth 
 of questing for a low price. If you haven't played Oblivion in a while, this new quest will be 
 a great reminder of what makes it such a remarkable game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  The knights of the nine is an expansion to oblivion, so you must have oblivion to be able to play 
 it.
  Doing so will allow you to access a completely new quest which lasts for about 10 hours if you 
 play it through properly and at the end you will recieve a set of crusaders armour!
  
  You start of by hearing that the chapel in anvl has been attacked, you will hear lots of people 
 talking about it everywhere so it's hard not to go and check it out, then the quest starts as you 
 meet a mad preist who tells you to go on a pilgrimage.
  Pilgramage? sounds a bit dull dosen't it? well to be honest the start is very dull as you must 
 visit the nine shrines to the gods spread across the world map. 
  To add to that there are no markers on your own map, you just get a copy parchement with rough 
 locations, this means the first couple of hours are taken up by finding all of these shrines.
 
  
  After that the knights of the nine sparks up a bit though, you have to proove yourself to the nine 
 by running more holy tasks.
  These includes walks of faith (where the floor looks like it isn't there but it is) one on one 
 fights against all of the knights and much more.
  Visually your taken to place you would never dream of seeing in oblivion.
  
  In the end if 
 you see the knights of the nine for a good price and are willing to play through the first few 
 hours then it's worth getting for sure.
  I definetely reccomend it if you have gotten bored of the normal quests in oblivion and want something 
 a little bit different.
  On completion your infamy is also reduced to 0.
  Of course there isn't much to say about the graphics, but as I mentioned earlier it does take you 
 to some visually stunning places and is a memorable purchase.
  
  I hope this review helped.
  ~gormo~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Nothing new to play, except the old ` let`s crush them `. Your knights act pretty much stupid, 
 charging the Aurorans without even thinking to snipe from afar or build an ambush. After a while 
 i got tired searching all those dungeons, fighting vampires, daedra and different species. In the 
 end i was left with one question - why the high elf hedge wizard waited so much to inflict his 
 revenge ?
  The other plugs in, especially Mehrunes Razor, were nice enough, letting me to think and choose 
 what I want. The wizard spire look great, somehow to far away from main Cyrodil, while the sunken 
 pirate ship quest is a must if you want a nearby bunch of trainers in thieving arts. Being a vampire 
 is not interesting for me, since you don`t get any cool weapons and the horse armor mod it`s a 
 one time marvel time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: This is my Knights of the Nine review,& it refers strictly only to the new content this 
 expansion pack has to offer. For more information about the original game, you should read my The 
 Elder Scrolls IV-Oblivion review.
  Knights of the Nine isn't really the first add-on to The Elder Scrolls IV. There were those mini-add-ons, 
 like Horse Armor, Spell Tomes or Mehrune's Razor (which had to be bought... geez) . Now we have 'em, plus 
 Knights of the Nine, in one pack. So, let's see what they have to offer.
  
  
  Graphics:9/10
  
  The graphics are almost the same, so there's no point in describing them all 
 over again. But I'll just say that the new dungeons look a bit better,& a couple of new caves are 
 really cool designed. Unfortunatelly, the HDR (High Dynamic Range) hasn't been corrected, so I'd say 
 it's better to play with the Bloom effect & Anti-Aliasing 4X activated instead of the HDR. The 
 distant lanscapes seem to have been repaired a bit, but still they're not perfect. For this I'll 
 recommand you a quite good texture mod, which will lower your FPS a bid, but it's worth it. TO draw 
 the line, the graphics in Knights of the Nine exceed Oblivion's a bit, but they aren't "teh shyte" 
 anymore, honor reserved to Call of Juarez & Prey.
  
  
  Sound:8.5/10
  
  
  I'm very happy that Bethesda realised they had made a big mistake in Oblivion's sound & tried to 
 repair them. A few patches, now Knights of the Nine. They have done quite well. The new music is better, some 
 sound effects have improved, but the major update is in voice acting. True, they have still hired 
 a limited number of actors to do the voice acting (I heard a beggar which sounded exactly like High 
 Chancellor Ocatto) , put some of them put heart into it,& did an adequate job. Especially the mad 
 Prophet, whose tonality passes from high to low, a drunk guy which was really funny & the ghost Knights 
 of the Nine. Good thing is, there has been a significant improvement in the game's audio part & that 
 does nothing else but to please me.
  
  
  Story:8/10
  
  
  This quest doesn't start hard & artificially, as the other mini add-ons did. You won't receive a 
 note when you'll load your latest save... you'll get the quest trough rumors,& that means talking 
 to somebody or hearing a coversation on this subject. You'll find out that the Great Chapel of Dibella 
 from Anvil has been attacked, and also that there is a mad prophet preaching outside its gates. You 
 go see this Prophets & he tells you that a very powerful sorcerer which was defeated by a mighty 
 warrior thoulsands of years ago is planning a great come-back. And that's not good, so you decide 
 you have to stop this Umaril dude. You will have to do a Pilgrimage adventure, to search for some 
 lost artefacts, you'll restore an old knight order called Knights of the Nine & in the end, you'll 
 destroy Umaril. Sounds like a common fairy-tale about the hero who, in the end, spilles the bad guy's 
 blood on his shiny armor. Well, it is so, but the story has its strong points (aye, better than the 
 one in Oblivion, but doesn't have a majestic speech at the end) & the common elements won't bother 
 you. Basically, you can finish the game in about 7 hours (considering that you will use fast travel 
 & won't get stuck at the puzzles too long) , so the quest's storyline simply can't bother you.
  
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  
  I must say this again, I'm refering strictly to the gameplay from 
 the quest added with Knights of the Nine. So, after you speak to the Prophet, you'll need to do the 
 Pilgrimage, as I've told you earlier. Now as you might know, there are Nine important gods, so there 
 will be Nine shrines (Knights of the Nine... does that ring a bell?) you'll have to find & pray at. Why 
 am I saying "find"? Because they aren't & they won't be marked on your map ... holly shyte... ummm, I 
 mean holly buisness. Don't worry ,you'll get an awesome map of Cyrodill, accessible from your inventory, with 
 the exact locations of the shrines marked on it. Use your mapping experience (yours, not your character's) to 
 determine the aproximate position on the game map. You'll find 'em all easily, don't worry. Now you'll 
 have to go to the Knights of the Nine Lodge (a headquarters, actually) , open up a secret passage 
 & find the ghosts of the deceased former members of the Order. Next, you'll need to aquire a special 
 equipment, part by part, if you are to face Umaril. While doing this people will contact you about 
 joining the Knights of the Nine order (yep, you're the boss) . You should hire all of them, cause you'll 
 make good use of 'em by the end of the quest. Now, during most of your adventures in pursuit of the 
 special equipment, you'll end up in caves & catacombes. Some of them are scary, some are filled with 
 deadly traps & others require certain puzzles to be solved. The design of these places is surely 
 much better than the one in Oblivion. Now the traps are more or less visible, but you'll be able 
 to avoid all of them if you're careful. But if you've got enough health potions, you can always go 
 Rambo on 'em. Now the puzzles are different. One is simple if you react friendly to the environment... 
 .Another one is really simple after you read your journal entry, but it's clever nevertheless. One 
 is based on memory & is really really cool & intuitive. The best one is, in my opinion, the one with 
 pillars & candles on the wall. Simply awesome, based on logical deduction & also on observation spirit, this 
 puzzle kept me some time until I could break it. I could have used a guide, but I did't... that would 
 have spoiled all the fun & all that "Einsten-ish" feeling when I've finally did it. I'll never ever 
 forget that puzzle. Oh well, moving on, we've got that battle with your army against Umaril's (by 
 army in Oblivions means more than two people, including yourself) , you kill Umaril, then you die ,go 
 to the sky (nice view of Cyrodill from there) & kill Umaril's spirit, so that it may never return. You 
 wake up, the Knights congratulate you, the end.
  Now I've told you that some mini expansion-sets come along Knights of the Nine. Haven't tried them 
 all, but I'll tell you about two. Horse armor is exactly what it seems to be. You can buy armor for 
 your dear horsey, for a bit more sex appeal & resistence to damage. The other one, Mehrune's Razor, is 
 a quite long quest (3 hours) & puts you on the trail of a legendary knife. Not only is it well done, but 
 it also has the best dungeon in the game (an underwater city actually... Bioshock anyone?) .
  
  
  Overall Impression:10/10
  
  A really good expansion set, Knights of the Nine & his little 
 brothers bring Oblivion what it needed: sounds improvement, a good primary quest & new good content. For 
 such a low price, Knights of the Nine is definitely worth every penny.
  
  The Good:-improved sound overall
  -the dungeon design is better
  -good primary quest
  -awesome 
 puzzles
  -being the boss of a Knights Order
  -Cyrodill sure looks great from the skies
  
  The Bad:-story is built on fairy-tale clichees
  -some bugs
  -gosh, why is Kwatch still burning? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Demonhunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The actual expansion main quest is quite simple the gathering of the artifacts is very fast and 
 if you know what to do easy. their is hardly any confrontation at some of the artifacts just a 
 simple puzzle. Before you can do that though you must go through the trouble of finding the way 
 shrines on my computer the map was fuzzy and illegible, it took me forever to find them all. The 
 boss of this expansion is easily dispatched by all but the inexperienced player. At the end when 
 Umaril is dispatched you can get and keep 1 of 9 buffs and a body guard from one of the fellow 
 Knights. With a heavy mouse i give this game a 7.5 out of 10. One major advantage is that you can 
 use the armor and weapons through out the game making the real main quest much easier. JUST BE 
 SURE NOT TO GO DARK BROTHERHOOD YOU'LL HAVE TO DO THE PILGRIMAGE ALL OVER AGAIN TO USE THE ITEMS. 
 just do increase infamy and youll be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Full Review and Score Breakdown Here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2584,0. html
  
  Knights of the Nine is the first official "expansion" for Oblivion, combining several previously 
 released downloadable content packs with a new, larger quest that spans the entire land.
  
  Unlike the other Oblivion content packs, Knights of the Nine is integrated into the game. With 
 the other downloads, your character received a quest update telling him or her where to go. The 
 Knights of the Nine is integrated as if it was there from the start, meaning you'll have to hunt 
 for clues a bit. It begins in Anvil, where you find that a previously-besieged local chapel. A 
 prophet informs you that the evil Umaril the Unfeathered has returned and needs to be stopped.
 
  
  This quest requires you to find long-lost weapons and armor of the divine crusader who confronted 
 Umaril in the past. To do this, you need to gain the favor of the Nine (gods who watch over the 
 land of Cyrodil) , by visiting the shrines dedicated to them. Since Knights of the Nine simply adds 
 another set of things to do in Oblivion, it's yours to decide at what point in your character's 
 life to try to tackle its challenges, and it'll naturally be easier if you go into it with a stronger 
 character. However, the foes populating Oblivion's world gain experience levels as you do, so the 
 challenge does scale to a certain extent. After finding the relics, its time to combat Umaril, 
 and its quite a confrontation.
  
  However way you obtain Knights of the Nine, its a great value. Most of the other additions, like 
 the Wizard's Tower and the Orrery are quite solid, eventually earning you some worthwhile rewards. 
 The pack is a solid addition to a solid RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I needed an Elder Scrolls Oblivion fix, after playing the full game and the Shivering Isles expansion 
 pack. So I went ahead and got Knights of the Nine, and I've played through the KotN game on the 
 CD. (I have yet to get into the other modules on the CD, but I will.
  
  it's fun -- very easy for my level 26 Battlemage (even combo of magic and melee) . I got to add 
 a couple levels. The quests are very straightforward. You won't be searching around a lot for secret 
 places. You go to nine spots, nine quests, get the armor and weapons, kill the bad guy and you 
 are done.
  
  The weapons and armor and nice additions. I have the great Duskfang and Dawnfang sword from Shivering 
 Isles, so I used that much of the time. But I used the Crusader sword for the endgame.
  
  Shivering Isles is a LOT better. Much more character development and good plot twists. But I had 
 fun with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalek200
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the best of the two expansions for oblvion. It adds eight new quests to oblivion, 
 some new locations and some very nice new armour. The main new quest is knights of the nine (hence 
 the name) where you get your own order of knights that you meet around the place after praying 
 at shrines to each of the "nine divines". You also get the vile den "Deepscorn hollow, the wizards 
 tower "Frostcrag", (my favourite two quests) . Horse armour, mehrunes razor, the thieves den (this 
 one is good for getting money) , the orrery and the spell tomes. Knights of the nine, the vile den, 
 the wizards tower and the thieves den all give you houses. Spell tomes gives you new spells. Mehrunes' 
 razor gives you a new weapon and the horse armour gives you... horse armour.
  Anyway, I think this is a very good expansion that I would recommend to anyone who plays oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I played through this whole thing in maybe 2 hours, this was the second time through because the 
 first time it glitched and I couldn't complete a certain part because vital dialog was missing 
 (probably because of mods) . I just ran around grabbing what I needed, I pretty much already knew 
 how to get the helmet, shield, boots, mace, and chest-plate, but I hadn't gotten some of the stuff 
 you get once you've gotten those things. So I just ran around for a while and the whole thing taking 
 2 or less hours and the boss battle taking 1 minute (3 swings each time) and then I was done. So 
 way too little gameplay, and I really wish there was more to the order than a few knights who sit 
 around in a chapel where they just eat, train, and sleep. So an 8.0 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stfolife
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  well if you are going to buy this don't go in and expect a full expansion it's just an add on like 
 i said it'll last you about 7-8 hours and give you a nice set of armor and some really cool weapons. 
 story isn't that great just bla bla bla gods this gods that kill this save that same old thing 
 basicly you are going after a (correct me if im wrong) daedric lord? or some sort of enemy of the 
 gods and to kill him you need some magical armor so like i said don't expect to much from the story 
 but non the less still a nice add on it'll keep you busy for a while and you get a nice set of 
 armor and weapons. another thing you kind of have to struggle to not like quit for various reasons 
 A. it gets repetitive B. it gets boring C. sometimes it gets fustrating well yeah thats about it 
 umm really i think its worth it but thats for you to decide not me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine adds all the down loads plus a new quest called the Knights of the Nine. The 
 Knights of the Nine expansion pack adds a some new content to this game. You get all the down loads 
 including the horse armor and the new quest. The Knights of the Nine only takes a few hours to 
 go through but gives you a bunch of cool weapons and armor. THe other down loads are fun and give 
 you some new items. Over all this game is short, but if you are a big fan of Oblivion and want 
 more things to do than you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I had fun for about a week then I lost interest. I didn't know 
 how to add mods but had heard others saying it improves the gameplay of Oblivion alot. I decided 
 to reinstall the game after quite a few months and learn how to add mods to see if it would improve 
 my thoughts about this game. I was very pleased to find that it did.
  This game is so immersive with the wonderfull modding communities help, I can't stop playing now. 
 I think everyone that was not into Oblivion and it's expansion needs to give it another go with 
 mods, if you haven't done so already. Thanks to the talented mod community I now have a VampWolf 
 Human character to level 80 and he lives on top of the highest tower in the middle of Imperial 
 City in a plush palace. Thats just one of many scenerios and ideas you could also have with this 
 immersive game and it's expansion. I have grown to love this game from watching the sunrise and 
 the fog form on the meadows to the dark nights in the old forest hunting in nightvision... what 
 a game. Thanks bethseda and the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewantcookie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine is a nice addition to Oblivion's overall gameplay. It consists of all the DLC 
 for Oblivion to date, which includes The Orrery, Horse Armor, Mehrunes Razor, Wizard's Tower, Thieve's 
 Den, Vile Lair, and of course, Knights of the Nine. I'll sum up each plug in.
  
  The Orrery: This fairly small plug in adds a quest to find all the missing pieces of the Imperial 
 City's Orrery in the Arcane University. After going to all the campsites and retrieving the objects, 
 you return them, and the Orrery becomes operational. All this nets you is a pretty Orrery, and 
 a Minor Power depending on the phase of the two moons. There are a couple different powers, but 
 you can only have one at a time.
  
  Horse Armor: This is by far the most worthless plug in. All it adds is the ability to get a protective 
 armor for your horse. Since most horses aren't worth having, and the oly one that is is unkillable, 
 this makes it unneeded. Plus, the armor screws up the scripts of horses, so you need a player made 
 mod to fix it.
  
  Mehrunes Razor: This adds a large dungeon to the game for you to explore, all to find the Mehrunes 
 Razor, a powerful dagger that has the ability to instantly kill whoever it hits, though the chance 
 is fairly slim (it is based on your luck) . I won't give away any of the spoilers, so you'll have 
 to figure those out for yourself.
  
  Wizard's Tower: This adds a house for you to own up in the mountains East of Bruma. It also adds 
 a merchant with a decent supply of money, and she is who you buy the house upgrades from. Inside 
 is an alchemy table that increases your skill while at it, a large storage room downstairs, a spellmaking 
 and enchanting altar, and an alchemy garden.
  
  Thieve's Den: This adds a house for you to own underneath the Castle in Anvil. After you deal with 
 some undead, the place is yours, and you can get the upgrades. There's a locked chest inside that 
 relocks after you unlock it so you can practice lock picking, a guy to sell stolen goods to, and 
 a guy to buy enchanted arrows from.
  
  Vile Lair: This adds a nice house along the coast East of Leyawiin. The merchant to buy your upgrades 
 from is placed way up in Weye, West of the Imperial City. This adds an evil altar to use rather 
 than trying to be nice and using the chapel, an easy vampire cure, a poison filled alchemy garden, 
 a person you can feed on if you are a vampire, and a minion you can send out to murder and get 
 money or other items.
  
  Knights of the Nine: This adds somewhat of a guild, that is bent on destroying the evil Umaril. 
 Most of the quests are just getting the armor and weapons. You then get to face off against Umaril 
 and kill him, officially ending the quests. The best part about this plug in is, quite frankly, 
 the ability to put the armor and weapons on to a mannequin to level them up as you get stronger, 
 and also fully repairs and recharges them as well. The quests are a little interesting, some more 
 than others, and the end is pretty cool, though I won't give it away.
  
  Most of these are fairly interesting, and they all add to the game regardless of their usability. 
 If you liked Oblivion, you might as well get this package, since it definitely extends your playtime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  When a player finishes the main quest line of Oblivion, all guild quests and most of all side quests, 
 there are two options for him. First is to stop playing the game. And the second is to downloading 
 or making his own additional content. So Bethesda Softworks decided to make their own plugin for 
 Oblivion. Knights of the Nine can't be called an expansion pack, but nevertheless it is a great 
 addition to the game. The game starts when a player hears a rumor of an attack on the city Anvil, 
 and a priest who is talking about the end of the world. When talking to this priest, the player 
 learns about an old knight order. This order has broken apart. In addition, he learns about another 
 threat to this world. And now it is up to the player to save the world and restore the Knights 
 of the Nine. Despite its short length, the story is very good and its missions are interesting. 
 After completing the main story, the player gets an heavy armor set of the Crusader. This set is 
 collected piece by piece from various main quest missions. There are several things making this 
 set special. First, it is the best armor that you can find in the whole Oblivion universe. Second, 
 every piece of this set has its own special abilities. For example, the sword and the mace have 
 additional fire damage and make players blunt/sword skill better. And third, this set can level 
 up with the player. As a player gains level, he may put his set in special place, and the sets 
 defensive and attacking abilities will rise to match the players level. This makes him to wear 
 this set all the time. And finely forth. Since this is a holy relic, when wearing the set a player 
 can not do anything bad. He can't break the law. If he does that, then he will get a warning. But 
 if he does that again, then he will not be able to wear it. In order to wear the set again, he will 
 have to repeat the first quest, by traveling all Cirodil and asking the forgivingness of the gods. 
 As for graphics, then there are no changes. They still look very good, thou there is a more then 
 six month difference between Oblivion and Knight of the Nine.
  So if you enjoyed Oblivion, and the games shortness isn't a problem for you, then you should get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richterpwns52
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This is an Excellent Expansion adding over 10 hours worth of gameplay and many other goodies such 
 as the horse armour and Frostcrag Spire Mods. it also adds a completely new storyline where you 
 must defeat Umaril The Unfeathered, The ancient Ayleid king and his minions, The Aurorans. It is 
 an excellent expansion, fixing some of the bugs from the original. one problem is that they could 
 have added a bit more to the storyline and include more, and make it more noticeable as the spell 
 tomes are Extremely Rare and are in most cases not worth the hassle. overall it is good but could 
 have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehike09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  i think tats game is best game wat i ewer playd! i like best of this game vas a killing and qasts. 
 tats a hai level game i like it a lot as oblivion! fsgd ggd hgd hg h fg fh jf j fj hfj hg j hj gh 
 jg gj jgh jgh j ghj g jg jg hj gj ghj gh j hg jg j gh j gh j g hj gj gj h gj ghj y fdhdg ds fdsa 
 t fds hfg jkhg nvx v f d tgrdu fg hfds fdsattfd h dgh g fds yrt ujg gdwada sty tdufhh fg sfd yhf 
 j d g fdgs&ouml;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordevan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Although not a full fledged expansion, as Bethesda reminded us over and over again, the Knights 
 of the Nine is a well done, fairly long quest mod for Oblivion.
  
  It changes nothing in the gameplay department, which for me is not a negative thing.
  
  The 
 quest is well done and adds a fair bit of lore to the Elder Scrolls universe. Although it is short, 
 Bethesda did say it was not a full fledged expansion.
  
  The armour and weapons added are fairly powerful, and look nice.
  
  The PC retail box comes 
 with all the other Betheda downloads, and that adds a few more hours of play time.
  
  Although not a must have, its certainly a great way to spend time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pro_310
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Knights Of The Nine is an expansion pack for the PC version of Oblivion (for the 360 it is a single 
 DLC from XBL Marketplace. KOTN adds a whole new faction, the Knights of the Nine. This makes you 
 (the good player) quest for the Holy Relics to once again build the faction up to its original 
 standard. The story is OK, and the quest line is short, but the Armour and weapons are well worth 
 it. As well as that, because this is the PC version, you will also get up to date with the other 
 official mods that were released - Thieves den, frostcrag spire, Horse Amour, The Orrey, Vile Lair, 
 Spell Tomes and Mehrunes' Razor.
  
  Overall, KOTN is well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the nine is not like Shivering Isle in the way that you go to a new realm, no. Knights 
 of the nine takes place within the realm of Oblivion, like any expansion theres new foes to defeat, 
 new weapons to wield and new quests to accomplish. It all takes place in Anvil when it is threatened 
 by a new foe and it follows a line of quests that leads you to meet one of the knights of the nine. 
 I found this expansion really fun to play and is really interesting as well. Knights of the nine 
 adds about another 6 hours of game play if you do the main quest and the side quests, they have 
 added a lot more then I expected and its all amazing like any Oblivion gamer would know. Knights 
 of the nine really isnt that long but in that time it still really gets you into the story and 
 is still as fun as any full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  For a $9.99 mini-expansion, you can't go wrong with KOTN. A handful of nicely designed dungeons, 
 a storyline that will take you across Cyrodil to places you may never have noticed before, and 
 some nice new pieces of gear and enemies.
  
  The overall storyline reminded me a lot of Indiana Jones & The Lost Crusade as you investigate 
 a lost order of knights, uncover some interesting drama that led to their downfall, and get to 
 do a lot of treasure hunting with some clever resolutions. (It's not all STAB-STAB-STAB-LOOT, thankfully.)
 
  
  That said, the lore itself doesn't feel quite as rich as Bethesda's usual faction questlines, perhaps 
 why KOTN wound up as a downloadable quest instead of being included in the original game. It's 
 certainly a worthy and fun questline, but it never really gets as compelling as the Thieves Guild 
 or Dark Brotherhood questlines did.
  
  Which begs the question ... why doesn't Bethesda just release one last swan song to the fans ... 
 a downloadable Dark Brotherhood mini-expansion?
  
  The inclusion here of all previously released Bethesda plug-ins is a great perk, and it also saves 
 you the hassle of having to verify the plug-ins online if you had previously bought any online. 
 If you ever switch computers, you won't be able to install official plug-ins on the new machine 
 if you bought them online because of Bethesda's stupid security validation. So the KOTN store copy 
 is your only option here. Which is REALLY SHADY of Bethesda, you jags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I can't really give this a full, entire review because this hardly qualifies as a full expansion, 
 but it's a nice addition, regardless. The game does in fact come with a new set of quests, though 
 they are a bit short. There's also some new equipment to collect. But I think my favorite thing 
 about Knights is the new collection of places you can own. You get the Thieves Den, which is basically 
 a cave with an old ship-wreck inside. You can hire your own crew, which can sell you stuff, go 
 find treasure, and so on. You get the Vile Lair, which is the perfect hideout for your evil character, 
 complete with a shrine, and a coffin for vampires to sleep in. Also, you get Frostcrag Spire, a 
 big tower for a magic-based player, with its own alchemy lab, and several portals and stuff. When 
 you get each place, they are pretty empty, but you can buy new sections, just like when you buy 
 homes in the other towns. You also get a huge new dungeon to explore, where you can unlock Mehrune's 
 Razor, a fancy new Daedric weapon. While Knights Of The Nine isn't the true expansion that Shivering 
 Isles is, it's still worth picking up. Think of it as just a big load of content to flesh out the 
 game a bit more. It's still recommended you get Shivering Isles above all, but if you can't get 
 enough Oblivion, this is still a worthy title to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine is a package of addons to Bethesda's Role Playing Game of the Year 2006 - The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Knights of the Nine itself, however isn't an expansion to the original 
 Oblivion. It tells the story of an ancient knight, Pelinal Whitestrake, who formed his own order 
 of knights -- called the Knights of the Nine -- to serve the Nine Divines and destroy all evil 
 that threatens to both Gods and Mortals. One day he would fight with Umaril the Unfeathered, and 
 he banished his mortal extension. The spirit, however, remained, and Umaril struck Pelinal down. 
 Now, Umaril's spirit is roaming the lands of Cyrodiil. You must find all the Holy Relics of the 
 Crusader, and be granted the blessings of the Nine to defeat Umaril utterly.
  Graphics remain the same, although it doesn't mean the game's ugly. The sound (voice acting -- music 
 remains the same) is very good. The characters really act like true knights.
  Completing KoTN takes a mere 12 hours, but there are of course other mods that extend this value.
 
  If you want a true addon to Oblivion, you should purchase Shivering Isles, but if you like TES 
 series you should get this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Hence my title u should not get the original game without this. I'll explain. This game adds a 
 extremly simple quest where you get your own weird house/tower for free and it has an alter of 
 enchantment and spellmaking so you don't have to do the numerouse recommendation quests for the 
 Mages Guild. It also includes many other quests. It also adds new armor and weapons so there is 
 no excuse to not get this. Well actually there is. It is far too expensive. If converted to dollars 
 I say about $15 -$20 which to be honest isn't very worth it for Oblivion costs about that much. 
 Hmm.... a addon pack, thats right it isn't an expansion just a collection of downloadable content 
 (the downloadable content costs lke $3 each) , costs the same as the original game. But once you 
 forget about how much you spent for the add on pack Knights of the Nine is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superironic
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine had everything that you could want. It had an awesome storyline, which you 
 will never forget and brings you to a whole new way of playing Oblivion. Some people say that it 
 is short and it probably is but that whole time I was playing this add on could have possibly been 
 the most fun I had with Oblivion.
  
  This add on had a bit of everything. You get a really cool set of armor, some new weapons, some 
 amazing locations and a really nice storyline to go with it. You will definitely get your moneys 
 worth for this add on.
  
  One of the best things about this package is the downloadable content. It doesn't matter if you 
 are a wizard, a thieve, an evil vampire or just some dude who owns a horse. No matter who you are, 
 you will absolutely like what the downloadable content has to offer.
  
  No matter how you play Oblivion, you will like Knights of the Nine. It may or may not be a short 
 experience for you but when I look back from playing it, I reckon it was pretty good while it lasted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dungeonbuster
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  With all of the guilds that you have to choose from in Oblivion, there aren't that many dedicated 
 to being a virtuous warrior of hope for the people of Cyrodiil other than in being the nameless 
 adventurer that happens to be in the right place at the right time. With the Knights of the Nine, 
 Bethesda hopes to give players looking to gain glory for themselves while being virtuous and saintly 
 a chance to save the land from an ancient evil as they bring together the lost relics of a hero. 
 Giving the player plenty of gear as well as including all of the previous plugins that had been 
 sold separately, Knights of the Nine is a lot of fun but can feel a little light on the content.
 
  
  A Quest for Redemption
  
  Knights of the Nine offers up a special quest for the Oblivion adventurer that wants to set a heroic 
 example to the people of Cyrodiil. The exact opposite of the Dark Brotherhood, the Knights were 
 once an order of honorable warriors that were banded together in order to help defend the land 
 from evil before they were destroyed from within ages ago. Their fall was swift, following their 
 greatest triumph over the king of the Ayleids that freed the land from slavery. Now an ancient 
 evil has returned to challenge the very gods and only by restoring the ancient order of heroes 
 can it be stopped. That's where you come in.
  
  The main quest is filled with a variety of interesting challenges that will take you through the 
 corners of Cyrodiil in search of the relics that will be needed to resurrect a legend and offers 
 a chance for nefarious players to absolve themselves of any infamy with a pilgrimage so that they 
 can take part. Aurorans will reveal themselves in service to their king, Umaril, who is slowly 
 re-awakening, and a unique set of items awaits you at the end of your quest. Without spoiling any 
 of the surprises, a few of the tests that you will be confronted with are pretty creative, offering 
 a new twist or two that don't require you to swing a blade as an answer and fit in with the philosophy 
 of the Knights. At the end, you'll get a set of impressive toys, a new headquarters to call home, 
 and a band of knights that you can bring along on your further adventures. Unfortunately, as with 
 several of Oblivion's other quests that invoke impressions of being paraded through the streets 
 in respect or fear, the only ones to really recognize your accomplishments are those within your 
 new guild which can feel a little anticlimactic.
  
  In addition to the main quest, all of the official plugins that Bethesda has put together for sale 
 on their site are also included. A variety of dwellings are available such as a Wizard's Tower 
 and a hidden Thieves Den. Two optional quests are also included, one that has to do with repairing 
 the Orrery at the Imperial Academy and another that sets you on a quest for Mehrune's Razor, a 
 weapon that kill most anything with a single hit. Altogether with the additional quests and homes, 
 there's about ten or so hours of adventuring here, less if you decide to tackle the challenges 
 with a fairly experienced and powerful character. If you've already bought into the plugins online, 
 there's really no sense in purchasing the retail version when you can do the same thing for the 
 Knights content, unless you want a pretty box to put next to your Collector's Edition of Oblivion.
 
  
  It's Hard Being Good
  
  Adventurers looking to take part in another heroic tale and those who wish to take their characters 
 down the road to redemption can rest easy knowing that the rewards are well worth the effort as 
 they bring the Knights back from oblivion in this expansion. With an interesting quest whose story 
 fits in with whatever may be going on in your particular campaign across Cyrodiil, it's a fun addition 
 that will take you into the forgotten past of Tamriel as you fight to stop the return of evil. 
 Again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  NotN is a decant quest on its own. not nearly as long as i would have liked and more new items 
 and enemies would have been cool. How ever the fact that it adds anything to the masterpiece that 
 is Oblivion is justfacation enough for me to buy it. The add-on also comes with the past plug-ins 
 wich for the most part were decant. IMHO only for the true fans of the game. most revolve around 
 buying things to fix up a new location/base/hideout. the real gem of the plug-ins is mayrhunes 
 razor wich was fun. The plug ins are a sorta mixed blessing to me. on one hand thay are realy a 
 bit simple and free user made mods that are just as good and in some case's much better can be 
 had. But on the other hand I am very greatfull to the devs for suporting the game and adding new 
 things. i think the idea of plug-ins is a great one just needs to be refind. Thus i will support 
 them by buying the plug-ins when thay make them as long as thay put a little effort into them. 
 as i said aboave the marhunes razor plug in was great for the price. but some of the other hideouts 
 and hourse armore were kinda weak. All in all NotN adds a good bit of content to what is a very 
 deep game. Well worth it for the PC user and a defanet buy for 360 owners who dont have the option 
 of mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I have noticed that Bethesda has kept Oblivion fresh and exciting with their downloadable plug-ins 
 with new single quests. Knights Of The Nine is the most ambitious and delivers a full quest line 
 and story. The major gripe here is that it is quite short. You'll probably complete in 6-8 hours. 
 Here, you have to destroy a sorcerer-king who's come back from the dead and in the process rebuild 
 a new faction, thusly named the Knights Of The Nine. The first quest is pretty boring since the 
 way shrines are hard to find but by the second quest, everything is in full swing. The best thing 
 about this plug-in is the Crusader Armor Set, probably one of the best armor you'll find if you're 
 a high level character (I was level 18) . The ending is pretty epic, though of a smaller scale compared 
 to the main quest ending. The pack also contains ALL previous plug-ins so you have it as a back-up. 
 Overall, a great excuse to revist the world of Oblivion and this mini-expansion adds great content 
 to an already great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Oblivion : Knights of The Nine add on pack contains some Bethesda's officcial mods for Oblivion 
 like Knights Of The Nine , Mehrunes Razor , Orrerry , Spell tomes , Vile Lair , theives den , Horse 
 Armour ,Wizard's tower etc . The Knights Of the Nine mod itself is very lenghty gameplay experience 
 with some new features and puzzle solving quests. It has a gripping storyline added with excitement. After 
 the Quest you will become a divine knight. The pilgrimage quest where you have to find some wayshrines 
 in the KOTHN mod can be very difficult to locate tho. But ,Knights of The Nine stands out best amongst 
 rest others mods in the pack. Rest other mods are very fine also and enhance few more hours gameplay 
 . The visuals / graphics , AI , Soundquality , is no different from original oblivion but some 
 new beautiful environments are created in the exclusive Knights of The Nine mod .Overall ,i recommend 
 Knights Of The Nine Add on Pack highly to Oblivion lovers and rest other gamers who wish to purchase 
 Oblivion .Its a enjoyable experience apart from regular original oblivion quests .And i'd like 
 to add that be sure to patch original Oblivion to latest version or some mods might not work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  This is definitely a great expansion pack but I don't think it is a best one.
  Main storyline is good but sometimes it becomes boring, I was expecting storyline which is better 
 than this. No side quests besides the Knights of the nine main quests. ( You can find some quests 
 using other small expansions which are available with Knights of the nine ) . Actually there are 
 no special changes in KoN, no surprises, so it won't give any new game play experience other than 
 the standard Oblivion game play.
  Boss fights are not difficult if you have a strong character. But for Oblivion lovers, I think 
 you should have this expansion just because you love Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV is an amazing RPG that is bigger than any other you've seen before and is filled 
 with tons of different adventures. But, Bethesda has been adding new downloadable content to the 
 game to make the game even bigger than before. But rather than small new areas or dungeons like 
 previous add-ons, this one will offer a pretty long quest and a pretty big payoff for your character. 
 Knights of the Nine is a great way to continue your Elder Scrolls IV experience.
  
  The story presented to you is that a heretical, evil, Daedric guy has come back after a milennia 
 of absence to continue wreaking havoc on religious orders. It's up to the player to collect various 
 artifacts and to rally people to go defeat him. The story is pretty good and will actually become 
 much deeper than it seems at first (or how I've explained it anyway.) The general gameplay is the 
 same old stuff. But there are a few new things which you barely saw before in the core game of 
 Oblivion. Namely is multi-enemy combat. Often times during your new quest, you will be confronted 
 by 4 or 5 baddies at a time, but at the same time you'll have 2 or 3 people backing you up. These 
 new fights often work well and are pretty fun to play out. You will fine lots of new armor and 
 weapons to deck your character out with, so if your going to keep playing Oblivion for a while 
 after this add-on, it's a pretty good deal just for that. You'll also become the leader of the 
 religious order, Knights of the Nine, after you beat the game, which grants you a residence and 
 the ability to call upon a knight to aid you when you wish. The graphics are the same old, same 
 old too. There's still the same great lighting and the same bad looking models and the same abundance 
 of load times. But, one cool thing seen in this add-on is that maybe once or twice you'll be suspended 
 in the air above an actual 3D Cyrodiil, which is pretty cool. But, on a negative note, it seems 
 like there was no effort at all to add any sort of unique artistic style to any of the new zones, 
 or character you'll encounter.
  
  The sound is the same old as well. Great music, good voice-overs, good sound effects. Nothing much 
 different, just still as good as it was.
  
  The adventure will last you about 4-5 hours, which is pretty good for a 10 or so dollar add-on, 
 but the payoff in terms of cash, items and other bonuses you'll receive on your character may make 
 it a little more worth it if you're going to be playing the game for a longer time after you finish 
 this add-on quest.
  
  All in all, you'll have a great time playing this quest as it has a great story, larger scale battles, 
 and a pretty big pay-off. The one downside is that there seemed to have been no efforts made to 
 improve the graphical or sound quality. But for about 10 dollars, it's great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGeezer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  It cost maybe 5 pounds, was it worth it? Yes I think so, but only a small part of my review is 
 based on Value for money.
  
  I only recently familiarised myself with the XBOX live marketplace having owned my XBOX 360 in 
 excess of 1 year, getting the knights of the nine expansion was very easy and an interesting experience, 
 thing is, they have released revised strategy guides that include the new additions and now they 
 have brought out the much anticipated Shivering isles that also has another strategy guide so maybe 
 one day in the future when they stop all the expansions they will release a huge Oblivion bible 
 with everything included, until then I will hold onto my original one now until such a day.
  
  Okay, the game, ah yes, Oblivion is of course an epic quest which is quite magnificent both 
 in its appearence and content and for that matter its overall value for money, so expansions would 
 obviously come extra, so what should we be willing to pay and what should we expect for our money, 
 to be honest I thought I got more than I expected as the content was of great quality but I just 
 thought it was a little short.
  
  Their is a Prophet who blabs a hell of a load of crap, go and seek his advice, only he can guide 
 you, then undertake the quest that he basically gives you, after recieving blessings from the specified 
 wayshrines you have to obtain each artical of the crusaders armour individually by completeing 
 various little quests, when you have all of the items you may go and fight all these evil monster 
 dudes with your crew of knights and away you go, also you get to keep the priory of the nine upon 
 completion as well as the armour and the weapons not to mention the crew of knights at your disposal.
 
  
  This expansion has a great more depth that I have failed to capture with the little detail I have 
 given but rest assured that if you love Oblivion you are likely to love this especially if your 
 a sword swinging type of person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Briefly, this is not an expansion pack at all. Rather it is a add on that should only be considered 
 by those who want to get everything out of oblivion.
  
  The knights of nine adds on a new faction of quests for you to complete. It should take between 
 4-8 hours to complete. The plot is interesting and adds on to the elder scrolls lore and your knowledge 
 of its past. You'll have the opportunity to find the armor of the knights of the nine, and are 
 able to keep it. The true benifit of the expansion is the armour and weapons you get out of it.
 
  
  For the content, the price is a little on the expensive side. It's 800 MSP, so only buy this if 
 you truly plan on playing oblivion after you complete the knights of the nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selimpulcu
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  What do you want Bethesda. Do you want money again. Thank you but i bought horse armor , Thieves 
 Den, Vile Lair, Wizard's Tower, Orrery and spell tomes for 22 dollars. What did you say, Knights 
 of the Nine. Ok but i never buy anything from you. I'll tell you what, this mod only adds new armors, 
 weapons, quests. And although Bethesda said it finishes for 10 hours, it took only 2,5 hours to 
 finish it. This mod is for good heroes, so you mustn't have any infame points, but you can get 
 rid of them if you want ,you just need to be pilgrim. When you become a pilgrim, you see one of 
 the knights and your short journey starts. If you love Oblivion so much, you can buy this game. 
 Others don't need to buy it. That's All. I hope you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was So awesome i am not done playing it yet, and i got it when it first came out. i been 
 through the countless doungeans, played the ten characters, tried the breath taking character customizations 
 which allow you to customize everything from your facial hair, to the size of ur head, to the eyes 
 to the ears, it takes hours of ur time, and it is worth it, and it makes a differance. I hope bethesda 
 makes many more expantions to this game, probably a online one too!!!! because the graphics in 
 oblivion is so good, no RPG beats it .... YET. So they dont need to upgrade it. With a expansion 
 that give you all the latest patches, and the official modes of BEthesda, and the new several hundred 
 monsters, npc, weapons, items, and spells, and dungeans and caves, and mines, and landscape, and 
 rooms, and halls, and daedric stuff, and omg this list is llong......... So many new things, this 
 game will dominate. If you dont have this game yet , then you should buy this game and the expansion 
 because it makes a difference. I loved this game for about 1 entire year , and i will keep loving 
 it. This game is to all Hardcore First person shooters, and RPG fans out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4 Oblvion is my favorite video game i've ever played, and Knights of the Nine 
 is a great expansion. Even though the Knights of the Nine quest is fairly short, it's still fun 
 playing. The real fun part is all the extra content like the horse armor and Dunbarrow Cave. These 
 quests for the extra content are pretty fun and definitely worth doing. Before Knights of the NIne 
 I never really spent time as a vampire because I didn't want to have to do the cure for vampirism 
 quest. BUT... after I got KOTN the vampire lair is definitely an easier and better way to cure 
 yourself. The only quest thats bad at all is Repairing the Orerry. But the rest of it is fun. Knights 
 of the Nine is a great expansion that any Oblivion Owner and fan should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zirocrath
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  It begins with a kinda of deus ex machina that cuts out the feeling of the game. In other words, 
 you find out for yourself that something's going on when you see new topics on your dialog options.
 
  
  After that the story is just about an ancient enemy, extremely powerfull that has awakened... Not 
 so powerful if you let me tell you. This mod lacks from challenge, there are not many fights on 
 it. Thou it is a nice story, it fails to put you on the role. From night to day you are (once again) 
 the savior of the world. The story tries, and fails, to make you see this new enemy as something 
 even more terrible than Dagon. Anyway, it's worth the price. You'll see many interesting things, 
 and learn a bit more about the background of Cyrodiil. It's more about a pilgrimage than an action/rpg 
 story. So it's nice for a change.
  
  WARNING!!! If you play an evil character, DO NOT PLAY THIS MOD. It will reset all your infamy to 
 0!!!
  Save first, play later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runemaster190
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine is the 8th offical plug-in for The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, although its more 
 of an expansion type rather then a plug-in . Although bethesda has released 7 other plug-ins, they 
 were all really disappointing, most of them were just houses or bases that should have been in 
 the game to begin with. Knights of the Nine however is an actual story, or quest that involves 
 you uncovering ancient items and using them to defeat an evil villain/monster that has awakened 
 to seek revenge against the nine for banishing him. The story line over-all is very interesting 
 and long for that matter. During the plug-in you meet a new faction called knights of the Nine, 
 this is the only Knight faction that actually has quests once you join. Although most of the quests 
 just involve you getting the artifacts and then there is a final show-down with Umaril, the main 
 villain in the plug-in.
  
  Knights of the Nine introduces new items and armor, the armor is more of a knight style chainmail 
 with pretty good enchantments. Some of the armor even comes with a spell that you get once you 
 equip it, but if you take it off it vanishes. The armor type you get depends on how high your armor 
 skill is, for example: if your light armor is higher then your heavy armor then you'll get the 
 light armor version. The weapons is mainly a mace and a sword, although you can get Umaril's sword 
 once you kill him. The weapons are kinda good, they mainly just have a damage magicka and fire 
 damage enchantments, but they do look cool. However the main drawback of this all is that you have 
 to be completely good, meaning you can only have 1 infamy point or you can not wear the armor. 
 This is a HUGE drawback for evil characters, however if you really want the armor you can vist 
 the shrines to the different gods to reduce your infamy to 1, this can be used muiltiple times. 
 I personally would wait til you have 70 infamy and 70 fame so you can go to all the haven shrines 
 and get all sorts of useful abilities, because once you reduce your infamy down to 1 its gonna 
 be pretty hard getting it up again unless you go on a complete killing spree, which isnt recommanded.
 
  
  This plug-in is very interesting and cool however i do not think it was worth 10 dollars, 20 dollars 
 if you bought it for the PC. I mainly got it cause im a hardcore oblivion fan, so my final thoughts 
 are if you really like oblivion then go ahead and get it, if you kinda like oblivion maybe wait 
 awhile before getting this and if your an evil character avoid this plug-in til you get the haven 
 stone's abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Knights of The Nine is the best plug-in because not only does it include all the previous plug-ins 
 it expands on the original game more than the other add-ons with a whole new questline that takes 
 around six to ten solid hours of gameplay to finsih depending on your character and playing style. 
 New questlines in Oblivion is never a bad thing and adds even more depth to the game along with 
 lore and background for fans who love their history of TES. Inside this questline you can recruit 
 for your upcoming society in which you get your own headquarters and you are the leader who allows 
 new members. The only few cons of KoTN are it is fairly short in reference to other questlines, 
 no major gameplay changes/fixes, and it is possible to be completely stopped in the quest with 
 a major glitch. Overall though the small amount of money you pay for KoTN and the past plug-ins 
 is minimal compared to the memorable gameplay and bosses you will face making this a definite buy 
 for any Oblivion fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabire
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I had already, bought The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Collectors Edition. I recommend that, 
 anyway, Knights of the Nine, it's a really good expansion pack, the main quest is good once you 
 get into it, but the thing I'm having trouble with is getting the shield. The **** bridge of whatever 
 is being a **** fucktard! haha. But that's my only beef. But I love Oblivion and all it's freedoms, 
 and the Knights of the Nine adds some new shit that's helpful. I like it. Buy it! adn now for some 
 reason i have to have 100 words. is it 100 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdGen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the other brilliant (and not so brilliant) add-ons - Knights of the Nine offers some 
 pretty good questing with a great (if somewhat un-original) story line.
  
  And when you finally beat the extensive quest you will have some really awesome weapons and armour.
 
  
  Some of the battles - particularly with the Knights of the Nine are quite brilliant. The new areas 
 to explore are really great too - I still marvel at what can be done with the Oblivion game engine.
 
  
  Don't forget to have sit in the thrones you will discover during your questing - feel like a King!
 
  
  Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game by itself. But to have these extras made it that much nicer. Sure you 
 can just download them. But sometimes it's nice to have things on a disc. I know for me running 
 around the country to camps and such having this disc is well work it. I love the content too. 
 Though personally... I don't have any use for the nine.... I like Sitius much better. So gaining 
 favour with them was kindof unfun for me... I'm the kill them all type of person... I guess that 
 is why Unreal Tournament players should stay out of Oblivion... Just because it moves does not 
 mean it must be killed. Though the most annoying part is those people you cannot kill... Well, 
 Can't Kill at certian times... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  [Note: This review is for the Xbox 360 versions of Knights Of The Nine and the other downloadable 
 content that appears on the retail version of this PC disc.]
  
  I am assuming if you are reading this review, then you have already played Oblivion and I will 
 not go into how amazing that game is again. And just in case you haven't had enough of Oblivion, 
 Bethesda Softworks has put together a nice little batch of downloads for you that should keep you 
 busy for even longer.
  
  The biggest and most impressive download is obviously the 'Knights Of The Nine' expansion. If you 
 played through any of the guild quests in Oblivion, than you will no what to expect here in terms 
 of length and scope. The quest involves you running around and finding different parts of holy 
 heavy armor to use and eliminate a badguy. Ok that is a VERY simple way to sum up the plot line 
 here, but that's essentially what you are doing. You start the quest by talking to a very strange 
 prophet in the town of Anvil. He tells you of a great threat to the world known as Umril. You are 
 then sent on a quest to find all of the 'Wayshrines'. This is easily the worst part of this expansion. 
 It's pointless to have to do this and just flat-out boring, as you will find out. The quest gets 
 really good after that, however, as you are sent on missions to find all of the holy relics that 
 you have to use against Umril.
  
  If you used any of the Daedric heavy armor in Oblivion, than this is essentially the 'holy' versions 
 of that armor. It gets the same armor skill, just with different enchantments. Needless to say, 
 it's very useful armor and the sword was actually better than the one I had before. I think the 
 best part about the quest is that it's cool to see the results of your missions when you get back 
 to the 'Priory Of The Nine' (which is your base of operations) and see people have joined your 
 cause, cleaned up the place, and look to you as their leader. They even join you during your final 
 confrontation which is an assault on Umril's lair. The only problem with the quest is that's it's 
 over way too soon. Don't get me wrong, I had already put about ninety hours into Oblivion and I 
 didn't really want them to drag out the playtime of this quest by making the dungeons longer of 
 anything. By this time I have had my fill of slashing the undead in dungeons. But I just didn't 
 get that overall 'epic' feel by playing this quest. It was like you were doing this huge and honorable 
 thing for all of mankind........ except no one knows about it except your followers, the ghosts 
 of the nine, and some crazy old prophet. I think some playtime could have been invested in making 
 the storyline feel more 'epic' and lose the travelling to every wayshrines part.
  
  Do not let what I just said hinder you in any way from downloading this quest. Overall, the 'Knights 
 Of The Nine' is a very cool expansion that I would highly recommend to anyone who loved Obliviion. 
 Just be sure that you don't expect it to keep you busy forever.
  
  Some of the other downloadable content is worth a look as well. If you want to trudge through another 
 HUGE dungeon, I would recommend checking out 'Mehrunes Razor'. It's a pretty time consuming quest 
 and you get a pretty nice dagger as a reward for completing it. Another really cool one is the 
 'Vile Lair'. This is mainly for evil characters, but it's very cool either way. It's essentially 
 a new 'home', but much better. You even get a minion to order around and send out to kill people. 
 And if you became a vampire in Oblivion and wanted to become human again, but didn't want to go 
 through the long side-quest to find a cure....... the Vile Lair will take care of that in about 
 1 min. for you. There are a few other downloads to check out as well for the mages and thieves 
 of the world. There is even a download that adds spells to the loot you normally find in dungeons, 
 caves, etc. And, of course, there is the crappy 'Horse Armor' that has become so infamous.
  
  Obviously if you get this PC disc, you get all of the above for the low price of $20. You can 
 download the seperate quests/etc. on both the PC and Xbox 360. This review was for the Xbox 360 
 versions of everything, but they are identical to the PC versions. I am very disappointed that 
 the 360 versions didn't come with achievements, but that shouldn't stop you from checking out some 
 of these downloads. 'Knights Of The Nine' just made Oblivion a game that is definately worth checking 
 out again. That's if you ever stopped playing it in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Since it debuted last year, Oblivion has become of the the most influential and popular RPGs ever 
 made, and rightly so. It's redefined the way we see artificial worlds, and created some incredible 
 characters and storylines as well. Now, with Knights of the Nine, Bethesda has taken their creation 
 to the next level. The expansion starts fairly slowly -- after learning that that chapel in Anvil 
 has been attacked, you head to the grisly scene and speak with The Prophet , who not only gives 
 us some fantastic new voice acting, but also fills you in on what's happening. Apparently, an ancient 
 sorcerer king has risen from the dead, and only the Divine Crusader (yes, that's you) can stop 
 him. Sounds stereotypical, I know, but trust me, as the story progresses you'll find that it's 
 anything but. After visiting the nine wayshrines of the nine divines (nine is a bit of a big number 
 in this game) , things really get interesting. You'll explore a forgotten underwater castle before 
 heading to the ancient and crumbling Priory of the Nine, where you'll have your mettle tested by 
 eight rounds of single combat. The Priory will serve as your base for this quest line, and the 
 ghost living there will tell you how to find the armor and weapons of the Divine Crusader, as well 
 as dropping some tantalizing hints about their past. Good as the quest design of Oblivion was, 
 this is even better, as you'll face a variety of challenging puzzles and unusual fights. As always, 
 the characters, lore, and immersiveness of Oblivion are constantly present, and each area has it's 
 own unique story as well as fitting in to the bigger picture. Various characters who you meet during 
 your travels will joint the Knights, and you'll find yourself becoming attached to each one of 
 them, thanks to their unique movies and personalities. Voice acting and AI are used to perfection 
 in all instances.
  
  The graphics haven't been improved, as such, but there are some new visual effects -- for instance, 
 the Aurorans, the new enemy, will toss their battle axes form hand to hand while fighting, and 
 there's a particularly impressive effect near the end involving the shattering of a glass orb.
 
  
  All in all, the only complaint that can be made is that the main quest line can be easily blown 
 through in less than 10 hours (although the game's price reflects this) . The additional downloadable 
 content (the Mehrunes Razor quest in particular) provides some enjoyable side activities, but it 
 doesn't add a ton of playing time.
  
  In conclusion, if you own Oblivion, you won't regret buying this as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  The Knights of the Nine expansion pack is basically all the web downloads burnt on to a DVD. It 
 includes new weapons, horse armour, characters, spell tomes, quests and houses.
  
  The Knight of the Nine quest was just about 10 hours long but dispite it's length I found it very 
 enjoyable. I always wondered what those gauntlets were doing in the church. My only two disappointments 
 were the length of the quests and the biggest of the two the divine armour.
  This expansion pack or plugin collection whatever you want to call it, simply wasn't big enough 
 to justify the money I paid for it.
  The divine armour didn't look very good, so I'll be sticking my Daedric armour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionvamp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  We all know that you guys did a great job on this game. It has amazing everything. The replay value, 
 the graphics, just everything is great. But for me and a bunch of other people i have talked to 
 about this, we really liked the ability to play as a werewolf in bloodmoon. Although it did get 
 old quickly we loved that option. So if you are planning on making another expansion maybe you 
 could try to add werewolves and just spoof them up and make them more fun to play as. Then, i would 
 go crazy. I know a lot of people that were upset when they found that you didnt have werewolves 
 in oblivion. So please, please add them. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  The most heard complain is that the content is too short. Although this is true, I think it needs 
 some reletivism. How many games can you buy for /$ 20,- with approx 10 hours of very rewarding 
 gameplay? Not many. The Knights of the Nine storyline is one of the best in the game, if not the 
 best. The downloadable content features some nice quests as well. Reasonable amount of content 
 for a budget-price, what more could we ask for? Furthermore, the disc will make you look forward 
 even more for the real expansion coming this spring.
  It's a must-have for all the Oblivion-fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This is the first big plug-in with a voiced and fully created quests and I can say only one thing 
 - It is just Amazing! yes there are only 8 new quests but they are all so interesting that you 
 are beating them as one.
  First thing that i want to point out is the whole new order - Knights of the Nine. It is really 
 interesting indeed to rebuild it with more and more people joining it through completing of the 
 main quest. Hearing Hail Comander and later Hail Crusader! makes you feel special.
  The new set of armor is really beautifull but a bit dissapounting..... as for me I was waiting for 
 a powerfull armor and got a set of the armor with the same armor ratings as a daedric armor. And 
 it not so important but the enchantment of the Crusader's armor is less important in the game as 
 my current daedric + ebony + hood armor (this is for me, maybe for you it will be great, I am just 
 training restoration so it is making me hard to traing it while wearing this set because each part 
 of it is adding +6 to Restoration) .
  Weapon is also not as powerfull as my fav Umbra sword but still good in the combat.
  Sad thing 
 that it is too short... i was expecting a bit more quests from it. There is no side quests with 
 this plug-in wich is bad but still I think that several amazingly interesting quests from it will 
 make you enjoy the Knights of the Nine plug-in. And don't forget that we have a reason for it is 
 a bit short....... Shivering Isles is coming!!!! We gonna have a lot of new things to do there!!!
 
  In total I can say that I really like this quest and the place of your new order (you will got 
 some sort of HQ of the Knights of the Nine order) . I love it so much that I moved from my previous 
 home (Frostcrag Tower) to this place. The great plus that there is always 8 knights around the 
 place and it doesn't feel so lonely.
  Just buy this plug-in! It is just as great as the game itself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EX-UL-VA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING AND GREAT VALUE FOR &pound;5! although it is a little short, but what do you expect for 
 &pound;5. i mean c'mon! the extra main quest is a good addition to the current quests; although 
 i wouldnt advise to just do that constantly for 3 days straight, that would be madness. it is a 
 little easy to start with although as it gets along it becomes more difficult, the thing is my 
 character is level 45 : /
  i recomend that if you want to try and get the most from this, it is best to do it first with a 
 lowwer level character say 8 -15; or you could put the difficulty to 75 :D
  overall absolutley great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I got this expansion not reading much into it, I did not know it included all of the little add-ons 
 such as Horse Armour and Wizard's Tower. It is not one install that has all of them but a compilation 
 CD with all of the add-ons. Complete list at bottom of review.
  
  I will stick with Knights of the Nine since it is what this review is technically for.
  
  They 
 have added on a few new effects that I enjoyed quite a lot, to mention a few; in the quest you 
 must destroy a stone, and it explodes and when it explodes it shatters into little pieces and they 
 get frozen in time looking really cool. They have also added in a vision effect where you are floating 
 over top of Cyridal and you can see everything and you just appear to be floating there.
  
  Some other things that they have added was the set of armour and weapons that go along with the 
 quest. You must seek out all of the pieces to continue. However you need to be pure of soul and 
 for some reason my game bugged out and even after doing the pilgrimage I was unable to wear the 
 armour. The pilgrimage takes a long time since it does don't put markers on the map for the alters 
 meaning you have to go seeking them, and some of them are in the middle of no where. I guess some 
 time down the road when I feel like it I will attempt to do the pilgrimage again in attempt to 
 get the armour to work again.
  
  The story line goes along with the game and adds a new twist, which you will need to find out for 
 yourself.
  
  This expansion is a must have for people that love to play Oblivion, however I do have to tell 
 you that it only took me about 3-4 hours to complete the Knights of the Nine, however getting all 
 of the other packs with it made it worth getting.
  
  Complete List:
  Horse Armour Pack
  Knights of the Nine
  Mehrunes Razor
  Orrery
  Spell Tomes
  Thieves Den
  Vile Lair
  Wizard's 
 Tower 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  All oblivion fans know how much fun the game is. Now it just got a whole lot funner. With Knights 
 of the nine you get many expansions on to the game you already have. If your starting or have already 
 beaten the game this is a good add on for you. It gives you new maps, items and places to explore. 
 It adds to the game making it more exciting and even longer. The graphics are all the same as in 
 the actual game. along with the sounds and gameplay. Everything is the same except for the many 
 new quests, areas and items for you to use. It really adds alot to the game of the year. Elder 
 Scrolls Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenbolt1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  That, s the prob, the game itself is huge and great fun , but i played this expansion in around 
 9 hours. Ok i have too admit i played it with a Sorcerer lv 42 , with all the great gear. The puzzles 
 that are added are so easy. Better is the gear thats too find in this expansion , which is nice 
 and adds nice features. i hope that the feature expansion will be somehow bigger in playing time 
 and more difficult. Good side is that i was cheap through xbox live this expansion. But when you 
 have too pay for the retail version for a pc , 20 , thats steep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestleyViau
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Lets just start this quick review off by saying if you have any extra mod's when u install knights 
 of the nine, when ur doing the Nature's Fury quest look for a faq on KOTN and look for the troubleshoot 
 it tells u how 2 get past the quests because ur not able 2 do them if you have extra mod's unless 
 u read the troubleshoot.
  
  Okay heres my review of Elder scrolls IV: Oblivion Knights of the nine. ( Don't think you didn't 
 install the game properly if on the main menu of oblivion it doesnt say KNIGHTS of the NINE , thats 
 what i thought but the mods were actually there) .
  
  KOTN adds alot of cool quests onto the game that really add to the story and to your characters 
 trait. The New quests are really fun to do and give you lots of cool stuff and lets u explore alot 
 of stuff that was in the game before but u never really noticed it. KOTN also adds a bunch of wepons 
 to the game like a Orcish Wepons like the Orcish war axe, looks really cool and the Orcish War 
 sythe. So overall the game play of KOTN does really add to the game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine is the expppansion pack to the 2006 RPG of the year. It features new quests, 
 locations, equipment and more.
  
  
  Knights of the Nine is pretty much the same thing as oblivion with some official mods and thats 
 pretty much what it is. The only new mod is the Official quest knights of the nine, but other than 
 that they are all sold seperatly online or on Xbox Live.
  
  -----------------Mehrunes Razor --------------------
  mehrunes razor is a huge huge quest that 
 is set almost entirely in a cave. When i say cave im not talking bout those puny little 2 roomers 
 with some gold no no no, im talking a MASSIVE cave here, its so big there are 2 whole cities inside 
 that remind me of Bravil. Mehrunes razor as a weapon really isnt that great. However, it does have 
 a chance of instantly killing its target wich isnt to shabby.
  
  ----------------Horse Armor -------------------
  As a standalone buyable mod Horse Armor is a 
 waste of money. However since you get it in the expansion i think its pretty sweet. Its not much 
 of a quest or anything but you pretty much got to the stable outside the Imperial City and talk 
 to the owner. She gives you a free set of armor (steel or elven there both the same.) Every purchase 
 after that costs 500g (in oblivion money)
  
  ------------Knights of the Nine -------------
  This is another large and extensive mod in wich 
 the expansion gets its name. Its pretty much an excuse to add a new faction, but it is pretty cool. 
 The new guild features some awsome new armor and a new quite interesting storyline with a new enemy. 
 Dont worry if ur infamy is high because no matter what you have to go on the pilgramige to cleanse 
 your sin.
  
  ---------------The Orrey -----------------
  the orrey is a pretty lame quest where you have to build this thing in Arcane from a bunch of these 
 camps
  
  ...... will be finishing soon.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Let's get blunt about the bad first off and get it out of the way. It's definitely not Elder Scroll 
 5. It's about 5-10 hours of gameplay for anyone who has beaten the main quest, and has plenty of 
 experience and playtime in the game. 20-30 for the novice who only plays it every now and then, 
 or uses his feet to play because he lost his hands in Vietnam or a freak sword fight accident. 
 Don't go in expecting this to be much more than what it is. And what it is, is a 10 dollar expansion 
 pack. You get a questline, comparable to one of the main guild questlines, such as Fighters/Mage/Thief 
 guild, maybe a bit shorter than some. You get some gear, and another reason to keep Oblivion installed.
 
  
  However, asside from the techinical difficulites you might have, the good things outweigh the bad 
 all-in-all. The price for starters is cheap, and you have plenty of ways to get the game, from 
 Direct Download through the site, to the shelves of major retailers, and Xbox 360 users can get 
 it from the Xbox Marketplace through their system. You get a very well written storyline, that 
 you would expect from Bethesda titles. It lacks in no area other than perhaps its shortness, but 
 for 10 bucks, you get plenty, especially considering the track record thus far in keeping us fans 
 with regular new-updates.
  
  It would be silly to give this game any less than what you gave Oblivion on the rating system. 
 And it would be silly not to own this expansion if you had any love what's so ever for Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great addition to the ES IV Oblivion. There is nothing special about the expansion. The 
 graphics are still the same and the sound and voice cast are still the same. I prefer the $19.99 
 version because it adds all other contents to the game.
  
  I bought this game online the day it came out. This is still Oblivion. It is better to be at a 
 higher level to really enjoy this expansion pack.
  
  The story line is great and it will take you at least 10 hours or less with the $9.99 pack or more 
 than 10hours with the $19.99 pack.
  
  If you already own the original pack, by all means get this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanman31
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This add-on/expansion is a real bargain for the pc gamer. With all the downloadable content with 
 an added story line only makes the Oblivion world more immense and thrilling. I personally like 
 the idea of bringing a now disbanded faction back to life. The new armor and weapons makes the 
 game even more appealing, then you add in a new enemy threat that has to be dealt with sweetens 
 the pot even more. As an Oblivion fan I can say without a doubt that this add-on/expansion is in 
 my opinion one of the best that I have played. I would most definitely recommend this to any person 
 looking for even more excitement to come from Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davez82
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Just wanted to say that this expansion is extremely short, i beat it in 5 hours, definitely less 
 than 10 hrs. My character is level 32 so i pretty much sliced my way through all the dungeons pretty 
 easily. The quest is surprisingly good and probably has the best storyline out of all the oblivion 
 quests. I don't think paying for the short and limited amount of game play is worth paying for, 
 its just 1 new armor set and 1 new monster type, i think they could have done better. If this was 
 a free download it would make sense but there really isn't that much content to justify paying 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  This expansion is just some more amazing content in the huge Oblivion world, things like The Orrey 
 and Dunbarrow Cove ( an old pirate hideout which you clean up and hire pirates to work for you) , 
 creating your own spells, enchanting your items and cure yourself of vampirism are just a few of 
 the new things you can do with the help of this expansion set. I just can't find the right words 
 to describe the new content, it gives you reasons to keep on playing the game. If you liked the 
 original Oblivion then you should not think twice before buying Kinghts of the Nine, it's worth 
 every cent. With this expansion Oblivion just improved his chances to be the Game of the Year. 
 Let's hope they will make another expansion to this game cause I just can't get enough of the world 
 from Oblivion. Good work Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stingerhs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  For an expansion, The Knights of the Nine really isn't all that remarkable. There are no graphics 
 or audio upgrades or any new gameplay mechanics which isn't a bad thing at all. However, there 
 are a couple of decently designed quests that were formerly offered as pay-to-download content 
 along with one drawn out quest.
  
  Anybody that's beaten Oblivion 5 or more times will probably be able to beat the expansion in about 
 20 hours or longer depending on how thorough they are. That's actually not too bad since I can 
 think of several RPG's that took less time than that to beat. The quests are supplemented with 
 some nice items as well, so it does provide some incentive to keep playing Oblivion even after 
 you beat the expansion assuming that your character still has something that they can still do 
 within the game.
  
  The main draw for the game, however, isn't necessarily the quests and content. Sure its well done, 
 but its utterly unremarkable for the most part. The main draw, however, is that it can be had for 
 under $20. Considering the content in the game, thats $20 that's been put to pretty good use which 
 is definately something that can't be said for most expansions.
  
  Overall, its a fair value that will draw the old Oblivion players back in for the other half of 
 their lives that they didn't use to beat the game 5+ times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Knights of the Nine an expansion well done if you're not asking for more.
  A couples of add on quest to the original game. More or less these are short
  quest except Knights 
 of the Nine mission , its stretch a little longer . Nevertheless , its should keep one's busy 10 
 over hours . With the introduction of new weapon , armor and skill its does add some cream to the 
 success of the original game . With your level up and skill one should not have much difficulties 
 eliminate those Boss you encounter with .
  
  For graphic and sound is inherit from the first game . Consider not much need to be done on this 
 area . Overall this is a great expansion and a Must Buy for Oblivion fan . The other area, I'm 
 looking forward is that they could improve the direction guide on compass . At certain degree , 
 I had hard time
  wondering around trying to get my way through the objective . As in between there're obstacle here 
 and there . Probably , one would be wasting lot of time finding their way to get out from the maze. 
 It could be frustrating at time.
  Since the map is rather huge . And with number of quest updated along the way.
  
  Other than 
 the above, its a game worth to invest . And do have replay value
  and depth. Given the game engine , its should last for quite a certain time frame before its being 
 overtaken . Last but not least , if your're not an Oblivion fan before why not get it started today. 
 Try it out yourself and I'm
  sure one would very much appreciate it . Make sure you meet the specs requirement as this game 
 is hungry for power and graphic ... enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  i think that it is very lame that once u install Knights ofThe Nine, once u open ur character, 
 u just get a bunch of mysterious notes u found that this happend and that happened and go see this 
 person. the quests themselves are really cool, especially the main quest, but there definetly could 
 have been a better introduction to the quests. a lot of people have tech issues with this add on 
 too (i have only seen some minor glitches that might be with the game, not with the add on) . hopefully 
 there will be a fuller expansion soon, but for 20 bucks, its a pretty cool add on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcraft
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a cosmopolitan sensation. Regarded as one an immense, gratifying 
 RPG experience, the game proffered an experience that no other can hold a candle to. It was a composite 
 of nice, solid combat, sterling graphics, and a free-form cynosure that unified physics and a wonderful, 
 province-wide landmass. Both PC and Xbox360 owners alike were immediately indulged into the immersiveness 
 of the product.
  
  Now, with Knights of the Nine, Bethesda Softworks holds their game with even more gravity. They 
 bring to life a plethora of new characters, divine armour, new locations, and a faction wholly 
 pertinent to law, order, and the destruction of Umaril the Unfeathered, a Daedric Lord who cheated 
 bereavement from the Divine Crusader and destroyed his mortal combatant. In this DLC, it comes 
 down to you, the latest of the Divines, to take back the antediluvian armor and challenge Umaril 
 in the welkin of Cyrodiil.
  
  You are not directly swept into the mission, however. You must first discover the recent hecatomb 
 of the Anvil chapel, speak to the prophet of The Nine, and agree to embark on a peregrination to 
 the nine wayshrines of Cyrodiil. Eventually, after a run-in with a kindly fellow pilgrim and his 
 thrall, consummating your task will raise you to the very celestial heights, where you learn the 
 location of the Divine Helmet from the first Crusader. Thus, your journey manifests.
  
  Throughout your reclamation of the armour, you will meet several aspirants who implore to join 
 the ranks of The Nine. By accepting them, you secure brothers and sisters in the forthcoming irruption 
 of Umaril's current haunt, Garlas Malatar. When you upset the very fabric that constitutes time 
 to face the man himself, your order will resurrect to populate your priory - offering prospects 
 of future missions for The Nine.
  
  As in Oblivion, the graphics for Knights of the Nine are meritorious. Yes, the framerate still 
 exists here and there, but when you ponder the absolute ambit and scope of the game, such a stigma 
 is instantaneously amended. The sound, as per usual, is also very fitting, orchestral, and beautifully 
 composed by an irrefutably talented Mr. Jeremy Soule.
  
  The only real miff with Nine is how facile the battle with Umaril is. Filling the difficulty to 
 hard does proffer a fine solution, but he really does seem callow. Not being able to don his armour 
 was a morose truth. However unfortunate, you are treated with the Unfeathered's sword, and a fine 
 comeuppance for your deeds of utmost chivalry.
  
  Wholly considered, Knights of the Nine is a wonderful, solid package. It recognizes the possibilities 
 that abound in Oblivion, add in six or seven hours of jollity, and erect some in the form of a 
 well-rounded, goody-two-shoes faction. Players opposite of The Dark Brotherhood, I'd say, should 
 find a surfeit of fun things to do with this download - accessible for 800 Microsoft Points on 
 Xbox Live, or $19.99 in retail shape.
  
  + Continues with the traditional composite of wonderful visuals and a sterling score. Jeremy Soule 
 outdoes himself with this.
  
  + Good or evil, the new content is sure to enliven.
  
  + A fine addendum of new content.
  
  - Umaril the Prostrate.
  
  - Does not exercise all 
 of the game's potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I tried hard to like the Knights storyline, I really do. But collecting parts of an armour 
 and weapons so I can kill a powerful end boss? God, its so cliched. I was hoping for some sort 
 of twist but it never came. It probably won't be so bad if the new armour or weapon skins look 
 good, but they can't compare to the daedric or even the dragon armour. The end boss fight isint 
 even much of a challenge. Overall, not such a hot main story. But on teh plus side, the game gives 
 you all teh other previously released add ons for a good price. In total it adds like 10-15 hrs 
 worth of game so its kinda worth it for hardcore fans.
  
  Graphics &amp; sound: Its the same old graphics &amp; same old sound. Meaning? They are still great!.
 
  
  Value: A quick fix to those aching for more Oblivion content. But god, I still hate the main storyline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisons
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  wonderful and entertaining beyond all of Oblivion. This addition was great! i had lots of fun completing 
 the quests, even when i had to go through the whole visiting of the shines over and over again, 
 because i had done something bad.
  worth your money and the addition of new equipment adds to the value. having you our little army 
 is fun too. take my word for it. best out of all additions. i have this for the 360. i have to 
 run but more reviews of other games from me will raise up over time.
  until next time.
  Gamer Tag: Mcnamara Troy0
  --Danimal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  This is the first Oblivion add-on to add a new complete quest-line, new creatures, and new weapons. 
 Plus you get all of the previous add-ons too. Unfortunately, it doesn't increase the level of the 
 enemies you are fighting against. Or offer any new enemy AI. So if you have a high-level character, 
 you will simply breeze thru the new quest line. The will be battles where you will fight more enemies 
 than in the main game, but that's about it.
  
  Some will like the new weapons and armor but you can already make any weapon you want anyway. I 
 would have liked to see some improvements to the ill-conceived level-up system for your character. 
 There are no changes there. Your character still can become uber-master at every skill and weapon. 
 And the game is still entirely too easy after you reach level 10. As an RPG, its still an RPG-Lite.
 
  
  Ideally, this add-on was an opportunity to fix some of the weaker aspects of this very popular, 
 very pretty, but very flawed RPG-action game. Bethesda didn't take that opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  I think Oblivion was awesome, super graphics solid gameplay and compelling story wich really forced 
 you to play more to wonder what happens next. Knights of the nine is just that, yet not quite. 
 There are not really any interresting things added to the gameplay, I would like to see it more 
 as another story you can play. I finished this game in a bit more then 6 hours, I actualy was kinda 
 amazed by how easy it was to finish this wich makes me wonder what the value is. Again the game 
 is very nice and it's really sparking back life in your Oblivion game, yet to my opionion it is 
 way way to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdragon69688
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I never thought this game could get any better..... guess what? I was wrong. This is one of the 
 best expansion packs I have seen in a long time.
  
  I haven't played Oblivion for awhile now but that changed as soon as I picked up this expansion 
 pack, and the new missions are great.
  
  This game was already amazing but to have an expansion with the same quality as the original is 
 rare.
  
  If you love The Elder Scrolls 4 then you will love this expansion, so what are you all waiting 
 for? head to your local computer store and pick this one up, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMonTeZuMa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  When I first played it I thought well, I have few more takes to do, until I did the main knights 
 of the Nine quest. This quest is one of the greatest quest in Oblivion, you are also getting new 
 equip and an original fun quest.
  To sum things up I enjoyed the game even though it was a little bit too short, I can just say I 
 recommend it to every person who enjoyed the original Elder Scroll IV - Oblivion (not only for 
 the great graphics also for the great gameplay will certainly enjoy this great expansion for one 
 of the best games this last years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAFowkes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I've completed Oblivion on the Xbox 360 (1000/1000 achievement points) if completed is actually 
 a word that can be used in the same sentence as Oblivion. (It seems like a bit of an oxymoron to 
 me) . I've levelled up to the mid 30's, finished all the side quests that I have found, accumulated 
 enough gold to purchase Rhode Island, added all the downloadable content (o. k., I passed on the 
 horse armor) . A couple of the other DLC items are a bit weak to me but there are far more hits 
 than misses. I've even purchased the PC version of Oblivion so that I could take it on the road 
 with me on my laptop. In other words, I'm hooked on this most amazing world. However, in recent 
 months I've found myself spending less time in Oblivion because of the been there, done that factor. 
 Yes, I occasionally venture into the kingdom much like one visits a familiar place from time to 
 time (mostly to whip some Minotaur butt in the Arena, to collect the loot from my Pirates and to 
 gather other spoils from the add-ons) . I've even taken to wandering the countryside with bare fists 
 to improve my hand to hand skills against the most fearsome of opponents.
  
  But I found myself spending less and less time with an old friend as other games and systems vied 
 for my attention. That is, until The Knights of the Nine was released for the 360. This new module 
 (far more than an add-on, as others have mentioned) has re-energized my love for this game. Within 
 five minutes I felt I was thrust back into a complex world with a lot of new challenges and some 
 familiar old friends. They even provided a new source for Nirnroot! I won't repeat all the details 
 of the new module because they have already been covered by other reviewers and I'm sure that the 
 inevitable walk through will eventually surface, if it hasn't already. Suffice it to say, this 
 is the best add-on yet and those who point out that it's much more than just an afterthought so 
 the term really doesn't do it justice are spot on.
  
  Unlike previous DLC this module doesn't just jump out at you when you load it. You must stumble 
 across an NPC in front of the Anvil chapel to open up all the new possibilities. But once you do, 
 it's extremely well integrated with the original content and totally amazing. A case in point with 
 the integration: when finally getting to the point where you must pray at the Wayshires of the 
 Nine it took me a bit of time to discover that the new module took into account those wayshires 
 you had already visited in the regular game. I finally stumbled across one site that had eluded 
 me in the past and once I activated this site my quest of nine sites was completed. During the 
 normal game I had managed to keep my infamy level quite low (I know there are some of you out there 
 saying, That's no fun! ) so I was cleansed quite quickly. I guess I could go around slaying some 
 women and children to see if I have to go through the ritual again and maybe I will later on. But, 
 then again, maybe nobody messes with with the Champion of Cyrodiil/Grey Fox!
  
  Like I said in the blurb, this module deserves a 10.0 rating (and I don't give that out lightly) . 
 However I'm hoping that Bethesda doesn't rest on its laurels and I want to leave a bit of room 
 for further improvement so I think a very fair rating is 9.7. The original game was rated at 9.6 
 and The Knights of the Nine adds to that lofty score so 9.7 seems quite appropriate.
  
  Oblivion fans - try it!! (As the old joke says, There go my Sundays! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingdomDarkness
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  While the many add-ons to Oblivion have come under a lot of controversy for offering almost no 
 substance for too much money, Knights of the Nine bucks this trend. The new missions are interesting, 
 tightly designed and immersive, and most importantly, they will draw players back into the world 
 of Oblivion after dozens of hours spent plumming its depths. Knights of the Nine focuses on a new 
 string of missions focusing on a new faction designed for Good players. While I won't delve into 
 the story, it is definitely the most compelling found in the game outside the main quest. And It's 
 new. Players will spend the majority of the quest searching for lost relics of an ancient crusader, 
 which can be equipped and look mighty cool. The mini-quests and the larger one that encompasses 
 it are very well done, with new, interesting places to explore and a tight storyline that does 
 a very good job of guiding you from one place to the next. Nothing new in terms of gameplay is 
 added to the existing game. Beyond some new places and items, the world of Cyrodiil stays much 
 the same. This isn't necessarily a bad thing though, as Oblivion's gameplay is already excllent. 
 While Knights of the Nine doesn't actually change The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, its offers interesting, 
 fun missions and a surprisingly good storyline, but most importantly it breathes life into a slightly 
 tired game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, after countless delays, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was finally released. It received 
 wide praise from old and new fans of the series alike. The new oblivion is a worthy additiion/ 
 add on to oblivion. It addds new wepons, dungeons, and manu other side quests and new buildings 
 to the already huge oblivion experience. When i purchased the game i actually had no clue what 
 to expect. I found the add on added around 12 extra lengthy missions which would probaly last you 
 around 6 hours in total. New buildings scattered all around oblivion. The coolest feature would 
 have to be the underground cities full of clans. This add more gameplay, as most cities have some 
 sought of secret ruins or city right underneath a current establishment.
  
  The game can be called a expansion as it offers many new gameplay elements which have more length 
 then a average expansion these days. The pack also includes all previous downloadable content suck 
 as horse armor which is relatively pointless but is still cool.
  
  I recommend this to all oblivion lovers it adds more to a already great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBassXUmbraX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, after countless delays, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was finally released. It received 
 wide praise from old and new fans of the series alike. It boasted over a hundred hours of gameplay 
 including various side-quests and guilds to join. But even with all of that, fans still craved 
 something more. While the game had tons of lasting value, many players who had a lot of time on 
 their hands were able to see every quest the game had to offer. Luckily Bethesda promised players 
 periodical downloadable content. Those that played on the PC also had access to some cool mods, 
 some which blew DLC out of the water. Xbox 360 gamers were not so fortunate and got delays on new 
 DLC over and over again, hoping for their castle of fighters to come out, but instead were given 
 the cheap though disappointing Spell Tomes. What was holding up the good folks at Bethesda? Turns 
 out they were busy developing a port of Oblivion to the PS3, but more importantly, it also boasted 
 a new joinable faction called Knights of the Nine . It was later announced that it would come to 
 the Xbox 360 and PC versions on November 21, 2006, four days after it was scheduled to launch on 
 PS3. But the PS3 version was pushed back to Q1 2007 and the PC downloadable version was pushed 
 back to December 4, 2006. But yesterday, the Knights of the Nine expansion came out for the Xbox 
 360 on the Live Marketplace for 800 points ($9.99) and $19.99 for the PC at retail (with previous 
 DLC included) .
  
  With the lengthy introduction aside, lets start with the basics of Knights of the Nine. Unlike 
 previous DLC, you have no journal indication pointing out where to go. Instead, you are given a 
 new topic to ask people about. After you ask an NPC about the attack on the Anvil chapel. When 
 you arrive on the scene, you'll be referred to a crazy old man claiming to be a prophet of the 
 nine. He'll speak of the evil aylied king Umeril and the Divine Crusader that defeated him yet 
 didn't. Turns out Umeril made a deal with the Daedra of Oblivion which allows him to cheat death, 
 and the Divine Crusader died. The only way to defeat him is to use the relics of the crusader but 
 you must first be deemed worthy by the nine themselves. Regardless of your past merits, he will 
 take your help with the situation. Instead of investigating the chapel though, he sends you to 
 go on a pilgrimage. This pilgrimage requires you to pray at all nine wayshrines scattered throughout 
 Cyrodiil. Unfortunately this is made far more tedious than it could have been for various reasons. 
 One is that rather than using the convenient map marker system used in other quests, you have to 
 instead refer to a separate document that only contains the approximate locations of the shrines. 
 The second reason is that half of the shrines are in the middle of nowhere and thus a lot of walking 
 will be required.
  
  In the end it will be worth it though. After you pray at all nine shrines, you will receive a vision, 
 which ends up being a really cool cutscene in the clouds (you get a breathtaking view of the imperial 
 city at this height) and you speak with the divine crusader himself. He tells you the location 
 of his shrine which holds the first holy relic. After the vision ends, your infamy will drop to 
 zero. If your infamy should go above zero, you can do the pilgrimage again to get rid of it all. 
 However should you gain any infamy during the questline, you will have to do the pilgrimage again 
 in order to continue doing deeds in the name of the nine.
  
  Don't worry though, the rest of the quests in Knights of the Nine are not tedious at all. The rest 
 of the questline includes item gathering which may not seem so exciting at first glance, but upon 
 doing these quests, this is not the case. These quests are by far the best in the game, for they 
 are not the linear dungeon crawlers you have done over a hundred times now, they are truly complex 
 and require some thought put into them. For example, one quest tests your patience in combat; another 
 is a series of riddles that open new path. These are nothing like those boring Fighters Guild 
 quests. But the refined quest design is not the only thing this new content has to offer. Knight's 
 of the Nine is an entirely new faction. Throughout the questline, you will gain some powerful armor 
 and allies. These aren't the wimpy allies you get from the Dark Brotherhood or the Mages Guild; 
 these Knights are disciplined, carry leveled weapons, and are good at healing themselves so you 
 won't have to worry about them dying as much. The divined relics you collect eventually become 
 an awesome looking set of armor with not only enchantments but the inclusion of lesser powers and 
 abilities when you where them. Keep in mind it is impossible to wear if you have any infamy.
  
  There are also new monsters to fight. The most common are the Aurorons. They are basically 
 huge armored minions of Umeril who are of spellsword class (mage and warrior) and are actually 
 a challenge to defeat in numbers. Luckily you will usually have the help of your knights when you 
 fight them. There is also a new wraith type but you fight only one of them, and again you will 
 have your knights to help you. As for difficulty, many of the quests can be tough to solve on your 
 own and fighting the Aurorons alone can be quite troublesome. Luckily the knightly help balances 
 this out. It is still better to play this without a guide. Solving some of the more difficult puzzles 
 and riddles will feel much more rewarding when you do them on your own. In terms of graphical effects, 
 the game still hold sup well, though the framerate and loading issues still haven't changed. But 
 the game still looks great. There are even a few scenes and effects in the questline that look 
 amazing, such as the heavens mentioned earlier or the cool warp sequences. Sound has also held 
 well, the divine crusader appears to be voiced by Wes Johnson, the man who voiced Lucien Lachance, 
 which is a good thing. There is still plenty of voice acting and most of it is on par with what 
 is in the main game.
  
  The PC retail version also has all of the previous DLC added on to it. Most of the DLC is basically 
 building you own lair with some neat features like spellmaking and enchanting altars, fences, enchanted 
 items, all without having to join a guild. The Mehrunes Razor quest is a linear but long and exciting 
 one. Still Knights of the Nine is the real focus of the content.
  
  If this expansion had one major flaw, it is just that it doesn't feel like an expansion. Unlike 
 previous Elder Scrolls expansions, you aren't able to venture outside of the main province, in 
 this game, Cyrodiil. We'll just have to wait for another expansion before we have any chance of 
 shattering Cyrodiil's imaginary border. However, the real shame is that Knights of the Nine is 
 a pretty short questline, spanning about eleven quests and seven hours of total gameplay, not at 
 all close to the promised ten to twenty.
  
  With that said Knights of the Nine is still worth the money. The fun and exciting quests are more 
 than worth the measly $9.99 as no questline in Oblivion has ever been so fun. PC users should wait 
 until December 4th and download the plugin from Bethesda's site because some of the extra included 
 DLC isn't worth it. Overall, this expansion is highly recommendable. It features some great rewards, 
 a decent storyline, and some cool puzzles. Knights of the Nine may not feel like an expansion, 
 but it contains some of the most fun quests Oblivion has to offer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
