-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/elderscrolls3morrowind/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.9, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 9,209 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     May 1, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a beautiful, sprawling, and open-ended game that lets you play pretty much however you like 
 as long as you're willing to fill in a few blanks using your imagination. 

 If you're familiar with previous Elder Scrolls games, namely Arena and Daggerfall, or if you've 
 heard anything in particular about The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind over the past several years, 
 then you'll be expecting the game to be as big as it is open-ended. It is, and very much so in 
 both those respects. As its developers promised all along, Morrowind does feature an enormous, 
 detailed 3D world filled with thousands of different characters. It does offer such a large number 
 of optional side quests that it's unlikely you'd ever see them all, even if you tried. And it's 
 true that you could spend close to a hundred hours solving whichever ones you happen upon during 
 the course of spending about as much time finishing the main quest. For all these reasons, and 
 because of its superlative visuals, Morrowind is an undeniably impressive game. It does have shortcomings, 
 and at times they seem to outnumber its strong points, but in general Morrowind's praiseworthy 
 qualities tend to far outweigh its relatively minor problems. That's putting it broadly, because 
 clearly there's a lot to be said about the game.           There's much to see and do in the land 
 of Morrowind.    

  For the most part, Morrowind carries on many of the proudest traditions of computer role-playing. 
 If you've been playing fantasy role-playing games for a while, then you'll find yourself in familiar 
 territory here, at least figuratively speaking. The actual world of Morrowind is original. The 
 game's main plot, though it's presented mostly in writing, is quite engaging, and it involves first 
 uncovering why your emperor has ordered you to the island province of Morrowind and then fulfilling 
 your destiny there. The characters you'll meet along the way aren't all completely unique, but 
 there's enough difference between them that they help give you a distinct sense of the setting 
 and even the culture of Morrowind. It's a place with a surprising amount of political intrigue 
 and a long history, and that history is described thoroughly in the dozens of different books you 
 can pick up and read in the game. You're on your own through most of Morrowind, which makes you 
 feel adventurous, but sometimes lonely. That's also in part because interacting with characters 
 is a pretty detached process that boils down to clicking through a list of available topics of 
 conversation. You'll also notice how non-player characters in Morrowind generally just stand there, 
 doing nothing. Even when you come visit them in a cornerclub or in their homes, you'll never see 
 them engaging in any activities whatsoever, which makes the world seem less alive than it could 
 have. Some hidden gags provide a refreshing bit of comic relief, but these moments are perhaps 
 too few and far between.   

  The characters you meet will respond to you differently depending on who you are, and who you are 
 is entirely up to you thanks to the great deal of flexibility you get in creating your own persona. 
 There are more than 20 different character classes to choose from, including choices like barbarian, 
 spellsword, and assassin. You can either pick one of these or, in a nod to the classic Ultima series, 
 you can answer a series of moral questions and the game will choose a class for you based on your 
 decisions. The third option is to create your own class, and that's the best of the three. After 
 all, the premade classes are really just templates rather than truly distinctive character types. 
 They're examples of what can be done with Morrowind's character generation system, in which each 
 character class has five major skills, five secondary skills, and a core specialization: combat, 
 magic, or stealth. Your specialization determines which skills your character will initially be 
 strongest in and can improve in the fastest. There are nearly 30 different skills overall, and 
 even those that don't fall under your major or secondary skills are still available to you, though 
 your character will be slower to hone them.   

  You could go out of your way to make a purely combat-focused, magic-focused, or stealth-focused 
 character, but in reality you'll probably use skills from all three categories. That's because 
 some of the skills are pretty basic. For instance, the fancily named "acrobatics" only governs 
 your jumping ability and how much damage you absorb from falling. Using various weapons or wearing 
 various types of armor gradually improves your skills in using those types of equipment, and that 
 is also the case with using the various schools of magic. Whenever your character runs, you're 
 using "athletics," which is classified as a combat skill. The walking speed in Morrowind realistically 
 represents a leisurely pace, but unfortunately, it seems terribly slow in game terms, even if you're 
 accustomed to the slow pace of other 3D role-playing games. So you'll learn to run all the time, 
 just as soon as you pick up on Morrowind's simple controls.           Some of the scenery is breathtaking. 
    

  The most interesting thing about Morrowind's skill system is that it's tied in with how you gain 
 experience levels. In most role-playing games, you gain experience (and thus improve your abilities) 
 mostly by killing stuff or solving quests. In Morrowind, you gain levels by practicing your character's 
 main skills. Other RPGs tend to cripple non-fighter characters by still forcing them to fight to 
 gain levels. But in Morrowind, if you play as a thief, then you gain levels by thieving. If you 
 play as a magic user, you gain levels by using magic, and so on. This is a clever system that makes 
 perfect sense.   

  However, it does have some problems, insofar as certain skills are much easier to improve than 
 others. The playing field is leveled somewhat since skill improvement (through training) can simply 
 be bought. Sadly, you might not realize until after many hours of play that some of your character's 
 skills just aren't cutting it. Your options are to suck it up or start over. Some of the skills 
 aren't ineffective so much as they're underdeveloped. Speechcraft, a seemingly sophisticated ability, 
 is simplistic in practice. You have the option to try to flatter, intimidate, taunt, or bribe any 
 of the NPCs in the game. But in reality, these are just thinly veiled dice rolls based on your 
 speechcraft skill rating. If you fail, the other character loses affinity for you, but you can 
 just keep trying until you succeed several times in a row. It's as pointless (and can be as pointlessly 
 addictive) as a virtual slot machine. It's also rather ridiculous, since when you repeatedly try 
 to bribe the same character, he or she will alternate between being insulted by your intentions 
 and gladly accepting your money.    

 The other issue with the skill system is that it doesn't give you a good sense of character development. 
 You get almost no feeling that any of your skills are actually getting better, even as you build 
 them up over long periods of time. When you gain levels, you can put more points into your core 
 attributes (strength, intelligence, and so on) , but even then, it's hard to tell that your character 
 is growing in power. Instead, in Morrowind you get stronger mostly by finding better stuff. Even 
 early on, and sometimes surprisingly so, you can get your hands on some powerful weapons, armor, 
 and artifacts that will last you for many hours' worth of gameplay. Throughout the game, your character 
 will be only as good as his or her items, or his or her magic, which must be bought, rather than 
 discovered or learned from experience. Actually, the game not only allows you to buy spells, but 
 it also allows you to make them. In addition, you can create your own enchanted items and make 
 your own potions from reagents you can actually go scavenging for out in the wilderness. Constantly 
 finding new things is one of the core appeals of role-playing games, and it's certainly one of 
 the more appealing aspects of Morrowind.           Combat isn't one of Morrowind's strongest suits. 
    

  Some other aspects of Morrowind aren't as enjoyable. For instance, you could nitpick over the way 
 the game treats the process of disarming trapped treasure chests or doors. Generally an important 
 facet of fantasy role-playing, it's handled clumsily in Morrowind because no matter what kind of 
 character you're playing as, you'll clairvoyantly know if a door or chest is trapped. Then you 
 just use gadgets called probes over and over until you successfully disarm the device. A low skill 
 in "security" means your chances of success are slim, but there's a zero-percent chance of triggering 
 the trap by accident. Locks are dealt with in exactly the same fashion, only using picks instead 
 of probes. Unlike locks, traps are supposed to be dangerous and difficult to detect. As another 
 example, most of Morrowind's shopkeepers have little money on hand. This is interesting the first 
 few times you find yourself having to sell back more than they can afford to buy. But eventually, 
 you'll end up just abandoning a lot of perfectly good loot (some of it worth staggering amounts 
 of money) for lack of a convenient way to sell it off or the ability to carry it in your overcrowded 
 inventory. Too bad there's no auction block in Morrowind.   

  Morrowind does let you do whatever you want. If you do decide to vent your frustrations over these 
 types of things on the game's townspeople, you may find it odd that they will stare at you unflinchingly 
 as you hoist your weapon high overhead, ready to strike. You'll also find it odd that the entire 
 world seems to learn of your crimes at the very instant they're committed. You'll sometimes be 
 branded as an outlaw even if you commit a crime in seeming secrecy. At any rate, the sheer size 
 and scope of Morrowind is an open invitation for these and other, similar complaints. Yet to nitpick 
 too much over Morrowind's smaller shortcomings would be to fail to see the forest for the trees. 
 The aggregate experience that the game provides is in fact more than the sum of its parts. Actually, 
 it's such a big game that you can pretty much ignore most any of its elements that you don't happen 
 to like.           Your journal becomes a hodgepodge of indistinguishable names.    

  Most, but not all. Avoiding combat in Morrowind can be difficult and at times impossible. And the 
 combat itself leaves a lot to be desired. It's purely a hack-and-slash affair against enemies that 
 mostly just rush right at you, and while you can execute three different types of attacks with 
 your melee weapons, that's about the only positive way to describe the combat. Considering that 
 the game tells you outright when a chest is trapped or when you've succeeded at persuading someone, 
 it's surprising that Morrowind provides so little information about what's happening in a fight. 
 From the spurt of blood and the loud, almost comical "thwack" sound you'll hear, you'll know that 
 you did in fact hit the opponent. But you won't know to what extent you hurt it. You won't know 
 if your two-handed sword did one point of damage or 60, and you won't know whether you've merely 
 grazed the opponent or whether you've delivered it to death's door. If the intent was to make combat 
 realistic, the designers should have at least shown visible damage on the enemy characters, as 
 in last year's outstanding Wizardry 8.   

  The other significant problem with Morrowind is the way it keeps track of your quests. Namely, 
 it compiles references to all the quests you've taken on or completed, as well as any other important 
 bits of information you come across, into a journal. This journal will become hundreds of pages 
 long as you play. While you can bring up an alphabetical list of topics to look up specific ones, 
 you'll nevertheless need to know what exactly it is you're trying to find. There's no way to just 
 browse through the quests you have pending, an option that would have been really handy. But you'll 
 still be referring to your journal constantly. It simply could have done a much better job of helping 
 you keep track of the dizzying array of quests, places, and characters you'll encounter. The journal 
 could be prove to be a crippling problem for more casual players, who might take a break from Morrowind 
 for a few days, only to return to find that they've completely forgotten whatever it was they were 
 supposed to be doing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (359 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ShroudedEagle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind was one of the first RPG games I played, it's been around for quite some time but it's 
 still one of the best games out there in my opinion. The quality and quantity of the game are balanced 
 out well, and both are at great levels.
  
  This game doesn't have a multiplayer, it's no MMO, but it's definitely got a huge amount of things 
 to do. The main quest alone is around 50 hours long, so long as you don't use the console command 
 to do most of the work for you. Along with the main quest, there are literally tons of side quests 
 for you to do. I've been playing this game for about 7 years now, and I'm still finding quests 
 that I haven't done yet. The game has a lot of replayability too, and there are loads of places 
 to discover on this huge landscape.
  
  As a low level character you may find this game difficult to get around, there are certain areas 
 that have enemies that will certainly kill you if you enter. It's quite difficult to build your 
 level up at first but so long as you keep doing quests and keep yourself busy you will level up 
 with ease. The weapons are a bit annoying to use because while it's a 3D RPG, the game still acts 
 like a 2D one in terms of combat, the skill level of your weapon affects your chances of hitting 
 your enemy. However, if your skill is high, you're almost certain to hit them, and you're definitely 
 going to hit them if your skill is 100. This is a bit frustrating if your skill is too low but 
 once you've paid for training you'll be unstoppable (up to an extent) .
  
  There is a huge variety of game items such as armour, clothing and weapons in this game, and you 
 can also enchant them yourself, which kind of makes your suit of armour or sword unique to every 
 other sword of the same type out there. You can also make your own spells, as well as buy existing 
 ones, and there are thousands. Of course the enchanting and spell making costs gold, and it can 
 be extremely expensive but like I said before, if you keep yourself busy in this game gold shouldn't 
 be a problem.
  
  The huge landscape can be explored on foot so you can discover dungeons and cities, or you could 
 pay for travel which can be found in most major towns and cities. Travel can be weird creatures 
 called "Silt Striders", they're pretty big creatures, so you can't miss them, boats, or Guild Mages 
 who can teleport you to other Mages Guildhalls. So if you do get tired of walking, you could always 
 pay a small amount of gold to get somewhere quicker. However, not all towns have transportation, 
 so you would have to walk there yourself, but look on the bright side, it helps you level up faster.
 
  
  Morrowind was and still is one of the best RPG games ever made. Considering how old it is, it should 
 be cheap to get now and it would've been worth full price anyway. If you want a huge single player 
 role playing game, Morrowind is your best bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azoth-Akanian
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  To start off, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is an amazing game, and if you don't have it, get 
 it. You won't be disappointed. There's so much to do it'll take you 100+ hours to master the game. 
 No joke.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 4/5
  
  The only problem is the combat system. There's only a few different attacks you can do, with no 
 combos/specials. But, of course, there is magic, which can be fun to use, and very useful as well.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 5/5
  
  When I first bought this game when it came out in 2002, I was amazed by the graphics and what was 
 put into them. No detail was left out. There's small ripples in the water and larger ripples in 
 the water when you swim in it. The land is decorated with rocks, trees, pillars of stone, and even 
 the water has clams and different plants in it! And if you have it for PC and you don't like the 
 graphics, you can always find mods ;) .
  
  MUSIC: 5/5
  
  The music in this is great. I love it, and never get tired of listening to it. When your walking 
 around a town, it's all calm and serene, and then when your sneaking around a bandit cave and the 
 combat music starts, you turn around to see some guy charging at you with a club. It's perfect.
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY: 6/5 (lolwut?)
  
  Yeah, 6/5, because it's just that good for replaying. Especially if you can mod your game. Of course, 
 there's always your best character that you can do a bunch of sidequests with, but eventually he/she 
 will get way to good and will wipe out every living thing in the game. Yeah, like that could happen. 
 Did I mention enemies respawn?
  
  OVERALL: 10/10
  
  I HIGHLY recommend you get this game, even if you're not an RPG fan. You won't be disappointed. 
 It's good for both PC and XBox. So do me a favor, get off the computer, and go to your nearest 
 game store. What, they don't have it? Order it in, then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasabi2468
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  The word immersive is perfect for this game. It has an immense, imaginative world which still feels 
 right even seven years after the game's release. The characters are extremely customizable allow 
 for several different paths, each with several more specific paths within it. (ex.- specializing 
 in combat vs. magic and specializing in long swords vs. short swords, etc.) This amount of potential 
 customization puts this title above all other titles from Bethesda as far as depth is concerned.
 
  
  I believe there are two major problems with Morrowind, though. First is how traveling is done in 
 the world. Though I believe the quick travel system in Morrowind using what could just be called 
 public trasport is better than the system found in Oblivion and Fallout 3; walking at 2 mph through 
 the immense world to find places that the quick traveling does not access is tedious nearly to 
 a breaking point. The game should have included horses to allow for quicker manual traveling. The 
 other, more minor issue, is that magic points do not automatically recover. Instead, sleep or a 
 potion is required to do so. This fact makes a strictly magic-oriented character very impractical.
 
  
  Despite its flaws, Morrowind is an excellent game. I would recommend it to anyone, whether or not 
 they are a fan of RPGs (I am not) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandra_Eva
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  Very cool, nice, open ended rpg - action game, full of flexibility. And good quality of graphics- 
 sounds for early 2000's. Freedom to create your "own mini quests - games" in the game. For example; 
 i was trying to free all slaves in dark, humid dungeons. Trying allways first to complete Temple 
 quests, as a kind pilgrim lady. I remember to feel the sense of being good, tenderhearted while 
 leading - guiding poor dark elf pilgrims to sacred places. Just watching the sun at dawn and dusk 
 kept me entertained, excited sometimes. The level - skill level system is totaly different than 
 Oblivion; in Morrowind hard to learn as disciple (low level) easy and fast learning as master (high 
 levels) Possibility of adding various mod's adds to the emotion of the game btw. Briefly; its one 
 of the unforgettable classic that every rpg fan must try and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is a massive game. And the difficulty is set a Very Hard because of the fact that you 
 can't probably cover every inch of Morrowind in the entire lifespan of the game. By the way, Morrowind 
 is the name of the island where you are sent. You are a prisoner who has been sent to Morrowind 
 to fulfill orders from the Emperor. There is an ancient prophecy which needs to be fulfilled and 
 there is a growing feeling in the game that you are the person referred to as "The One" in the 
 prophecy.
  
  Morrowind is a strictly Non-Linear Game. Confused? Well that means that in the game you are the 
 one who will decide the outcome of the game by your choice. For example, you help a person find 
 his axe (which happens to be a very powerful axe) and now you choose whether to return it to him 
 or to kill him and keep the axe for yourself. You choose what to do. You can kill him and continue 
 with the rest of the game or you may return it to him. You may do whatever you want to. You may 
 steal, pickpocket, murder, rob and use any evil and sly means necessary to get your job done and 
 the game will still go on. You might even turn against the empire and fight in the revolution if 
 you want. In short do whatever you want to live.
  
  The gameplay of Morrowind is unique in allowing you to play in both First-person and Third-person 
 views. This helps in many situations. Like I travel around the island in Third-person view and 
 quickly shift to First-person when fighting. That way I can see all around me when travelling and 
 while fighting I can get a good aim.
  
  Morrowind is a game that all game lovers should collect for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragenix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  oblivion was a disappoint compared to morrowind, however it did have a lot to live up to. really 
 the only thing it improved was graphics. morrowind had better quests, better spells, better audio 
 soundtrack, better everything.
  other things that were fixed in oblivion are, your magic recharges without having to sleep, and 
 the combat system were every attack counts as a hit. this was annoying in morrowind during earlier 
 levels, but one level was increased it was no longer a problem.
  fallout 3 pretty much just took oblivion an stuck guns in it. not much work done, story line is 
 impressive, but hard to feel like part of it at times. still playing it hopefully some surprises 
 pop up, completed main storyline.
  
  looking forward to any furture releases in the elder scroll series, hopefully they dont put all 
 their effort into fallout. elder scrolls V needs to fall back more towards morrowind, and only 
 use the improvements mentioned in oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeenIcarus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I loved it It all makes sense how oblivion comes from this. I am surprised at how fun this game 
 was. The graphics werent better than oblivion because it came out before and this is the game that 
 made oblivion what it is. I loved this and i got it for my little brother so i could expirement 
 how Bethesda has changed everything. Bethesda did great making the first great real RPG game. I 
 cant wait for my little brother to unwrap this game and see that it is both expansions. I hope 
 he has fun letting me play it. Hahaha I will have fun. And I hope he does to. This game is gonna 
 be sweet on my computer. I mean everygame has a beggining that is the supposed to be the best. 
 This is the beggining of all of the bethesda games. Oblivion is just one of these games that are 
 part of a series that will just get better. I wish Bethesda Would remake this game with better 
 graphics. If they did this the game would look like how it was planned to look. I mean in Oblivion 
 it had little voice acting, Characters who looked exactly alike, and quests that spread across 
 the continent. Though they had great graphics and good combat and controls that still dont make 
 up for it but they help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusTW
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing mixture of old-school D&D-type RPGs and new western action-RPGs, with RPG 
 being the emphasis in every area, of course. The term "immersive" is perfectly appropriate. I'm 
 reviewing this now in an Oblivion world, but I must honestly say that Morrowind is better. That's 
 no offense to Oblivion, either; Morrowind just got everything right. Sure, after 20 hours or so 
 you'll be well on your way to "overpowered god-being," but, well, that's not a problem is it? The 
 world of Vvardenfell is one of the most original, well-planned, well-executed game worlds in the 
 history of gaming. This game will become legend, and it deserves such status. Combat is perhaps 
 the weakest part of the game (aside from cliff racers...) , but even the combat is fun, and you'll 
 never avoid fights or run away because it's a chore to stay and duke it out (as it is in some other 
 games) . Simply put, if you like RPGs, you already love this game. You just may not know it yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdraco41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is the perfect RPG for anyone who wants a game that takes an eternity to explore fully. 
 It has a feel to it that pulls you into its universe. The new way that Morrowind allows you to 
 approach a quest in any way that you feel necessary is both cool and innovative. The other major 
 way that this universe is so huge that you can get lost in it for days. the only few problems I 
 have with it is that the cities are too sudden and divided; there is very little transition between 
 wilderness and civilization. Also, the game leans very much towards being a mage instead of a thief 
 or a warrior. Even when you're trying to be a warrior, you have to be extremely disciplined or 
 else you might inadvertently use healing spells and potions. In the end, Morrowind will enthrall 
 you in it and you will enjoy it more than many games you have played of the role plaing game genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildevo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Your eyesight fades in on a prision cargo ship and a guard informs you that you "have arrived" 
 and that your being let go. After entering your name, you go topside and make you way into what 
 is Morrowind.
  Following is about a half hour tutorial in which you pick you stats and creat your character. Right 
 down from your race to the stars you were born under, you mold the character of your choice in 
 a smartly written opening. At the end of it you are handed two packages, one for a man named Casius 
 and the other, directions to his house.
  You could just as easily sell these notes to a pawnbroker and be lost of any clue as to what you 
 are sopposed to do in this land. Thats what I love about this game. You are responsible for your 
 actions. They affect everything you do, and can make it harder or easier for yourself.
  Hours of walking are then applied and plenty of click to attack gameplay. The game can be played 
 from a first person or third person perspective. The combat is plenty quircky. If you "miss" you 
 will still see the sword fly into your enemies. Yet you will hear a swoosh sound and it will have 
 no effect. It takes a while to kills things because of this, you end up clicking so many times 
 and not hitting what you are trying to that it can, at times, become very frustrating. 
  Combat aside, you will be enveloped in the script that Bethesda has put together. Thousands of 
 NPCs will remember you and have their own disposition on you. You can walk up to anyone you want 
 and start a conversation with them. This is often the way you find things out about what you are 
 to do in a mission. 
  The graphics are great and the game is very atmospheric. Lighting effects look especially nice 
 for an older game and everything in the enviroment is living and breathing. You find things from 
 a drug called "Moon sugar" to reptile slaves that you can free just for the hell of it. This is 
 a huge sandbox, and it will react to everything you do.
  However, I must put a warning on this review. Anyone that needs constant action and an arrow pointing 
 them where to go should steer clear of this game. It has an incredibly steep learning curve and 
 after thousands of hours spent playing it, I have yet to figure out all that is Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel848
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  After having read a few reviews, I was stunned by how many actually don't this game. Even more 
 so, when I read when which went so far, as to state that the sequel, TES IV - Oblivion, is better. 
 I must say, I strongly disagree with that.
  
  While Oblivion has what you could call eye-candy, it doesn't have much other than that. It's story, 
 while decent enough, is medicore compared to the one in Morrowind. After playing Morrowind, I felt 
 satisfied that I actually did something for my pixeley friends of Vvardenfell, whereas I felt more 
 of an errand boy after the main story in Oblivion. While both are obvious elements of an RPG, errand-boy 
 status is far, far less than I would have expected from the sequel to a game like Morrowind.
  
  Morrowind may not look the best, not even for the time it was made, but that's probably the 
 only downside to this game. If you actually care for the story, and read the dialogue, you'll find 
 weeks of satisfaction in Morrowind. On top of that, there are many excellent mods to add on top 
 of the main story (ies) , many of which add hours of extra gameplay.
  
  I gave it "Best in series", though this may not be exactly accurate.. I'm fairly sure Daggerfall, 
 the prequel to Morrowind, is better, but I have never come across a copy of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostradomas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The Good: A great main storyline, Endless character customization, boundless freedoms, tons of 
 quests, Huge open ended gameworld, easily 100 hours of enjoyable gameplay. For a world this bit 
 and rich, few detrimental bugs.
  
  The Bad: Combat is so-so, for the time it wasnt horrible but it definitely feels a bit dated now. 
 Load times can be a pain.
  
  Ive seen on a lot of reviews that this game had little or no main storyline and that your character 
 was left out in the cold in terms of where to go. To all of these people i say: Please, please 
 either stop reviewing games, or learn how to play them. This game has a FANTASTIC story, of course 
 this is my opinion, but i am allowed to have it because at least i knew how to read my in game 
 journal and use what NPCs had told me to figure out where to go next. Do yourself a favor and dont 
 play this game if you have an IQ that sinks too low, because you will end up just like the others. 
 However if you can handle being left with thousands of character development options and an open 
 gameworld that is begging to be explored along with a main story that is great, and can be completed 
 at your leisure then maybe morrowind is for you. This is by far my favorite elder scrolls game 
 because of the huge world, its even bigger than oblivion. I encourage all intelligent people to 
 play this game, and i hope you all enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souranply
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing Oblivion a few years ago. It was the first non linear game i had ever played. 
 Oblivion is what got me into free form games but this review is not about Oblivion its about Morrowind.
 
  
  When i had finished Oblivion i was thirsty for more. I did some research and dicided to buy Morrowind. 
 This was pretty hard because the only place you can buy it from is Amazon which doesn't deliver 
 to South Africa. I had finnaly bought Morrowind off Ebay.
  
  10.000 years later
  
  My first look at Morrowind was quite confusing because of it having different controls from Oblivion. 
 After i had changed the controls to my liking i started to explore Vvardenfell. The lay out for 
 the menu sucks so i had to get use to it. I went to Balmore where that Caius Cosades guy was. After 
 i delivered it i felt like testing the Bloodmoon expansion but thats not part of this reveiw. So 
 Morrowind must be one of the best games i've ever played (second to Half life 2) .
  
  Good: Gameplay, depth, freeform, large amounts of charaters and objects.
  
  Bad: menu lay out, 
 bugs, combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I never played Morrowind the "correct" way. Many times I'd play the game like a rogue-like; start 
 the game over, get as far as you can, and then not save. Oftentimes this created some fun situations 
 when I'd start to deviate from the typical path, and this led to some hilarious situations. A video 
 gamer has not lived until they have killed off the entire virtual city themselves with nothing 
 but a loincloth and a sword that shoots lightning at oncoming characters they stole off a magician 
 that fell from the sky.
  
  The Elder Scrolls games have always encouraged this. They present the game with a world - often 
 much more open-ended than its closest cousin, Grand Theft Auto - and says, "Here you go." What 
 happens next depends on the player, which is more than any other game really expects. I could play 
 it like an MMO, finding and solving any quest I run across. I could power through the story missions, 
 and tour the world of Morrowind along my route. I could forget all that and simply role-play in 
 the fiction, stealing from the rich and handing it over to the poor. Or I could be the stereotypical 
 bad guy, slaughtering every character I see until the game becomes practically unplayable.
  
  The game can't predict every possibility, of course; oftentimes these situations were my own 
 limitations, expanded with my imagination. It helped that I played the game on a computer that 
 could barely run the thing. Even now, when I have a computer that has no issues with all of the 
 material that Morrowind loads at one time, the game looks and performs nice enough for me to still 
 enjoy it without wincing at the outdated models. This allows me to explore and enjoy the game without 
 getting bogged down in detail; then again, this is coming from a guy who likes Nethack.
  
  The game is filled with things to do and see, and this makes it a meta-game in its own. Every once 
 in a while the landscape offers some sort of treat to the player, be it visual or gameplay orientated, 
 that makes all the aimless wandering worthwhile. Be it a cliff or a secret fortress, there are 
 times in the game when my jaw drops and I just go, "Oh, my gosh, that's amazing." It's this sense 
 of the unexpected that makes the game so much fun.
  
  The lack of rails is the game's largest advantage, but its also the most obvious weakness. When 
 a game that contains a world this big has to be made my a single development team, of course some 
 limitations have to be imposed. This results in a lot of similar textures and architecture occurring 
 throughout the continent. Some patches of land are so hard to distinguish that I could walk in 
 a straight line and think I'm doing donuts. The game's walking speed is also very, very slow and 
 it takes forever to get anywhere on foot.
  
  
  Nothing feels scripted, and of course, that means its largely up to the player to make their own 
 fun. Sure, the game comes with more quests than a single sane person would want to solve, but they 
 get old eventually. There are parts of the game that are very, very boring. When you create such 
 a large world with such a vast range of possibilities, you're bound to walk into a path that really 
 doesn't interest you much now and then. This isn't an everyman's RPG.
  
  But again, this isn't an accessible game to begin with. Much like Fallout and the older Elder Scrolls 
 games, the Morrowind experience is grand, epic, and, unfortunately, hard to get into at times. 
 Wander into the wrong path and you'll be dead instantly. The first person perspective works for 
 the most part, but the interface is cumbersome and takes some getting used to. There is a level 
 of tedium to work with here, and players running into Morrowind expecting something as easy to 
 understand as, say, Oblivion, will be disappointed. This is not Oblivion Lite as the graphics make 
 it appear; in fact, I'd say it's the other way around.
  
  And yet, all this hardcore behavior works in Morrowind's favor somewhat. By not positioning itself 
 as the everyman's game, it's allowed to do a lot of things mainstream games couldn't get away with. 
 Ninjas attacking the character in his sleep? Oh, yes. Combat is complex, stats are a juggling act, 
 and the equipment screen is god-awful to use at times. This is a game that is made for RPG lovers, 
 and nobody else.
  
  But through it all, the charm of the game still comes through, because by and large Bethesda still 
 delivered on their original concepts. Morrowind is a grand world filled with interactive objects 
 and characters, coupled with a fairly good story to boot. Production values are, while lacking, 
 still above standard fare even on the Xbox 360. While it's old and obviously been one-upped by 
 other games, I'm still not shy about professing my immense joy at playing Morrowind occasionally. 
 It's a very, very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lo_YusukY_ol
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  If you're searching for simplistic games, runaway as fast as you can.
  
  This isn't a game where you'll learn everything you need at the first 2 hours of game. You'll certainly 
 need a FAQ/Walkthrough to know the whereabouts of good items or quests to make your character grow 
 fast and "easy".
  
  Really, if you stars to find the game boring just because you "newbiely" walked minutes and minutes 
 to reach your goal or a city, don't surrender. Read a FAQ with some tips and hints, I think almost 
 everyone who played the game did, even the most hardcore RPG players.
  
  Good:
  Big game; You're free to do whatever comes to mind; good 3D character and scenery view; a vast 
 list of spells; a lot of fun skills (stats) , such as speechcraft.
  
  Bad:
  The gigantic map makes it hard to explore everything doing a lot of newbies confused and frustrated 
 sometimes (like me) ; A few lags due to "loadings"; There's no things as cutscenes even in the main 
 quest; If you're new to the game, you can do a lot of irreparable mistakes because of the complex 
 mechanism of the game.
  
  Graphics/Video? Hell, they're so f**king good, considering the game was made a few years ago. And 
 if you dislike the First Person view, you can change to the third to be able to see your character 
 and his actions.
  
  Sound? Well. I don't really know much of audio things, but they're quite medieval themed to the 
 spine. Fusing the sound and the scenery, you really feels like in some medieval history.
  
  Gameplay/Control... Well. It could be better, really. It's ratter difficult to understand and manipulate 
 everything with dexterity, so try exploring every command (seeing the manual, or not) before get 
 to the real thing.
  
  Replay. I don't think this is a game to play multiple times. But if you're fascinated with it, 
 just go by different paths, with different stats and good luck =D
  
  If you get confused about the meaning of a crazy word, don't worry, you've not forgot how to read 
 English, it's me that forgot how to write in it =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game would have been great, if there was any storyline at all.
  
  This game is pretty cool, and I'm glad I experienced it, but it needs some serious improvement.
 
  
  For starters, yes this gameworld is massive, and you won't even realize it until you spend 10 minutes 
 walking from one city to another, then check the world map to see you barely even went that far. 
 The voice acting is cool, and there is tons of stuff to do, take, and buy.
  
  But what cripples this game is the fact that once you get dumped off at morrowind, you never actually 
 meet any characters, that lead you through a story. Also, the battle system is HORRIBLE. all you 
 do is repeatedly hit whatever you are trying to kill, until it dies. 
  
  In the end if you want to do hundreds of random missions than this is your game, if you are looking 
 for an in depth experience, with an immersive plot, and wonderful characters look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usagimusashi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  I played this game on the X-Box when it first came out, and it was quite enjoyable. Now I've got 
 the PC version on a newer machine, and with all the video options turned up to their maximum, the 
 visuals of the game really get their chance to shine!
  
  I can't think of anything that I don't like about this game (except maybe the movement speed of 
 a beginning character, but that's a minor nitpick) . The character generation system is beautiful, 
 the leveling system is nothing short of brilliant, and the setting is refreshingly original. The 
 sheer number of character options make this game a lot of fun. You can really make the character 
 that you want to play, and then make a totally different character to play again and again!
  
  If Oblivion is even half as fun and replayable as Morrowind, I'll be extremely happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Intranetusa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been reading some of the reviews, and I find it hilarious on how people say Morrowind sucks 
 because its graphics and combat are not as good as Oblivion.
  
  Guess, what, Morrowind came out 6 years ago! That's what you'd expect for a game from 2002! Why 
 the hell do you think it was so freking cheap when you bought it!?!?!
  
  
  As a person who has spent hundreds of hours in both Oblivion and Morrowind and beaten the main 
 quest more than once, I can say that I loved both games. If you've played Oblivion, you'll notice 
 some obvious differences. Morrowind's combat-magic-block system isn't very good, and is the weak 
 point of the game. Also, its leveling and skills is far more complex than Oblivion, which will 
 be confusing to those who aren't accustomed to carefully picking skills and micromanagement.
  
  However, its mechanics, environment/setting, and plot far outshines Oblivion. The game play 
 is much more open ended, and the quests and dungeons are widely varied, entertaining, and all unique. 
 You can be plundering diverse dungeons ranging from sprawling underground Dewer cities to crystal 
 mines to giant caverns with burial ships. The environment ranges from ash chocked volcanic landscape 
 to fungi covered flatlands to the snowy glaciers of Solthesim. 
  
  
  So if you mainly care about the open endedness, plot, and setting of an RPG, Morrowind is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind hit a great mark for me. Now I've played Oblivion and its great and 
 all, but its not all together that creative. They took a plot out ye booke of plots, took a setting 
 out of "look out the ****ing window" magazine and added castles and some enemies that either butchering 
 the best enemies from the old ones or are straight out of every other ****ing fantasy setting ever. 
 Morrowind on the other hand looks and feels like a creative work. It has a setting that looks like 
 Sauron set up his base in Wonderland, with a fungi-dominated greenery and a dreary haze over everything. 
 The game is large but not so large that you feel overwhelmed by it and has enough variety of scenery 
 so that you aren't too bored of it for the primary play-through, and hey, the plot doesn't suck 
 that hard either, in fact its pretty creative.
  Despite its great creativity it isn't without its problems, for one thing, its stealth-magic-combat 
 system pretty much ****s you in the ass if you aren't combat and makes you unable to complete a 
 lot of game elements without a good deal of magic, so you caught in a battle to make a character 
 who doesn't suck (stealth system is the worst I've seen ever) . The only other complaint would be 
 cliff racers, these pterodactyls that you fight so often you think you're playing Final Fantasy, 
 this wouldn't even be that bad if they didn't sound like a dying old woman under water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Dont take me wrong! For 2002`s standards Iam sure this was a great RPG. 
  This review is only showing how I think Morrowind holds up to todays standards and I have to say 
 Iam disappointed. 
  
  The graphics are to times beautiful, (like the water) and to most times ugly. The characters are 
 poorly detailed compared with other 2002 games like for example Hitman: SA. 
  
  The story on the other hand is good, and the side-missions holds certain standards.
  
  The 
 main problem with the game has to be the gameplay. Not that your character is walking strange or 
 anything. Not to many bugs either, but the will to continue to play, which they included in the 
 highly addictive Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. This game isn`t that fun, doesn`t really holds todays 
 standards and hard to recommended to others then diehard-Elder Scrolls fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawL3Ss147
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  I still have every TES game on my HDD- Arena, Daggerfall, Battlespire, Redguard, Morrowind (with 
 both exp. packs) , Oblivion. 
  
  Played every single one, and I was HUGELY disappointed with Morrowind and both of it's expansions. 
 First, it was kinda fun running around in full 3D world, but the first problem came with the combat 
 system, I died in less than an hour. I didn't hit ANYONE in this game. The Magic system kinda "sucked" 
 too. After a few hours of playing, it was dull, boring, slow, and I didn't even leveled up, and 
 I knew how to level up (raise 10 times your major skills) . Only 1 thing was good about this game: 
 The music. It was the only thing that made this game better.
  
  Second problem: TOO much skills, Short blade, long blade, Light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, 
 spear, axe. What in hell! Daggerfall had too much skills too. I'd say that Oblivion was MUCH better 
 than Morrowind, easier to fight, better magic system, not so much skills, Short and long blades 
 is in one skill: BLADE, no medium armor, only Light and Heavy. Axe is in Blunt.
  
  People in this game doesn't move naturally, they move like some kind of robots. Third: Too much 
 to read: Trading, talking. Like they have no mouths and they are writing on a sheet of paper. Thank 
 god people move better and TALK in Oblivion. Yes, people say that the world levels up with you, 
 if you fight a mudcrab at level 1, you fight exactly the same at level 20 or 30. Oscuro's Oblivion 
 Overhaul and Francesco's Mod makes everything better. 
  
  But still, Daggerfall would be the best in the series...
  
  I can hear Thumb's Down coming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Bosmer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I've picked up Morrowind on a back self at EBGames. It was under crap games that no one likes like 
 Haze. That's a bad first impression.
  I start up the game and realise that every last character looks like an idiot. The game characters 
 all look like there 50, a 50 year old rogue/acrobat isn't fun to play at all! 
  When I was set loose on the vast lands of Vvardefel, I noticed that the only thing I wanted to 
 do was to get the f*** of that island. I don't find walking around in a desolated landscape fun. 
 To top the need to close the game down and smash my head in a CRT monitor, the stupid song that 
 gets old before you find the store in Seyda Neen and realise that the guy doesn't sell any good 
 items. 
  A game is designed to entertain the player. Betaseda sure didn't get that concept until Oblivion. 
 They completely forgot to ad fun and gameplay. The combat is rapidly press the left mouse button 
 to swing your sword hoping that your character will auto block witch happens once ever two days 
 (real days) and only deflects a little bit of damage. Every time you swing your sword at an enemy 
 you will have a roll to see if you hit. Out of ten shots you'll probably hit once. Sometimes your 
 character sucks so much that even if you stick your sword thought the enemies trough he won't get 
 hit because he has high agility. This makes you have to run away and gain 10 levels (witch are 
 freaking long to get) to kill the idiot dude guarding the bridge to the Dwemer ruins by Balmore. 
 I guess he dodges it yet he just stands there hacking at you like a character in Demon Stone. I 
 guess we have come back to the good old days of RPG where you 'imagine' what's going on.
  The game is unimmersive because there is no way you can get attached to any NPCs, areas or quests. 
 The NPCs just answer fix questions about quests. The land is a burned down, swampy-desert. The 
 quests are things like go get this and bring it back to me or kill these people and get money. 
 To kill the immersion the crappy theme song is always present and makes you feel bad for ever person 
 who was forced to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  For the most part, GameSpot's review hits the nail on the head. Morrowind is a vast world with 
 endless possibilities and a few nit-picky problems that are easy to overlook.
  
  Let's get the bad out of the way first. The combat system is somewhat lacking, but it's viscerally 
 satisfying enough to carry the gameplay through to the better facets Morrowind. It would be nice 
 to see enemy health bars, damage indicators, and some blood/maiming effects, but hey,  
 works too. Also, the plot and side-quests could stand a little more cohesiveness. It would have 
 payed off hugely to have the player drawn into the story more.
  
  That said, it would be near impossible to not be drawn into the Morrowind world as a whole. Textures 
 are colorful, towns and landscapes are gorgeous, and characters/animals are creative to the point 
 of bafflement. Also, the character-building and development system is excellent. If you find yourself 
 becoming immersed in the extensive and well-crafted lands of Morrowind,, which you inevitably will, 
 you could easily spend several hundred hours playing and re-playing the game.
  
  The musical score to the game is a bit short, but on the other hand I often found myself growing 
 accustomed to the orchestral arrangements. Watching gameplay videos today brings back an overwhelming 
 sense of nostalgia when I hear the in-game music.
  
  All that Morrowind lacks, the sequel (Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion) remedies. It therefore may seem 
 tempting to skip straight to the most recent title of the Elder Scrolls series, but I would not 
 recommend it. Role-playing fans, Morrowind is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupidd55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is a very open-ended game, giving the player something to do at 
 every turn. Your plate-wearing Argonian (lizard-like race) , hailing from the Black Marshes, can 
 be a Grandmaster Assassin or the Archmage of the Mage's guild; or both.
  
  The game is simply limitless and has plenty of replay value. You can choose to go through each 
 faction's questline separately, along with the main story and side-quests, or you can do it all 
 in one. If you choose to do it all in one it's not a problem; there are many other class/race combinations 
 to choose from, and you can even create your own class.
  
  Although this game does have a fair amount of bugs and glitches, it's nothing truly gamebreaking; 
 only minor problems which serve to create a bit of frustration. And true, it doesn't have a real 
 tradeskilling function, but you can still enchant and repair your items, pick herbs and make potions, 
 among other things.
  
  This game is simply a timeless classic in my books, getting better and better with each play through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteScorpian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  now im not saying this gae is bad but it could use some work i found it fun for a short yet fun 
 time well this was a good game but if u play it for a long time you strat to see the bad side
 
  
  first the graphics are bad and im being nice about that because if you play this and then any other 
 xbox game you see they didnt take that much time out to work on looks the first time i saw it i 
 was thinking i could take this but by the time i got to lvl 10 i wanted to quit just because it 
 looked like a peace of crap the mod was bad the monsters where ugly to and dont get me started 
 about the people.
  
  ok now the sound of the voices was very good the monsters sound like some guys taking a crap and 
 when u jump into a big ocean it sounds like u are a kid playing in a bath.
  
  now for the good it was fun making my way up the lvls but i hated the questthey got there boring 
 and hard and your guy always hits in 2 types of ways now thats boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeolian_Mode
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  When Bethesda made the PC version of the game, they included a kid called "The Elder Scrolls Construction 
 Set". Basically, by doing this, they said "hey, you've seen what we made. Now let's see what YOU 
 can make."
  
  In short, this is a game that lets you make your own world. Don't play a world someone else made 
 up. Play YOUR OWN world. You can alter just about anything in this game, from the graphics to the 
 quests to the dialogue and everything in between. 
  
  This game however is not for the casual gamer that wants to spend a few hours of the afternoon 
 playing around on a video game. This is for RPG gamers who want to spend all of their free time 
 on one game and no other game. If you really love to get engrossed in a world, Morrowind is the 
 game for you. If you don't have the time for that, Morrowind is NOT the game for you. And if you're 
 creative like me and you want to make your own world, then Morrowind is a MUST HAVE for you. If 
 you have the time and resources, you can compeltely convert the world of Morrowind into your own 
 little kingdom.
  
  In short, amazing game. Huge game. And, time consuming game. Not for the busy buisnessman who wants 
 to have a REAL life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When I was starting Morrowind it felt boring, like it wasn't going to get better. But being the 
 gamer I am, I managed to trudge through and soon found myself imersed into the world that is called 
 Morrowind.
  
  Morrowind is no ordinary game, it is in fact an amazing game, with great quests and overall feeling.
 
  
  Morrowind had tons of quests, but none of them were slacked off on or left in the dirt. All of 
 the quests were nicely done and made you feel like you did something. There are 200+ quests for 
 you to play around with which equels 100+ hours of staring at your computer screen.
  
  The graphics are great for the time they were made in and with a few modifacations, they still 
 are. The way they made the landscape and just the complete feeling that it gives you really makes 
 it shine. The armors were well detailed and there are lots of armor for you to collect and wear.
 
  
  The combat was horrid and this is what kept the game from becoming in the Hall of Gaming Fame. 
 For a game that has as much combat as it has, they should have at least tried to create a decent 
 combat system.
  
  The sound was great, each piece of music matched the area that you were in. The sound effects were 
 nothing great but they did the job.
  
  Overall Morrowind is a must have for RPG gamers but stick with it through the beginning, trust 
 me, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OB-47
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I was't the biggest fan of RPG, that is until I played Morrowind. I'ts so well thought out and 
 rather than being linear you are free to choose what to do. Its starts of with an intro giving 
 the base of the story and describing your past. And then it turns into a bad dream. Jiub, wakes 
 you up telling you might be let out into Morrowind. Then an Imperial Guard tell you to head up 
 on deck. Note that this a very well thought out tutorial, rather then saying: "Press W, S, A, and 
 D keys to move" the guard will just tell you to walk and then a message will pop up telling you 
 how to do so. This is good because it feels like your in the game. This contrasts from Fables "Press 
 A to attack. This reminds you your playing a game and not actually BEING in the game. The music 
 is excellent as it will change in the right time. If your being attacked the music will change 
 to a daunting scary sort of music and while exploring the music is peaceful. But the game does 
 have i'ts quirks. The combat system is a bit weird, because only four sorts of attacks make the 
 combat just clicking and the mercantile skill is not really skill, its more luck and same with 
 the speechcraft. But overall this game is excellent. A must have for RPG fans, Adventure fans and 
 even gamers who don't like RPG's, because hey, I didn't like RPG before I played this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  I still remember when I first got this game. I thought it would be another game in my collection, another 
 rpg that I thought I would finish in a week or two and start looking for a new challenge, for a 
 new game of this genre. How I was surprised! How badly I was mistaken! This game took me 3 months 
 to finish! I've always been a completist. Every quest in no matter which rpg game had to be passed, finished. Every 
 quest not completed was treated by me as my failure, huge dissapointment. No... for me a fully passed 
 rpg has always been the one in which I didn't have anything else to do. Enemy beaten, dungeons, ruins 
 fully explored, my hero fully experienced. Only then was I able to put the game aside and start a 
 new one. Morrowind was the first game in a very looong time that didn't allow me to believe that 
 everything I did I did correctly, it didn't allow me to think all the quests I completed were all 
 the ones that actually needed completion. In fact it was the first game ever playing which I always 
 had this feeling that there was still plenty of other things to do despite finishing it 3 times.
 
  
  And that's what Morrowind is. It's a huge and I mean HUGE world to explore. The map is enormous. It 
 took me all day to get from one side of it to the other. There's so many dungeons, cities, tombs in 
 between that a simple ' getting from one spot to the other ' mission becomes a legendary path of 
 the Incarnate.
  
  You start as an unknown person, a slave to be exact. For some reason you you have been transported 
 to Morrowind on a slave ship to find out that you have just been released by the emperor himself. You 
 are given directions to the excise and census office which is located right on the shore where 
 you are asked to identify yourself. This identification is nothing else than simple character creation. You 
 can create you character from scratch or by answering different questions allow the office agent 
 to create a class for you. As I have always been a hardcore rpg fan I never allowed someone else 
 to decide my class for me so I started creating my own and all I can say is that this creation 
 tool is something to be desired.
  You can decide almost about anything here. From your character's name, gender and class to plenty 
 of different abilities which are also divided into groups. There are Major skills which are being 
 developed faster than the other ones. The Minor skills and other miscellaneus skills. You have to 
 think carefully about which skills you want to include in the Major group as these will be the 
 ones that will describe your hero and affect the path you will take. For example: If one of your 
 major skills is the abillity to wield axes then you will start the game with more points distributed 
 towards the axe wielding abillity. You will then be able to advance much quicker while using the 
 above mentioned axe.
  You can level up by increasing your major and minor skills and the only difference between those 
 two is that while you can improve you major skills by constantly using them ( you will increase 
 your athletics by running or by covering long distances on foot or your heavy armor skill by being 
 hit) you will only improve your minor skills through special training for which you will have to 
 pay. Although it may sound a little bit complicated, in reality it's very simple and it's very easy 
 to get the hang of it.
  
  Once everything is done you're ready to go and are free to do whatever you want. That's right. You 
 can do whatever you want. There isn't any linear path you have to take. You can decide to roam the 
 world whenever you want and for as long as you want. You can choose to follow the main quest. You 
 can choose to travel on foot or you can take the silt strider ( I used to call it a taxi :) ) . You 
 can explore various dungeons, tombs, cities, you can gather alchemical ingredients and by using mortar 
 and pestle you can create your own potions. you can even create your own spells!
  You can switch the view from FPP to TPP anytime you want.
  
  The main quest is pretty long 
 and very involving. You will soon realize that the king didn't set you free without a reason. There's 
 a gossip that you're something more than just a released slave and after a while you're gonna become 
 a legendary hero. I want to avoid spoiling the plot but believe me you will be surprised. The story 
 is involving in that it makes you believe that the world's fate is really in your hands.
  
  Not following only the game's main quest is what I recommend because all the things you can do 
 in the meantime is what makes Morrowind great. You can join various guilds like : fighter's guild, 
 mages guild, thieves guild, assassin's guild, you can join one of the 3 different houses like : house 
 hlaalu, house redoran or house telvanni. All of the guilds and houses fight with each other so becoming 
 the grandmaster of all of them isn't that easy. You can advance to higher ranks in each guild. You 
 can even challenge the reigning grandmaster for a duel to the death and in case you kill him you 
 you are free to take his place.
  
  All of your actions affect your overall reputation. Why is it important? Because the better the reputation 
 the more the people like you and the more the people like you the more information you can gather 
 from them or the better price they will give you for every item you wanna sell. Of course you can 
 always bribe them ( which doesn't always work ) to increase their attitude towards you.
  
  The world of morrowind is a huge and varied continent. It is divided into different regions. Plain 
 terrain is mixed with mountains and volcanos with a huge mountain in the centre called : The Red 
 Mountain.
  As I mentioned before it takes a certain amount of time to get from one end of Morrowind to another 
 so if you want to sacrifice 1 hour a day to play this game forget it! Otherwise after couple of 
 days you will forget why you had to get to let's say Dagon Fell.
  
  The graphics are very nice and neat and if someone has any plans with regards to buying this game 
 please note that it was released in 2002 so when I'm saying the graphics are very nice I'm trying 
 not to compare it to let's say Oblivion because Morrowind is 6 years old. It's old which doesn't 
 mean outdated. It's still fresh and innovative and although there are plenty of different games 
 like Far Cry or Oblivion or Crysis that have graphics from different universe it shouldn't be taken 
 into consideration. Graphics isn't all that a game needs and in this particular case it's enough 
 as it is. The models are nice, the environment are looking very good.
  the day/night cycle is believable and pretty realistic. The weather effects like rain or thunderstorms 
 are solid as well.
  
  The audio is..... nothing to remember. At first it sounds nice and manages to pull some epic sounds 
 but it get's very repetitive after a while and considering that it is a very long game you might 
 want to play some of your favourite music while turning off the game's music because it gets very 
 irritating after a while.
  
  The game has it's flaws as well.
  1. There could be more monster types. After a while you will learn all of the monster types by heart 
 and considering that once you get strong enough you will be able to kill every one of them with 
 one or two blows ( based on my experience with the Daedric Battle Axe-best weapon in whole game) , the 
 battles might get boring after a while unless you love this ' I am god ' feeling.
  
  2. The game likes to crash occasionally or at least it used to. Now with all the newest editions 
 it seems to have been solved.
  3. There's a simple way to get rich in Vivec. All you need to do is to kill one of the ordinators 
 ( hint : go to a blacksmith in foreign quarter opposite to mages guild ) and sell all of it's stuff. Get 
 out of his building then wait 24 hours and go back in. Kill the ordinator again etc....
  because of that all the exploring and money you get from quests seems ridiculous.
  4. The sellers 
 have a limited amount of money they can pay for our items in one 24 hour day cycle so if you have 
 an artifact worth let's say 10000 you will get a maximum of 2500 or 4000 for it ( at least in morrowind) . In 
 mournhold you can get even 10000.
  5. Some of the dungeons, lairs become repetitive and you clear them with this ' been there done that 
 feeling'
  6. The journal is little chaotic and it's sometimes hard to follow all of your quests.
  7. The 
 Npc's like to stand in one place like they were made of stone. The only npc's that seem to be moving 
 are mostly guards. Some npc's do move a little bit but it looks like they were given some ridiculous 
 orders not to exceed some invisible 3 meter marker.
  
  Apart from that there's nothing that bothers or is annoying in any way. All of the above annoyances 
 aren't affecting the gameplay in any way. There are some minor scratches in what appears to be a 
 diamond in rpg industry.
  
  So summarizing Morrowind is a must have for every declared rpg fan of this world. It's longevity, very 
 good story and million possibilities will get you involved for many many weeks and when you will 
 finally beat the final obstacle you will want to play it once again just in case you missed something 
 the first time or just because you want to feel like world's toughest savior again and again and 
 again......
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justin3808
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best rpg I've played yet. It's amaisesing!!!! If you don't own it, GO GET 
 IT!! IT'S AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Ok, I'm done. Wait... I must say something else. This is one of 
 the must awsome games the world has ever known, and probably ever will. If it doesn't survive until 
 the end of the world I don't want that to happen while I'm alive. Actually either way I don't, 
 but that's off the subject. Like I said, go buy it. If you get it, make sure you get the Game Of 
 The Year Edition. The expansions make it even more worth it. It's AWSOME! I'm going to put that 
 in a million times. It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! 
 It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's 
 AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! 
 It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's 
 AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! 
 It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's 
 AWSOME! It's AWSOME! It's AWSOME! Ok I'm done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  It has been often seen with series like Final Fantasy, which have small beginnings and are followed 
 by only a limited group of gamers, until the crucial breakthrough game comes and raises the popularity 
 of the series high above the bar. This breakthrough successfully balances the traditional features 
 of the series at the same time introducing newer more revolutionary ones. Elder Scrolls has been 
 around since 1994 with games like Arena and Daggerfall and did have it's fair share of criticism 
 and a little fanfare. Yet, in the mainstream gaming circle, little was known about it. All until 
 Morrowind came out. It was this highly anticipated game of 2002, that created waves amongst the 
 gamers, and instantly skyrocketed it's struggling developer's finances. Morrowind maintains the 
 Elder Scrolls tradition of free roaming world, where you can do quite simply anything you want. 
 However, this free roaming world of Vvardenfell gets a much better structure with a rigid quest 
 system which efficiently managed the tons of quests that Morrowind has to offer.
  
  At it's basic Morrowind carries some of the proudest traditions of Computer-RPG. Right from it's 
 Ultima esque Class Selection system where your character's class is determined on the basis of 
 how you answer a set of moral questions, to the typical D&D type gameplay, older fans of RPG will 
 find something nostalgic. To start off with things, the game right off the hook places you into 
 the shoes of an unknown prisoner who is being deported to Vvanderfell, a district of Morrowind, 
 for reasons initially unknown to you. You select your Race and then your Class. All this will influence 
 the NPC's behaviour towards you throughout the game. Each Race has it's own benefits and disadvantages. 
 An Imperial has a good Speechcraft skill and can persuade an NPC much more than others. A Nord 
 is a more of a barbarian with specialities in Axe and Long Blade. Since Morrowind is largely populated 
 by the Dark Elves or the Dunmer, who despise outlanders, you might find yourself on their wrong 
 side more often than not. 
  
  The main quest of Morrowind on it's own shouldn't take more than 10 to 15 hours, but it isn't supposed 
 to be completed at one stretch. And it is hard to do so, if you consider the hundreds of sidequests, 
 that are there in the game. In fact, it would be safe to say that sidequests will form an integral 
 part of the gameplay of Morrowind than the main quests.
  The main source of these sidequests will be the Guilds or Factions. These organizations can be 
 political like the Great Houses of Hlaalu, Redoran and Telvanni or could be interest groups like 
 Fighter's Guild, Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, Morag Tong and so on.
  The NPC's of these guilds give you missions often termed as "duties" or "jobs". As you complete 
 the guild quests and meet the requirements, you can advance to higher ranks in the guild. As you 
 reach near the top, you will have to decide where your loyalty lies. Obviously, amongst the guilds 
 there are lots of politics going for leadership and the decision you make might influence a certain 
 event. These are few signs of a very good RPG.
  
  The main quest is mainly about the fulfillment of an age-old prophecy of a reincarnated hero, who 
 shall come to Morrowind to cast down the false gods of Tribunal and end the evil of Dagoth Ur that 
 threatens the entire Morrowind. All of the main quest is backed with some real nice history and 
 some good subplots which are well-told through the various books you will find in the course of 
 the game. The conflict between the nomadic Ashlanders and the aristocratic Tribunal Temple makes 
 a good "social" tale on it's own. Right from the start, the game succeeds in creating a tense atmosphere 
 filled with rich social history of war and betrayal. The problem is that amongst all the sidequests, 
 the main quest at times gets undermined. This is largely due to the pacing problem of the game. 
 It never urges you to get on with the main quest, and it can be completely ignored if you want 
 to.
  
  Morrowind's graphics are powerfully driven and at it's time were as wonderfully breathtaking as 
 we find BioShock today. Sure, you might notice buildings and other textures slowly popping out 
 from the distance, but it isn't as much of a problem like in some of the other games. However, 
 since it is a Computer RPG, Morrowind does have it's fair share of bugs and glitches. This can 
 be slightly detrimental to downright annoying at times. The variable collision detection creates 
 problem as sometimes you or a vital NPC can get stuck "in a rock" or "beneath the walls". There 
 are slight frame rate issues especially when there are loads of enemies and lots of magic is going 
 around. Another problem is that on Windows XP, you might be seldom brought onto the desktop with 
 an error message, which can get real annoying especially in latter stages of the game.
  
  After all the adventure and depth of the world in Morrowind, it is the combat which really lets 
 the game down. A shallow RPG experience which is reduced to an even more embarrassing depths of 
 hack and slash. Some of the finer aspects of combat especially magic seems to be done half-heartedly 
 and in the end, it becomes more of a burden using magic than ease. The inventory is not well fleshed 
 out, and often breaks the pace of the game. To be simple, melee is the only strength of Morrowind's 
 combat. Other things like ranged weaponry and magic feel labored and are easily one of the most 
 tiring aspects of the game. If you have a sword, attack can be of three types, depending upon your 
 movement. However, if you're using a ranged weapon, your arrow will only hit with a certain damage, 
 and enemy AI will easily figure how to avoid your arrows sooner or later. Magic is more of a trial 
 and error method especially if you're low at skill. Crime has been an important feature of Elder 
 Scrolls game before and Morrowind makes it more realistic. If you attack a person without any provocation, 
 it is a serious crime. But, if you're attacked and kill a person as a self-defense, it is not a 
 crime. Stealing is very much a crime, except if nobody notices you. Yet, there is a very frequent 
 chance that you might steal a small candlestick in an empty room, and yet have your crime reported. 
 
  
  The leveling aspect is much better refined than the aforementioned combat. Leveling Up takes place 
 when you increase the Major Skills of your characters by ten. These Major Skills depend upon your 
 character's class and are raised by practicing them. So, if you are weak in Axe, a little practice 
 can make you much better with it. For leveling up, you need to finally rest and meditate when you 
 have increased your Major skills by ten. After that, you can increase your stats every time you 
 level up. This is a good change of leveling than the old-fashioned leveling up system used in RPG's.
 
  
  Perhaps more worse than the combat is it's music. For a game such grand, the music matches with 
 it, but the epic soundtrack can instantly become a nuisance later. The soundtrack hardly is of 
 ten minutes length and loops repeatedly. This not only damages the fun of the game, but also it's 
 atmosphere and mood. You could very well hear the same music in a quiet fishing town as well as 
 a cultist dungeon. This shatters the complete wonderful atmosphere of Morrowind right to the very 
 extent that you will prefer switching off the music. The world of Morrowind is finely detailed 
 and you will find everything at it's right place. People in their houses will have food stock rations 
 and they wouldn't want you stealing anything or sleeping on their beds. Yet, despite so much detail 
 and realism, Morrowind lacks life. It leaves nearly everything to your imagination. A kidnapped 
 son needs to be escorted to the port, so that he can return to his father. A month later he will 
 be still standing there. 
  
  All these shortcomings come a long way in stopping Morrowind from being the all important revolutionary 
 game for the genre. Mind you, Morrowind has many strengths and they usually overpower the shortcomings, 
 but when the problems do show up, you can't help feeling that Morrowind could have been a lot better. 
 If there was one thing for sure, Morrowind has certainly put the Elder Scrolls on the map, and 
 people will not be ignoring this series any longer. As an RPG, Morrowind does fairly well, but 
 as a game it shines in most of the parts. In the end, Morrowind is not for everybody. It's free-roaming 
 open world might be intimidating to those who fear adventuring and prefer linear play. If you do 
 so, then Morrowind isn't for you. But, for those who enjoy every bit of exploring and adventuring 
 in a world of magic, Morrowind is worth every bit of penny in your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Character development is the key factor determining how successful a RPG can be. Morrowind is different 
 from other game of this genre in this aspect and this is where it shows its own style. Normally 
 in RPG, your character gain experience and level up by killing opponents and complete quests. But 
 in Morrowind, it's not necessary to hack and slash to develop your character. Since you gain level 
 every time you advance enough in your major skills, which actually defines your class, there are 
 many ways to grow in power. If you are a thieve, you can actually level up by stealing, sneaking, 
 bartering, persuading... If you are a mage, you can focus totally on alchemy, spell of your school. 
 You only have to rush in to battle if you choose a warrior class. That's why we can say Morrwind 
 supports many types of game play. You can play it like a stealth action or a shooter game since 
 the game supports first person view very well.
  Morrowind execute skill check by dice roll much like in Dungeon and Dragon for rogue skill: persuade, 
 open locks, disarm traps... But the dice roll is veiled so the player can't be sure how much chance 
 of success they have. For combat and magic skill, skill rank doesn't affect chance to hit but how 
 deadly your attacks are. I don't say this way better than Dungeon and Dragon one, but it produces 
 The Elder Scroll style.
  Morrowind does have some obvious problems. But consider what it offers, I can easily overlook it 
 flaws since it is a very good RPG indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cuchulainn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Morrowind was definitely a special game with it's meticulously crafted world (aside from generic 
 NPCs) and it's sometimes overwhelming openness. The gameplay unto itself wasn't necessarily anything 
 to write home about however the rpg options it's world afforded were truley memorable. I don't 
 think I would be able to count the various character types I created and played various portions 
 of the game with. Though I played many different character types I can honestly say that the vast 
 majority of them were quite fun in their own ways. 
  Thankfully I have a decent sense of imagination and through applying this imagination I found Morrowind 
 to be quite immersive (once again, setting aside the cardboard NPCs) . I spent many hours crawling 
 through the various dungeons looking for what loot or surprises may be hidden iside. I generally 
 don't overly enjoy an extensive dungeon crawl but Morrowind was different. The game did a good 
 job of periodically placing unique and inherently cool items in various dungeons that could be 
 found regardless of your level , providing you could handle the fight. The dungeons not only held 
 enemies and items, there were some occasions where I would come across semi-friendly NPCs such 
 as my favorite elite Buoyant Armingers (Navy Seals?, I think so...) .
  As much as I enjoyed playing the game I must confess that what really kept drawing me back for 
 more was the construction set. I seemed to develop a rather unhealthy infatuation with creating 
 in-game mods of countless types. As with many people it started by making houses but quickly developed 
 into searching for created content that was removed from the game as well as making new weapons 
 and armor. I don't think that I have ever spent so much time with a single game as Morrowind when 
 you take into account the numerous hours I spent in the construction set.
  Overall I found this to be a wonderous game that I had many enjoyable hours playing. To be fair 
 though some of the seach quests were almost unbearably difficult as you only have basic directions 
 to guide you. My one really big pet peeve was that you couldn't push the NPCs out of the way, there 
 were many occassions when I couldn't leave a Mage's Guild teleportation room because an NPC was 
 standing in the bloody doorway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing "The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind" is a daunting task, for the simple reason that the game 
 has so much to offer, one could easily fill several pages and still fail to do it justice. So consider 
 yourself warned. I have violated one of the cardinal rules of writing reviews (i. e. Keep It Short) 
 and am instead offering my personal tribute to one of the greatest games I have ever, or WILL ever 
 play. But before I get started, I'd like to point out a few things about my submission.
  
  First, I have included the expansions Tribunal and Bloodmoon because I think it's appropriate, 
 particularly for those purchasing the game for the first time. The most widely available (and cheapest) 
 version just happens to be the GOTY edition, which includes both expansions. And they add so much 
 great new content that to suggest playing without them would be a disservice to the player.
  
  Second, although I am NOT going to talk about mods, at the very least they warrant an honorable 
 mention in any review of Morrowind. With a huge, talented and prolific modding community, virtually 
 any aspect of Morrowind can be improved or up-graded with a mod. After all, the game is six years 
 old, and even if you don't consider yourself to be a 'graphics snob', many of the visual enhancements 
 available are simply too gorgeous NOT to take advantage of. So before you get started, I'd strongly 
 suggest getting on a forum and asking for recommendations.
  
  And finally, I'd like to make it clear that this isn't coming from the perspective of a die-hard, 
 experienced RPG player, because quite frankly, I'm not. I'm quite certain there are many gamers 
 who consider MMO's like World of Warcraft to be the pinnacle of an RPG experience, so the lack 
 of any multi-player component in Morrowind might be viewed as a drawback. I'm a traditional FPS 
 fan who has always enjoyed the role-playing elements of games like Deus Ex and System Shock 2, 
 and was curious about the genre. The single player aspect of Morrowind provides a 'safe' environment 
 for first timers, so my review caters to folks like mepeople who are interested in leaving their 
 linear comfort zones and exploring something a little different.
  
  So let's get started by talking about what Morrowind is NOT. It is not a cutting-edge, photo-realistic, 
 stunning visual effects production. It is not a state-of-the-art, intensely visceral, sophisticated-combat-mechanics 
 fighting game. It is not a fast-paced, action-adventure game that hits you over the head with detailed 
 instructions on what to do next. And it is DEFINITELY not something to occupy your time for a couple 
 of evenings while the significant other is away visiting family for the weekend.
  
  What it IS; the very definition of 'sandbox'. A gorgeously huge world that demands exploration, 
 while offering very little handholding. The game is all about freedom. From the moment you awaken 
 on a transport ship, you are presented with choices. The initial character build can be overwhelming 
 to first timers (it was for me) . What race should I be? What traits and skills are the best? Should 
 I go with a standard class, or should I customize my character? You can't help but second-guess 
 your selections, and almost as soon as you start playing, you'll find yourself thinking about the 
 next time. "NEXT time I'm going to chose Intelligence instead of Strength. NEXT time I'm going 
 to pick Long sword instead of Axe". And the beauty is, you can't make any real mistakes. Making 
 less-than-optimal choices is one of the most enjoyable aspects of the game, since it affords you 
 the opportunity to learn, and look forward to 'next time'.
  
  The fact that there isn't a lot of handholding doesn't mean that you aren't given SOME direction 
 on how to proceed. Once you have disembarked and completed your paperwork (which translates into 
 the character build) , it becomes evident that your purpose is somewhat of a mystery, even to YOU. 
 Your character is simply told to travel to a specific town and report to a specific individual 
 for further instructions. I should note that the game actually takes place on the island of Vvardenfell, 
 which is in the Province of Morrowind, which in turn is in the land of Tamriel. For simplicity, 
 I will simply use Morrowind to refer to all of the above.
  
  And so the adventure begins! At this point, you have the option of simply obeying your initial 
 instructions and embarking on the main quest, following it all the way to its conclusion. But to 
 do so would allow you to experience only a fraction of what the game has to offer. Wandering around 
 the tiny fishing village you've arrived in allows you to become familiar with the game-play mechanics, 
 as well as get a feel for how things work in Morrowind. Interaction with NPCs is accomplished through 
 rudimentary dialogue boxes, in which you're presented with a variety of responses. Thru these interactions, 
 you will begin to learn about the legendary history of Morrowind, which is as rich in detail and 
 intrigue as any Tolkien fable. 
  
  In addition, through out the game you will find a plethora of books that you can 'read' to garner 
 even more knowledge, and this proves to be one of the most amazing aspects of the game. Although 
 poring over every tome you come across is certainly not required, I found the history of Morrowind 
 to be fascinating. The hours I spent reading every volume I picked up in my travels resulted in 
 my complete immersion in this incredible fantasy world.
  
  Conversations with various NPCs also yield valuable hints and tidbits of information that can help 
 you on your way. Occasionally, you'll even come across some random task or errand someone wants 
 preformed, in exchange for some kind of reward or payment. Since you basically start out with nothing, 
 completion of these little side-quests in the beginning is almost a requirement. Even the meager 
 cash payments, or simple magic items and weapons, are invaluable at the outset. Later on, as you 
 progress thru the game, money and weapons become a non-issue. But even so, the later side-quests 
 take the form of specific assignments from various Guilds, which you can either join, or not join. 
 These missions become much more challenging, and the rewards are often unique, one-of-a-kind items 
 that can help you become even more powerful. And besides that, as I said earlier, exploration is 
 the key to appreciating Morrowind, and these side-quests will take you to the four corners of this 
 HUGE game world.
  
  The exterior environments are varied and beautiful. Your adventures will take you to expansive 
 grasslands, oppressive swamps, thick forests, desolate wastelands, snow covered mountains, and 
 impressive cityscapes. Coupled with the day-night cycles and constantly changing weather effects, 
 you will find very little repetition through out Morrowind. 
  
  The interiors are equally varied and impressive, particularly the 'bad' places you'll encounter, 
 such as tombs, caves, ruins, etc. Granted, while the Ancestral Tombs all have a similar look and 
 feel, none of them are identical. And these tombs look distinctly different from a Smuggler's Cave, 
 which in turn looks distinctly different from a Daedric Shrine, which in turn looks distinctly 
 different from a Dwemer Ruin, which in turnwell, you get the point. About the only thing all these 
 settings have in common is a deliciously creepy atmosphere that will have you inching your way 
 forward for fear of whatever denizen of the underworld is going to come thru the next door. AND 
 there's always the possibility of unique weapons and artifacts, or other valuable loot!
  
  The real beauty of all this exploration is that there's no costwellother than the possible "You 
 Died" message. (Hence the reason for periodic saves.) Occasionally, it is possible to over-lap 
 or cutout some future side-quest, and on VERY rare occasions, it is possible to do something that 
 will 'break' the main quest. But in that event, you are given a message to that effect, and can 
 simply re-load from one of those periodic saves. If you stumble into a shrine where the inhabitants 
 are just too tough for you, no problem! Leave the place for a while and come back later after you 
 have leveled-up. After you've been driven like a whipped puppy from some tomb or shrine, there 
 is nothing more gratifying than returning as a demi-god and laying a heap o' vengeance on the heads 
 of your former tormentors.
  
  Which brings me to the leveling system. Experienced RPG players will know this for what it is, 
 but for you first timers, the concept is pretty simple. You (or rather, your character) has roughly 
 thirty skills available, including things such as Marksmanship, Axe, Acrobatics, Sneak, Illusion, 
 etc. Each of these skills is governed by one of your eight key Attributes, which are things like 
 Strength, Intelligence, Personality, etc. Using specific skills repeatedly causes them to improve, 
 which in turn, helps increase the corresponding Attribute. As your Attributes increase, you gain 
 levels and become more powerful. It is this aspect that allows you to take on tougher opponents 
 as the game progresses. 
  
  Although eventually you can max out ALL Attributes and skills (which equates to 'god-mode' in an 
 FPS) , it is the journey to that point which presents the challengeAND the fun. Obviously, a warrior 
 is going to focus on weapon skills, while a Mage will focus on spell casting. Although the concept 
 sounds simple, it is the subtle complexities behind it that make for the replay-ability of the 
 game. Traveling through Morrowind using a big hammer to hit things in the head plays a lot differently 
 from using fireballs to accomplish your goals.
  
  The means to improving some skills is pretty self-evident. For instance, improving the Long Sword 
 skill simply requires you to kill a lot of things with one of the many types of long swordssimple 
 enough. But some other skills are more subtle, more complex, and in my opinion, more fun. Take 
 my personal favorite, for exampleAlchemy. Alchemy is a magic oriented skill, but is useful for 
 any class of character. It involves the combination of various reagents found in Morrowind to produce 
 useful (or occasionally, deadly) potions. Unfortunately, you can't use any of the deadly variants 
 against foes, so making uber-poisons is pretty much pointless. They can be sold to merchants for 
 cash, but otherwise have no use. 
  
  The joy of Alchemy stems from the fact that there are over 80 available reagents, each with it's 
 own specific qualities, which can be combined in lots of from 2-4 elements per potion. The possibilities 
 boggle the mind! The chance of successfully creating a potion, and the resulting quality, is governed 
 by your Alchemy skill, level of Intelligence, and quality of equipment used in the process. (That's 
 rightin Morrowind, you have the opportunity to procure and use equipment of varying degrees of 
 sophisticationanother good reason to constantly explore.) Virtually all of the reagents are available 
 in the wilds of Morrowind, and can be gathered by foraging. A few however, such as Vampire Dust, 
 are so rare or dangerous to obtain, it's better to procure them from another alchemist. 
  
  I found the art to be so entertaining, I once spent an entire Saturday afternoon gathering an ample 
 supply of all reagents, then simply combining them into as many different concoctions as I could 
 think of. The result was a large number of interesting-but-not-to-useful potions, but also around 
 ten very unique, powerful recipes. This could almost qualify as 'emergent game-play', since these 
 potions substantially altered the way I played the game, and I doubt the developers had considered 
 every possible combination. Regardless, I found it to be extremely entertaining and gratifying.
 
  
  And that's just one tiny piece of Morrowind. Other arts, such as Enchanting, or spell making, offer 
 similar opportunities for experimentation. That's not to say that an individual HAS to spend their 
 time doing these things. If that doesn't interest you, don't do itthere are an ample number of 
 basic potions, spells and items found in Morrowind to meet your needs. 
  
  THE POINT ISyou have the freedom to choosethe opportunity to decide what you want to do, and 
 the depth and complexity in the game world to act on those choices. Truly remarkable, in my humble 
 opinion.
  
  All this activity, although available to you, is certainly not required to work towards the primary 
 goal of the gamecompletion of the Main Quest. The story that propels you on this journey is as 
 intricate and engaging as anything I've encountered in any game, before or after. This is where 
 the rich, detailed history that is the background of Morrowind comes into play. The intrigue between 
 opposing factions, the usurpation of power by the ruling classes, and the cloak-and-dagger to maintain 
 control, all contribute to making Morrowind feel almost as real and alive as real life. (OKmaybe 
 I'm going a little over the top. But I'm telling you, if you engage the story, it WILL engage you.) 
 As your true purpose is revealed, you will gain allies, make enemies, expose conspiracies, and 
 ultimately fulfill your destiny, earning your place in the history of Morrowind.
  
  Well, to quote Forrest Gump, "that's all I have to say about that". You may have noticed that I 
 spent a lot of time reviewing what might be called the 'mechanics' of the gamethose aspects and 
 elements that make it such a complex, engaging and entertaining experiencethe things that set 
 it apart from any other game I've played. I didn't spend much time reviewing the actual scenarios, 
 or the story itself. That was done for a reason. The story that drives Morrowind is certainly of 
 the same high caliber as those "complex, engaging and entertaining" elements I went into more detail 
 about. But to reveal that same level of detail about the story would be a disservice to you, the 
 player. Unfortunately, for the vast majority of games on the market today, the cookie-cutter plot 
 can be summarized in two or three lines. Thankfully, that is not the case with Morrowind. Suffice 
 it to say that you, as an ordinary person, set out on a journey to accomplish extraordinary things. 
 
  
  And that is a journey best experienced on your own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArilehnNhelira
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I first played TESIII on the X-Box, which my husband bought me for Christmas one year (along with 
 a new TV) . I played for hours on end when I got it. I admit I stopped playing for awhile, but I 
 was pregnant :P) . When I got my new PC, I bought this game since it's one of my favourites, and 
 wanted to play on the PC. Still one of my absolute favourite games of all time.
  
  The possibilities are endless: choosing your race, profession, skills. Choosing different guilds 
 to join, different houses, TONS of quests and gameplay. No restrictions like other games. You have 
 the ability to to kill anyone, good or evil. You can steal anything and sell it to merchants. You 
 can go inside other's homes, or buildings, stores, castles, unlike other games where the doors 
 are there for design and serve no function whatsoever. Controls are VERY different from the X-Box, 
 but you get used to it. Graphics are beautiful. All in all, very much worth the money and time 
 spent playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordx67
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, I wasn't really a die-hard Elder Scrolls fan a year ago. Why? I didn't have the game, 
 nor did I even have experience of rpg's. Then, one day my friend got Elder Scrolls IV. I was addicted 
 in the first millisecond. A couple of days later I was at Best Buy but they didn't have Elder Scrolls. 
 I got Wow, and I hated all it's RESTRICTIONS. When I came to get my money back, I saw Morrowind. 
 It wasn't Oblivion, but it should be similar. I got it and my computer (Dell XPS oh yeah) installed 
 it quickly. It also had the construction set. Now, a year later my awesome asassin is maxed out 
 and I'm pretty sure I've seen every square inch of Morrowind. And I've done loads. That is the difference 
 between Elder Scrolls and WOW, is that WOW only lets you have certain items if you're at the right 
 level. It only allows you to make guilds with all the annoying players. (Who don't think twice about 
 leaving you in the middle of a quest) It won't let you use certain equipment unless you're a right 
 class, and will only let you have that class if you're the right race. There is no stealing or murdering 
 in this boring patheticly made world. Morrowind is the exact opposite. It essentially lets you do 
 anything, no matter how stupid. And when you've maxed out your character (which takes you years. 
 I know I did it, but I played like 5 hours a day. And I still made honour role) and seen all of 
 Morrowind, you do not throw the game in the bin. You get your construction set, and make a whole 
 new world from scratch. (takes a while but I made a wasteland) Also, this place is alive. You can 
 walk into somebodies house, read their books, kill them and then take all their stuff to sell to 
 buy weapons. The weather changes and each place has their own feel and culture. So what are you 
 waiting for? BUY THE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  After I got my first Elder Scrolls game, Morrowind on the Xbox. I was excited on earning a large 
 RPG. But there was one problem it was fun, but thing is it's too hard for me to understand. I was 
 new to the RPG world. So after I made my review on the Xbox sequel, I started writing one on the 
 PC. Remember last month? Which was January 2008. I told you guys that I was going to get Morrowind 
 on the PC. It was easier than the Xbox version than I thought it was going to be. But I got bored 
 of Elder Scrolls. As you start the game, you wake up from Steve Irkell dream, this Dark Elf asked 
 you what your name is. After your done creating you character from the beginning. You follow your 
 own path. A boring path to me. You just get so confused on what to do. Like looking at the journal 
 on quests. There is just a lot of quests to do. Which is the source of fun, treasury, and income. If 
 you expect to get an item from a certain shop at any town. Go ahead, it's not as easy than you think 
 it is. Bartering and selling an item is just so ridiculous, you have to drag in item from screen 
 to screen. Also the combat is slow and outrageous. The longer you hold the attack button the more 
 damage you cause to the enemy. Plus traveling is just-It's just so aweful. When you run, you drain 
 your fatigue. You can't fast travel to a town. What do you want to do? Run to make the travel a little 
 bit faster and just drain your fatigue and cause weak damage to your opponent during combat. Or 
 just waste your time by walking and get some good damage on your opponent in future battles. You 
 just really don't have a choice do you? Also you can really get stuck on performance like being 
 unable to move away from the bridge rails. Or being stuck between two large rockes. And can't run 
 up a large hill. Also during your character creation, you can actually edit your major and minor 
 skills. This game is just not fun at all. Anybody who is a big fan for The Elder Scrolls series, I'm 
 sorry. But this game is just terrible from the number score 2. Wait, #2. Hah that's pretty funny. Also 
 right now the quests are just not very interesting right now. Like when you join the Fighters Guild, you'll 
 be given a mission to kill some rats at a womans home. It's the same thing as from Elder Scrolls 
 IV Oblivion! What the heck! I don't feel like expressing my knoweledge on RPG, but I'm making just 
 making a lot of cons on this wonderful game. I'm sorry guys but I'm just bored of this sequel. Bye 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moggatog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Oblivion tried to beat it, but the previous generation still dominates. Morrowind has it all: great 
 gear to loot, weird monsters to kill, interesting characters to meet (and possibly kill and loot) , 
 and a leveling system that actually makes sense.
  
  But its story is where Morrowind really shines, as well as the interplay between the various factions. 
 Sure, the characters are static and the dialogue repetitive, but it stops mattering once the immersive 
 world draws you in. Both expansions, Tribunal and Bloodmoon, add very different experiences to 
 the core game, which keeps things interesting. Plus, it feels awesome to destroy powerful enemies 
 in a few hits once you reach the higher levels.
  
  For all these reasons, I have easily spent more time playing Morrowind than any other game. I can't 
 recommend this one enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NerdusMaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game allows you to do whatever you want. This is THE model for a sandbox game. Although it's 
 graphics doesn't compare to current games (hey, it's nearly 10 years old!) , it has a huge variety 
 of characters and items. But the most impressive thing in this game is the history. There are dozens 
 of unique books that range from 3-30 pages long. Some upgrade your stats. Some just gives you history 
 of Morrowind, or give you some riddles. It makes the history of the game more depth.
  
  This game is THE target for a sandbox. There is the main quest line, guild quest lines (you can 
 be in multiple guilds) that offer many quests that you can choose from. Though the lack of mounts 
 is annoying and makes it hard to travel the wilderness, there are multiple ways to travel instantaneously 
 to larger towns.
  
  If you have a PC that isn't great but still want to play great games, this is for YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls (TES) series is my favorite RPG series, however, I haven't finished Daggerfall 
 or Arena, so take this with a grain of salt. 
  
  For the unitiated, here is the series:
  
  TES1: Arena
  TES2: Daggerfall
  TES3: Morrowind
  TES4: Oblivion
  
  These games all 
 have the following elements more or less in common: played from a first person perspective, MANY 
 optional side quests besides a main quest, different factions/guilds to join (or not) , stat and 
 skill based character development, good dungeons and finally a basically large and beautiful game 
 world to explore. 
  
  I have never designed a game and don't know much about designing games, but I have observed something 
 about this series and would like to share my impression:
  
  There seems to be a spectrum in this series. Think of a line with two points, like this... and map 
 2 for Daggerfall, 3 for Morrowind, and 4 for Oblivion (I don't have enough experience with Arena 
 to map it) : 
  
  GAMEPLAY  
 POLISH 
  
 
  
  Gameplay Depth means 1) Options, 2) World Size and 3) Complexity. 
  
  Polish means pretty visuals and sound effects, and to a lesser degree a lack of bugs. 
  
  I 
 strongly suspect that a game designer CANNOT do both perfectly, i. e. time and money either goes 
 towards visual/audio, or towards hammering out a really deep game. 
  
  In my opinion, TES2 Daggerfall is the Ultimate Gameplay Depth game. It's HUGE, I mean, HUGE... and 
 you can levitate, own a boat, use a mount with a wagon, speak 9 languages, own a house and spend 
 the rest of your earthly existence lost in the game (ok, at least a year, maybe) . 
  
  There is a lot to do, BUT, it doesn't hold your hand and it's difficult. 
  
  Next came TES3 
 Morrowind. It is MILES beyond Daggerfall in terms of graphics and is much more palpable and accesible 
 to a contemporary player. It's big, and complex, HOWEVER, it's not Huge or really deep COMPARED 
 only to Daggerfall. Next to all other PC Games, it's both Huge and Deep. 
  
  The landmass is smaller, there are fewer towns and dungeons, you can levitate but not own boats 
 or houses. It's a fun and really well done game, and, all things considered, I would say it's a 
 10, but after playing Daggerfall, it's just a different kind of 10. 
  
  After Morrowind, TES4 Oblivion was released. Oblivion cut out levitating, used a smaller landmass, 
 was really promoted and targeted a really wide audience. Somehow, I would say that it lost some 
 of the character of TES series. I just never felt like I had been swallowed by a world of possibility 
 while playing Oblivion, like I did in Daggerfall and Morrowind. 
  
  It's a great looking game, but just not as cool as Morrowind or Daggerfall. 
  
  So in conclusion, 
 I would say that Morrowind is the best bet for a person looking to get "The Elder Scrolls Experience". 
 It's less of a blockbuster production than Oblivion, but more nuanced and unique; it's not the 
 gaming milestone that Daggerfall is, however, it's MUCH easier to play on today's machines. 
  
  OVERALL, this is the best mix of accesibility and depth in the TES series for today's gamer 
 and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the most epic game I have ever played. The music and your entry into the 
 game world is amazing.
  
  The graphics still hold up today (2008) in that even though you know this is an older game, the 
 world is still beautiful, there are still moments where any gamer will stop and enjoy the sights.
 
  
  The world is huge, it feels bigger then oblivion and a lot more magical.
  
  The combat is the weakest part of the gameplay, but honestly, I don't really play this game for 
 combat. In fact, I turned down the difficulty to it's lowest setting making most enemies a mere 
 hindrance that could be handled in a couple of seconds, and I instead played the game with a mindset 
 of exploration and fulfilling quests. I think that helped me enjoy the game that much more. 
  
  Another weak point is that while the music that is playing when you enter the world is awesome, 
 you also hear that same music over and over again. A couple of more audio tracks would have been 
 appreciated. 
  
  The story doesn't grab you because it is so wide-open but there is so many details and so many 
 books to read in the gameworld that it is indeed a very rich tale. 
  
  This is a great game. If you are into refined action and twitch gameplay you will not like this 
 game. If you like exploring and enjoy rich game worlds this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Justiciero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  When i play a rpg game i like to explore, discover new places and travel a lot. I did that with 
 Ultima VII, travelling all the time ignoring the main plot.
  
  Morrowind has a huge 3d map to explore with lots of places from little villages to big cities, 
 from dungeons to castles, towers of ancient dwemer fortress. It's fantastic, so big, so many npc's 
 to talk, so many quests.
  
  It has a big flaw, it doesn't have any artificial intelligence for the NPC's. They only stand or 
 walk around doing nothing. And the enemies only attack you running towards you and nothing more 
 than that. It's a pity. Morrowind with IA and a graphic-card oriented engine could be something 
 like a modern Daggerfall.
  
  The history about the prophecy and all the plot between the three main houses and all the factions 
 of the game are great. One of the best script ive ever seen in a game.
  
  I played it for more than a year and i have my own Morrowind web called The Diary of Sagitto Abdo 
 
  
  And i played it with a lot of mods. If you install Morrowind search the Better Bodies Mod and install 
 better heads, weapons, shops, textures, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zehydra
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best games of all time.
  
  The world is incredibly realistic, despite that it's a fantasy game.
  
  There is an incredible 
 amount to do, including crafting your own enchanted weapons. Working for guilds, or doing the main 
 quest, which isn't the hightlight of the game, but really helps later on in the game.
  
  It is kind of hard though. But that is fixable due to a difficulty slider in the menu.
  
  You 
 can make your own character. You can enchant your own weapons.
  You can make your own class.
  You can make your own spells
  You can make your own world with 
 the expansion editor.
  
  The only flaws really, are that it sometimes is buggy, and that the AI isn't that great. Another 
 thing that kind of bugs me, but I was relieved by Oblivion is that the combat system is sort of 
 half-dicerolling half real physics, which was sort of strange, and not real good for bows. So maybe 
 if you're a big bow and arrow person in rpgs, this game may not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  There have been many games that have tried an open ended, non linear format before. Actually, there 
 havent been that many. The reason for this, is that if there is no good reason for a player to 
 explore beyond the road leading from point a to point b, the game will ultimately fail.
  
  Morrowind was probably the first truly open ended RPG that succeeded in filling in every inch of 
 landscape with something poignant, something imaginative, something scary, or something curious, 
 that was worth spending the time to explore.
  
  Even better, the more you were willing to explore the terrain, and the more ruins you uncovered, 
 the more NPC's you talked to, the more sidequests you did, the more fulfilling the main story became.
 
  
  As an action RPG, the combat system was the most obvious flaw. It was very one note, and repetitive. 
 But, honestly, who cares? This game was so full of things to do, people to talk to, quests to finish, 
 stories to uncover, and along the way, every step along the path, whether you follow the beaten 
 one, or pave your own along the way, leads your character closer to his ultimate destiny.
  
  Morrowind was possibly the most complete game I have ever palyed. After a 50 hour first play 
 through, I started a second campaign, and played that for well over 80 hours, trying to do more 
 sidequests to uncover more about this wonderful world, and it's very complex and engaging story.
 
  
  It does take some patience to get into, though. At first, the lack of a corridor leading you to 
 a certain destination makes the openness a little overwhelming. It's kinda like being dumped in 
 the middle of New York City with five bucks in your pocket, wondering how long you're gonna last.
 
  
  Though, one sidequest later, a new weapon upgrade, and a strider ride later, and you're set on 
 your way.
  
  As tedious as some sidequests might seem, they are not given for nothing, and unlike many, they 
 actually uncover more about the world you're playing in, giving a contextual backbone to the main 
 story. Dwemer ruins, yet no dwarves to be found? Three living gods, pilgramages to sacred places, 
 vampires, and the return of a corrupted hero who was ruined by the power he was meant to protect 
 from evil.
  
  You learn about them all as you go. By talking to people, by reading books about them, by doing 
 quests for people who studied them.
  
  It's the most complete, most ambitious, and most imaginative world ever created a gamers willing 
 to take the time to explore it. The story is enormous as the world it exists in, and eveny step 
 of it feels complete and fulfilling.
  
  Every time I play this game, I finish wondering what I missed. And after 4 complete playthroughs 
 and over 200 hours of exploring this world, I'm positive there's still a couple things I never 
 did find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zmery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the best if not the one best game I've ever played... tons of hours of gameplay, 
 great graphics, LONG dialogues and many  to explore and interact 
 with, just amazing...
  
  You can loot almost about anything in the game, you can be a stealth-based player, a fighting or 
 even a spell-casting one, or you can be a mix of everything.. there's a huge amount of NPCs on 
 it, and you can bribe them, talk to them, fight them, make them give you quests, trade with them, 
 practice your skills with them at a price, ask them for rumours, etc...
  
  In the game, both Balmora and Vivec are two very large cities in which you can find almost any 
 service from training to guilds to barters to alchemists to anything....
  
  I'm not good at writing reviews, but this game simply speaks for itself
  
  9.5/10 in atmosphere 
 (surrounds, sound choice, environment..)
  8/10 in graphics
  10/10 in gameplay
  10/10 in longevity
  
  9.5/10 general... a oldie must have :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azwhtknight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The amazing graphics and character depth are what make this game amazing. You can literally live 
 in this world. The development of your character is entirely up to you. You can be as chivalrous 
 or as demented as you want to be. The terrain is vast and detailed, you can stay on the roads or 
 frolic over the countryside. There are a fair variety of monsters, but I think that if this game 
 has a fault, it is the absence of a greater variety of sword fodder. Their are however, loads of 
 NPCs to interact with. The quests are unique and relatively challenging. The number of guilds you 
 can join provide a vast number of side quests to move up the ranks if you so choose. The side quests 
 alone can keep you busy for weeks! All in all, this is one of a handful of games I am not ashamed 
 to say I love. A fantastic rpg! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelukey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, no doubts about it. Its graphics are pretty good considering the release 
 date. If you got the game of the year edition it takes forever to beat all three levels, and not 
 to mention the hundreds of pleasant and violent side quests. I literaly could have sat in front 
 of that screen for hours, i did, more like days, and not be bored. The game even after beating 
 it three times continued to suprise me with side quest after side quest! If you like short games 
 that are to the point, then you should still play it. If you like RPGs buy it without a doubt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flarman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out for awhile now, but it's still one of my favorite games ever. There's so 
 much re-playability that it just doesn't get old (especially with mods) . Morrowind just has so 
 much lore and content that it's very hard to get it all in a single game. 
  
  The decision to allow modding of the game, has to be the single best feature, because it allows 
 for customization of the game. In fact, they provided the main tool that they built the world with 
 for the community to use. While the graphics that came stock weren't the best (for the people at 
 least) the flora/fauna were good and with the active modding community there is plenty of graphical 
 updates to be chosen from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booshdy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is great. Well, not just great , excellent. Its a first person rpg, which before id got 
 my hands on it, id never played before. When you first play the game your taken straight into the 
 thick of it, after a very short and cryptic intro your onto one of the most important and extensive 
 parts of the game: character creation. Although this may sound daunting, Bethesda have made this 
 interesting and easy to do. The races you can choose from all have various highs and lows, its 
 not just superficial changes too, they have different magical properties, weapon efficiencies and 
 so on that can have a large impact on how you play the game and thus, give it a large part of its 
 replayability. 
  
  The graphics at the time of release, were some of the best id ever seen, and they still are decent, 
 if a little dated. Although the game did have some issues with draw distance the graphics and art 
 direction did an excellent job of making you feel as though you were inside this fantasy world, 
 the cities all have different feels to them to coincide with the various races, even the land (which 
 you can freely traverse at any time on foot, although this can take more than a few minuets...) 
 has subtle and sometimes not so subtle nuances that make you feel as though your no longer behind 
 your computer screen, but inside the lush, expansive world.
  
  Aside from the main story quests, Morrowind has any amount of various side quests to embark on, 
 as well as different factions to join and dungeons to plunder. The side quests can get a little 
 dry at times with run of the mill tasks, e. g. "give x item to y person", but a lot of them have 
 running themes and a certain degree of humor, which make you want to continue onto the next. The 
 main story line will take you somewhere in the region of 20 - 40 hours, but with the inclusion 
 of the side quests, fully exploring this game can take up to 100 or more. 
  
  The dungeons are actually worth looting too (unlike Morrowind's older brother Oblivion) . This is 
 because the beasts and npcs in the world are the same level no matter what level the player is 
 at, as are the items they have. So instead of only finding low level items because you are at a 
 low level yourself, you could wander into a cave hiding a high level monster, and if you manage 
 to make it out alive you could have yourself a powerful sword or chest plate at even an early stage 
 in the game, which makes it more exiting and interesting to venture into the cracks and crevasses 
 of the world.
  
  The only real problem I have with the game is the lack of variety in armor and weapons. They ones 
 they do have are great, there just aren't that many, which when your going to want to play the 
 game for a long time, makes it frustrating because at some point your going to want something more. 
 In the gamespot review, GregK commented on the Combat system being a bit clumsy and even comical 
 and although i can see where hes coming from, the combat didn't bother me at all. Unlike its Newer 
 counterpart, Oblivion, Morrowind has hardly any spoken dialog (god forbid someone might actually 
 have to read) , which although slightly disappointing, doesn't take away from the games overall 
 immersion.
  
  The Sound in the game has its highs and lows, while some of the sound effects sound like they've 
 been dug up from the first royalty-free effects database Bethesda could find, the ambient and orchestral 
 music that plays in the background of your adventure is really inspiring and will give you that 
 tingling feeling as you journey through the beautiful world. My only gripe with it is that theres 
 only 2 - 3 of these tracks that play through the entire game and after awhile, they will start 
 to grind on you.
  
  In short, Morrowind is an excellent first person rpg, with plenty replayabitlity, a deep storyline, 
 good graphics and decent sound. Although it has quite a few conventional rpg elements, it pushed 
 the boundaries of what i thought an rpg could be to make a game thats truly worth experiencing. 
 
  
  - Wes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  The first two games built a following by offering players the freedom to do whatever they wanted 
 to instead of venturing down a specific path. Released six years after the second chapter in the 
 series, Morrowind serves as a gateway to an epic fantasy world featuring distinct races, political 
 factions, monsters, and a diverse geography with variable weather. 
  
  Played primarily from a first-person perspective, the game begins on a ship sailing toward the 
 mysterious island of Vvardenfell. The Emperor has, for reasons unknown, decided to free the lead 
 character from imprisonment. With nothing but a man's name and a location to guide them, players 
 are free to explore their surroundings, earn some money to purchase equipment, or converse with 
 townsfolk, asking for advice or the latest rumor. The player's race, reputation, personality, and 
 affiliation with various factions will determine how others respond.
  
  Ten races are available for new characters, from the cat-like Kahjit and reptilian Argonians to 
 more "traditional" orcs and elves. Each race offers distinct skill bonuses and special abilities. 
 Nords are immune to frost, for example, while fleet-footed Redguards are resistant to poison and 
 disease. Skills are broken down into three arts: combat, magic, and stealth, with certain classes 
 gravitating toward a specific area. Developing these skills through combat, spell casting, or lock 
 picking, to name but a few, will help increase the character's proficiency and overall experience.
 
  
  As in previous games in the series, combat is handled in real time. One's skills in specific weapon 
 types as well as fatigue rating and luck will influence whether the weapon hits the desired target. 
 Adventurers will also be able to carry numerous foodstuffs, potions, scrolls, and items to sell 
 or to use in combat. While there is a main storyline to the game, players can join up with multiple 
 guilds and rise through the ranks by doing various tasks. Realize that certain actions may result 
 in fines or imprisonment, and noted thieves or murderers may carry a bounty on their heads from 
 town to town.
  
  Also included as a PC exclusive is The Elder Scrolls Construction Set, a flexible design tool used 
 by players to modify and add to the existing world in a number of ways. Players can alter character 
 and monster attributes or skills, create new dungeons or islands, design new weapon types, and 
 more. Each file created by the Construction Set can be added or deleted from the game without disrupting 
 the existing universe. Players can also download or swap files with each other to experience new 
 adventures on continuous basis.
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is the third game in the series by Bethesda Softworks set in the 
 world of Tamriel and follows previous titles Arena and Daggerfall. Morrowind is the first Elder 
 Scrolls adventure set entirely in Vvardenfell and the first to include a proprietary Construction 
 disk as well. 
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind provides an astonishing array of options ranging from character 
 creation and gameplay preferences to the ability to create and share new mods, items, and quests 
 online. The depth and attention to detail extends to the surrounding world and the many NPCs populating 
 the world of Vvardenfell. Morrowind is a role-player's dream come true: an exotic world filled 
 with fascinating creatures and villains, an engaging story, and the absolute freedom to role-play 
 your character any way you choose. Unfortunately, even on high-end computer systems, the game stutters 
 along and pauses frequently. The technical issues diminish the fun, which is a pity since in most 
 other respects the game is outstanding.
  
  With so much to do, playing Morrowind can be a bewildering experience. The never ending procession 
 of side quests can be overwhelming, with multiple guilds, temples, or factions to join, money to 
 make, and even undocumented tasks like diving for pearls or exploring shipwrecks. A journal keeps 
 track of the various quests your character has undertaken (and even some he turns down) , but unfortunately 
 they're not removed or marked when completed. Having too many things to do is hardly a complaint, 
 though, and devoted role-playing gamers will be happy for months. After the main quest is completed, 
 the included editor allows unlimited creation of new quests and other modifications to the land 
 of Vvardenfell.
  
  You begin as a slave held captive on a prison ship, but an edict from the Emperor releases you 
 into the world of Vvardenfell. Initially, the circumstances of your release are cloudy but Morrowind's 
 plot gradually discloses your character's history and what the Emperor wants you to do. Completing 
 the main mission is surprisingly low key, however, as the emphasis is really on exploring the world.
 
  
  Morrowind's character creation process resembles the Ultima series with its question-and-answer 
 methodology, and the freedom given players is welcome. It's certainly possible to make stupid decisions 
 and end up with an ineffective, if interesting, character, but creating a "tank" capable of slashing 
 through scores of enemies is equally viable. For many gamers, half the fun is making new characters, 
 and Morrowind makes the process more interesting than most.
  
  Exploring Vvardenfell is fascinating. The developers obviously put a great deal of work into the 
 world, and it shows. The environment changes from area to area, but a certain dark brooding atmosphere 
 pervades the various landscapes. Vvardenfell is full of lakes, mountains, rivers, towns, trees, 
 mushrooms, rocks, dungeons, tombs, caves, and characters, and everything manages to be eerily alien 
 but also familiar, especially to players of The Elder Scrolls: Chapter 2 -- Daggerfall and The 
 Elder Scrolls: Arena. The full effect of the impressive graphics and world will depend primarily 
 on how much your computer can handle. With all the settings maximized, the environment is gorgeous. 
 Most players, however, will have to settle for intermediate settings to minimize the continual 
 pauses and low framerate.
  
  Gameplay issues include difficulty in keeping track of the quests, since you'll have literally 
 hundreds of pages of your journal to constantly sift through, and though combat is not a big focus 
 of the game, it's also unavoidable and not particularly well done. Enemies charge into battle without 
 thinking, and fighting them off is a tiring, repetitive business.
  
  The biggest problem, though, is the character development process. Players will be dismayed to 
 find that improving their character's abilities stems mainly from finding powerful items. Of course, 
 this is a big facet of any RPG, but most, like Diablo II, manage to balance the powerful items 
 with the necessity of gaining experience. In Morrowind, any skill your character lacks can be purchased 
 -- power leveling entails getting lots of gold and buying experience. It's a shame that a game 
 with such an excellent character creation system would then undermine everything with questionable 
 character development. Finally, the absence of a meaningful ending after such an involved main 
 quest is disappointing.
  
  Morrowind is worth buying just to explore the world of Vvardenfell. Players with high-end systems 
 will enjoy the scenery and gameplay more, but the pauses and stuttering framerate will annoy everyone. 
 However, Morrowind offers plenty to offset these problems and any role-player will be satisfied, 
 though probably not ecstatic with the Vvardenfell experience. 
  
  Vvardenfell is gorgeous, but players will need a powerful system to fully appreciate it. The soundtrack 
 is decent and functional sound effects accompany gameplay. The included editor makes creating new 
 quests and modifying the world possible, increasing the already considerable replay value with 
 exchanges via the Internet. The documentation is nicely detailed and very useful but without much 
 of a background story.
  
  If exploration is your forte, you won't do better than Morrowind. Four separate travel systems 
 (walking, boat, mage transport, and Silt-Strider) , surprise encounters, a huge main quest plus 
 literally hundreds of side quests and more will keep RPGers occupied for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthasonspeed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when you enter the world of Tamriel - the world in which the game takes 
 place - is the fact it's graphics aren't that bad considering how many years this game have been 
 here.
  At the time it was released, it's graphics where simply marvelous.
  While nothing to the overwhelming Oblivion graphics, the graphics will still be good enough to 
 immerse you into the grand adventure you will take on.
  You are a prisoner born on an uncertain day, with uncertain parents.
  At command of the emperor, 
 you have been released and sent to morrowind, where you will have to fullfill you'r destiny as 
 a hero.
  The game is daunting for many people: all the tutorial gives you are some movement instructions, 
 how to pick up things, eat them, equip and fight and lockpick. Alchemy, speechcraft and more are 
 left to the player himself to discover, which makes this game daunting, but extremely satisfying.
 
  Starting off with character creation in a subtle way ( filling in your personal data to get you 
 registered ) makes you pick different races, with different types of hair, faces and the ultimate 
 male/female question ( *cough Gothic cough*) Then you choose skills ( more about that later ) which 
 are affected by your race ( Orcs are better with axes then Wood Elves for example )
  Thrown into the first city, Seyda Neen, you start off with the first of the moral choises the game 
 throws at you: give a uncertain guy a lost heirloom back you found back in the tutorial or keep 
 it for yourself.
  These moral choices can be found in every single quest (except the main quest) in the elder scrolls: 
 there are two, or more then two ways to finish every quest.
  Your character grows stronger by time, but not by just killing beasties.
  Using a skill ( brewing 
 potions or hacking a lot of things into pieces with a blade for example ) will make it rise. After 
 you have risen 10 skills from any of your mayor skills you picked during character creation, you 
 can invest into three attributes. Every skill is linked to a attribute; blade with strength for 
 example. Raising a lot of blade skills will cause you to have the possiblity to invest into strength, 
 which leads to example, the ability to carry more or to hit more in combat. Skills themself also 
 matter; a tenth level blade really misses a lot more then a hundred level blade.
  You have to deliver a package to a guy in the city Balmora, but actually, if you don't feel like 
 it; don't. The free-roaming comes in play here: if you want to, you can brew every single potion, 
 buy every single weapon and armour, loot every single place, visit every city and finish every 
 quest. The list doesn't stops there: you can easily make up stuff on the way, or edit, tweak and 
 add every single aspect in the construction set, which is somewhat hard to master, but fantastic 
 to work with.
  Those are lot of positive points, but Morrowind suffers a few negative points
  The game tends 
 to crash every now and then and after a few hours of power training you can beat every single beastie 
 in the game.
  Combat is also relatively bland ( mash that mouse button! )
  But the game offers so much possiblities and chances, if you put some effort into it, and like 
 it's free-roam endless possiblities aspect, you will have the time of your life!
  
  
  +++: Free-Roaming at its best
  Moral choises in the game
  ++: Diversity in everything
  LOADS 
 of things to do
  Construction set to alter every single aspect of the game
  The way leveling is handled just feels right!
  - -: Bland Combat
  Somewhat confusing at start 
 
  - - -: Not for everyone
  Occasional Crash 
  NPC's stand around doing nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander626
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Elder scrolls III: Morrowind is one of the best xbox games ive ever seen, its very addictive, and 
 you never want it to end! There are some many things to do and see, so many bojects, and so and 
 its also a huge open world to thst u can roamfree with no boundreys the graphics are good for and 
 2003 game and a cool combat sytems its a fp rpg that plays like a fps and great areas jampacked 
 with interactive things for say your in a feild of a forest you can pick the land scape free of 
 usefull items. so you should really get this if you like rpgs. so far one of the best games ive 
 ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Don't miss this one. If you have a computer that's less than 3 years old, try this game. It's got 
 some great ideas, and really stands out as Bethesda's crown jewel. If you've played TES IV: Oblivion 
 then you'll more than likely be surprised just how wonderful this game is. The graphics are a little 
 older, but the visuals are actually superior to those in Oblivion based entirely on their rich 
 and well whetted design style. It's smaller, but it's every part is stronger. The combat isn't 
 as strong, but Oblivion's combat really isn't it's strong suit either. If you've played Oblivion 
 to death, and you're looking for a solid medieval style fantasy or sword and sorcery RPG, look 
 no further. Tons of expansion as well as user created content and the TES construction set should 
 make this a must have for fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_moeha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  What I love the most about this game is the beautiful scenery and details.
  Whit its tons of quests, armour, weapons, monsters and other things it's one of the best games 
 I ever played (except for Fable: The lost chapters) .
  The worst thing in the game its that Morrowind is very unstable and it crashes a lot, even with 
 the patches (al tough, it does on my computer) .
  You have different kinds of armour: light armour, medium armour and heavy armour. Light armour 
 is a lot stronger than medium armour on lvl 100 (quite odd...) . I think the best armour is daedra 
 armour, which is awesome and it looks good, especially if you enchant it. And one of the funniest 
 attributes is acrobatics. When it's on lvl 100 (or higher) you can jump unbelievable high.
  conclusion: It's a VERY nice game with gorgeous details and a lot of quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlindLookout86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Sick of linear JRPGs? Sick of point and click D&amp; D snorefests? This is the game for you.
  
  Morrowind is epic. Set on the Island of Vvardenfall in the province of Morrowind, there is 
 a vast area to explore.
  
  Example: Running from the southern tip of the Island to the Northern tip will take you at least 
 a few hours.
  
  And the massive area to explore doe not mean the same generic geographical features. Each area 
 has its own character and tone. This includes cities, towns, villages and ruins/shrines.
  
  The graphics may be dated by today's standard, but the gameplay more than makes up for it.
  
 
  The really dumb leveling up system (I recommend Galsiah's Character Development mod to fix this) 
 and a hybrid action/dice-roll combat (looks incredibly dumb) may put you off but the real draw 
 to this game is that you can do whatever you want, whenever you want.
  
  There are no invisible barriers or places that are sealed off until you reach a certain level.
 
  
  You can go anywhere. Theoretically you can go straight to the main boss's stronghold and defeat 
 him at level 1. You will most definitely die but that is the point.
  
  You have the freedom to choose what path to take. You can choose to join certain Great Houses or 
 Guilds or remain a lone wolf.
  
  You can help the needy or kill them and sell their loot.
  
  You can buy items, armour and weapons 
 and follow the law or steal it or kill the owner and have a bounty on your head.
  
  Yes you can kill any NPC and steal any item in the game if you are skilled/strong enough that is.
 
  
  This freedom of choice is what elevates Morrowind from mediocre to good.
  
  However, Morrowind is a very buggy game. It is prone to CTD and some bugs even prevent you from 
 completing certain quests.
  
  It is also horribly optimised and I advise you to look at Yacoby's ini tweaks for much improved 
 performance.
  
  Essentially, there are many mods that improve the graphics, fix bugs and even improve on the gameplay.
 
  
  Morrowind is a good game unmodded. But with the right mods it becomes a masterpiece.
  
  Have fun playing Morrowind cause your not going to want to do anything else. At least for the 
 first week :P
  
  My rating is based on the unmodded GOTY version. With mods my rating is 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxer99
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I am a bit late with this review, but I figure posting something is better than posting nothing 
 at all. I'll make this review short and sweet, totally unlike the actual game, mind you. Morrowind 
 plays mainly in third person, although there is an option for a first person camera perspective. 
 Your character gets thrown into a HUGE world. There are no barriers. Small towns, large interesting 
 cities with odd architecture, mushroom forests and foggy coastlands... the artists did a great job 
 with the visuals. You can go anywhere and do anything, even while taking on multiple quests.
  
  Speaking of quests there are literally hundreds. There are many factions to join and do quests 
 for. Factions are based on a ranking and reward system, so it is fun to try them all, even through 
 multiple play throughs. The main storyline is very interesting, and the dialogue really starts 
 to pull you in the futher you get into the story. Combat can get old, but there are many spells 
 and new equipment to find that keep things fairly fresh. All in all, this game is definitely worth 
 a play through, especially with the expansions that have been released. Try out some mods too! 
 If your a person who gets lost and doesent know what to do when presented with too much information 
 and loves having a linear approach to things, don't bother! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyJade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games to ever walk on our pc's is without doubt Morrowind. Until it's release 
 no other role playing game ever had the liberty Morrowind has given it's players. The graphics where 
 at it's time revolutionary but so was the game. It's full of superb and moderate quests. It makes 
 you feel with every word you hear you're really in your character's pants. I like it more because 
 it's not for any Counter Strike or average console player it requires some brain. The story in the 
 game starts to build up from the first quests and is by me one of the best a game ever had. I always 
 say that if they were to make a movie after Morrowind it would without discussion win an Oscar. The 
 sound is pretty good it's ambient and full of life giving the game a very distinct feel from any 
 other.. If it wasn't for some bugs i would personally give it a 10! I say you're not a gamer if you 
 haven't finished Morrowind .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  what a Unique experiance,
  
  a True Master piece, solid game play. To describe the Difficulty of this game is a tough question 
 in itself, see as the game progress'es the longer you may last during fights, attacks an on-slaughts. Then 
 again you might not
  
  The beauty in this game, the open ended Unlinear free roaming game-play
  the suprises the shocks 
 the attack's the story-lines the inter-action with the world around you is astoundingly sublime
 
  
  This game is without exception the most Perfect game i've ever played!!
  
  Sheer quality a must play game, this is for RPG, s what Mafia is for FP'S
  The sheer freedom to 
 roam, is only matched by GTA III
  
  Do you seriously not deserve to play a game of the likes of this?
  
  Buy this game cos if you 
 choose to rent you will be paying in-late fee's what it would have cost you to buy &amp; then some. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is the 3rd installment of the popular elder scrolls series of roleplaying games. Not 
 only does this game feature an extensive story, a high number of character classes to choose from, 
 but its one of the longest games that i have ever had the joy of playing. but lets go into some 
 details.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You star as a nameless hero born under a certain sign on a certain day, The game starts with you 
 going through basic controls and then picking your class which ranges from the typical Warrior 
 to the powerful battlemage and alot more, there is no limit to your imagination. Each class has 
 perferred atributes that increase as you use them, much like in real life, you get better at doing 
 something, by actually doing. picking your birth sign as well as your class can determine how easy 
 you will have it in the overall game since those choices give you special ability's for example 
 picking the tower as a sign, give you the ability to unlock certain doors, which comes in handy, 
 but can only be done once a day. Combat is intresting, you have 3 ways of attacking in melee combat, 
 trusting, swinging, or an overhead attack, depending on the weapon's you use, the damage varries. 
 Magic is also improved by actually doing, but you have to buy most spell's in order to use them 
 and you need a certain atribute level corresponding to the spell to actually use it. You are also 
 given the option to make your own magic spells and your own magic weapons and armor which is a 
 neat thing. As for the story and questing, this is probably the most extensive part of the game, 
 as it seems that almost every person has something for you to do. There are also many different 
 faction's you can join, like the fighters, mages or thieves guild, all the way up to the imperial 
 army, depending on some faction, you might conflict in the quest area, where two certain quests 
 can work against one another. Traveling accross the continent is also done relativily easy, either 
 by walking, or by using the silt strider which is a gigantic bug you can use to get from town to 
 town, the mage guilds also provide for easy transportation, making geting from one place to another 
 as easy as trowing a rock into a lake.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are very well done, the area, the detail in the enviremont, the different weather 
 scenes as well as attack motions and videos are all superbly done, the one thing i had my problem 
 with was the magic attacks, those looked relativily bad compared to the rest of the game.
  
  Sound: The musical score and the sounds all work to imerse you into the extensive world of 
 morrowind, there is some limited speech, but most of the communication is done in text form. All 
 in all it is still a worthwhile achievement.
  
  Value:
  
  The Gameplay value of morrowind is extensive, it can be replayed every so often and there is allways 
 something to find, be it a extremly potent spell, an overpowered magic weapon or some armor, a 
 new quest to do, there is alot to satisfy the roleplayer within you.
  
  All in all this game is one of the best RPG's to date, rivaled only by its successor Oblivion, 
 so if your into RPG's, this game should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theidleprophet
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Arena was a good game. It was good for its time, had more depth and ease of 
 use than any other RPG at the time. Then The Elder Scrolls II: Daggerfall came out. Daggerfall 
 had a ridiculously large number of skills -- not that all of them worked -- but it was good. And 
 on the plus side, there were literally HUNDREDS of cities. And then Bethesda made Morrowind and 
 completely dropped the ball.
  
  The AI is behind its time. Critters seem to forget about you on their way to make you dead. Guards 
 stop chasing you if they find something else. The game is buggy. I can't count how many times I've 
 fallen through the floor. When you jump on top of a person, whatever their greeting is is played 
 at double speed.
  
  Aside from that, the game world feels completely empty. There aren't very many random encounters 
 with wild animals or bandits, no new enemies show up when you sleep (sleeping in the wild was a 
 good way to get experience in Daggerfall) , you can't free 100% of the slaves, you don't get a horse 
 anymore, there are hardly any caves, and there are only about 10 towns unless you want to pay $40 
 for the expansion packs.
  
  They do have an excuse for not putting much into the game. They give the players the Construction 
 Set. Giving the players the construction set completely pulls the obligation of making an ENTIRE 
 game off of the makers of the game. They pretty much said, Here's the main quest and some guilds. 
 Now you do the rest. 
  
  Overall, it has potential. We're just waiting for someone to mod it. Just skip it and buy Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metyler29
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I Have Played This Game For About 18 hrs, it's very easy to learn. The game itself is just right, 
 not to hard but not to easy. It can get Pretty Boring in some places, but the action makes this 
 game Great, very realistic. It can get glitchy in some places, The things i find the best about 
 this game is that it is free to play, And the fact that you can create your own character, Change 
 the race and Profession. I would have to give this game a 10 In Realistics, a 10 for the action, 
 and a 7 for the speed the game runs, as i said earlier it can get very glitchy in some places, 
 although that might just be my Computer. Overall i Would rate a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_glum
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy Oblivion for the game play and not because its pretty then this is a must play game. 
 Morrowind is much complex and deeper than its follow up. The towns, caves, and landscape are miles 
 ahead of Oblivion. Its a shame they removed so much content on the follow up. For crying out loud 
 you can FLY in this game. This game actually has the power to scare me, some of the caves you explore 
 are actually freaky. I have over 100 hours in this game and not even half way through the main 
 quest. have yet to find another game like this and I am a role playing freak. So if you enjoyed 
 Elder Scrolls 4 and have not played Morrowind, then you must play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This was my first experience into the Elder Scrolls series and I have never experienced anythiing 
 as bizarre surreal rpg as this. There are many things that blow my mind, wow, as that gameplay 
 mimics an FPS, without the guns. This is like GTA but better, because even after you get tired 
 of killing the NPCs and wandering around there is a TON of story and content hiding quietly behind 
 every nick and cranny in that large island Morrowind. The ambient soundtrack and alien animal sound 
 FX go well with the panoramic landscape. Replayability is the heart of this game, your first playthrough 
 could never uncover all the possible quests and subquests. you would have to play a second, third, 
 and fifth and nth time before you ever truly finished the game and that is the beauty of Morrowind. 
 It amazes me how Bethesda was able to convey a world so massive in content and that is why this 
 game deserves to be an all time classic game. This is the first Elder Scrolls to truly flesh out 
 the world of Tamriel with all its Daedra, guilds, weapons, and empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pro_310
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  I am just after reviewing Oblivion and have run into the same thought - I could have reviewed this 
 game a good while ago but I chose not to because it really speaks for itself!
  
  This is the third Elder Scrolls game, which takes place in Morrowind, the land of the Dunmer. The 
 rough outline of the story is to defeat the evil Dagoth Ur.
  
  Like in any other Elder Scrolls game, you can do whatever you want to do. Explore, do quests, kill 
 smugglers, sell stuff etc, just like in any other RPG.
  
  The Graphics are actually pretty good for a somewhat large game released in 2002, and mods can 
 make them a whole lot better!
  
  The sound is fantastic.
  
  Great value, you can play for hundreds of hours, everything about this game is great, and also 
 use the construction set to basically remake the whole game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  As the game is very old I will review as I first impressed it years ago for fairness
  
  Graphics: I remember the game was stunning and it still is today. The water looks fantastic. The 
 environment were fascinating and also very creative. Buildings were made from bug shells? There 
 is also medieval like buildings which are pretty generic. But it's Vvardenfall's Dunmer culture 
 that really shines and catches your eye. Weather effects looked great.
  Character animations looked horrible. Why does it look like my character dislocated his upperhalf 
 just because he got punched? The game also need's a physic's system since it's god awful here.
 
  
  Gameplay: thre is not alot to do in terms of gameplay. It's fun short and satisfying to slash away 
 at enemy's but it's bit simplstic and complex at the same time. There are three modes of attack 
 and also magic. Some modes are better suited for the weapon you choose. Magic is pretty simple 
 pick a spell from your list and switch to spell casting and cast it. Magicka (mana) is depleted. 
 The most interesting component is alchemy. You will harvest from plants (Which can be literally 
 found everywhere) . and take the ingredients mix them together to make potions. The potions effect 
 when you drink them depend on what ingedients were mixed. There are alchemical books that tell 
 you how to make certain potions. There is also the marksman skill in which you shoot arrows at 
 your opponents. If your magic is high enough and your skill permits it you can enchant your items 
 to do magicka damage which makes it more powerful than it was since magicka ignores most armor. 
 You also have a updating map that points to landmark locations and an self updating Journal that 
 keeps track of quests and other notes. There is a fast travel system ranging from boats to silt 
 striders to teleporation so you dont have to walk all the way to one town and back which makes 
 it tedious. Of course you don't have to do the main quests or any quests and just go off exploring 
 and killing anything. Heck you can just get lots of money for the sake of it. It's a great freeroam 
 game.
  
  Sound: The game's music is freaking awesome. Props goes to the person who doesn't hum along with 
 the exploration tunes. While the voice acting is alright the weapon sounds silly. Story: The game's 
 main quest story is particulary innovative and smart. After being released from a prison ship under 
 direct orders of the Emperor Uriel Septim your sent to a town of Balmora to serve a Blade. The 
 Blades the Eperor's spies in Vvardenfall help keep track and bring peace and prosperity to the 
 land. Your told to investigate a prophecy of a hero Nerevraine who will drive the Imperial and 
 Empire rule on Vvardenfall (apparently the Imperials ruled and govern Tamriel's lands) . After a 
 bunch of fetch quests the story gets interesting at you go to interesting places and meet creepy 
 and personality filled characters. Sadly most of it is textbox chat so it feels like your reading 
 a book. Loremasters may read entire conversations but casual gamers will skip thru it mostly only 
 to look at the objective in his/her journal. I will leave the rest of the story up to you to find 
 out and play. There are also clever little are big faction sidequests that range from daily chores 
 and errands of the citizens of Vvardenfall to massive political sabotage. Since the game relies 
 heavily on text and lore it get's boring for modern gamers
  
  Races: The game's 9 races which haven't changed from previous games are pretty interesting and 
 have updated looks. Still the facial models and body models look ugly and blockish.
  
  Bugs: There's ALOT of bugs but that's to be expected in a freeroam game like this. Some annoying 
 ones are savegame bugs that may destroy your 100 hours put into game saves and other cause your 
 character to get stuck or fall thru the ground. Some break quests and make it uncompletable.
  
  Still with all it's faults Morrowind is a great game. And Keep in mind i'm reviewing this on 
 my first impressions years ago so Morrowind cannot keep up with today's games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I actually got Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion first before getting this. Oblivion seemed to represent 
 the very best in RPG's and so I decided to check out the previous installment, Morrowind. Morrowind 
 is largely the same as Oblivion with a few differences. In Oblivion, every landmark or city you 
 discover is marked on your map and you can fast-travel there anytime you want, which was a time 
 saver. Here, the landmark or city is marked on your map but there is no fast-travel options. There 
 are transportation options that'll get you close to your destination but on the final leg of the 
 trip, you will have to walk, which is, in my opinion, a little time consuming, but also allows 
 you the chance to explore. Morrowind, like Oblivion, features an amazingly detailed land for you 
 to explore and there many ruins, citys, and dungeons to discover, along with factions you can join. 
 The story is classic good vs evil like in Oblivion, but Bethesda has done a great job in actually 
 telling the story. It's pretty unique. You start off as a prisoner about to be released where you'll 
 go through the character creation process and then off you go. You at first think you're just an 
 agent for the Empire (the one ruled by the Imperials central to the story in the next installment) 
 but you'll discover that you are a long dead warhero reincarnated. The main quest is pretty long 
 and allows you to visit a variety of locations. The graphics, despite being made in 2002, are still 
 stunning, especially the water. Sound is great too; the soundtrack is short but its very inspiring. 
 Combat is one of the main complaints. It just consists of wacking where in Oblivion, it really 
 looks like you're fighting. Also, the journal could at least maybe mark the location on your map 
 for landmarks related to quests like in Oblivion, instead giving hard to follow directions. However, 
 despite these gripes, Morrowind is still an excellent game that you'll play for many years to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BellaBadger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I have wasted many hours of my life on this game and I don't regret a single moment. The amount 
 of content is just... Phenomenal. And the amount of content that can be added either by you or 
 by downloading mods is just breathtaking. The scenery is amazing, the sounds (Minus the Cliffracer's) 
 are amazing. You can lose yourself in this game and never notice it. Even though the quests can 
 be very tedious at times it doesn't hurt the overall quality of the game at all.
  
  I've been an avid fan of The Elder Scrolls, and any side game, since Daggerfall and it is one of 
 the best games of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattstone12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Morrowind, a very open ended game where it seems to have no end to the fun. The dwemer ruins offer 
 a mystery and scientific artifacts. Caves offer moon sugar and other fictitious illegal substances. 
 Mines offer ebony, and giant eggs, not to mentions the kwama worms, and other creatures. A large 
 array of factions ranging from joining an honorable assassin's guild, to a political house filled 
 with betrayal and assassinations. The game is rich with things to do so when you think its boring, 
 you find a new thing to do! Then with the expansions you double the fun things to do ranging from 
 running away from werewolves to uncovering an ancient dwemer city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashkeboussi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Morrowind sets your character in a virtual world where you have complete freedom and 
 free will. Will you become a noble warrior of the Fighters Guild, or a sinister assassin with the 
 goal to collect every spoon in the game. Will you become a master alchemist capable of creating 
 polymorph potions, world renoun for its greatness? It is you choice!
  
  Graphics- While not great out of the box, free mods can make the graphics better tenfold than the 
 original. The best mods to use for the graphics are...
  -Better Bodies
  -Better Heads
  -Better Clothes Beta
  -Darker Morrowind v4
  -Sharper Weapons
  
  Sound- The sounds in Morrowind 
 are great, but few. I love hearing the nostalgic tunes played when strolling down the city roads, 
 and the symphony played when danger is near, but the sounds of weapons swishing through the air 
 simply sucks.
  
  Value- This game alone has over 500 hours of gameplay out of the box, with an extra hundred with 
 both the expansions, which come with the GOTY edition, which only costs $20 now. With all the mods 
 currently avaliable, there is a limitless amount of gameplay awaiting you.
  
  Conclusion- Morrowind is simply one of the greatest games of all time, and totally PWNs the competition, 
 even its sequel, Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Goh
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is the third installment of the Elder Scrolls series. I picked this up on a recommendation 
 from a friend and I was honored on playing such a game. I'm not sure if playing the other two first 
 really helps but I was easily able to understand everything this game threw at me. At first I thought 
 this game would be complicated, and it turned out it was very complicated; however, the more I 
 played the more I understood about the complicated world around me. I loved the freedom of being 
 able to kill a god or being able to kill one of the main characters and ruining the storyline. 
 Morrowind let you get in the story line andbreak the flow of the actual game. You don't even have 
 to beat the first mission to enjoy the freedom.
  
  The graphics of this game are truly amazing. The water ripples and reflects better than any other 
 game I have seenEVER. There are many different weapons and armor, each with its on distinct look 
 and style. You will know what your enemies are wearing and if you should save before a fight. This 
 game is famous for being expansive, and it doesn't disappoint. The isle is huge and it's very easy 
 to feel overwhelmed while playing this game and the various monsters in each dungeon or simply 
 around the isle provide interesting battles. All the dungeons are unique in their design and are 
 filled with various enemies. The flowers, which are an essential apart of alchemy, grow in certain 
 regions and are easily distinguished from each other. The graphics are some of the best I have 
 ever seen. One of my favorite things about the graphics is the weather. It's incredible how you 
 can be running from town to town and suddenly a thunderstorm breaks out overhead. The music in 
 Morrowind is always the same. It's very atmospheric and calm, peacefultoo peaceful. While slaying 
 your foes it doesn't help that the music is trying to lower your blood pressure and get you in 
 your happy place. I usually don't have the music turned on anyway. The reason this score is an 
 eight is because of the voice acting. Incredible. I was amazed how they could have hundreds of 
 characters and still be able to give each one a distinct voice and several lines to say. Each race 
 also has its own accent, such as the Khajiit have a rasp and purr often while they talk them being 
 cat-like creatures. The battle cries really help you know if that person is a friend or foe. As 
 your sword makes contact with a shield you can hear the clash of metal to metal as the fight wears 
 on you can listen to your enemies' ragged breath and insults whilst you gain the upper hand.
  
  The immersive story is simply wow. Morrowind has the deepest story in all the games I have 
 played. You are the destined Nerevar who is supposed to kill an ancient evil in the land. The Nerevar 
 was born to uncertain parents with a certain sign low and behold you happen to match all these. 
 You are shipped off to the isle of Morrowind as a slave because the king commanded it so. Once 
 on the isle, and doing a few quests, you eventually learn of your fate and now your battle on this 
 isle not only decides the fate of Morrowind, but of the whole world. This game is so amazing because 
 the developers added so much political drama. Each of the three houses control different towns 
 and despise each other. The temple is always killing of those who claim to be the supposed Nerevar 
 wishing to keep hold on their three false gods. The story is long, very long. Several twists and 
 turn in the story compels you to continue just to discover some dirty little secret one of the 
 great houses has. The story really pulls you in until the end and gets quite complicated.
  
  Even if this game had a bad story the gameplay would easily make-up for it, even though it 
 doesn't have to. You can choose to be one of ten different races, each with their own bonuses that 
 help them be a mage, thief, monk, or any of they other classes. Speaking of classes, there are 
 21 different classes to choose from. You can even make your own class and choose your favorite 
 skills if you don't like how the others are set up. The game doesn't hold your hand at all. From 
 the beginning you on your own and you can do almost anything you want. Think that guy is looking 
 at you funny, mess him up. Would you like that nice ebony armor hidden on the back shelf of the 
 shop, I suggest you steal it. But you should be ready to deal with your consequences if caught; 
 pay your fine and get your stolen good taken, resist arrest fighting the guards or running, or 
 got to jail and have some of your stats reduced. Many different guilds help craft you into the 
 ultimate caster, summoner, warrior, or anything else you want to be. You also have the choice of 
 joining the temple, the ones who kills those who claim to be Nerevar, or you could join one of 
 the three houses and wage war against the other houses.
  
  Killing anyone affects the game. You may be in a random house on a slave plantation about to grab 
 some nice gear, but end up killing the owner. Guess what? You have severed the prophecy and you 
 can either live in the doomed world you created or boot up a saved game. You want a realistic society 
 in your gaming experience then this is the perfect one for you. Battle is a little bland, as it 
 only has to do with three different kinds of melee attacks; however, you are able to rename your 
 items after you enchant them. The most exciting things I believe the ability to make your own spells 
 and have them do multiple things at once. Can't find anything to do? I find that hard to believe. 
 Since this game is stuffed with over 500 different quests ranging from curing a drug addict to 
 killing a deadly lich in the sewers.
  
  Replayability is astounding on par with Baldur's Gate, the other great RPG of all time. You can 
 go through this game so many different ways it's impossible to experience all the different paths. 
 One route you could be a mage and slaughter the slave plantation, or you could be a thief and jack 
 the key from the guard to free all the slaves from the masters. Should you slaughter the town with 
 an all out war or snipe them from afar with your bow. Take out the gang leader or side with him 
 to rule the masses. With the ability to one minute rain fire down on your foes or join the mages 
 guild just to learn their spells and kill them when they think they are on your side. Once you 
 get as good as you can get you will want to get back at the beginning to redo it all over again. 
 And one way you may want to just see if you can make an honest living or steal the key to the vaults 
 and plunder to your hearts content. Be anything you want then have the fun of going back and doing 
 it a completely different way as a completely different person. Morrowind is one of the few games 
 where I actually loved to start a new character.
  
  Overall, I am glad I found this game and picked it up. I have never had a better gaming experience. 
 True, Morrowind does have its flaws, but IMHO, they are nothing that a few mods can't fix. I have 
 over 300 mods installed and all of them just add to the fun factor, which is what all games should 
 be about. Full immersion is this games aim and it doesn't fail at it. I recommend this game for 
 anyone who loves a game where you can get in there and muck the works. This is the ultimate sandbox 
 game, heck, you even get the whole beach and then some. If you enjoy RPGs and don't own this game 
 then you haven't experienced a true adventure. This game is definitely a buy and you should go 
 out and get it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXDeadraLordXX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Ah, Morrowind.
  
  I could sum this up with a number and a word.
  
  400 HOURS.
  
  This game can give you 400 hours of gameplay, easy. Even without mods, this game seems endless. 
 Actually... it might be. I find new stuff every time I play it. In fact, just today, I opened up 
 my Nordic warrior file, and set out from Suran. Walking around with no particular goal, I stumbled 
 upon a dungeon. Going in, i found it to be the tomb of a noble. I went in as deep as i could, encountering 
 no resistance. I found a small chest labeled only Noble's Chest. Attempting to open said chest, 
 I got a message from the game. You feel strangely cold... I turn to see a pair of skeletons, well 
 equipped, standing before me. Let's just say, reload was necesary. (I was level 3, okay?)
  
  I could go on for hours, literally, with stories of my adventures in this game. There are at 
 least ten different questlines to follow, and dozens and dozens of miscellaneous quests and unimportant 
 dungeons to loot. Full books can be read, potions can be made, enemies can be killed, houses can 
 be robbed. The game starts out unrelenting and hard. I like that, but it turns off some people. 
 A mudcrab or a rat is a formidable foe at level 1, but at level 5, you can finally take on those 
 damn bandits in that one cave you died in. Come back at level 25, and mop them up like the sissies 
 they are. Run into a Daedra at level 3? Die. 20? Intense fight, probable win. The game actually 
 gets easier as you get better, a novel concept to RPGs. The best part is, the leveling system is 
 much less intrusive than Oblivion's. Much much much much less intrusive. Most enemies have a level 
 1, level 10, and level 25 versions, for one example. Harder enemies have a level 10, 25, and 50. 
 You get the picture.
  
  Done with gameplay. Phew.
  
  The graphics are hard to compliment now, but they were great when the game came out. The most amazing 
 thing is the atmosphere. Deadly red blight storms, blighted wastelands, towering mushroom houses, 
 and a huge, ominous, Red Mountain. The storms do get annoying, but its just some of the charm. 
 Along with cliffracers, which I've stealthily avoided like a Ninja.
  
  The sound is great. Maybe it's just nostalgia, but the starting song is on my MP3 player, right 
 next to Mayhem. It's addictive. The music playing during the game is merely a backdrop, very quiet 
 and calm. The battle music is fittingly intense, but the best part is, its still fairly quiet. 
 LOUD AND INTRUSIVE BATTLE MUSIC GETS OLD, JAPANESE GAMING INDUSTRY. Thats pretty much the only 
 music in the game... Its good.
  
  Buy this game, man. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, i'm a real fanatic of this game, i've got a special connection with Morrowind, so 
 i'm not partial on a standard review, but i think this is the idea: find a game and make it yours. 
 Feel like you're living it, think you're there, do the things you want... and i think is really 
 great for a game to be able to send you to a medieval world and feels like you where there. Maybe 
 there's other games that can do that, but i find it on Morrowind.
  
  I mean, the beginning is so simple as exciting: you're a prisoner that has been released in a port 
 by order of the king. Congratulations, now you're a free men. Do whatever you want... find out 
 why you have been released (the main quest) , or do your own life, get a work, enroll into a guild, 
 explore the world, go and make tourism on elvish cities, read books, master the sword or the magic... 
 there's no limit to you freedom, you're in a HUGE world and you feel free to live in it as you 
 wish... i never got that in a game: all RPGs makes you work in a direction, or gives you some requirements 
 to advance, or you're forced to do several task before blablabla... not on Morrowind. The first 
 month playing i never did a single quest. I pass weeks and weeks travelling, locating cities, chating 
 with people, getting info about the world, the history, races... this is simply unthinkable in 
 other games.
  
  Morrowind is so great that allows you to build your character based on your own mind: i mean, you're 
 going thru the forest and you find a slaves camp. Do you want to release them? Do that. Kill all 
 and get the bounty? go ahead, it's on you... do you want to master the sword... axe... archery? 
 maybe a bit of all? Magic? restoration? destruction? illusion?... you can get ALL, is only a matter 
 of time and money, there's no restriction by races, classes or anything, you can get what you want 
 by working it.
  
  And what RPG allows you to buy a candle or a spoon? Just this, because sometimes you're tired of 
 killing all living thing on a Dungeon, so usually you just turn off the game, but Morrowind allows 
 you to find a place and build there a home where you can display your weapons, bring food to the 
 kitchen... and much more.
  
  Of course the graphics are very good and all the tech aspects are excellent, is full of dungeons, 
 quest and classic RPG elements... but there's many things to do in such a BIG world (with many 
 different environments) that the life of the game is almost unlimited, and best of all: you are 
 so free and the world is son complete that it's easy to get involved and think that you're the 
 warrior on the screen looking in all the stores od the realm for the left gauntlet that will fit 
 on your black ebony armor... Thanks to Morrowind, many of us can forget their real life for a few 
 hours going to the next town to find... whatever you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsan224
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was so excited to play it. I got a list of like 15 mods i wanted to download 
 for this game, and I did. I played it for about a month, but then the fun weared off. You choose 
 your species, create your class, and you're let go. You can do anything you want, but it isn't 
 that great. The quests are just not that interesting, because you usually don't get big rewards. 
 Also, sometimes it requires you to go to the other side of the map and then return to complete 
 the quest, and they give you vague directions on where to go. The combat isn't good, because in 
 the beginning you can't hit anything. You get better later, but the sounds of hitting people don't 
 sound like a sword slicing someone. The graphics were better than I expected without mods, but 
 with mods they're even better. But don't expect oblivion graphics with the best mods, because in 
 the end, it'll just look like this game was made a year later. When you explore around balmora, 
 vivec, pelgiad, caldera, and suran, you have barely touched the world. At least, that's what you 
 think. You explore so many cities but you see a huge island to explore. Well most of it is either 
 red mountain or just other mountains or ruins or stuff like that. Tel vos and vos are on the north 
 side of the island, but those cities are small. Dagon Fel is small too. So overall, this game was 
 fun for a while, but it dissappointed me. If you are a fan of action-rpgs with really customizing 
 you're characters looks and fighting and stuff, don't get this. But if you are into exploring everywhere 
 no matter what, and like doing quests no matter how hard or boring they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noctoural88
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I know that the headline is not too original, it is 100% true. the graphics are not that great, 
 the gameplay is glitchy and the combat is even worse, the soundtrack just plays a 5 min. thing 
 over and over.... yet what makes it special is that despite all of that, i still seem to not be 
 able to stop playing it. one more thing about the graphics, while you look at a normal item such 
 as a basket, it is detailed down to the last weave, while then you look at a person they are all 
 blocky and blury and walk like they have sticks up their asses, yet guess what, it is addicting! 
 their is barley anything great about it, yet it is most people's favorite game, as it is mine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_the_Kaw158
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  The Fabulous Elder Scrolls series has long been a symbol of adventure and happiness and frienship 
 and yadayada yada. Morrowind is the third game of the famed Elder Scrolls series and has excellent 
 depth in its gameplay.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in morrowind is astonoshing. the places you can go and the people to meet 
 are endless, the quests if you tried doing you would be there for years and years on end and you 
 would never be playing any other game.
  
  Sound-this game has one of the best music in the world, no it isnt rock no it isnt heavy metal, 
 all it is a flute or some other kind of instrument playing but it almost has a hypnotising music 
 to it that will be heard throughout the ages of gaming and will be sorely missed if Elder Scrolls 
 finishes.
  
  Background- the background for this game is astonoshing such realistic backgrounds is another thing 
 that amazed me about this game, not only that but the background and characters match perfectly 
 like they were meant to be joined.
  
  Online?-Unfortunetley this game is unable to be played online, such things as this sometimes spoils 
 games no matter how good the game is or could be. although it hasnt been confirmed by Bethesda 
 Softworks Inc it has been rumored and speculated throughout the far reaches of the internet that 
 there is a mod that has been made in which you can play this online, from what has been said by 
 the so called creators of this online morrowind is that there will only be so many people aloud 
 on each server, and that when finished it will be put out onto the internet for what has been said 
 to be a free distribution of free online morrowind throughtout mod sites.
  
  cheers,
  kim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to movin_target's review of The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind GoTY Edition... From here 
 on we goto my usual written review formula...
  
  Graphics- This is a 2002 game.. And it still looks good (even on my ****y computer) Everything 
 is detailed in the game from the people to the enviorments. What I like about this is that when 
 you go into someone (or something's) house there are thing ranging from a table to a bearug.. One 
 thing I love about this game (but I cant experience.. : ( ) is the water it looks so good (with 
 shaders on) . This game stands the test of time with graphics because there is a overdose of graphic 
 enhancement mods for this game. But at times the graphics can be dated but its an old game so ill 
 give credit for it.
  
  Sound- As said in Gamespot's review there is a short soundtrack but you can fix that by putting 
 mp3's into the music folder. Pretty cool huh? Anyway there are sounds in game are great. When your 
 near water you have water sounds which sounds good. Sometimes youll be in a ruins and youll hear 
 machines and light noises in the backround. Sadly the game doesnt have much voice acting for quest 
 dialog. I think there is a mod for that but im not gonna bother with it.
  
  Gameplay- Exellent, because you get to be, do, and go whatever you want. You can be a hero, theif, 
 badass, murderer, etc. There are a whole bunch of quests in the game plus the ability to get mods 
 for more replay value. Also there are a multiude of wepons, armor, and spells you can get. You 
 can go everywhere in the game without touching the main quest and do mini quests or kill things.. 
 Speaking of which one of the draw backs is the combat.. O boy... The combat system seems abit flawed 
 because it looks like you hit something but the game doesnt register it.. and it depends on how 
 much fatugie you have in your meter. Overall its a good game for gameplay.
  
  Value- This gets a 10 because you get
  Morrowind, Tribinal, Bloodmoon, The contruction set, and 
 the will to download any mod you want at a total of.....
  20$! W00t
  
  Tilt- Well this is my first elder scrolls game so 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgusSalim2
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is better than Oblivion in term of vast, more item (weapon and armor) , and you can put 
 clothing under the armor. That is the good thing in gameplay of Morrowind, because in 100 difficulty 
 setting, you need more and much more Strength than the game normally allowed. The vast world make 
 Morrowind worth more time than it's successor, Oblivion. There are multi region in Morrowind begin 
 with Swamp to Icy ground. Oblivion? it's just snowy and usual greenery ground. About the Gameplay, 
 Morrowind is losing againts Oblivion. Morrowind's combat system is just hack and slash, not worthy 
 all your time to increase that weapon skill (like Blunt Weapon skill) except for the accuracy. 
 About magic system in Morrowind, it's suck compared to Oblivion. In Morrowind you can't use shield 
 while casting a magic, because you need both hand to cast magic (it's really sucks) .
  
  If Morrowind region, background, rules (can put clothing under armor, have 2 glove and 2 pauldron 
 for left and right) combined with Oblivion combat system, Morrowind is by FARRRR the most, well 
 done, amazing RPG game ever made compared to that Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinylmeister
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is simply a Great game to play. You will more than get your money's worth concidering 
 how many ways you can play. Questing, Building your character, or discovering whats buried inside... its 
 all good. Be prepared to loose your sense of time and spend hours and hours and even more hours 
 in this world. But there's more.... the two mission packs Tribunal and Bloodmoon add more to the 
 game. Okay, the game is getting a bit dated, but that is a good thing if you know how much juice 
 you need to play Oblivion games. If you have'nt played it, and you are waiting a while to upgrade 
 to a new computer with Vista, this game might be right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Enjoying a RPG demands you have a good deal of time to spare for it. I seldom play RPGs because 
 I seldom have a good deal of free time. My gaming experiences revolve around a bit of free time 
 now and then. That's why I could not enjoy the epic tale of Morrowind as I should have.
  The game starts with you being offloaded in the island of Morrowind. You have to find out why, 
 and establish yourself in the island by completing various missions and quests. The first impression 
 of Morrowind is its great graphics and strange landscapes of the fantasy land. With the Celtic 
 music in the background, the game will instantly take you to the medieval fantasy world.
  The game design is meant for hard-core RPG fans. You have to carry out lot of interactions and 
 dialogue . The environment is large and free flowing (basically new maps load at given points, 
 and you have to wait a bit to allow the loading before entering a new map) and sometimes you can 
 get the feeling of being aimless or even lost. As I said earlier, I am not a great RPG fan. So 
 after playing the game for a few weeks, in small slices, ultimately my interest in the quests got 
 lost and I also got lost in a marshland. So for me, the interest to complete the game ultimately 
 got lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronin135
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I will start with the bad,
  
  The fighting system in the game is not very exciting. It can be rather difficult at times, especially 
 at low levels. Many times you will be swingiing your weapon but, you will be hitting nothing. The 
 journal entry system for this game is a little too realistic for my task. Everything of any kind 
 of importance is put into a journal. There is no organization system for your quests. things tend 
 to get a little canfusesing when you start to many quests and talk to too many people.
  
  Now for the good, which is about everything else in the game
  
  The game is very emersive. 
 There is so much to do. You could play the game for years and still not do everything in the game. 
 You are free to roam and do what ever you like. Be good or be bad. Be a fighter or be a mage. quests 
 are abundant a caves are all over the place. so just have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the 1st first person RPGs to work properly but there are many flaws. This 
 is too overrated and NWN is probably a better choice. The combat system is rubbish in this. I find 
 it impossible to kill rats as even though I SEE my sword hit them it says I missed. This is because 
 the system rolls dice and calculate stuff depending on your skill. The interface is bad and I hate 
 looking for weapons in my inventory, or checking my stats and looking for quests. Oh yes about 
 the quests, they tell u a location like Ginis Eggmine to go to, but that could be anywhere!!!!!!!! 
 How are you possibly suppose to find it since the thing gives you no pointers and I found a entrance 
 under water!!!!! The quest locations r just hard to find. Also exploring is not enjoyable. You 
 simply walk through dirt roads for ages without seeing or fighting anything interesting. If you 
 want to travel anywhere buy foot prepare to hold the forward key for a VERY long time. The roads 
 always have barriers which restrict you from going shorter ways and the most interesting monster 
 u will fight is like a hound (dog) . The HUGE Morrowind is empty and dull. Oblivion is a much better 
 choice, if ur computers good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maedhros925
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Originally posted under Morrowind GOTY, but this is where the traffic is so I'm copying it under 
 the original release, as well.
  ---------------------------------
  
  Most times, when I see a review give out a perfect score, I skip over it. Too often the review 
 lacks any real insight into the game, and simply provides an unchecked outlet for the reviewer's 
 enthusiasm. Well, maybe now I'm guilty of the same, though hopefully I can provide some insights 
 as well. I'll come right out and say it. This is the best game I've ever played on the PC, and 
 while the game isn't perfect, it does so much right that I'm comfortable giving it that score.
 
  
  What first drew me into this game was the way that characters develop their skills. I had come 
 from playing the original Neverwinter Nights, and one thing that bugged me about that game was 
 that you only gained experience by killing enemies. Gaining levels allowed you to increase other 
 skills, like disarming traps, but no matter how many traps you disarmed you gained no credit for 
 it. Didn't it make more sense that traps would give you experience as well? Or at least make you 
 better at disarming other traps? That's what excited me about Morrowind, it has a character development 
 system that is unlike any other game I've played. Experience points are a thing of the past. If 
 you want to get better in a skill, you'd better practice, just like in real life. And just like 
 in real life, learning to pick locks makes you better at picking locks, not casting magic, or blocking 
 attacks. In fact, every action that you can take in Morrowind has its own specific skill. These 
 skills are divided into three main categories: Combat, Magic, and Stealth. When you first create 
 your character you'll also select one of these specialties. Skills in your specialty will be learned 
 quicker than others, but any skill can be learned with enough practice. Proficiency in a skill 
 is measured on a scale from one to one hundred. The base for any skill is five, but the character 
 that you create will start out with some talent in at least a few actions. The first decision you 
 face is choosing your race. Morrowind is a diverse place, with nine different races: you can be 
 a Romanesque Imperial, a dark-skinned warrior Redguard, a lizard-like Argonian, a cat-like Khajiit, 
 a native Dark Elf, a High Elf skilled in a magic, a monkish Breton, a brutish Orc, or an agile 
 Wood Elf. Each race comes with their own specific skill bonuses, reflecting their unique nature. 
 Each race also has specific skills, for example a Khajiit can see in the dark for a period of time, 
 an Argonian can temporarily breathe underwater, and a Dark Elf can summon a ghost of their ancestors 
 to fight by their side.
  
  The next step is choosing your character class. Morrowind provides something like twenty different 
 classes to choose from, and even offers a custom class, where you can choose your own set of skills. 
 Class is determined by your choice of five major skills and five minor skills. Each skill you select 
 will receive a bonus, in addition to racial bonuses, with major skill obviously receiving a greater 
 bonus than minor skills. With nine races and twenty-seven skills to fill ten slots, Morrowind offers 
 almost countless opportunities even from the start.
  
  Choose your skills carefully, because that's how you will gain levels. Every ten increase in your 
 ten major and minor skills causes your character to level up, and every time you level up you get 
 the chance to increase three of your ten attributes, such as strength, agility, intelligence, and 
 luck. Each skill is governed by a specific attribute, which means that increases in that skill 
 will produce greater gains in that attribute when you level up.
  
  Once your character's been created, you'll be pushed out into the world... and from there you're 
 entirely on your own. Spend an hour or more wandering the first major town you find, Balmora, and 
 when you discover that you've only scratched the bare surface of your map, you'll realize just 
 how huge this game is. An entire world has been created, and you've been dropped in the middle 
 of it. And it's not just the size that makes this world so special, it's the amazing detail. There 
 is nothing left to chance here, no randomly generated scenery. Every hill, every rock, every ruin 
 is intentionally placed. While it may sounds like this could become repetitively, the sheer scope 
 of the world allows for hours upon hours of exploring new territory. Even the files into which 
 I've poured hundreds of hours, I still haven't seen all there is to see, or located every dungeon. 
 And make no mistake, there's plenty of reward in exploring the countryside. Some of the most lucrative 
 dungeons are in out of the way places, even NPC's will offer you quests even in the middle of nowhere.
 
  
  Of course, the bulk of you time will be spent in towns. It's there that you'll find most of your 
 quest-givers and objectives. Even the quests you choose will add to the uniqueness of your character. 
 You can join three different guilds; Mage's, Fighter's and the less official Thieves Guild. You 
 can also join the Imperial Legion, the Temple, the Imperial Cult, even the Morag Tong, an assassin's 
 guild. Each faction provides it's own quest tree, with multiple quest-givers and several hours 
 of gameplay. One of the more important decisions will be which Great House you choose to join. 
 There's House Redoran, House Telvanni, and House Hlaalu (which are roughly combat, magic, and stealth 
 in nature, respectively.) You can only join one, though, so choose carefully. As you progress in 
 rank in each house, you'll earn the ability to build a stronghold, which you can use to store your 
 loot, and hire your own NPC's to provide services such as bartering and repairing your equipment. 
 Everyone of these factions exists independent of the main quest, and with many, many miscellaneous 
 quests beside, I can assure you that you'll never stop playing for want of tasks or objectives.
 
  
  So what are the drawbacks of this game? Well the combat system could have used some work. Stealth 
 characters will make use of sneaking and ranged weapons, magic users will cast a wide array of 
 spells, but your basic brawler is awfully, well, basic. Essentially you'll walk right up to any 
 enemy you face, click the left button repeatedly, and hope that his life runs out before yours. 
 You'll have potions that you can drink at any time, but there's little strategy beyond simply building 
 your stats up so that you'll last longer in combat. I probably could have taken points away in 
 gameplay for this, but I feel the enormous possibility that Morrowind offers makes up for that 
 shortcoming.
  
  Of course, the world being as huge as it is leads to another grievance. Traveling can often times 
 be a pain. There are some options for getting around quickly. You can travel by boat to many ports, 
 take giant creatures called silt striders for a ride, or even have a mage teleport you from guild 
 hall to guild hall. But sometimes you aren't so lucky, and sometimes you'll be given quests that 
 force you to hoof it across the landscape to find someone in an obscure location. Even worse is 
 when you get stuck having to lead an NPC to these obscure locations, especially when they walk 
 significantly slower than your character, and you have to wait for them to catch up. This becomes 
 awfully tedious, I won't deny it, but with so many countless quests offered, there are plenty more 
 to make up for those. The appeal of Morrowind is in the detail. You can immerse yourself in this 
 world, exploring it in any way you want, and playing the game in any way you want. You can breeze 
 through the main quest, rise to power in one of the Great Houses, become an abolitionist by freeing 
 slaves from their shackles, or just live off the land, hunting for pearls and wild game to sell 
 in town. So many RPGs create a character for you, and then give you a script to follow. Morrowind 
 gives you a world, completely open-ended, and invites you to play as you please. The graphics and 
 sound are now at least a generation behind, but deserve 10's for the marvelous way in which they 
 support the gameplay. The replay value of this game is incredible, and the more you put into the 
 game, the more you'll get out of it. It remains easily my favorite game, and I couldn't possibly 
 recommend it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The idea behind Morrowind is very interesting and tempting for almost any type of gamer. Basically, 
 Bethesda created this huge world in which the player can do almost anything he wants. The concept 
 of "total freedom" has been applied successfully in the famous GTA series for example... and the 
 results were spectacular. So how did Morrowind do? How does total freedom translate into an RPG 
 world:
  
  Well, Morrowind looks much better on paper than in real life. The end product is a very uneven 
 and unfocused game. There are quite a large number of elements that will conspire against you and 
 keep you from enjoying it at full potential. But before I go into them I want to make one thing 
 clear: if you have enough patience and time to invest in this game then you should get satisfying 
 results, hence the many good reviews. The game mechanics are pretty poor. Here are a few situations 
 that will help you understand:
  
  The character movement is excessively slow (although it can be improved) ... out of the 15 hours 
 or so I've spent playing, 80% (or more) was spent walking from point A to point B, or looking for 
 camps and people lost in the wilderness. You would think an RPG that plays from a first-person 
 perspective would offer some thrills... but no, the combat is even more frustrating then the snail 
 pace of travels. My character is confronted with a commoner, he lifts his Claymore way above his 
 head and lets it drop right smack in the foe's skull... but nothing, the game registers no hit. 
 OK, eventually you do hit him but then he gets stuck in a fence (yes, the AI is often problematic) 
 and now I am standing 2 meters from him... but he still manages to damage me... with his fists 
 although there's no contact! These problems can be very annoying and although I don't usually look 
 for brilliant game mechanics in a RPG, it would be nice if they were at least decent... not the 
 case here though.
  
  Lets leave that aside and go forward to that which hurts most. I usually look for a good story 
 when it comes to role-playing games. A good story and some great dialogs, maybe even some NPCs 
 with personality. But there's none of that here. The story is stuck somewhere between mediocre 
 and decent. You're basically working for this emperor but you don't really know why he chose you. 
 You eventually do discover why but it's obvious, it's because you're special, a "chosen one". There 
 are many "chosen one" stories in RPGs and Morrowind does nothing to differentiate itself from the 
 others. Also, NPCs are flat, flat like the Nevada desert. Their motives are just not interesting 
 enough (most of them don't even have motives) and the dialog system does a great job of destroying 
 even the smallest shred of personality they have. Dialogs resume to you choosing a topic from a 
 long list and getting a short explanation, then choosing another one and so on...
  There's not much to comment about these aspects, Morrowind seems pretty underdeveloped when it 
 comes to story, characters and dialogs.
  
  On the bright side: you have a huge world to explore and tons of things to do. The character creation 
 is pretty interesting, the way your character grows is also satisfying. The game's rule system 
 is pretty unrestrictive so depending on your preferences, this can be good or bad. Personally, 
 I don't like Morrowind's ruleset too much, I'd pick D&D or S. P. E. C. I. A. L. over it any day but it 
 has its good parts.
  
  On to graphics and sound: the world of Morrowind is good looking, both outdoors and indoors are 
 detailed, there are also some impressive weather effects and the day/night cycle. The sound is 
 pretty mediocre though. Voice acting is weak and repetitive and so is the music, while sound effects 
 are pretty generic.
  
  Value is a key word when referring to this game, there are tons of quests to do and tons of dungeons 
 to explore so the game should keep you occupied for a long time... plus there's a pretty good construction 
 set for those interested in modding. Speaking of which, there is a huge selection of mods that 
 can enhance your experience so you might want to download some of them.
  
  Overall, Morrowind is a decent game that will also be satisfying if you have the time and the patience 
 it requires. As for me, I honestly tried and I admit I did feel I was having fun a few times but 
 the distance between those feelings was too big. The flat characters and the awful dialog system 
 turned me off completely... but as I said earlier, it's a matter of taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simazza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is an instant classic. The second I walked off that boat in seyda neen, I was drawn in. 
 This game is one of the most amazing games I have played. The graphics may not be 5 stars right 
 now, but back in 2002 this game was absolutely stunning.
  
  The greatest thing about Morrowind is the amount of choices you can make. Want to be a High elf 
 warrior? You can be that if you want, even though it might not be a very good race to play as a 
 warrior. Want to be an assasin? You can be that to. Your only limited by your imagination.
  
  For anybody looking for a good, solid RPG game. Morrowind is the game to buy. And you can get 
 it in most sale bins for just 10 bucks. Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrusgod
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Years before Oblivion was hailed as perhaps the best RPG of all time, there was Morrowind, a revolutionary 
 open-ended RPG that had many high points, but never quite was able to live up to it's billing as 
 a masterpiece.
  
  The land of Morrowind is absolutely huge, and the storyline is immersive and impressive. From the 
 beginning, you are basically on your own: There are things you can do, and the game hints slightly 
 at where you should go to check for quests, but you can take your time if you wish... there's no 
 one way in which the story unfolds, although the end result of the quests is always the same. Unfortunately, 
 making a game that had a different outcome and experience every time you played it is probably 
 still not within the scope of many game designers... it's a lot harder to push and create innovative 
 ideas when the bottom line for the companies is how many of the games will sell.
  
  Back to the game... the graphics, for their time, were good... some of the graphics seemed top-notch, 
 while others (such as characters and some of the repetitive scenery) seemed underdone and lazy. 
 So overall it averages out to good. The sound was well done, if not overly innovative. After a 
 while, you'll probably end up turning the sound on the game down and putting on some music of your 
 own... you sacrifice the ability to hear some things, but a game of this size means eventually you 
 will get sick of some things.
  
  The open-endedness of the game is both the game's shining achievement and a roadblock. Very few 
 games before this one let you have control of the events quite like this one, letting you do a 
 myriad of things in whatever order you wished to do them in. This severely limits the development 
 of some characters and situations, however... the quests can't really have a bearing on other open 
 quests, because then they would have to be done in a specific order, unless the game was designed 
 for different outcomes depending on the order in which the quests are done. The main character 
 also gets very little development... the bane of a game with open-ended quests and the ability to 
 create your character basically the way you want (there are some limitations, like which race your 
 character is or the number of skills they have, but it is fairly open) .
  
  In the end, Morrowind is an enjoyable game for a time, but eventually can wear thin as you wander 
 the countryside for days, wondering where the next quest is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokin1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First time I started this game on my PC, I had no idea what I was about to experience. As far as 
 I knew, Morrowind was just another open-ended role-playing game set in some mythical universe. 
 Well I was wrong in just one thing; it's not just another game. There's a lot more to it.
  
  Morrowind is the third game in The Elder Scrolls series, but don't worry if you haven't played 
 the first two games. Although all three games are set in one universe (and in similar time, as 
 far as I know) , Morrowind is not a sequel to the story of the first two games. Instead, the game 
 describes situation in the Vvardenfell, a province of the great Empire at the time. And the situation 
 is bad.
  
  Though the story of the game is confusing and a bit hard to follow (mostly because you are set 
 in a whole another universe) , it still fits into the gameplay incredibly well. In addition to that, 
 it's very well written. The main quest , is not really a quest as it is a collection of more smaller 
 quests that you will have to linearly complete in order to finish the main quest. And where there 
 is a main quest, there are side quests included.
  
  Morrowind, or Empire's province of Vvardenfell is in tough times. Before, it was populated only 
 by Dark Elves or Dunmer . But now, after Empire conquered it, things got little more complicated. 
 Great Dunmer Houses started waging a war among themselves, and the rest of the Dunmer live in tribes, 
 and are called Ashlanders . While Great Houses are concerned with the new ways of the Empire, Ashlanders 
 continue to follow the old ways, and believe in old prophecies. As one, prophecy of a Nerevarine, 
 is about a stranger born on a certain day to uncertain parents, who will come in the time of great 
 peril, unite all Great Houses and Tribes under a single hand and save the Morrowind people from 
 a threatening danger. I guess you can already guess who will be the stranger. But note that there's 
 much more to the story than this. Morrowind is a great land with a vast history, which you will 
 have chance to learn all about. And make it too.
  
  You start a game... from the beginning, waking up from a dream (or a nightmare) to see that you 
 came to Morrowind. And there you are, currently no one, with no knowledge of your past, present 
 or future, with nothing but common clothes on you. You have no idea what you will become. In the 
 first minutes of the game, you learn the basics, as well as you pick you're style of gameplay. 
 Meaning that you will be able to choose what race you will play as (Argonian, Khajiit, Redguard, 
 Nord, Breton, Imperial, Dark Elf, High Elf, Wood Elf, or Orc) , your gender, appearance, class, 
 skills, birth sign etc.. All of these things will influence your whole game. For example, if you 
 choose the Argonian race, you will have ability to breath underwater, something that other races 
 will not be able to do at the start. Picking a certain class will define what skills you need to 
 increase to advance in the level. But you can also create a custom class, so you can define what 
 skills you wish to train most. Birth sign? That can also give you some special powers or abilities 
 that can make your game a whole lot easier. And while all this may seem confusing at first, it 
 is actually made very distinctly.
  
  But after you finish the beginning, you find yourself lost. One of the main things that make this 
 game so special is the huge world. I mean, you probably played open-ended games before, but rarely 
 you will come across world at this size, so open, so full of things to do, explore, kill, make, 
 learn... You suddenly have all this space around you and no idea what to do. Well, not exactly. 
 You can follow the main quest, which is clearly described in your journal (which is very creatively 
 made, by the way) , or you can go trough the world on your own. Taking side-quests, killing monsters, 
 reading books (probably more text in the game than in your library at home) , learning about the 
 world, exploring the map, buying, selling or making your own stuff... With the right skill, you 
 can accomplish almost anything in this game. Make your own potions, spells, enhance weapons, gear 
 up, earn money. For the lazy ones, pay to train skills, use transportation to get around and use 
 money as your primary mean of accomplishing your goals... if you have it.
  
  This is one of rare RPGs which you can play in first person. So it's not very rule-based. Combat 
 system is quite original. Basically, you can fight with spells or weapons. Spells use Magicka (similar 
 to Mana) and fighting uses Fatigue. And weapons variate from swords, staffs, blunts to bows, crossbows 
 and thrown weapons. Since the game is played from the first-person perspective (you can set to 
 third-person, but then the gameplay can be ruined by poor character animation) , you have to aim 
 to hit your opponent. So when you use marksman weapons (like the last three I counted) , you're 
 basically playing a FPS. It's just that in addition to your aiming, Fatigue also decides if you 
 actually hit the enemy. Fatigue is spent by running, jumping, swimming and fighting. Less fatigue 
 you have, smaller chances are that you will hit your opponent when fighting. That can be frustrating, 
 since the world is big and you usually go around running and jumping. Then some enemy gets to you 
 and you can't fully defend yourself. Fortunately, Fatigue regenerates over time. Slowly like hell, 
 but it regenerates. Items like rings, amulets, clothing, armor, potions, spells, powers and scrolls 
 can help you in various situations, in or out of combat. Night-eye, water-walking, levitate and 
 chameleon are just some of many original effects in the game. Many of those can decide when you 
 are going to load the game next time.
  
  But hey, there are many NPCs in the game too. They can be found in towns or wilderness. Try talking 
 to them sometime. You can start side-quests or learn about the world from various points of view. 
 Some NPCs belong to one of many factions (or guilds) in Morrowind. You can join too! If you join 
 a faction, you can advance in ranks and do special quests or tasks. Your faction will be grateful, 
 and will reward you. Working for factions can be a great distraction from the main quest or aimless 
 wandering in the wilderness. And it will make your game much longer.
  
  Where this game fails? In small things, details. There are just too many bugs in the game that 
 not only can ruin the gameplay, but actually make you stuck in the game. NPCs and items disappear, 
 AI is plainly stupid, some structures will trap you among invisible walls... Some of these things 
 can make a critical impact on the gameplay. Truly, glitches overwhelm this game, but then looking 
 at the size of it, it would be almost impossible to predict everything. This game has un-linearity 
 spelled all over it.
  
  While the music in the game is beautiful and really enjoyable to listen to, other sounds in the 
 game are boring and can get too repetitive. Mostly, it won't bother you too much though. And graphics 
 are not something special either. Models are poor and their animation is even worse. View distance, 
 although editable, is small, even when set to maximum. There's an enormous world around you and 
 you can't see it. One good graphically made thing in this game is water. Probably more realistic 
 than in any game I played yet. As a plus, the game comes with TES Construction Set, a tool which 
 you can use to create your own quests, your own NPCs, your own world. And that equals to many game 
 mods.
  
  So you would like an overview? To tell you the truth, it's hard to summarize all the features of 
 the game in a small review like this. So I will make this as simple for you as I can; if you ever 
 liked any adventure game, try this one out. You don't have to go 100% trough it, you don't even 
 have to complete the main quest, just get it and start playing. Otherwise... I have no idea why 
 you're reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  It has been such a relief, after the disappointment that Oblivion has been to me, to set up Morrowind 
 again on my Hard-Drive. And to go back to this place that, though still full of surprises, sometimes 
 I feel like calling home.
  
  Together with its two expansions, and enhanced by a dozen of the best MODs that improves the way 
 it plays, looks and feels, Morrowind nears perfection. This true work of art has a potential to 
 be the game of a lifetime. With the unlimited possibilities of its MODing capacities, Morrowind 
 can live a life of its own, weaned from its makers. Never will it be obsolete and, as shows the 
 failing Oblivion, it's quite impossible to replace.
  
  Morrowind is a real, huge, addicting, never-ending RPG. Too bad the combat system can be so awkward, 
 at times. I wonder if anyone would craft a MOD that would make it turn based... Why not ? Everything 
 is possible with Morrowind. A game that really belongs to the people. Not just a game in fact... 
 but a world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Hold on, lets recooperate what the hell? how is this like anything else from elder scrolls? hold 
 on its bloody amazing but why?
  Because you can play it for days and days definitely revolutionary nothing else on pc has done 
 something to this extent its massive thousands of people and homes its the firt 'real' rpg its 
 you in a world you can do the main quest be a good guy and la de la la. Or you can be a bastard 
 and going around killing people and be a assassin. Its endless amusement who ever tells you morrowind 
 is boring is a filthy liar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliusdragonfly
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game never quits. Years later it's still some of the best RPG gameplay available. Mod it to 
 pump the graphics up to something approaching today's standards, and then create a pretty glowing 
 suit of armor and start whacking blight creatures.
  
  Couple of small problems. The hit/miss ratio is pretty ridiculous with most weapons starting out, 
 especially the ranged weapons (some of which are so innacurate that they might as well be broken) . 
 Spellcasting can get a little frustrating too when you desperately need just one more fireball 
 and find that you've spent your last bit of mana casting a spell that failed. The inventory system 
 is decent, though, and the world just has so darn many things to do in it that it's impossible 
 to ever really get bored.
  
  You must own this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  While many games claim to give the player the freedom to do whatever he/she wants to in a huge 
 gameworld Morrowind is one of the few where this claim is actually true. Morrowind takes some patience 
 to get into but that patience will be rewarded many times over with 100's maybe 1000's of hours 
 of play. Without mods graphically Morrowind is now showing its age, however with the right mods 
 the game looks great. Morrowind is so much better than Oblivion in so many ways. There are more 
 quests and guilds, the story is far better and the player is allowed to make mistakes and think 
 for himself. The only downside is the combat can be a little underwhelming. If you don't like to 
 use your brain and want to just blast through games then Morrowind isn't for you, however if you've 
 the time and patience then Morrowind is an experience not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is a wonderful game, VERY free form and allows for many many hours of playing. From the 
 start on it forces you to explore and earn your way thru the world, and it doesn't start you off 
 with a Major quest you MUST do, you are just dumped off a ship and set forth to find your way from 
 the Village you are dumped in to one of the larger cities. The whole game doesn't let up anywhere, 
 you always have someone to fight, something to steal or something to Explore. With the near on 
 unlimited supply of caves, ruins and towns to explore and ransack, and enough Quests to keep you 
 going till the wee hours of the night.
  
  now, to the con's of the game:
  
  The journal: don't get me started on the journal, there is barely any type of organisation for 
 Quests and little tibits of infomation, its just all throw in for the moment you hear it, which 
 is a pain.
  The attack rolls: they made the attacks have barely any soul, its pretty much 'CLICK CLICK CLICK 
 CLICK CLICK CLICK Dead there is no self blocking or Dodges etc etc.
  
  but in the long run its a great game, i'll play it again, its worth the 40 bucks i paid for it 
 (that's 40 bucks Australian) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartoon_bum16
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  If you're into beautiful wide range landscapes and frightful looking characters then you might 
 be pick this game up. However if you are an average RPG gamer, who is into games with a lot of 
 story and action, put this game right back down immediately. The beautiful landscaping allows you 
 to roam around, but doing what? Nothing really... the story was such a bore. I played for 2 hours 
 and almost fell asleep... not it wasnt 2 am, more like 2 pm.
  
  The story begins uncovering why your emperor has ordered you to the island province of Morrowind 
 and then you begin your REAL JOURNEY.... yeah... not really. I got so bored with the lack of dialogue 
 from the characters-who might I add just stand around-and the constant reading of idiotic nothings, 
 that I pulled the game out of the drive before any more harm could be done to my brain.
  
  It gives you no motivation to save the world, and it gives you no real story! In an RPG, in my 
 opinion you must feel for the characters you're saving. Because as it was, I think I'd rather kill 
 them all with my sword than help anyone with anything. It's only quests and it seems like a never 
 ending, no rewarding, piece of crap.
  
  Now this story isnt all bad... no... you can steal things! lol... yeah I'm serious. STEAL PEOPLE STEAL 
 HAHA!
  
  But dont waste your money, which I'm sure it isnt much anymore, but still save those few dollars 
 and go buy something useful.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmasterW
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good game, the good things about it are the graphics, gameplay and the world. the 
 graphics are some of the best graphics of any game i have played, great gameplay and the environment 
 is very nice, realistic and very large for log time to explore, this game is always better if you 
 cheat , because if you don't you might die a lot towards the start of the game.
  i think this is better than oblivion for the pc, the better graphics are on oblivion but morrowind 
 is a lot bigger. i personally like morrowind better though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genji_glove1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Morrowind!? I hear you shout. Morrowind!?
  Yes, thats right.
  This game, although 5 years old now, is in many ways my favourite game of all time. For this review 
 Im going to completely rip off Stephant_6s review and compare all aspects of Morrowind and Oblivion.
 
  
  Graphics
  Although you would expect Oblivion to win outright In this category, and it is indeed superior 
 from a purely technical standpoint, I actually think the animations in Morrowind are far, far superior, 
 the running animation in particular. It was so great, I actually didnt mind long journeys at first, 
 as I could just set the viewpoint to third person and watch my character run.
  
  Scale
  Morrowind is bigger than Oblivion. No, it is. I dont care how many press releases you have seen 
 stating otherwise, Morrowind is the bigger game.
  As there are no horses, and the environment is much, much more varied, you could run around the 
 island for literally hours on end. I have been playing for about 30 hours so far, and have only 
 explored around a third of the map.
  
  Sound
  The Morrowind soundtrack is outstanding, and beats Oblivions hands-down in my opinion. And, like 
 Stephant_6, I actually prefer the text-based conversations of Morrowind to the full voice-over 
 of Oblivion.
  
  Modding
  Modding Morrowind is a lot easier, and a lot more fun, than modding Oblivion.
  
  I could go 
 on for hours like this, but to be honest, you will probably have already made up your mind. All 
 I can do is urge you to take a risk and buy one of the greatest games of all time. A quick Amazon. co. uk 
 search reveals that you can buy it for 5 quid.
  If you ask me, thats an absolute steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls has always been for the gamers with a bit of free time and a whole lot of imagination. 
 Although they aren't without flaws, they've been a good line of games for the most part. Despite 
 their history as one of the most prominent entries in the RPG genre, they've always had a rather 
 steep learning curve, and Morrowind is no exception. While it may take awhile to pick up the game, 
 or actually gain any interest in it whatsoever, once you find that hook that keeps you playing, 
 you'll be compelled to discover more and more.
  
  Morrowind casts you as a prisoner aboard a ship bound for Morrowind, land of the Dark Elves. Although 
 very little is revealed to you at this point, a strange prophetic vision gives you a larger view 
 of your future, and you're let loose. You set up your character through a rather interesting and 
 well done introductory sequence, a guard asks your race and nationality (you choose what you want 
 at this point) and you then head into a census office to fill out the details of your profession, 
 birthsign, and etc. It's a nice twist because the game pretends that you're filling out an actually 
 release form, which is a rather interesting way to immerse the player. You can choose your character 
 class from a wide variety of pre-built ones, create your own, or answer a series of questions to 
 determine which class best suits you. Once you're through with that, you've completed character 
 generation and it's onwards into the vast world. Morrowind is absolutely large, and has tons for 
 you to explore. While that's a plus, it's also one of the things that drags it down a bit. There 
 are creatures called Silt Striders, which can carry you from one city to the next, but there are 
 awfully few of them, and they're very far apart. To make matters worse, the game insists that you 
 walk everywhere, and while this might be refreshing to set off on an expedition early in the game, 
 it just grows tiresome and tedious to have to trudge for thirty minutes to talk to a quest NPC, 
 only to realize you how to walk all the way back to deliver some package. But with that aside, 
 there's still plenty enough in the environment to prevent it from becoming total tedium, there 
 are caves, monsters, and treasures scattered in nearly every nook and cranny in the world, and 
 you can hardly walk a few paces without discovering something new. Plants for alchemy, caves filled 
 with danger and treasure, or passing strangers are all part of the traveling experience. Although 
 I wish I could really skip ahead of the road sometimes, when I'm in too much of a hurry to check 
 these locations out on the way.
  
  While it's certainly dated by now, Morrowind was absolutely gorgeous for its time (look at what 
 we think of Oblivion today, and apply it to Morrowind back then, it had the same affect) Morrowind's 
 ad campaign was rather similar to the recent Oblivion's as well, since nearly every ad focused 
 on the revolutionary graphics, although its a bit niggling, at times you can tell that the developer's 
 spent more time on the presentation than the overall gameplay, especially when it comes to combat. 
 The thing is, the combat is far too much of an original RPG style to fit well into a first person 
 game of Morrowind's nature. Despite the fact that your battle-ax's blade might have went right 
 through that tiny rat, if the game's numbers calculated that you missed, you missed. Although people 
 might argue that this emphasizes the importance on building a better character, focusing on the 
 RPG elements more than it would be if combat was simpler yet more dynamic action wise, it makes 
 combat annoying and a experience to avoid.
  Fortunately, Morrowind makes up for this in nearly every other aspect. Each NPC has a massive amount 
 of things to say, there's a huge amount of quests, and the pure variety of things to do spices 
 up the game by an incredible amount. The main quest is pretty long, ranging from 20-30 hours, and 
 you might find yourself spending upwards of 200 hours trying to finish EVERYTHING in the game. 
 Even once you've managed to finish all the side quests along with the main quest, there's still 
 countless things to do, like discover all the sights and caves you possibly can. Even then you 
 can collect as many herbs and such as you wish. Once you're done with the content included in the 
 game, you can even download mods that only increase the longevity even more. With some decent mods 
 and a brand new game, Morrowind can last you for longer than a year. While Morrowind's system is 
 relatively simple, finding out what affects what, and how it does so will take some taking used 
 to. The skills' effects aren't evident at first, and how to build a proper character will become 
 difficult in turn. You might find yourself building quite a few characters once you've first started 
 because the skills you chose before didn't turn out what you thought they would be. The skimpy 
 manual doesn't help either, for a game this huge, the documentation is lacking. Of course, once 
 you've found the character you want, it might actually take you longer to find enjoyment in the 
 game. Morrowind takes a good bit of time invested in it to start showing its true potential. This 
 might only take an hour for some, but for others, like me, it can take up to five hours to finally 
 start enjoying the game and making sense of everything. Even so, once you've figured everything 
 out, you might find that the game is quite difficult, since all the quests aren't for early levels, 
 and many of them are so open early in the game that it's hard to imagine why you would want to 
 try to tackle them with such a low level character. Despite these nuisances, Morrowind turns out 
 incredibly entertaining, there's enough to last you forever. Although the combat is sketchy, and 
 the gameplay is a tough thing to master, Morrowind just has enough content to have you enjoying 
 it based on what there is to discover alone, with the expansions now included in the Gold Edition 
 for $20 there's no reason to miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out for about five years now and it's still one of my favorite RPG's of all 
 time. While it has some game play flaws (no RPG's system has ever pleased everyone) they are minor 
 when compared to the level of attention payed to creating a world with a lush history and backstory. 
 For me a good RPG presents a rich and as fully a realised environment as possible. Morrowind presents 
 an island in a far-off corner of an empire, complete with it's own political, historic, religious 
 and even architectural background and development. You can learn as much of this history as you 
 care to or simply stick to the main story arc. The replay value here is immense. Graphically the 
 game is still very beautiful to wander around in. The different areas of Vvradenfell range from 
 swampy outposts to desolate wastelands wth driving sandstorms and ruins to explore. You can even 
 scour the coasts for shipwrecks and pirate coves. Some of the character models seem dated, but 
 most in how they are animated. Overall this is still a great looking game.
  
  Gameplay leaves a little to be desired. The combat model is simplistic, especially in contrast 
 to some of the more elaborate games that have come out since. It's a little like playing Hexen, 
 the old FPS. Overall the experience model is satisfying, but developing some skills is harder than 
 it needs to be... especially the sneak skill. The spell system is simple enough to use, but finding 
 out which ingredients do what makes making a potion a waste of time. Whatever shortcomings there 
 are in this game they are easily overshadowed by the depth and design of the game environment as 
 a whole. I've played this game over and over for the last five years and I can still find places 
 I haven't explored or quests I haven't completed. Morrowind is truly a landmark RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamba219
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Morrowind. Possibly my second or third favorite game of all time, at this point. What makes 
 it so good? Simple. The content.
  
  First and foremost, the game starts off fairly slow. There's no simple learning curve as there 
 is in this game's excellent sequel, Oblivion. You need to pretty swiftly learn your way around 
 the game's many locations, being wary of the unforgiving wilderness. Money is a big concern here, 
 because in this game, level is secondary to equipment. Equipment will make or break your character. 
 Veterans of the game know how to make a lot of money quickly, but new players may find themselves 
 somewhat bogged down.
  
  When you find yourself in an overwhelmed state such as this it's hard to appreciate Morrowind's 
 majesty. Gorgeous visuals, especially for the time, abound in this game. The music ranges from 
 serene to fierce, depending on your situation. Combat itself is a heady experience (although admittedly 
 it falls somewhat sort of the wonderful combat in it's sequel, Oblivion, it's still wonderful in 
 its own way) that really gets your blood boiling. It's only shortcoming is that the music tends 
 to get repetitive. Everything else, from battle cries, to sword clangs, to the screech of an oncoming 
 Cliff Racer, is truly excellent.
  
  A sure-fire way to begin seeing the world is through quests. These quests range from simple tasks 
 such as cleaning out a bandit cave to ridiculously complex, multi-quest tasks that have you building 
 a colony, assassinating a god, or getting the upper hand in an inter-factional war.
  
  Morrowind is a great standalone title, but where it really shines is in its extra content. The 
 Morrowind expansions are two of the best out there. Bloodmoon takes an already immersive environment 
 and makes it even more realistic by implementing a 'frozen northland'. Tribunal introduces true 
 urban life, complete with political intrigue. But the extra content doesn't stop there, as the 
 Morrowind fanbase is vast, thriving, and extremely talented. By downloading plugins, it's possible 
 to raise a vampiric army, add entirely new lands, raid long-forgotten fortresses, build and design 
 your own castle, become a fashion guru, and all kinds of incredible things. It truly is incredible 
 what's available to download for this game, and, indeed, this is what allows me to give this incredibly 
 high score and rate this game as one of my all-time favs. Every single shortcoming of the game 
 can be fixed by using a few plugins, and limitless play time of this masterpiece can be yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  its great, from the second you arrive in morrowind you can do anything you want. Let down by not 
 to good graphics but who cares anyway!! as I said BUY IT NOW! Need i say anymore? Well alright 
 then absolutley tonnes to do even without the expansion packs i've only had it for a while but 
 im gripped to it. iv'e done nothing since i bought it and i dont intend to for a while. reccomended 
 to any one who likes rpgs or anyone who doesn't!!
  fun for any one! its basicly grand theft auto but old skool style in a medieval way.
  
  thanks 
 for reading J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephant_6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The way I'm going to do this review is I'm going to compare all aspects of the game to oblivion... Here 
 goes:
  
  Size/Scope: I'm not really a technical kinda guy so I don't know wich one is actually bigger in 
 size, but morrowind feels MUCH bigger One thing I love is that you can't just magically fast travel 
 to anywhere in morrowind. When I first got oblivion I loved how I could just be lazy and not have 
 to walk, but now that I've played Morrowind I've seen how fun exploring can be. You can find side 
 quests, dungeons and lots of loot out in the wilderness that makes traveling by foot so much more 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: Clearly oblivion wins this category. I love the graphics in morrowind and they're great 
 for 2002, but oblivion is the most beatiful game I've ever played.
  
  Geography/Architecture: One of the flaws with oblivion is that the whole world is just like one 
 big forest! Sure, the world may be beautiful, but morrowind has such varied landscapes. From grazelands 
 and beaches to rocky mountains and giant mushrooms, morrowind has a very interesting and varied 
 world. Now for the towns: Morrowind has 4 typed of towns. The hlaalu towns, wich have pretty stone 
 standard houses. The redoran towns, wich have houses shaped like seashells and fossils. The Telvanni 
 towns, wich have giant mushrooms and elevated houses, and huts. And then there are the smaller, more 
 neutral towns that are standard medeival looking. I love how varied the towns are, but in oblivion 
 all the towns look relatively the same, wich is a big minus for the game.
  
  Combat: Oblivions combat is much btter. You can block more easily and it's more than just hack 
 n slash morrowind combat.
  
  Crime/Punishment: Both games have Pros and Cons for this category. In oblivion it's really really 
 stupid how you can steal something in one town, and guards will come after you halway across the 
 map. Also, I've noticed sometimes I kill someone in the middle of nowhere and I still get a bounty. 
 Morrowind is much more realistic (yes you heard me right) . If you steal from a shopkeeper, you can 
 sell it anywhere EXCEPT that shop that you stole it from. Also it's much harder to get a bounty. 
 But the con for morrowind is that it's harder to sneak around and stealing just isn't quite as 
 exciting as in oblivion.
  
  NPC's/Topics: Beleive it or not, I actually really like the fact that NPC's talk to you in text 
 instead of voice acting like in oblivion. Because this way, there can be way more topics, and longer 
 converstions. In oblivion it's just Rumors and Grey Fox for the most part. In morrowind there's 
 stuff like little secret, little advice and any other topics relating to factions, quests, towns etc...
 
  
  Music: Both games have great music, but Morrowinds main theme is just magical.
  
  In conclusion, I think that Morrowind is a larger, deeper and overall better game than Oblivion. 
 Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  With the major success of this year's Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion , it's easy for this game to end 
 up buried beneath that very success, and it's even easier to completely overlook it. But by no 
 means does this mean Morrowind is a bad game, and Oblivion owes a lot to it.
  Odds are that if you played Oblivion first, then you may never play Morrowind. Despite the cool 
 new stuff you can do in Oblivion, and its beautiful visuals, there are many die-hard fans who say 
 Morrowind is better. It's hard to argue this either way, since both games are an amazing achievement. 
 Morrowind is more of a traditional, serious RPG, in that it's extremely deep, and almost endless. 
 Alot of the features have been carried over to Oblivion, except they've been streamlined to be 
 more user-friendly. Some consider Morrowind to be the best RPG (not counting MMORPGs) of all time, 
 simply because of it's sheer size and depth. The Tamrielic province of Morrowind is one of the 
 most massive game-worlds I've ever seen, and I'm pretty sure it could even be bigger than Cyrodiil 
 (from Oblivion) . There are countless towns, caves, villages, and forts to check out, and odds are 
 that you'll still be finding new stuff months after finishing the game. And once you complete the 
 game, you're still not even close to finishing it. There is the main story which you follow to 
 progress the story, and once you finish this, there are hundreds of other quests you can go on. 
 Feel like sneaking around, stealing stuff? Join the thieves guild. Wanna become a powerful spell-slinger? 
 Join the mages guild. There are several other guilds you can join as well, each with their own 
 stories, and a large share of unique quests. You don't even need to join a guild to find work, 
 since there are tons and tons of other quests scattered all over the land, some of which are extremely 
 hard to find.
  By today's standards, the visuals aren't anything special, but they don't look awful either. The 
 NPC's AI is somewhat poor, and sometimes acts weird or glitches for no apparent reason. But usually, 
 it's not enough to ruin the game. The audio isn't anywhere near as good as Oblivion, which you'll 
 pick up on right away. Sure, the musical scores are beautiful, and they are very well-written. 
 But aside from that, there's actually hardly any audio at all. When you approach some NPCs, they 
 may say something like Hello or whatever, but if you actually try and talk to them, everything 
 else is in text, which can be a nuisance to read. The best feature about Morrowind is probably 
 the incredible length and size. You can play for hours and hours without even touching the quests, 
 and you can wander all over the massive world. In fact, you may never even complete the game 100%. 
 And even if you do, Morrowind also has a couple of expansion packs available that prolong its lifespan.
 
  If you're still not convinced by everything I've said, then there's one last selling point that 
 should change anyone's mind. Because it's been out for a few years now, you should be able to pick 
 it up dirt-cheap anywhere, whether it's new or pre-owned. I bought a used copy a few years ago 
 for about $12 or so, so it might even be cheaper by now. That's quite a lot of bang for your buck, 
 and I imagine the expansions are fairly cheap too. You may have a little trouble finding a new 
 retail copy, but if you're looking for a game that's virtually endless, and should outlast just 
 about any other game on your shelf, it would be a crime to pass up a deal this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_emu_hunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  As I sead it is a great role playing game with a really great story. I typed in cheats cause my 
 level was low and I got killed every time so I just wanted to know how it looks like. You dont get 
 sick of it but after a few days nothing will surprise you. It is a very fun game. I dont like the 
 graphics. You can see that they tried but its old and the tech wasnt good enough. Colours are dark 
 and stupid. I still like to play it but not very often. It doesnt have online posibility. It has a 
 great editor and alot of people like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever made. It is easily the most epic addicting thing I've ever played 
 in my life.
  
  I feel more like I took a vacation there once, rather than played a game there. No, more like it 
 was a country I studied abroad in while in college. I remember places like I was actually there. 
 Everything and everywhere just had so much life to it. Popping this game back in is like visiting 
 an old friend, or going back to you home country for Christmas or something.
  
  The main things this game DIDN'T have going for it were lousy character animations, and it was 
 too easy. The graphics were stunning. Everything was just beautiful. But movements were just so 
 stiff. Faces looked all boxy and gross. I think this could have been better. It was the one thing 
 that left me feeling like I was still playing a game and not totally immersed in one.
  
  The other problem was addressed with a patch, but I thought it was a little lame. I don't want 
 to have to adjust the difficult, that's just no fun. You become godly rather quickly. I was jumping 
 from mountain peak to mountain peak smiting just about everything in one hit by the end. If you 
 want a challenging RPG with intense fighting and strategy with great inventory and character advancement 
 systems, this is not the game for you.
  
  But that's not the point. The point is to explore this AMAZING world. There is nothing like digging 
 deeper and deeper into some forgotten bottomless hellhole to find yourself in some bizarre alter 
 with flames and ugly things trying to kill you and hammers floating above big anvils to find some 
 crazy ancient relic and come out with this feeling of Indiana Jones meets Eaters of the Dead. It's 
 priceless really. Exploring all the crazy things in this world is just amazing and addictive. I 
 wouldn't trade the experience of living in this world for the short time I did for anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yahiko182
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I found the game fairly enjoyable. If you like adventure and doing plenty of quests this is a excellent 
 game for you. Also it's not a PC hog either. The game is so large it takes a large amount of time 
 to explore the map. Dungeon crawling and from what I've heard a good story line (I didn't bother 
 with story to lazy I prefer going to dungeons and finding good loot) . The game is so large it takes 
 hundreds of hours to fully explore it! Morrowind has a plenty of different ways to make your character. 
 The game has a minor problem with bugs. And none of it is rendered. Theres some cut scenes but 
 not a whole lot from what I've seen. Overall the game is free for you to do. You can be the greatest 
 of journeymen or the most dangerous assassin theres really no right or wrong way to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrack0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  have been waiting for Morrowind for what seems like an eternity. It is the sequel to one of my 
 all time favourite games, Daggerfall. Morrowind is actually the third in the Elder Scrolls series 
 if you don't count diversions such as Battlespire and Redguard.
  
  Morrowind is a first person CRPG. It can be played in third person but the game is more difficult 
 that way.
  
  Bethesda Softworks have done a wonderful job creating a large world that begs to be explored. The 
 graphics look simply amazing if you have a system to do it justice. It runs beautifully on my Athlon 
 1.8 with a Geforce 3 graphics card at 1600x1200 resolution but slower systems will have frame rate 
 problems.
  
  The Choice is Yours
  Character creation in Morrowind is a joy. You can select from pre-made characters or answer a series 
 of questions to determine your character as in the Ultima series. I chose the third option which 
 is to custom make your own. Shortly after, Cayra my Mystic Blade was on a ship arriving at the 
 port of Seyda Neen. At this point you are given a package to deliver which starts the main quest 
 rolling. However, the delivery of this package can be delayed as long as you want giving you the 
 chance to explore for yourself.
  
  Guided Tour
  I still haven't seen all of Morrowind but I did circumnavigate the whole island early on. Some 
 of the locations are very evocative and they are significantly different in different areas. Although 
 there doesn't seem to be the softly falling snow of Daggerfall the weather effects are amazing. 
 Your first thunder crack will have you ducking and after admiring your first sandstorm you will 
 soon be heading for shelter. The water effects are superb if you have a Geforce 3 or 4 graphics 
 card. Don't be surprised to find yourself gazing into a pond as the rain falls on the surface because 
 it looks wonderful.
  
  Towns are nicely realized and NPCs wander the streets always ready for a chat. Entering a house 
 or dungeon requires a quick load but for me this takes only a second or two at the most.
  
  Walking and running in Morrowind is very slow, especially when you start. Run everywhere and your 
 skill will improve. There are no horses this time but travel is possible between towns via ship, 
 stilt strider (big beasties) or from the mages guild. This sort of travel just involves a quick 
 load and you're there. If you want to see the scenery you need to walk.
  
  Going Up
  You improve your chosen skills in Morrowind by using them. As you improve your major skills you 
 will eventually level up. You can improve all your skills but only the ones chosen at the start 
 of the game will improve your level. When you level up you can choose to improve eight major attributes. 
 If you continually improve the same attributes you are rewarded with bonus multipliers.
  
  It always seemed to take me an age to reach the first level or two but seemed a little quicker 
 after that. This is because your character will only be able to fight the humble mud crab and other 
 lowly wildlife early on. It is possible to pay trainers to increase your skills but this can become 
 expensive.
  
  Hack , Slash and Zap
  The armor and weapons you choose appear instantly on your character. Pressing the Tab key gives 
 you a third person view so you can admire yourself. I have actually used armor with a poorer rating 
 because it looked cool. Combat itself is relatively simple, just a matter of clicking the cursor 
 on your opponent. You can vary the attack using direction keys but there is an option in the settings 
 to always use the best attack. Holding the mouse button down longer makes you hit harder but you 
 leave yourself open to attacks.
  
  When the game was first released there was no indication of how much damage you were doing to your 
 enemy but fortunately this has been rectified in the first patch which produces a health bar for 
 the enemy just above your own.
  
  There is a huge selection of spells in Morrowind but if there's not enough you can always make 
 your own at the Mage guild. Alchemists can make spells from the local flora and fauna and if you 
 learn the Enchant skill (or pay someone who knows it) you can use the captured soul of a dead enemy 
 to enchant your weapons and armor.
  
  The Interface
  I have found Morrowind easy to use. Maps, inventory and journal all appear on your game screen 
 when you open them and these can be resized and moved. The journal could have been better as it 
 basically lists quests and events in chronological order and it sometimes takes a bit of searching 
 to find an incomplete quest. There are hyperlinks in the text to descriptions and locations.
  
  The one difficulty I still have during combat is changing between spell casting and fighting. 
 When I need to heal, pressing the key to put away my weapon so I can cast a spell then pressing 
 again to toggle back always takes longer than I expect. I often get caught in a loop while something 
 pounds me to a pulp.
  
  Conversations with NPCs also use hyperlinks. You are given a list of words to choose from and the 
 NPC will respond. These can become very repetitive if you continually ask everyone you meet about 
 the same topics.
  
  Games can be saved quickly and easily. There is a quick save and autosave function and the game 
 can be saved at any time including combat although you cannot rest around enemies.
  
  Questing
  Quests are many and varied. These are often obtained by joining Guilds and Houses. 
 You can join more than one guild but eventually a conflict of interest will arise and you will 
 have to decide who to support. That's what roleplaying is all about in my book.
  
  Apart from the main one there are many side quests. A few people have remarked they have had problems 
 by completing a quest before they were officially given it but I haven't had this issue arise.
 
  
  Dungeons
  The game world is littered with tombs and dungeons. Once I had found a nice silver sword that could 
 damage the nasties within, I raided quite a few ancestral tombs. There are no random dungeons as 
 in Daggerfall so all are hand made. Elements within are repeated and most of the dungeons are quite 
 small when compared to the previous game. This works well for me as I often lure the bad guys to 
 a door and nip out for a quick heal before resuming the fray. Having said that there are some big 
 and very dangerous dungeons out there as well.
  
  Infinite Possibilities
  One of the genuinely exciting things about this game is the ability to download 'plug-ins'. These 
 are extra areas, items or changes to the game play made by other players. (You can contribute your 
 own if you like) . You simply download them, put them in the correct folder and then check a box 
 to include them in the game.
  
  I downloaded a nice little house for myself in Balmoral, some sound effects and a teleport gem. 
 All worked fine but when I patched the game I decided to start again. I was so happy with my little 
 home I downloaded the house again as it's nice to have somewhere to store extra loot.
  
  Plug-ins have been designed to make the game harder as some people have complained that once they 
 reach level 20 there is little opposition. The patch, however, has included a difficulty slider 
 which should keep these people happy.
  
  Bugs?
  I loved Daggerfall but it had more bugs than the house I shared in college. I have not encountered 
 any in Morrowind but I do get the occasional crash straight to desktop. Other than being an inconvenience 
 this has caused no problems.
  
  Conclusion
  If you enjoy genuine roleplaying games and you have the computer to cope with it I think you will 
 thoroughly enjoy Morrowind. It really feels like another world to visit and you can play the game 
 however you like... be a mage, thief, acrobat, pearl diver, bodyguard or warrior. Or like myself, 
 be a little bit of each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Good: The world is your playground; Lots of monsters for you to kill; NPC's are abundant in the 
 world; so many quests to do; Weapons are varied and nice; If you have the Construction kit, the 
 game will be a lot more fun; Music is very nice in the game; You can kill anyone anytime anywhere; 
 You dont necessarily have to follow the games storyline.
  
  Bad: Graphics could have been improved a little more, Load times are a pain; Storyline is hard 
 to follow; some technical glitches in the game.
  
  Morrowind is one of the best RPG's for the PC that is not an MMO. It's also just as large as an 
 MMO would be. If you have the Construction kit, you can do all sorts of things like build your 
 own house and you can give yourself max stats. Its truly awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  This game is soooo good.
  Its one of my favorites.
  morrwind and oblivion are simpley the best games og the rpg world today.
  If there will be another 
 elder scrolls game i am going to buy it the soon i comes out. But Oblivion is my most favorite 
 of them all. The Oblivion game has more features such as there&acute; s more weapons, quests, and the 
 map is bigger and the grapics are more advanced.
  But morrownid is kind of better than Oblivion i just cant say why.
  But if i where you guys i 
 whould definetly buy this game and all of the others in the elder scrolls series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  To put it bluntly, I bought an Xbox to play this game and it was worth it.
  
  However, the PC version was much better.
  
  The xbox version had nice graphics but the field 
 of view was miniscule and the annoying fog was everywhere that prevented you from seeing in the 
 distance, and it loaded constantly everywhere you went.
  
  The PC version allowed you to customize your graphics, and it looked sweet. Coupled with the mods 
 you could download the content never ended. There was a million player made mods you could download 
 some were very good. That with the existing content provided hours upon hours of gameplay.
  
  The main questline for the original version was epic in proportion. There was also TONS of 
 other quests to do outside of the main storyline. They released two expansions which added even 
 more.
  
  I'd defenitely recommend this classic game to anyone looking for something a lil retro. The character 
 models and animation leave a little to be desired compared to these days but the game is well worth 
 the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The elderscrolls series was not interesting to me before morrowind came. I saw the trailer of the 
 game, it was disapointing, but when my friends told me how good this game is I finally got it. 
 The story is very long and good too. The story is much more longer than in Oblivion. Graphics are 
 good for the age of the game. Even though the sound track is short, its still so very rememberful. 
 The other sounds are well done. Gameplay is good, but the fighting is anoying sometimes, because 
 its just simple clicking, and the blocking is done automatically unlike in Oblivion. The playing 
 area is massive, even larger than in Oblivion! The game is very long and it will take a lot of 
 time to pass the main quest, and then all the guild quests, etc. Spell system is disapointing in 
 some ways, for example you cannot do spells with a weapon in hand, so you have to hide your weapon 
 all the time when to do spells, which may be pretty annoying in battles. Even with these minor 
 problems this game is a masterpiece. Morrowind is a game with lot to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game having never played an RPG before, II had previously only played First Person Shooters 
 thinking they were the best. How wrong I was! This is the game that has broadened my perspective 
 and I now LOVE RPG's, but so far this is the best one. I haven't played the sequel Oblivion yet 
 (will soon) , but at the moment this is my #1 favorite game. You start off by creating you're own 
 character from the stock races (elves, orcs, humans, beasts) or alternatively a user made race. 
 You then choose a class (ranger etc) , or custom make your own class to fit your needs. Then select 
 a birth sign, but they're not really consequential for the most part. After all of that (and believe 
 me it can take some time!) your adventure begins. The story, while probably not unique, is still 
 well done and I enjoyed it thoroughly. But the important thing to notice with this RPG is that 
 you can choose NOT to do the main quest, and focus on exploring and accepting the side quests etc, 
 which is what I did up to a certain point. Combat is decent, but not great, sword fighting can 
 be underwhelming, especially if you have the best attack option enabled. Ranged combat is certainly 
 a lot better, there is nothing like shooting down a target from a mile away. However, all of these 
 things depend on your skill set. You could be the best mage in the world capable of reigning destruction 
 left right and centre, but if you tried using a Longbow without having a high enough skill proficiency 
 with it you'll miss spectacularly. It all depends on what kind of character you've built, so its 
 important to think carefully. Side quests differ quite a bit, the guilds available will have specific 
 types of missions to carry out that you wouldn't normally do with another guild. For example, the 
 Imperial Cult is mostly a healing guild, whereas the Assassin's Guild is self explanatory. There's 
 heaps to do in Morrowind, without the addition of user made mods. You can easily miss side quests, 
 exciting nooks and cranny's, and there's hundreds of dungeons to explore, some better than others 
 loot wise, and that's without the millions of mods available! I played Morrowind with mods enabled, 
 however they were graphics mods mostly, not world altering giant ants roaming around or anything 
 like that.
  Graphics wise, the scenery is beautiful, there is nothing like standing in a field in the middle 
 of nowhere and seeing the moon and stars, its really awesome. Not to mention the other diverse 
 area's of the game world. However, there is a problem, and that is the NPC graphics. The graphics 
 for NPC's are quite horrid, when I compared the graphic modded versions I felt disgusted, you really 
 have to wonder who their graphics guy is sometimes! And this is where mods have been the best thing 
 since sliced bread. Knowing this fact, I loaded up the two mods you can't do without, Better Heads 
 and Better Bodies, and my gaming experience was never better. The characters of the world are attractive 
 now, and they look superb, a real credit to the creators of those mods.
  Sound is good, but not great, NPC's don't speak when you talk to them, they only have intro hello's 
 and how do you do's etc, but if they are irritated or angry that changes obviously. Music is a 
 beautiful, orchestral sound that really makes the game feel epic, however it would have been good 
 if there were more (but again, mods to the rescue) .
  It has a few rough edges, and it can be horrid without a few mods here and there, but I simply 
 haven't played a game that matches the fun and excitement of this game. You know a game is good 
 when it draws you in and you feel attached to the character you've created. I haven't played Oblivion, 
 the sequel, but this is simply the best. You can pick up the Gold Edition of this game really cheap 
 nowadays, and its certainly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is one of the biggest games ever created. The possibilities are endless, and you can 
 replay it over and over. The first time I played this game I thought it sucked, and abandoned it 
 for about a month. But when I decided to give it another chance I never stopped playing. It's a 
 bit overwhelming at first but once you know the world this game will be your life. I have played 
 Morrowind for at least 300 hours and it has never gotten old. If you don't have Morrowind, buy 
 it. Best game of all time, right here, enjoy.
  
  I wrote the above review for the Xbox version, here are the changes for the PC: I really like the 
 ability to use the hotkeys, it makes combat much more convenient. However the controls on the keyboard 
 aren't as simple as those of the Xbox controller. There is also some new content added into the 
 GOTY, even though it was already the biggest game ever. Still the best game of all time, enjoy 
 it, please.
  
  Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my other reviews while a make my way toward 
 the certury mark. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning of this year, the anticipated, and delivering Oblivion hit store shelves to wild 
 reviews, and massive sales. It was literally legendary only a day after it came out. Most people 
 loved it, the game was open ended, the graphics were amazing. The AI was spectacular, and the RPG 
 feeling was certainly there. Will there ever be a game to beat it? Let's take a look a few years 
 back, and we can find our answer.
  
  You may have realised what game I'm referring to right now, and this game, even with all the fancy 
 reviews of Oblivion, still stands higher that it's own sequel. This game is Morrowind.
  
  Morrowind is a game like no other. It is the third game in a very active series of four, and is 
 quite possibly one of the best RPG's ever made. It's open world is spectacle to admire, it's detail 
 exhausting, and the level of stats outstanding. Of course, the graphics don't come nearly as close 
 as it's sequel, but at the time, they were cutting edge, and could easily outshine any other RPG 
 in it's era.
  
  The game is a thrill ride from start to finish. Or, to be more precise, there isn't exactly a finish, 
 nor a straight line from beginning to end. It instead would look more like scribbles drawn by a 
 baby, going in every direction, and starting from nowhere - because this game is simply massive, 
 and you can do a ton of things that wouldn't be possible in any other game.
  
  For example, if you enjoy a good story based game, you can follow the Main Quest. You would get 
 around 20 hours out of it, and you'd have a solid game. You would have built up you're character 
 to be a mighty warrior, and you would have visited a range of the locations available. But, this 
 small piece in the game is nothing compared to the amount of options out there.
  
  Join factions such as the Fighter's Guild, Mage's Guild, Imperial Legion, Thieves Guild, Morag 
 Tong, Imperial Cult, Hlaalu Legion, Redoran, Telvanni, and the Tribunal Temple. These are all massive 
 Factions, that can take you along the roads to over the 30 towns to visit. There is more to this 
 however. There are miscellaneous quests, taking you across the boarder, and sometimes strange and 
 mispronounced quests such as a naked barbarian who swears he was robbed by a witch.
  
  There are 10 races to choose from, all of which with different stat info, and different bonuses 
 and weaknesses. You can make you're own class, and choose you're specific skills, feats, and attributes. 
 This is an amazing tool that truly allows for a different experience every time.
  
  The Main Quest is built almost perfectly. It involves the rise of a terrible ruler, Dagoth Ur, 
 slowly escaping his prison, which, is amazingly, the core of a giant volcano that stands in the 
 centre of the island you walk on. You are thrown in and thought of as a prophecy come true, and 
 you are the only one to stand up to this monster. The story dribbles out slowly, so as not to confuse 
 anyone, but moves along fast enough to keep the suspense rolling. The story isn't also just kill 
 this, and kill that. It involves tight precision, and careful thinking, such as breaking into an 
 apartment while the guards aren't watching.
  
  Morrowind does come with it's fair share of problems however, but these are easily overlookable 
 by some of the amazing things the creators have done with this game. For example, it isn't hard 
 to get caught in things - although I haven't done so in a long time. The characters do not have 
 many routines, but have an astounding detailed information, however. Also, the music is quite repetitive, 
 offering about 10 tracks in total, and it's a very large game. The music itself, is however, amazing, 
 and I enjoy it, as well as the repetetiveness of it due a nostalgic feel that I love.
  
  Morrowind is one of the greatest games ever made, and it's problems are so far overshadowed by 
 their pros, that they are almost forgettable. Even today, I walk into my room, and to get away 
 from the world I live in, enter the world of Morrowind, and I can play for hours, get so far, and 
 yet nowhere. This is truly a step in the right direction for evolution in RPG's, as opposed to 
 the dry MMORPG's rolling out these days, and at only 7.95 AU, this is one of the easiest recommendations 
 I've ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is (obviously) the third game in the Elder Scrolls series for 
 the PC. And most if not all pc gamers have heard of it, especially with the release of Oblivion. 
 The Elder Scrolls games are famous for their sandbox style of play which lets you do what you want, 
 how you want, when you want. Well, for the most part anyway. All the Elder Scrolls games take place 
 in the world of Tamriel, Morrowind takes place within the province of Morrowind. Or more specifically 
 the island of Vvardenfell. You don't need to have played any of the other Elder Scrolls games to 
 appreciate Morrowind. Each title in the series focuses on a different hero and has a completely 
 different story. The only thing that remains constant and evolves in the series is the lore and 
 history of the world.
  
  The Elder Scrolls games and Morrowind are RPGs but they does things differently from most PC RPGs. 
 Rather then a third person or top down view you play the game from the first person perspective. 
 While a bit strange at first once you get used to the view it actually serves to further draw you 
 into the world and make you feel as if you are the person your playing as. There is a third person 
 view available but it's terrible for playing the game with, it's more for viewing your character. 
 Other ways Morrowind does things differently from RPGs like Baldur's Gate or Neverwinter Nights 
 would be the way character growth and development is handled. The focus isn't on levels as it is 
 on the skills your character uses and has chosen to specialize in. You do have a level but this 
 isn't raised by killing things and getting experience points. Your level is based on the level 
 of your skills and is increased by raising your skills. You raise your skills by using them. So 
 for example jumping would raise your acrobatic skill, running however is tied to your athletic 
 skill. And so on. There are piles of skills letting you do everything from alchemy to create your 
 own potions, to enchanting skills so you can enchant your equipment, to your speech craft skills 
 that help you talk your way through your many interactions. The system actually works amazingly 
 well and lets you create the kind of character you want, whatever that may be. One of the other 
 great things about Morrowind is that it leaves you open to play the game however you want for the 
 most part. It is possible to avoid large chunks of the fights your character will probably find 
 him/herself in. Say you have a bandit cave and the quest your on is to get an item currently held 
 to the leader in the far back. You can bust in with a big sword and kill anything that moves, or 
 you can sneak in and hide around in corners and pickpocket the item from the boss and sneak back 
 out, or you can walk in and use magic to put everyone to sleep or become invisible. In many ways 
 a lot of quests are open to how you want to do them. Most people however will use a combination 
 of the three approaches as it is nearly impossible to go through the game using only stealth, magic, 
 or brute force.
  
  Speaking of quests, there are hundreds of them. There are ten factions to join in Morrowind, each 
 will provide you with several quests as you climb through their respective ranks. You'll also come 
 across random people in the various town that will have something for you to do. And even an occasional 
 traveller in the wilderness that will need help getting to point b, or finding a lost companion. 
 This is all on top of the main story quests. To complete every quest in Morrowind would require 
 you to play the game at least three times (some of the factions don't like one another) and take 
 you months. My first play through the game I clocked in at two and a half months. I estimate I've 
 seen about 70% of the island the game takes place on. I also hadn't joined a few of the factions, 
 which meant I could still undertake a great number of additional quests, nor had I played the game 
 over.
  The main quest in Morrowind shouldn't take you that long to get through if that's what you focus 
 your time on. Morrowind has over three times as many faction and side quests. In fact several times 
 during the main quest people will tell you to go away for a while and do some jobs. One of the 
 issues I had with the game was that it is that it never gives you a sense of closure. The game 
 does not end with spectacular event of any kind, you just stop playing at some point. Either because 
 you've got nothing left to see and do, or more likely because you've been playing for a few months 
 and your ready to move on to something else.
  
  Even if your not on a particular quest Morrowind offers an enormous world to explore. The island 
 is dotted with settlements, ancient ruins, and bandit caves. You could spend countless hours just 
 exploring the world looking at details. Detail which can be found everywhere, as I said the island 
 is enormous and it would take you hours just to walk across it doing nothing else. The terrain 
 is never repetitous, every hill has been crafted differently. Throughout your travels you'll watch 
 sunrises, get rained on as lightning flashes above, and fight the winds in ash and dust storms. 
 With such detailed landscape it's a bit annoying that the world isn't more populated. Animals live 
 about but they are never in great numbers, it's the same with people and in that way the world 
 feels somewhat empty. This isn't something that you can notice right away though, you'll pick up 
 on this after playing the game for a few weeks or spending a lot of time in the same area. People 
 are also the weak link in Morrowinds visuals. While the enviroments look spectacular people look 
 highly segmented which takes away from the experience somewhat.
  
  The sound in Morrowind isn't quite on par with the visuals. The game has a great musical score 
 but it feels like it's only five minutes long or so and you'll tire of it after a week or two. 
 It never gets annoying, but it does get old. The sound effects are all what you might expect them 
 to be with the cries of animals echoing across the wilderness, rain hitting the ground, and all 
 manner of ambient noise. People in the world do acknowledge you on approach, they also have a habit 
 of talking to themselves. All dialogue in the game however is done with text. More voice acting 
 would have been nice, especially with the main quests but the lack of voice over is nothing major 
 and doesn't really take away from the experience.
  
  If you've got a decent computer going for the game you'll find that Morrowind will run decently 
 to well. My rig blew the system requirements out of the water but I would get frame rate drops 
 in certain areas. Particularly for the first few seconds when exiting an interior area to the great 
 outdoors. The game had a habit of crashing to the desktop every now and then (usually when entering 
 a new area) but not everyone seems to experience this. This is countered by making quick saving 
 second nature. If you've got over a gig of RAM you'll find load times are generally very short, 
 problem is that they are also just about everywhere. The only real thing that bothered me the whole 
 way through was the AI. Enemies either rush you and try to pummel you to death or cast some magic 
 from a distance. A few enemies might cast buffing spells on themselves before rushing you but thats 
 about as advanced as it gets. Even more annoying would be npcs across the world. At one I was in 
 the middle of a sword fight with somebody and a woman actually walked in between us. More amusing 
 was that she cried out and attacked me after walking into my attacks. Guard behavior is also irritating 
 as starting a fight is a crime and if you attack someone in public they will rush to the other 
 persons aid. This doesn't apply to you however, if somebody tries to kill you they just stand around 
 like nothing is happening. Finally the fact that you can do anything and get away with it as long 
 as people aren't physically looking at you is kind of annoying. It makes things easier if your 
 trying to use stealth to play the game but it reduces the realism quite a bit.
  
  In spite of a few faults Morrowind is an amazing game that is recommendable to just about anybody. 
 The fact that it will run on just about any recent system also makes it easily recommendable to 
 people that might be new to pc gaming. If you've not played this game yet then your missing out 
 on one of the greatest RPGs that the PC platform has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls Three Morrowind For PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  The Good : Open Ended Level Design, 
 Gameplay Is Great, Hack And Slash And Smash And Bash.
  ===========================================================
  The Bad : Graphics Could Have Been 
 Better, Sound Gets Dull, AI Sucks Sometimes.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  Morrowind is an RPG 
 that can truly capture the heart of the true enthusiast. It focuses on game play rather than graphics, 
 and has an interesting story line  if only semi-original in premise, but executed well  as well 
 as bearing the lauded Elder Scrolls name. Since this is a review of the whole game, may I warn 
 you that there are spoilers contained within. Gameplay : The gameplay is where this game truly 
 shines. It is large, in depth, non-linear yet not overwhelming, and full of quests, sub quests, 
 plots, and intrigue. The main quest takes you through your infancy in this game, beginning with 
 a quest taking you to the ruins of a citadel of the mysteriously vanished dwemer (dwarves, but 
 really closer to elves) , a quest through a tomb haunted by the undead, a visit to the towering 
 vistas of the bustling city of Vivec, and then to the camp of the often misunderstood ashlander 
 tribes. Before you end the game, you will have confronted your own destiny, slain a god, united 
 and commanded the Dark Elves on the island, and brought ruin to the unofficial ruling powers of 
 Morrowind, the Tribunal. And thats just the main quest. You can join forces with many of the guilds 
 of the land, from the wizardly Guild of Mages to the sneaky yet honourable guild of thieves. You 
 can become a private enforcer for the Guild of Fighters, or join the mysterious cabal of assassins 
 known as the Morag Tong, killing for money and glory. You can join with any one of the three Great 
 Houses of Vvardenfell, leading yourself through an intrigue-ridden set of quests to become the 
 head and master of each of these houses, each representing roughly a third of the Dwemer on the 
 island. You can also take on a number of quests from the Imperial Legion, the Imperial Cult, the 
 Tribunal Temple, and various non-player characters which you meet from all around the land. If 
 you tire of the story, you can even make a living among the mountains, killing monsters and selling 
 their valuable parts to the townsfolk to earn a fortune. You can master the arts of war or become 
 a mysterious adept of the wizardly studies. You can be a sneaking thief along the back streets 
 of Morrowind, earning your way by taking from the rich and giving your proceeds to yourself! Or, 
 you can become a mighty crusader for whatever force you wish, smiting all those who stand in your 
 way. Its all up to you in Morrowind. Even if, by inhuman effort, you run out of things to do in 
 the game, you can download any of the thousands of excellently done MODs to add new quests to the 
 game or new lands to explore. In fact, if you feel up to the challenge, you can even better the 
 Morrowind community by writing your own using the simple and user friendly construction set. You 
 can create for yourself a soaring tower, a hardy fort, or a grand castle. You can weave for yourself 
 new spells, new items, or new NPCs which will add further quests or depth to the game. You can 
 even add your own simple house in the middle of nowhere should you please. Everything, including 
 the main game itself, is customizable by you. Graphics : Although the game world is beautiful, 
 it is not of the best graphics and its movies are somewhat low in quality. Unfortunately, as well, 
 the extremely detailed graphics resolutions and particle effects can bring a frame-rate to ruin 
 as well as crush the game in freezing and lagging. If your computer is up to the job, then you 
 may very well enjoy the full graphical powers of this game and you can upgrade the score to 9/10. 
 Sound : I have to admit that this is somewhat of a weak point in the game. There are really only 
 two music soundtracks that come with the game; theyre both excellent and long and fit anywhere, 
 but there isnt much variety in them, whether youre studying magic, skulking through a tomb, or 
 simply taking a walk in Morrowinds wilderness. Not all is lost. You can still add your own .mp3 
 files to the music directory to add your own songs. As well, the sound effects for this game are 
 generally excellent. If you sit down and listen, you can listen to the lapping of the waves against 
 the beach, the birds in the sky, or the footsteps of a hidden foe. Not one play through for me 
 has been any less explosive than the first time I ever played. Theres always a new secret to be 
 discovered, another challenge to be undertaken, or another branch you could take in your decision 
 making. Again, you can always add MODs to the game, and its hardly over when the last boss of 
 the game falls by your hand. Morrowind is an excellent game, and generally now at less than $35, 
 its affordable to buy. Which you should most definitely do. Right now. However, play this game 
 only if you have the desire to spend many of your hours locked in the immersive world of Morrowind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marthapartha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a 2002-2003 game. For those of us forced to use Windows, (ISP/School/Work requirements) 
 besides the original glitches, this game has to cope with XP and SP2 . Modded games and even some 
 of Bethesda's plugins trigger Microsoft to shut it down (something or other to do with digital 
 signatures matching those on the original CD) . Life in Morrowind is really getting to be quite 
 a headache. To begin the game, the Besthesda team wrote the player's character as slow, awkward, 
 poor, unskiilled, ignorant, and hatedt by everybody. They overdid it. Advancement does not come 
 easy or quickly. After a couple weeks of killing rats and diseased birds and reading the same NPC 
 dialogue over and over, it is rather discouraging to have only made it to level 2 . The game does 
 get going and when it does it will suck you in. Marching around endlessly exploring the weird island 
 of Morrowind is rather cool. People are living in mushrooms, shopping malls are constructed in 
 giant crabs, and ruins are abundant with treasure from extinct giants referred to as dwarves in 
 addition to ruins of temples from defeated evil Daedric gods. It is a mythical, fantastic world. 
 What is also special about Morrowind is the 'Console' and the Tes Construction Set. Bethesda invites 
 its players to explore the game from inside out. Bethesda encourages mods and modders. They invite 
 sharing among players and have no qualms over needed copies of original data files for repairs 
 after a botched mod. PC game developers and corporations take note: this is a game that celebrates 
 the player as an involved participant, and after four years, it is still selling. The game does 
 not accuse the player of making illegal copies before the game is purchased, nor does the game 
 use diabolical means of copy protection, such as Starforce, damaging a player's computer under 
 the justification that copies are possible to make. Bethesda is making good money on this game, 
 and hopefully will continue to do so. BR&gt; The modding community for Morrowind is large. I've 
 found some very good small mod sites that provide downloads for better mods than what are available 
 on some of the larger more popular sites. A new player has to be careful about downloading mods. 
 Of course , always scan for viruses and what not after a download before an install, beware of 
 conflicts the mod my cause. On the plus side... this game can look almost brand new... and be the 
 same game. It is amazing. I have a great looking game. it is not the drab dull scratchy looking 
 thing I started out with. This game is more than a game. For families, it introduces software design 
 as well as strategy play (parents play ahead of smaller children there are references to adult 
 content that can be easily avoided) . The gameplay really is engaging and sometimes tough (the Ministry 
 of Truth Mehra meeting) . For gamers its fun to control what you can behind the scenes as well as 
 mow everything down with your long -blade on the surface. There is a spirit of generosity among 
 the Morrowind community of players, that is in part due to the encouragement of it 's parent corporation 
 Bethesda. As one poster put it , though, on an Elder Scrolls forum... is it me or does any one 
 else think that Morrowind is more fun than Oblivion? While the game is a tad hokey... its fun, and 
 the people that play it are fun too. marf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This is really an amazing game that it always seems like there is more to do, for good reason
 
  
  If i called this game huge i would be lying, it is bigger than that, think MMORPG size... im not 
 kiddin
  
  Dont let the video on the net of someone finding and killing Dagoth Ur in 5 minutes, the game does 
 not end there, and honestly he is only a very VERY tiny part of this game
  
  The story takes place on Vvardenfell, an island in the Dunmer province of Morrowind, and to be 
 honestly if you aren't one of them, dont expect to be liked by them very much
  
  Story wise this game is deep, not because of the main story, but because pretty much everyone in 
 this game has a story to tell, and you can have something to do with well over half of them, that 
 might not seem to big, but the fact that there are about 2000 differant people in Morrowind... yeah 
 it's big
  
  The combat of this game has to be broken down into 3 types
  Magic
  Stealth
  Force
  
  Magic combat is really fun, but the draw back is you seem to lose your 
 mana waaay to fast, but it makes up for it in the way you can buy all kinds of items to get it 
 back, but not everything is weak against magic, and that can be a problem because your HP as a 
 magic user about 80% of the time is about 70% lower than a force attacker
  
  Stealth combat is the hardest in the game to master, because weapons like bows can very well get 
 you many kills before things can even get to you, or even see you!, but alot of the time the aimming 
 system is really poor in this game, so unless you KNOW your going to hit that guard, or that magic 
 user... dont shot him, try to sneak up on him and stab him, and hope for a one hit kill, and dont 
 forget dont wear shoes while doing this, and be ready to run just in case because your HP is almost 
 as bad as a magic user
  
  Force combat is all about attack attack attack!, they are really safe to use, unless you are fighting 
 a magic user, than just hope you can get to them before they blast your face in, they have the 
 widest range of weapons and armor by far, because they can carry the most
  
  It's hard to say is this game hard or easy, because you can change it, make it so you pretty much 
 have nothing but one hit kills, or make it where you will be hacking away for an hour on everything
 
  
  When this game came out it was the best looking game to date, the water was perfect, the landscape 
 was beautiful, even in todays standards it is still decent
  
  The music in this game is beautiful and well done, the main theme can put you to sleep it is so 
 pretty
  
  The sound in this game is good.. but does have it's bugs, mostly sounds animals in the land make, 
 little glitches and what not
  
  There is also a few little crash glitches that really do bother me, just gotta download the patches 
 though
  
  Dont forget... the best part of this game... MAKING YOUR OWN MODS!!!!
  you can make weapons, armor, skins, races, classes... you name it, this is what has made this game 
 so great, and why i have spent well over 600 hours in it over the past 4 years
  
  A amazing game no doubt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  this game is a very great game it is known for its wide range of widlerness and its well it is 
 just the best computer game i own. morrowind is the most adventurest game i ever played and i loved 
 when i heard the news that elder scrolls was coming out with oblivion it made we jump when i played 
 oblivion i thought it would good but screw that it was awsome that this game are a must buy it 
 will make you play for hours and you will get addicted to these game so go out and get it it is 
 worth ever cent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I thought I should express what I meant in a more understandable way.
  
  Morrowind is a very appealing game. It's really REALLY huge in terms of content and stuff to do 
 in general. There's exploring, crafting, battles, and an in depth story.
  
  The problem is none of it is very fun. It's size isn't neccesarily its downfall. It's more the 
 lack of direction in such a big world. And yes there is a main quest but even to do the main quest 
 you kind of just have to explore and level on your own somtimes. The problem is all the enemies 
 in the game still have certain stats. Meaning you won't really know where the weak and the strong 
 ones are since the world is just so damn big. You'll be in a starting area of the game and walk 
 a little bit and you might be in the same kind of area or you just might have wandered into a thief 
 10 levels higher than you. And theres no way to tell what level something is unless you base it 
 on looks alone (which isn't really reliable) .
  
  Also the game doesn't really explain anything and the UI for interacting with NPC's makes conversating 
 boring and a lot of the time many NPC's will just repeat the same exact things over and over again. 
 This makes looking for quests tedious sometimes.
  
  The equipment is probably the best thing about the game. It's all easy to understand what is better 
 or worse and what you should be wearing. The armor is also very detailed. The only thing is the 
 game isn't really that fun in third-person (which is a bummer) , so you don't get to admire your 
 character all that much. The combat in Morrowind is very simplistic it's probably one of the biggest 
 flaws. You can either do three things. Attack, Sneak and Attack, or use Magic. And pretty much 
 that is the basis of the whole combat system. There are a lot of stats and things to tweak with 
 your class but in the end it' comes down to those three things or a combination of those. And the 
 problem with that is the combat itself is just unexciting. Melee combat is pretty much just repeatedly 
 attacking. There is a little variation to it as you can do three different types of melee attacks 
 but it's not nearly enough to make it interesting. The scary thing is magic combat is too similar 
 to melee combat so thats pretty much it.
  
  Now take all of that and add exhausting + boring exploration and you have Morrowind. Now I won't 
 lie I can definetly see why a lot of people like this game I really can. I was so close to investing 
 a lot of time in it. But in no time it just turned me off. There was nothing really worth doing 
 and no motivation for it. I really think they were on to something with this game. But it was no 
 cigar... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is a roleplaying game that's garnered quite a bit of attention. We've heard all about 
 the vast landscapes, the incredible storyline, the freedom of choice to do what you want and the 
 game's ability to let you play it at your own pace. We've heard many of these claims before. Finally, 
 however, the game actually lives up to all the hype. This is one monster of a game. To start with, 
 the character creation process is seamless and woven directly into the story of the game. You awake 
 aboard a ship as a prisoner, unsure of what exactly is going on. As you answer questions and talk 
 to guards, you find out not only who you are as a character, but what you're main quest starts 
 out to be. The trick is that you might want to go back and answer those questions a bit differently 
 to see what you might come up with as a character. My first time around I became a barbarian: good 
 with blunt weapons and axes not so good with other weapons and skills, not to mention limited 
 ability with magic. I went back three or four different times and came out with different characters 
 each time. Even something as simple as character creation in Morrowind is seemingly epic. Choosing 
 who you are defines how you might play the game: a noble warrior who fights for good, a machine 
 of hatred and death, or a sneaky thief. You can play this game so many different ways, it's truly 
 awe-inspiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is an incredible experience for anyone who likes RPGs.
  The sheer size of Morrowind is incredible, though not anywhere near a big as Arena or Daggerfall 
 the amount of detail put into the world is staggering.
  The graphics, especially the npcs, are outdated but I find that with the graphic replacers better 
 heads and better bodies they are not as noticable. The draw distance is what gets alot of people 
 but finding an FPS optimizer on the web will allow you to see twice as far on a current video card. 
 The gameplay itself leaves alot to be desired. The combat relies on a random dice roll whether 
 or not you hit your opponent and with only three attacks it leaves you feeling the combat was just 
 added on. Morrowind has literally thousands of quests you can do. It would take you hundreds of 
 hours in order to accomplish all of them and then theres the main quest.
  I found the main quest lacking in some parts. It really wasn't all that engaging and I found the 
 whole battle on Red Mountain with the evil Dagoth Ur and the Dwemer, even the Kragenacs tools that 
 give you great power a little Lord of the Rings comparable. The weather effects were a nice plus 
 side but I feel they could have been reduced to more sunny days and less thunderstorms and ash 
 storms. The construction set which gives you a toned down version of the kind of program Bethesda 
 used to create Morrowind was possibly the greatest gift ever given to the video game community. 
 Using this you can change, edit, or completely create a new Morrowind. This game is the best in 
 the series. Cheap enough for those who don't have an Xbox 360 or a super fast gaming PC for those 
 who have Oblivon, but just as engaging and fun with a few problems that hardly hinder it as an 
 excellent RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psnr24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Morrowind. Following up from previous Elder Scrolls creations, known for their 
 sprawling open-ended worlds in which you can pretty much do whatever you want, Morrowind is a welcome 
 update. With the best graphics of its time by far, and maybe the largest world to be seen until 
 WOW came around, Morrowind places you as an inserted prisoner, with no idea of his/her place in 
 the world; yet to realise the importence of your existence.
  
  The best thing about this game; and RPG's in particular, is the open-ended gameplay. You don't 
 even have to play the main plot to enjoy Morrowind, and although some will find it quite boring 
 and tedious, it's easy to suddenly wake up one day and realise you have two lives; Morrowind and 
 your normal life, the one you seem to have forgotten.
  
  It could take anywhere from 5 minutes to 30 minutes to travel from one side of the map to other 
 it's so big, and the mutlitude of quests will have you playing it for years to come. One of the 
 only let-downs is that the music can get quite repeditive, but with so many mods out there that 
 is easily fixed, along with pretty much anything else you may find wrong with the game (not that 
 there's much) .
  
  With the new patches all of the bugs found in the game have been ironed out, and a new journal 
 feature added for a more smooth way of organising. If you're looking for a way to lose a few years 
 of your life quickly, go no further than The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I can say this game is nowhere near as good as Oblivion, so get that game instead. 
 I had Morrowind before Oblivion, though, and it's still an addicting game. Things like travel, 
 combat, and talking can seem like a real chore, though, and the graphics are laughable compared 
 to Oblivion. But if you can look past that stuff and just get involved in the day-to-day activities 
 of being a character in this world, the game can be really fun. In the tradition of great RPGs, 
 this game helps make you feel that you're actually living the character's life, and you can do 
 whatever you want. Open-ended is the key word. You can do as much or as little as you want. In 
 the end, it's a decent game but the improvement of Oblivion was amazing and renders this game obsolete. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deugar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is an interesting RPG that gives you the freedom to interact with the world however you 
 would like. Personally i see Morrowind as the closest RPG version of GTA so far. Don't get me wrong 
 there is no driving cars around the streets running people over or anything like that, but the 
 fact is that it is your world to play with and that it never changes unless you want it to. The 
 graphics in this game will already look a bit like they could use some improvement (The game is 
 by now 4 years old) but you'll be able to forgive the game for it without to many problems. As 
 an example of the control a player possesses in Morrowind i want to tell you that i have my own 
 apartment... well it isn't really an apartment merely an empty room that isn't used by anyone. 
 Not that any of the other rooms are actually used as NPC's only stay where they are supposed to 
 stay and never pay anyone for a room to sleep in. In Morrowind you're honestly not going to find 
 a great story, since there isn't a lot of NPC's that will talk plot points with you. The journal 
 is also a bit of a mess but you have to remember that Morrowind is a world filled with cities, 
 forests, caves, islands and a lot of fun. And remember that it can't carry the greatest story without 
 messing up the freedom in the game. Also if you are interested in buying this game there are also 
 2 expansion packs for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  At time of writing Oblivion is out, but I feel I should write a review for it because of the time 
 I used to spend playing on it.
  
  The game sets out like the others, you are a prisoner getting released, you arrive in Morrowind 
 by boat, you promptly find your way out of the ship and are given the choice as to who your want 
 your character to be, elf, human, argonian there are loads. There arent alot of customisation tools 
 though, but its no big deal. You then enter the building and then you can pick what type of warrior 
 you want to be, do you want to be a spell caster or a swordsman or just rely on your stealth and 
 guile to get by, you decide. Morrowind is a very big place, inhabited by many races of the TES 
 universe, yet the natural home to dark elf, it is rich in lore and backround which you can explore 
 later in the game.
  
  Graphicly, for its day it was very impressive. This is not its day though, the game lives in shadow 
 of its next installment, Oblivion. The world still remains vastly detailed, each home and interrior 
 contains 'alot' of detail which you may or may not notice. The games mist can become an annoyance, 
 as the game loads very small segments and this is the games way to hide the fact that the square 
 of land you are on is seperated from the rest.
  
  The games sound is mediocre, however there are still some cool moments, which the sound can create, 
 but I feel it isnt used to help create bileavable environments as much as it could. However there 
 are various 'plugins' to download which are community supported, these can vastly improove the 
 sound quality in the game.
  
  The true heart of the game, for the PC anyway is the plugin system which the game uses. You see 
 the game comes with an editor, and in this you can create and change the game world and everything 
 in it as you see fit, the whole experience can be overwhelming but if you cant get to grasp with 
 it, like myself you can use the 1000's of user made plugins for the game, these include new worlds, 
 enemies, texture sets, places, classes, sound houses and much more.
  
  It's because of the plugin system and community based custom content, im gonna give this game a 
 pretty generous score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaltenSimons
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillGDeska
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I think this game has so many things going for it. It has sound that beats most games, it has a 
 good story line (if you sit down and read all the books) and it has a HUGE world. I have played 
 this game more than 2000 hours if you combine my time with the sweet construction set. I think 
 this a game for the ages. The quests are great, being able to go into many at once, or leave and 
 come back later. I think the sound by Jeremy Soule is fantastical in every sense. This weird world 
 is great to explore and study for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drucom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is, without a doubt, one of the greatest games of all time. It's 
 graphics were (and still are, I am inclined to believe) exceptional. They were, at the time of 
 release, revolutionary graphics.
  
  But Morrowind shining factor aren't its graphics. What makes Morrowind a truly epic and timeless 
 game is it's immersive nature. I have had the game for years now, and there are still things for 
 me to discover.
  
  The player starts the game next to a Dark Elf (Dunmer) called Jiub. Although he is not to be seen 
 in the rest of the game, the player will forever remember his name (along with another character, 
 to be discussed later) . This is one of the first aspects of the game that makes it so refreshing. 
 Jiub asks you what your name is, so you type a name for your character. He then asks you to be 
 quiet, as a guard is coming. The guard asks you to follow him. When you leave the boat, you get 
 your first glimpse of the beautiful world of Vvardenfell. The guard asks you to go down to the 
 docks as someone is waiting for you. The attention to detail that Bethesda gave the game, the immersive 
 nature of it, is seen very early on in the game.
  
  The guard at the docks asks you where you are from at this point. A window opens, and you must 
 choose your race, and your physical attributes. Then you go into the Census and Excise office, 
 where final details are registered. You choose your class now, and your birthsign (sort of like 
 a Zodiac) . When you are done, you take your papers, and you are asked to go into the next building. 
 After entering the next building, you are faced with what seems to be a higher-ranked guard. After 
 striking up conversation with him, another of Morrowind's greatest qualities is made apparent. 
 There are options to continue conversations to greater lengths. By doing so throughout the game, 
 one can receive new quests, or improve one's relationship with different people. After receiving 
 your papers from the high-ranked guard, you are a free man (or woman) .
  
  You now officially begin the game. The first person you see in Seyda Neen, the port town, is Fargoth 
 (quite possible the most infamous and remembered character in the game) . He is also the first quest-giver. 
 The dedication that Bethesda has put into this game make it the masterpiece that it is. Every action 
 you make has a slight possiblity to affect other actions you make (so don't go around killing everyone 
 on your first game, as the characters that you kill might have something to do with a quest later 
 on in the game. This has happened to me many times) . There are several guilds, or factions, that 
 you can join. There are great Houses that you can join (they are like political parties, and all 
 three of them have their own 'type' of member. Magicians usually join the Great House Telvanni, 
 Warriors usually join the Great House Redoran, and Rogues and Assassins usually join the Great 
 House Hlaalu. Of course, you can join whichever House you please, or you can not join any at all!) 
 There are literally thousands of ways to play the game. You can choose to only play the main quest 
 line. Or you can choose to side-track yourself to level up first before continuing the main quest 
 line.
  
  The immersiveness and originality of the game, added to its magnificent and lush landscapes, and 
 detailed graphics, make this game one of the best games I have ever played (and, indeed, one of 
 the best games of all time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfection1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is the third game in the long running elder scrolls series and it is like its predecessors 
 it is just a huge game. It is not like you traditional Rpg but it cantains all of the thing that 
 you would expect from a game like this.
  
  gameplay is just great. it lets you do anything you want in any way you want. if you want to rob 
 someone, kill someone or commit anytype of crime you can do that as long as there is no guard around. 
 you can do a lot of exploration as well. Leveling is morrowind is not like typical experience gaining 
 thing. You gain experience by doing the samething over and over again to level up.
  
  graphics are just awesome. All the character models just look great. the texture aren't that great 
 but the environments all look really good and make the experience a lot more enjoyable.
  
  sound is great as well. the sound tract sounds like it really siuts the game. all of the voice 
 acting is greatly done and bring the character as well as all of the foes you face to life.
  
  the game will last more than 40 hours if you just want to do the main quest and if you join 
 the faction and do their mission it can go up to 150 or more hours.
  
  It is just simply a great game so if have remote interest in RPG's you definately want to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platypus33
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!! you can pretty much do whatever you want, but its also pretty hard. In 
 fact, you will probably get lost about ten seconds after the tutorial is over unless you look in 
 the FAQs!! As soon as you find out what to do though, youll pretty much be on your way to having 
 hours of fun. The best part is that you can do things like sneaking into peoples houses and steal 
 everything they own. You can even kill them and nothing will happen unless somebody is watching 
 you. But theres much more to it than
  just that. Overall, its just a really fun game that lets you be whoever you want to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I have played many rpg's. Nothing comes close to the feel or look of Morrowind. The game never 
 lacks new content because modders constantly add new mods. The graphics for its time are superb, 
 and the gameplay is still one of the best. You are not limited to a class, because your character 
 develops from your own play style. I have easily spent 300 hours playing this game and I still 
 have fun with it. The game's main mission is challenging, but it is beatable. Do yourself a favor. 
 If you have not bought this game yet, or Oblivion just did not meet your expectations, try Morrowind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Intro: Morrowind is the third Installment in the Elder Scrolls series and is one of the most popular 
 RPG titles on PC for good reason. The game is one of the most open-ended to ever be created and 
 has a mass of items, weapons and armor to collect as well as multiple factions to join and heaps 
 of quests to do!
  
  Graphics:
  6/10 - Normal
  9/10 - Better Bodies + Retexture Mods
  Average - 8/10
  
  The graphics that come with Morrowind are pretty good, but really leave a 
 lot to be desired. Many of the backgrounds are quite dull and a lot of scenery not very interesting 
 to look at. Also the bodies of characters in the game really look obviously like big groups of 
 polygons. However by installing the Better Bodies Mod and a Mod that replaces the backgrounds it 
 makes a huge difference to the game and makes it a lot more fun to play. With these new mod additions 
 the backgrounds become beautiful to look and and character models look as if they had come straight 
 from a 2006 game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10:
  Gameplay in Morrowind can take a bit of adjusting to, especially if you're used to playing RPGs 
 like Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, Tales of the World, Breath of Fire etc. There is no experience 
 system in this game, however there is still leveling up. Morowind takes a more 'real-life' approach 
 to learning skills and levelling up. By using weapons and armor over a period of time your skill 
 with them will improve. When you have had 10 skill increases you will level up.
  In terms of combat the game is in real time and takes a hack and slash approach. There are numerous 
 weapons in the game to use ranging from Ninja throwing stars, daggers and longswords to bows, enchanted 
 weapons and two-handed swords. Each weapon has its own strengths and weaknesses and it will take 
 wuite some time to master them all.
  The World of Morrowind is huge and akes a very long time to explore even half of it. There are 
 many dunegons to explore an loot, factions to join and do quests for to get money and items and 
 reputation to be gained around the world.
  
  Sound 7/10:
  Morrowind soung on the whole is good, but can be a bit lacking. Background music in this game is 
 very dll and there are basically onlytwo tracks in the game: general music and battle music, thats 
 it. It can get very tiring to listen to. Thankfully sound effects are much better and its always 
 fun to listen to your character beating someone up, not so fun when you're the one being beaten 
 up though. Voice Acting on the whole is pretty good, but theres a limited mount of voices and people 
 start sounding very similiar very quickly.
  
  Story 9/10:
  Well I use the word story very loosely as you can make this game anything you want, you don't even 
 have to follow the main storyline unless you want. Basically you have been pulled out of Prison 
 for an unknown reason and sen to work for the Blades Spymaster. The Blades are spies for the empire, 
 the eyes and ears if you will. It is your job to follow orders, all the while being confroted with 
 the Nerevarine Prophicies. How do you fit into it all?
  
  Value 10/10:
  This game is virtually endless. The main quests itself (if thats all you were to do) would probably 
 take 10-20 hours depending on if you know exactly where you're going or not. However, its almost 
 impossible not to be drawn into what else this game has to offer. As a quick idea of whats there 
 is in the game, heres a quick list:
  - Main Quest
  - Faction Quests: Imperial Cult, Imperial Leigon, Mages Guild, Fighters Guild, Thieves Guild, Morag 
 Tong an more...
  - House Quests: Redoran, Halalu, Telvaani
  - Exploration, Dungeon Crawling
  to cmplete everythingthis game has to offer, you'd probably 
 be looking at maybe 150-200 hours. Yes, that long, and thats not even including the massive amount 
 of stuff fans of the game have created for you to add onto the game and play! You can also create 
 your own stuff using the construction set that comes with the game!
  
  Outro 8.8/10
  Morrowind is a great game, even if it takes a bit to get into. By installing a few mods to improve 
 the look of the game it makes it that much more enjoyable to play and with the massive amount of 
 stuff theres always plenty to do. For $10 this is definelty worth a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  TES 3: Morrowind is a very impressive game. I have spent many many restless nights with this one.
 
  
  Gameplay: Open ended roaming, lots of quests, huge world, it's awesome. Character developement is pretty 
 unique because you increase different skills instead of gaining xp to level up. Plus the game lets 
 you play it pretty much however you like.
  
  Graphics: Solid. For being made in 2002 the graphics are very impressive. Nice lighting, textures, reflective 
 water, etc.
  
  Sound: It has above average sound qaulity, but I have some complaints. The ambient music gets pretty 
 tedious. But, the games musical score is nicely done.
  
  Value: Awesome value!!! Buy the GOTY Edition. For twenty bucks you get Morrowind and its two expansion 
 packs: Tribunal, and Bloodmoon.
  
  In closing this game is worth your money if you are in to RPGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Pawner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I have yet to play an RPG that is made from the West, being a Japanese RPG fanboy and all. I am 
 just so into the 32-bit and some of the 64-bit RPGs by Square and other Japanese RPG makers. Final 
 Fantasy games are just my favorites. I really thought RPGs from the West wasn't as good as I expect 
 them to be. I have to admit that I was so wrong. Unfortunately, I never tried the "Diablo" games 
 from Blizzard (the company behind "Starcraft" and "Warcraft") or the "Ultima" games by Richard 
 Garriot. The first RPG I've played that wasn't originally from the East was BioWare's "Baldur's 
 Gate 2: Shadow of Amn". It was really good. I'll probably return on playing it sometime in 2007. 
 Now, let's pay attention to the game that made "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" so well-known, 
 "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind" for the PC. I've NEVER heard of Morrowind until this late January 
 2006. It only got my attention at first because they say "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" was going 
 to be a very defining RPG, which used to be Morrowind. I kept asking other gamers online (especially 
 on the G4TV Forums) what the hell this Morrowind that they're speaking of is. I've heard lots of 
 good things from them about the game. I got so interested that I planned to get one if I see a 
 copy of the game for the PC. Back in March, I saw a Game of the Year Edition of TES3: Morrowind 
 and bought it immediately. Sadly, I couldn't play it at that time, since my PC had gotten slower 
 than ever. What a bummer. Luckily, my big sister bought a laptop that has enough capability to 
 run Morrowind in it. The game worked, and I played it. Oh.... my.... goodness.... how come I've 
 never heard of it before?!?!?! This is a truly amazing RPG that has won my heart in nearly less 
 than an hour. Im being serious here. I just immediately added the game to my list of favorite 
 games, specifically RPGs, that I think are really outstanding. Now, let a Square Soft (or a Japanese 
 RPG) fanboy tell you how amazing "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind" really is, in a form of a review.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  WARNING: You might find me a little biased due to the fact that I never touched the mod and online 
 section. I only go for offline play here in Morrowind.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind" is a pretty colossal sandbox Action RPG made by Bethesda Softworks, 
 who I recently known as the developers of the abominable "Where's Waldo" for the NES. This game 
 is an ambitious turning point for them since it really brings out the need for a true role-playing 
 game in me, for this matter. You start off as an outlander who wakes up and finds himself/herself 
 inside a ship's hold probably held capture. The ship just docked in the land of reached Morrowind 
 and will now find your way into your first location with civilized people, Seyda Neen. You will 
 be asked to describe yourself in a form of a character creation, which I will explain more in the 
 Gameplay department. You will soon travel on your own, taking different quests and reaching further 
 distances that you have never imagined before. Wow, this truly sounds like huge adventure-filled 
 RPG. Oh wait; it is a huge adventure-filled RPG. Look, I'm sorry if I can't tell anything else 
 about the game's story. So, let's just move on, shall we???
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  In terms of graphics, I don't find Morrowind to be having a truly outstanding graphics. But I was 
 impressed enough to see such a top-notch quality in terms of environments, character designs, and 
 monster designs, and every pixilated features within the game that are truly a sight to see. The 
 texture of the character designs and the environments outside the towns and cities needs more work. 
 I just find them quite disturbing at times. I can still see a lot of polygons from any of them, 
 even the enemies. But I don't blame the developers. This is a pretty huge RPG. You'll need to sacrifice 
 a certain something to make another feature in the game look, sound, and/or feel better than ever. 
 Plus, this is a sandbox RPG. All this time, I thought MMORPGs that only ones that have the luscious 
 cool-looking environments because of their big sandbox-ness. Fortunately, Morrowind wins as being 
 a game that has truly superb graphics. I don't know if I can recommend a certain cheap graphics 
 card to you (I forgot the graphics card that my sister has for her laptop) so I cant really give 
 you that info. Your computer or laptop should at least have 800 MHz, 256 MB of RAM, and.... you 
 know what??? Just look at the Info of the game in GameFAQs/GameSpot or somewhere else if you want 
 to know what requirements does your computer has in order to play Morrowind.
  
  SOUND: 10
  The title screen music immediately amazed. It sound like it was made for a Lord of 
 the Rings movie or something, you know. I can just safely say that Morrowind has a great soundtrack 
 and each of the music feels harmonized enough to go along with the atmosphere of certain areas 
 within the game. The voice-acting sounds perfect to my ears. My only complain is that they sure 
 do repeat lots of them it in several towns. Luckily, the voices of nearly everyone I had encounter 
 so far pretty much fits their character and appearance, in my opinion. I like it when they have 
 different tones of voices. Some of them sound warm-hearted, cold-heart, arrogant, alarmed, and 
 neutral. I applaud all the voice-over actors and actresses for their great performance within the 
 game. The sound effects are also winners. It's less cheesy than I thought. Most of them sound precise. 
 From the sword swing, to the footsteps, to the water that sloshes as you swim in it, to the spellcasting, 
 and to other sound effects, the game pretty much nails it. The great soundtrack, terrific voice-acting 
 and awesome sound effects are all pretty much making Morrowind sound perfect, in terms of sound 
 features.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If there's anything else I really want to praise on The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, its the 
 game mechanic.
  
  Morrowind's gameplay truly immersed me as you pick who and what do you want to be when you start 
 the game. I think that the character creations needs a little more depth but as it is right now 
 is still satisfying enough. Youre provided with 10 races, each of them having different abilities, 
 of course. You can change their gender, be able to pick their sign (which is an equivalent to zodiac 
 signs) , and be able to manage your stats at the beginning. You can pick a certain class of stats 
 you want to go with. You can do three of the following: Pick your own class, let them ask you questions 
 so they can pick a class for you, or customize your own class. Immersion factor me has already 
 jumped up notches by this part of the game. There are so many status that you can actually allocate 
 and tweak in the future, which depends on your actions. For example, the more you jump from a high 
 place to a lower ground without dying will increase your Acrobatic status. Also, when you talk 
 to somebody else in the game and you want to change their disposition on you, you can Admire, Taunt, 
 Intimidate, or Bribe a certain amount of money to that person. This may improve your Speechcraft 
 status, especially if you succeed most of the time. You can talk to them if you wan to know information 
 that may help you advance in the game. You may actually end up being clueless and lost in the game 
 for its sheer size. Remember to stock up on potions and affordable weaponry and armor before you 
 even leave Seyda Neen and go off to find an adventure suitable to you, if you can actually find 
 one. Once a while, check out your journal as it will probably guide you on what is current goal 
 and probably other duties that you forgot to do. Speaking of duties, a great way to make money 
 is to offer your services to a certain guild or council that may give tasks at you once in a while. 
 Most of them are fetch quests, which I find as a turn-off to others gamers. I can understand what 
 they want to say but in my humble opinion, I really like the fetch quests. This adds more game 
 time and probably much more goodies for me. In the side of the battle section, Morrowind needs 
 improvements in its hack-n-slash gameplay. It just feels a little sluggish and messy in few occasions. 
 Still, I compliment the solid experience of battle within the game, especially in a first-person 
 perspective. This really feels like your enemy is so near at you when you are fighting it, or entirely 
 vice-versa. There are so many magic spells that you can use for your own good and against your 
 enemies. You can satisfy your need for magic especially if you have gathered tons and tons of spells 
 in your journey. Your stats don't increase sometimes, since you may probably are fighting a weak 
 opponent. If the depth of the fighting system was a bit deeper, I would've given the entire Gameplay 
 department an outstanding compliment. You do level up eventually, especially when you learn so 
 much and you have to sleep it out by "resting". I'm also amazed that there's a law against illegally 
 resting on places within towns or cities.
  
  There are other ways to approach the game besides spellcasting and combat. You can also be a vampire 
 or a thief. Each races and customizations of abilities really determines what kind of path are 
 you willing to go forward to. This adds different and so many replay value to this game, that I 
 might not even describe it. I've only covered a chunk of the adventure you may probably get in 
 Morrowind. Unfortunately, I have to stop from there. I don't think I qualify to fully say what 
 Morrowind has to offer other than what I said earlier in review. I haven't finished the game and 
 I haven't touched the mod and online section. I may re-edit the entire and add more stuffs in my 
 review as I continue playing Morrowind sooner or later.
  
  About the controls, in a laptop, I find the control scheme to be responsive and nice enough to 
 deal with. Its a good thing I was into first-person shooter from back in Y2K and to this day. 
 Or else I might even have a harder figuring out how the control works. The adjustment of the screen, 
 mouse sensitivity, and other options before or even inside the game works fluently, I think. I 
 really didnt have a problem with anything, except that I actually use a separate mouse instead 
 of the laptops own ability to move the pointer. Im more of a mouse user, you know.
  
  But for now, all I can say that the gameplay is a thing of beauty and awesome-ness.
  
  VALUE:
 
  This game is more than a solid value; it's nearly a must-have, in my opinion. That's just probably 
 me and other die-hard Morrowind fans from the game's early days after its release. For those who 
 are expecting a good RPG without the androgyny or a few crappy storylines from some of the Japanese 
 RPGs, you definitely should try Morrowind. If you're into Action RPG, Morrowind is a good choice, 
 too. Sadly, I can't really direct who hall I must really stay near or away from Morrowind's "buy 
 this game" range. I'm being an honest enough to tell you that this is a great try. If you find 
 it as a snooze-fest or something, that's your problem, not mine. All I'm saying is... give Morrowind 
 a try!!!
  
  TILT:
  "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind" exceeded my expectations of being a really great game. It's 
 currently one of My Favorite Games of All Time and is now my current most favorite game that I'm 
 playing right now. If this is how good Morrowind is, then I really can't wait to try out "The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion". I might even try KOTOR this year, too. It's been a while since I've played 
 something else that was going to immersive enough for like the 32-bit RPGs that Square had. I think 
 this game is a true winner and ambitiously good. Now, I also understand why Morrowind is simply 
 a life-killing game. This game took nearly 6 hours of my life without me even noticing it. That's 
 how good this game is. It really changed how I usually like to approach and play role-playing games. 
 Its a different perspective of the genre I wished I have found back in the early days of Morrowinds 
 first year. Sure, Final Fantasy and Chrono games are still my favorite. But Morrowind was able 
 to squeeze itself on the list of my favorite RPGs, let alone my most favorite games. Its an RPG 
 that I think you should also conquer. That's what "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind" to me. Now 
 go ahead and conquer it, now!!!!!
  
  Thanks for the time reading my review.
  
  If you have anymore Q's, just PM me.
  
  Thanks and see y'all later!!! ^_^ ^_^ ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughHorn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  A unique game of its time, unmatched by any other.
  For every RPG fan, this game has no limits from the beginning to the very end. Few people apreciate 
 this game for what it really is, but in order to appreciate this masterpiece in all its glory we 
 must take a look at the major factors that make it what it is :
  
  1. Game-Play :
  Exclusive game-play with a thrilling storyline about an Outlander embarking on a new world called 
 Vardenfell -Ignorant of the role he was about to play in that nations history "
  2. Complete Freedom :
  A game with no boundaris and no limitations to a player (apart from high 
 level locked doors, witch still can be opened) . A FULLY INTERACTIVE ENVIRONMENT.
  3. Game athmosphere :
  This can be decided by two things - In-game musik & Game difficulty.
 
  a) The In-game Musik (personaly) the best RPG musik I've ever heard,
  describing in detail every sutuation as it should be.
  b) Game difficulty can be altered constantly, but 
 all in all Morrowind is a game witch is designed to test 40% a man's witts and 60% a man's battle 
 reaction & fighting skills
  
  Since every game, and I do mean EVERY game has its negative side Morrowind is no exeption, so I shall 
 just lay them down bellow :
  
  NPCs with a brain the size of a chestnut :
  The artificial intelligence in the game is well..... the question is is there any ?
  For example 
 - Wild  etc. etc...
  they all possess two basic functions:
  1. walk around aimlessly
  2. attack anything in sight 
 apart from its own kin
  And also may I add that there are very little places witch arent animal infested.
  Combat :
 
  Pretty much one and the same Combat mode, as for the spells and path of a mage well it all depends 
 on a persons likings & playing style, but I have to say that personaly I like to use spells and 
 my knowlage of all of the magic  instead of pounding something 
 with one & the same sword attack over'n over again.
  Well back to the interesting parts of the game
  Another well known diversity that the game implies 
 is its huge MAP !A place for everything & everything in its place "
  
  Thats how the Morrowind map works, but the key is that you got to know where to look for it. At first 
 you wont get an entirely full map, showing all of the  have 
 to find them on your one!
  You could ask for directions to cities but its gonna be quite a long walk,
  and one of the worst 
 parts of this freeform exploration is that you dont know if you are heading towards danger, bigger 
 danger or with luck your goal. The game holds a superb experiance, for those who are ready for 
 itToughHorn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vacuum3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The best thing in this game is the mystery surrounding it. Allmost till the end you do not know 
 whom you will be facing in the final battle and what is your purpose in this world. Another really 
 good thing is lots and i mean LOTS of subquests... and skills, which u can raise... Also quite a 
 number of races and classes. But the game also has some disadvantages. The main problem is sound 
 effects. The environmental sound is really really annoyng. Also it's a bit boring when you have 
 to go from one end of the map to another... And believe me, the map is HUGE! But besides that it's 
 a cool game which i would recommend to all RPG and action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I have played Morrowind for a long time and I still do. Those who love being able to do whatever 
 they wish, this is the right game for it. No need to follow the main quest, no hurry to rush to 
 the finish line. Morrowind allows you to take your time and do what suits you. For example, become 
 a thief and pickpocket your way into riches and glory, or become a fighter and fight for the imperial 
 cult and become famous and well known throughout Morrowind. But enough of the sweet talk. For those 
 of you who have Morrowind, you must know that you can do whatever you wish or go wherever you please. 
 But what you may not know is that you create your world. People interact differently with you by 
 the way you stand in the world, this is why I love this game so much. Every game does have their 
 downsides though. Morrowind did lack in getting to places quicker, and the fighting style is a 
 little hard at first. The worst thing about Morrowind in my opinion is that the game did not move 
 as quickly as I would have liked it to. Running from place to place takes a long time, and you 
 spent a lot of your game play on just that. But don't get me wrong, it is not like you have nothing 
 to do while running. You can explore mines, or kill roaming creatures. It is up to you. If you 
 have beaten the game, you may notice that some things are a bit different, the most noticeable 
 one is that people treat you differently. They respect you and are grateful for the things you 
 have done. Though it may be a frustrating trip to beat the game, because in order to do that you 
 must be good at fighting. This makes it hard for thieves who spent most of their time sneaking 
 around places stealing things (which is why I cheated to get to the end :) .) . The mods for this 
 game are great as well, find some good mods for this game and it will add loads of more hours to 
 your game play. I personally enjoy the castles. If your thinking about buying Oblivion (the next 
 elder scrolls game) I would recommend buying it as soon as possible, it fixed all the problems 
 Morrowind had, and adds a great game. I give Morrowind a 9-10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  What is so great about morrowind? Well, it is one of the most gorgeous games you'll ever play in 
 a life-time. If you dont follow the storyline you could get lost just walking around and admiring 
 everything, from all the 3D environments, to the funny stunts you could pull along the way. One 
 method is to steal a ton of supplies from people (become a thief) and eventually you could end 
 up in a huge mansion type house, where you can store all your stolen goods. If you do follow the 
 storyline then you can have twice as much fun. I barely got to the storyline cuz i just stole things 
 from ppl and had them chase me away. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocket-C
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has shown me why i love video gamse, this game has prety much set down the standerd for 
 all modern rpgs. This game at it's time was amazing and seeing how far we have come, it still is 
 to day. How can such a masterpiece be sold for so cheap with all the expansions ???? Please to Bethseda 
 and buy this game. Whel to truely start off, we all know the best game of our day and the best game 
 to so many people, oblivion and this game set the forfront for that, and this game has pionered true"freedom"in 
 to this and all other rpgs alike. Whel i will admit that oblivion is probly the better game, by close 
 to a long shot, but this game introdued us to a new world, this game showed us pure imagination and 
 gaming freedom atwork. I can safly say that this game is a piece of art work, and I will stand my 
 ground for it. Now un like oblivion, this game had more classes, more armore, skill and the story line 
 was more indepth. Sure saving Tiber Septim and closing oblivion gates is fun and all, but what abou 
 the good old days??? What about tresure hunting dwemer ruins, how about "working"for the imperial 
 legion, what about steeling a dearic sowrd at level ??? When it comes down to it, Jermy Soule did 
 a better job for the music in this then in oblivion, that everybody can agree on. The graphics are 
 superb, compared to when other gamse were coming out at the period morrowind came out in, this litterly 
 owned them, evean by to days standerds, it is immersive. I will admit that compared to oblivion, it's 
 a little drwan out. So do us all a favor, if you love oblivion, or just love rpgs, buy this game, its 
 only 20$ with all the expanxions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReStLesslayer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I know this review is a bit late but I write it for the holyness of morrowind
  Morrowind is a great right from your release after the few quests in seyada neen you feel free 
 to wander around in big cities like vivec and gnisis .
  The whole game ecxperience is just right every time you did something new others things to do will 
 apear.
  If you haven`t played it I recommend it to buy it is not so expensive anymore. A great rpg
  And 
 with the mod of the elder scrolls fan club your in for a cool heavy over the top game ecxperience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  although Oblivion is the best in the series, no doubt, where would be oblivion without Morrowind?
 
  this game's gameplay is amazing, considering it is an old game.
  although it's old it still has the magic.
  choosing from 9 different races and hundreds of avilable, 
 this game offers hours of game, and hundreds of ways to handle the game.
  a lot of creatures which spawn at different levels may challenge you for hours, and millions of 
 possibilities, it is hard to describe how good is this game, just imagine how good will oblivion 
 be if this one's so good.
  choose to join from 10 guilds or even more, or chose to work on your own as a freelancer, and choose 
 to help others in your journey through the game.
  
  i mentioned that the game offers a lot of cheats for you cheaters out there? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_wolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  I saw this game a friends house, and thought it was hugely complicated. This put me off at first, 
 but then afterwards I thought that any good game should be complicated. The secret to a good game 
 is that you have to work at it, and Morrowind is exactly that sort of game. Your character adapts 
 to the lifestyle you put him in, so if you are a thief, you'll get better at thieving with every 
 thieve's guild quest you do. Another great thing about this game is the fact that you can just 
 change your class in the middle of the game. You get bored with being a mage? Go off and be a warrior. 
 And you wont get any worse at being a mage because of it. The storyline is excellent and very gripping, 
 and the graphics are absolutely fantastic. If you enjoy RPGs, this is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is the best RPG game ever!
  
  Because the graphics is so cool, the gameplay is so long, the sounds is the best and the quest is 
 so long. Everyone likes morrowind. There are many races, quests, armour, spells etc.
  
  You can also have class, a born stars, there are reputation and bounty and u can be an assasin there 
 are expansion pack also tribunal and bloodmoon.
  It makes the bestest game ever the most coolest thing is the construction set only on pc.
  
 
  The construction set is the best cuz u can make a treasure to put a very rare armour like a tribunal 
 armour or a blood moon.
  
  No one i mean no one say this GAME is bad, if the one says this game is bad means you don't know 
 anthing about thisgame.
  (I hope many people would like this game...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_vs_Link
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I used to think that all RPGs were like Final Fantasy, or Dungeons and Dragons... or whatever. 
 Of course, I was wrong. You may be wondering about my rating on the Reviewers' Tilt. That's because 
 this is the first Elder Scrolls game I've played, and it will always hold a place in my heart.
 
  
  Gameplay: I'll be the first to admit it. The "Dice Roll" combat system can be fairly annoying. 
 It's annoying, but it's realistic. Some people might say "Who cares? It's annoying." But the fact 
 that it's realistic is why it got 9/10.
  
  Graphics: Excellent. Even better than it's sequel in some places. All I can say is: Don't bash 
 Morrowind's graphics, because then you really have no clue what you're talking about.
  
  Sound: I love Morrowind's sound. Sure, it's only got 8 tracks for each situation (and it'll start 
 to seem like 1 after walking doing stuff for hundreds of hours) , but they are 8 wonderful tracks. 
 Excellent.
  
  Value: I don't really know what this section is for... replay value? Well, that's certainly high. 
 You'll be playing this game for years. 
  
  An altogether excellent game. Buy it. Oh, but it IS hard. And you'll spend quite a lot of time 
 learning. All I can say is, don't give up right away. You'll learn to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cski00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  In this Elder Scrolls installment, Bethesda immerses the player in an expansive world full of magic, 
 history, and gods. The gameplay is not too hard to pick up, using standard WASD / mouse controls 
 for move and look. Combat is not complicated at all, with only 3 different attacks based on how 
 you are moving, each triggered with left click. This is further streamlined by a 'choose best' 
 option, that will automatically do the attack that the weapon is best in. The customization that 
 this game allows is phenomenal. There are a fair amount of races to choose, and plenty of classes, 
 but for those who want to be unique, you can also create your own class in game. Aside from character 
 detail, the player can also create their own magic spells from existing in game effects, as well 
 as apply magic effects to their equipment. Although difficult for the player to accomplish on their 
 own at first due to lack of character skill, there are NPC enchanters and spell makers that will 
 gladly help you, for a fee. There are plenty of skill options in the game to choose from, with 
 anything from Axes, to Conjuration, Stealth, and Speechcraft. There are perhaps a little too many 
 skills to choose from though. The real core of the gameplay is in what you do with your character. 
 With many different guilds and factions to join, along with the main quest, you will never run 
 out of things to do, however, this can lead to power inbalances later on, as the starter missions 
 for each faction are not much of a challenge to a high level character. Its also easy to forget 
 what you were doing too, especially if you just completed a long string of quests, and are try 
 to resume the main plot. The graphics are very detailed and what you would expect from a computer 
 game, it mostly depends on the hardware used. A top of the line computer will be visually rewarded. 
 The sounds in game are excellent, and with a soundtrack by Jeremy Soule, who could complain. A 
 must have game for computer RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runemaster190
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I've played the elder scrolls III for the xbox for a very long time so I didnt think it was worth 
 it to get the pc version, how wrong I was. Morrowind for the pc is extreamly better from the xbox 
 version, counting all the mods, patches, and plug-ins. 
  
  The graphics are better then the xbox version. Also you can actually read the font on the pc version. 
 On the xbox version there is a crappy font that you cant even read.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as the xbox version. The combat system is the same as the 
 xbox version, hack and slash until you kill the npc. The magic system is also the same as the xbox, 
 nothing has really changed.
  
  The sound is the same old 7 - 8 minute play back soundtrack. But at least it has music. 
  
 
  The pc version comes with a tool called TESC set. Which allows you too make plug-ins, mods, quests, 
 items, etc. Its a great tool and it has some value. It makes you play for even longer.
  
  So over-all the pc version is extreamly well done compared to the xbox version. So get the pc version 
 over the xbox version if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has is awesome! Worth well more than it costs! The Good: You can chose your race, class, 
 and birthsign to create a truely unique character, you can go almost anywhere, loads of cities 
 all with different architecture, tons of different landscape styles from beautiful green grass, 
 to dark, molten rocks and lava, tons of different storylines and different guilds to join, you 
 can even create your own expansions and modifications to the game, you can travel to a whole seperate 
 island and become a werewolf, and loads more!
  
  The Bad: The NPC's just stand there and never move, the fighting is really stupid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally open ended and with mods you truly can make it a never ending single player 
 game. I have installed, played, lost hard drives, installed, got a new computer, etc and still 
 have yet to beat it. Suffice it to say: this game is endlessly fun. Yes, you have to use your imagination 
 some to fill in some of the gaps, but it is an RPGplay it and get lost in some random side quest.
 
  
  There are hundreds, if not thousands, of mods out there for this that are amazing and will improve 
 overall graphics, npc faces and bodies, weather, quest fixes, insert additional quests/npcs/landmasses, 
 etc. 
  
  Seriously get some mods and give yourself a private island estate or two, and maybe a private haunted 
 castle in balmora. In fact while you are at it why not add dogs to morrowinds cities, make the 
 girls easier to look at, and add some new weather modes and durations.
  
  Also at some point try being a thief, or at least stealing some: it is a blast. Go swipe the seyda 
 neen tax and excise office warehouse key when you are starting out, this will give you taste of 
 how fun sneaking can be.
  
  I am going to make myself start a new game this summer and actually try to beat the game and not 
 get distracted. This will be the fifth time I have tried this
  
  Only complaint: the journal sucks in this game. Oblivion fixed it nicely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  A conservative estimate would have me at 500 hours logged playing The Elder scrolls III: Morrowind, 
 the latest behemoth RPG from Bethesda. I know Morrowind is getting a little old as far as games 
 go, but in my opinion this is one of the best rpgs that gamers have had the privilege of playing, 
 and if I could I would give it the title of Greatest Game of all Time. 
  
  You start the game as a newly released prisoner on board a ship that just landed at Vvardenfell, 
 which is an island in the province of Morrowind. You create your character through a series of 
 encounters with different people. A fellow prisoner will ask you your name then you enter it in. 
 A guard asks where you come from to get your race and a customs agent sort of person asks you what 
 your profession is. Its all very intuitive and makes the game more believable. After you go outside 
 you are free to play the game as you wish. You could go right into the main quest or take your 
 time and wander the island, chatting up the locals, and exploring caves. I have gone up to level 
 35 without even thinking about starting the main quest. 
  
  There are over 30 skills in the game that you can master, you can have 5 major skills and 5 minor 
 skills and the rest of them fall into the miscellaneous category. To level up you need to increase 
 a combination of major and minor skills by 10 points. So lets say you had a major of long sword 
 and block and a minor of athletics, if you increase your long sword skill by 3, your block by 5, 
 and athletics by 2 then you would level up. The AI in this game is not anything to write home about, 
 enemies usually just charge at you when you get into view or shoot bows or magic spells from afar 
 if they have them equipped. Combat is a little boring as well in the plain non-modified version 
 and most players will find themselves just turning on always use best attack and swinging away. 
 
  
  Another thing to note as far as gameplay goes, are the guilds you can join. Not only do they offer 
 quests relating to your profession, but they also give discounts on their wares and offer a free 
 place to rest. Guilds are a great place to start if youre not going to jump into the main quest 
 right away. 
  
  The graphics do a good job at immersing you into the elder scrolls world. I cannot count how many 
 times I was out adventuring in the wild and it started to rain, other times I would be caught in 
 a blinding sandstorm while trying to climb red mountain. The architecture of the buildings is also 
 well done and you can often tell what race dominates an area by what kind of buildings is around. 
 And every building Ive come across so far can be entered and explored. The character models leave 
 a lot to be desired though. To me they were a bit blocky and just didnt fit together right. Luckily 
 there is a mod that fixes this (more on that in a bit) . The textures also do a good job of immersing 
 you into the game and make you forget that you are actually playing in a virtual world. The animations 
 arent bad but theyre not ground breaking either, they get the job done and I dont really have 
 any complaints abut them. 
  
  As far as sound goes, it does just as good a job at immersion as the graphics. I have never jumped 
 so far out of my chair when I heard virtual thunder. The bass in the thunder pounds and sometimes 
 to this day I still wonder if its the game or if theres a storm outside. I also think the sound 
 of steel clashing and the eerie sounds inside tombs are unmatched in any game. The music is also 
 top notch and really gives the game a sense of adventure. It also changes dynamically depending 
 on whether or not you are in combat or just walking around. 
  
  And now the plugins, if not for these I would have shelved Morrowind long ago. I mentioned earlier 
 that there is a plugin (morrowinds version of a mod) that would fix the bodies. Well, there are 
 plugins that change just about every aspect of the game. Some that I never play without are Better 
 Bodies (thats self explanatory) , Better Heads, and a texture replacer called Morrowind Visual 
 Pack. 
  
  So if you havent bought morrowind go buy it now, I guarantee you will not be disappointed. And 
 if you already own it, try giving it another go with more plugins added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Back when this game came out back in 2002 i was there to buy it day one. Morrowind was one of the 
 best game i ever played it consumed my gaming life for quite some time. The graphics which are 
 dated now but four years ago where simply amazing. The game had such an amazing sense of freedom 
 and countless amount of quests as well, in some ways i feet there are more things to do and see 
 in this game then in oblivion. In the end if ya havent played this game give it a shot tke in account 
 it is older but hey if ya dont have a badass PC for oblivion pick up Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Media_geek20
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  You start off in this game as a nobody. You have one shirt on your back and a little bit of money 
 in your pocket, and you are about to discover a new world. Your character? Well, whoever/whatever 
 you want to be. You choose. You decide your class, race, abilities, etc. So, you're done with that...
 
  
  What now?
  
  Well, the game gives you a wink and a nudge by giving you directions to a house in Balmora. But 
 you don't have to do that. You can explore the world and defeat Dagoth Ur, or become a Mage and 
 rise up through the ranks in the Mages guild, or become a theif and steal everything in your path 
 but seem innocent, or become a feared barbarian and destroy towns. Honestly, if you wanted to, 
 you could just go to a corner club to socialize and consume Moon Sugar for the entire game if you 
 wish to do so. It's whatever YOU want to do.
  
  So, what's this world like?
  
  The world that surrounds you in this game, Vvardenfell, is a very realistic world with its own 
 perks and downsides. There's large and populated cities, such as the capital city of Vivec, along 
 with smaller fishing towns where you can discover more secrets and travel to other unknown regions. 
 There's several races of people, along with racism. There are social classes, reaching from Kings 
 who live in lavish palaces, to dirt poor scum who may not even own a shack (you start out as dirt 
 poor scum, by the way, so don't judge too harshly ) . There are certain types of terrain, ranging 
 from mountain lands, swamps, grasslands, tundra and more. Vvardenfell, is overall, is a realistic 
 world. 
  
  So why is this RPG so great?
  
  Why? Because you develop your own character in real-life scenerios and a realistic environment, 
 and the outcome is always different. No longer do you simply deal with being a hero, you can be 
 anything you want. That is why Morrowind continues to be a valued game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExMachinaXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This great game is truly a RPG. The world is so inventive and the background is so insanely well 
 detailed (different belief and political agendas from different people) that it really immerses 
 the player into it, more than any eye candy game could. It is not, by any means, a "standard" medieval 
 RPG like so many lukewarm titles we have out there; no, it is a creative world full of details 
 and imagination put into it. An astonishing game, for those who have the patience for a REAL RPG, 
 not these "all graphics, no substance" games that pops up around nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I just don't understand what everybody sees in this game. In my own opinion, and I'm a huge RPG 
 fan, it really isn't very good. The graphics, while pretty good, generally consist of three colors. 
 Brown, Grey, and Darker Grey. The music is more of ambience than anything, though I see how people 
 could like that. I've played it, and it isn't really any fun to me at all. The battles aren't at 
 all exciting or furious, or anything like that. They're actually pretty boring. Now, I'm a VETERAN 
 game-watcher, (a person who watches other people play games. My older brother and his friends are 
 all 1-player game hogs, so I've spent about half of my total time within the vicinity of video 
 games watching others play them, and I've learned not to mind,) and this game isn't even fun to 
 WATCH. I seriously don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 41d3n
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is definitely one of the best RPGs out there. It's easy to understand 
 and customize your character to your style and personality. If your looking to buy the game, (and 
 your not ignorant) I suggest getting it for your PC. Though some might find problems with the system 
 requirements, most computers these days can play it. The real reason for buying Morrowind for the 
 PC is for the Constructor Set. Though sold separate the Constructor Set lets you alter the entire 
 game world and make mods for the game, allowing you to make anything from spells to weapons and 
 armour or your own custom house to an entire island complete with multiple castles, more than 5 
 cities, tens of mini-quests, and the size of the Bitter Coast Region. 
  The game is lenient as well. Whether you want to take on the main quest or maybe just live another 
 life in the virtual world Morrowind accommodates.
  You can play the title a number of times if you finish the game. Maybe you want to be a sneaky 
 thief one time and a daring warrior the next. Go ahead try it out. I highly recommend TES III: 
 Morrowind to anyone who dosen't have it. Also you might want to buy the expansions "Bloodmoon" 
 and "Tribunal" as well as the Constructor Set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxxVaderxxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  A sweet game, very creative, AWESOME storyline, superb graphics, and it doesn't take very long 
 to figure out the basics. Easy ways to make money, and it's a game that takes a LONG time to beat. 
 I gave it a 10/10 because once you play it, YOU'RE HOOKED and CAN'T STOP PLAYING IT.
  
  In my opinion, it truly is one of the best RPG games out there. The people that made it (Todd, 
 etc.) are VERY creative. Who else do you know that can name like, 1000 people with a creative name? 
 Or that can name the Great Houses with the creative names? And armor like Daedric, Indoril, etc.
 
  
  So, in conclusion, I give this game a 10 because everything is PERFECT for my liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmartPartsIon
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Elder scrolls 3 is a very complex goals and a up beat story line. While trying to complete missions 
 i find myself getting bored out of my mind. Most of the game has to do with objectives rather than 
 fighting. This RPG, though full of objectives, can be fun at times. The game is not always boring. 
 A good thing about this game include its graphics and personalized characters. The game had a lot 
 of thought to it and if your into completing objectives than this game is for you. blaa blaa blaa 
 blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa 
 blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa blaa . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JestaDude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I found this game at Target in a bundle pack that included the expansion packs for about 20 dollars. 
 I took it home, through it on an older PC, and started to play...
  
  All of a sudden I get to customize my character? Edit ever aspect of my stats? Explore a HUGE open-ended 
 world full of NPC's and enemies of every variety in first person? Wow... I didn't know what to 
 think. My life's dream of a do anything, anytime, anywhere style game had finally been realized! 
 
  
  If you happen to have an older computer and still want one of the best role play games of all time, 
 waste no time in getting this game! The graphics are still really good up to this day. Check out 
 the screen shots! The gameplay was best of all. It featured a wide selection of character classes, 
 hair style's and color, ability's, and magical spells. Want to be thief and sneak into people's 
 houses, but also want to be a mage so you can avoid close combat? Customize you character to be 
 a mage style thief! With mage skills like "unlock" and "chameleon", and thief attributes like sneak 
 and acrobatics, it's easy to make someone that suit's your needs! Alchemy, blade mastery, archery, 
 athletics, destruction magic, restoration magic, alteration, hand to hand, and speechcraft are 
 just a few of the things you can use throughout the game. Interaction and chats with NPC's along 
 with bartering makes it feel as though you were really in the town. You can also play in third 
 person if you like but it's not really suggested for archers and mages.
  
  A main story line that you don't even have to complete, mixed in with hundreds of side quests plus 
 a bunch of guilds you can join can make for a very long and interesting experience! The combat 
 is very easy to get the hang of and the entire world is littered with different items to collect! 
 Part way through the game you may be able to buy a house (given you don't accidentally kill the 
 owner for any reason... *cough cough* He caught me breaking in *cough*... anyway...) and pull things 
 out of your inventory to place around wherever you would like. It's almost an advanced form of 
 animal crossing. Only difference is that there's a plot, and that you can kill all your friendly 
 neighbors if you don't like them.
  
  I'm going to stop but what I've told you here is only about 25% of the actual game. It's THAT big! 
 
  
  Now, for the time it was simply amazing but I don't know what people will think of it now that 
 Oblivion is out. It's still really good either way and I enjoyed the heck out of it! If you can't 
 play Oblivion, this is a must have! That's about it really. If you have any questions feel free 
 to message me and as always, thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnchief
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind doesn't really have that much for me to say bad about it. This game is very big and you 
 walk around in this huge world and you can do almost whatever you want like be a thief and steal 
 and you can hit anyone. This game rocks also because your weapons break and you can repair them 
 and other realistic details like turning day to night or raining.
  If you get bored of doing whatever you want, there are missions you can go on or you can go for 
 beating all of the quests and the game or just building your character up, like getting armor and 
 increasing your skills.
  
  some of the skills you have are
  
  speechcraft: your charisma
  mercanile: You buying low and selling high
  speed: I think you already 
 know
  and more. Morrowind is the coolest game and there's so many things to do, so go buy it for pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Morrowind is an action-RPG, which means you wander around an open-ended world, buy new 
 equipment, increase your skills and do battle. Unlike traditional RPGs, there are no turn-based 
 battles, which means you fight in real-time, no overworld map, which means that everything is fully 
 rendered and there are no static experience points. Skills go up as you use them, and when you 
 have leveled enough skills, your character gains a level and you can increase your attributes.
 
  
  Graphics: Morrowind looks beautiful, although NPC faces don't look too great and sometimes downright 
 ugly. However, this can be remedied by downloading mods. Vvardenfell itself is beautiful and contains 
 a variety of landscapes. There are green pastures, ashlands and archipelagos. The "dungeons" are 
 also wonderfully different. There are simple caves, mines, bandit hideouts, ruins of an old civilization 
 (The Dwemer) and Dunmer strongholds.
  
  Sound: The music is great, just like the voice-acting you'll encounter. The problem is, there is 
 almost no voice-acting. Everything is done by text, which is a shame.
  
  Replay: It can be replayed endlessly. You can start the game again and join another guild, or play 
 with another class. You'll get a different game each time. Even if you manage to exhaust Morrowind's 
 own world, there are tons of user-created mods.
  
  Conclusion: Morrowind is one of my favorite games ever, and one of the best RPGs ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I have only played one RPG before. I never expected to play another 
 RPG or non-shooter. However Morrowind is a leap above other RPGs in its presentation, game play, 
 and content. This game plays more like a shooter in its gameplay than an RPG. It provides realistic 
 action and frantic battles with the same intensity as a shooter, but doesn't compromise the traditional 
 aspects of RPG. Whenever I am playing other games I can't help but wish for the same level of depth 
 as Morrowind contains. You can essentially play the game in any style you want whether it be stealthy, 
 with brute strength, or supernatural means. Often you will use all approaches in just one mission. 
 It is non-linear so you can play basically whatever missions in whatever order, except the main 
 missions (obviously) . You can play missions that fit you and disregard the rest. My major problem 
 with most games is its length, but Morrowind is loaded with objections to complete and treasures 
 to find. With god knows how many missions you could will be playing over 200 hours. 
  
  There are no real flaws other than occasion bugs and some crashes, but they are few and far between. 
 Sound is a slight letdown, the special effects sound generic and sometimes flat. None of these 
 minor problems will really hamper the experience. You will notice clipping through a rock or bush 
 every now and then. However, you will quickly forget the shortcomings in light of everything else 
 this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is the most detailed world that has ever been created for a game. This is where you get 
 to create and play the kind of character that YOU want to. There are many things that you can do 
 in this game. You are able to go on the very mysterious main story quests or you can go on the 
 abundants of side quests. You will meet many interesting people in the exotic locations that it 
 contains. This enormous game is free for you to roam and discover at your own will. Go anywhere 
 you want and do anything that you want. This is a game that you are for surely going to want to 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_satan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Best Role-playing-game ever made. This game is on My top 25 Favorite games. Morrowind Is a Masterpiece 
 so go Check I out. The map of the game is very nice and It's very pretty and such, There are alltypes 
 of Boss's in the Game Ghosts, Zombies, Two legged monsters, Four legged monster, Rats. And more !. 
 And for Weapons theres alltypes of weapons from Daggers, Knifes, Spears... And more !. Characters 
 You get to pick from Catpeople to Humans and Elfs and More !, You also get to make you're Character 
 by picking Hair, Ears, And such. You can also get Clothes I mean Alot of Clothes From Head to Toe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yumilikepie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  If you had informed me prior to my introduction to Morrowind that I would ever spend over 300 hours 
 playing one game and not get bored, I doubt I would believe you. In fact, if I had not actually 
 kept track of how much time I spent in each game and added it whenever I started a new character, 
 I still wouldn't believe it. There is, however, mathematical proof that I have invested that much 
 time into this game. Why is it, exactly, that this game is so much fun? In an utterly fantastical 
 world, it retains realism so great that there are times at which the player has no trouble what-so-ever 
 believing that it is actually him- or herself swinging the sword, casting the spell, lobbying with 
 the merchant, etc. There is also the part where the player is able to essentially do anything. 
 I spent more than 5 hours playing the game before I even started the main quest, and even then, 
 I've never once finished it the way it is designed to be done. And yes, there is more than one 
 way to do it. That hardly says anything though, as there is more than one way to do everything 
 in morrowind. Words can only say so much; if you don't own this game yet, you need to fix that. 
 Right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is an extremely good game. Five years after it's release, it is even better now that 
 it was then. Many of the bugs and glitches have been fixed, and there are dozens of amazing mods 
 out there to improve the graphics, fix gameplay querks, and make the game bigger and better than 
 before.
  
  The original game with the two expansions is itself a huge adventure. I've only just scratched 
 the surface, but so far the game has been getting better as I go along. 
  
  Skills play an important role in this game, as they determine how well you can do things in the 
 game. Leveling is based on increasing your major and minor skills. The leveling system is a little 
 screwy, and from the box seems to emphasize slow and meticulous planning. But, thankfully there 
 are several mods out there to change this, and make the game more of a role playing game.
  
  The game is huge. Tons of quests, and lots of things to do from murdering people and burglarizing 
 their house, to raiding tombs to find that special piece of equipment. You can create your own 
 spells, enchant your armor to make yourself strong, and create potions to heal or buff you. There 
 are all sorts of factions and guilds that you can join, and become the head of. And, after all 
 that, you have the main quest to unravel, and quest mods to download.
  
  The only downside to gameplay is the slow start. But, stick with it, you'll find the game's true 
 depth.
  
  The story is great, and the history of Tamriel is deep and enthralling. If you don't like reading, 
 don't get this game. There are all sorts of books to enlighten you, along with the fact that most 
 dialog is not spoken.
  
  I highly recommend this game. If you try it out, get some of the good mods, especially the mods 
 that change graphics and improve the looks. Without them, the game looks very dated. But, this 
 is easily one fo the best games of all time.
  
  The game itself is MUCH better than Oblivion. Oblivion is dumbed down. Combat in this is a little 
 more boring, but overall the scope of the game is larger, and the depth is much greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZAlucardK
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I hate to actually put in a review in response to anybody but this just needs to be said;
  
  For all of those who played the game and never found a storyline or found it too confusing, 
 I almost want to call you stupid but this would be immature of me. Instead I'm going to tell you 
 that you didn't look very hard if you didn't find a storyline. The first part of it is given to 
 you by the second or third person you talk to.
  
  As per the confusing bit. I'll admit, it takes about an hour to learn how to play and you will 
 die repeatedly in that time. Is that fair? Was FFVIII fair for those who didn't know how to junction? 
 Does it matter? I truthfully don't know but I personally found it fun. It isn't perfect. Far from 
 it. But it is a good game nonetheless. Give it a chance and you may like it. If you don't then 
 aww well sell it to somebody who will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawchain
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the game Ive played the most except from Ultima Online (early years) . 
 
  The whole experience of the large (and I mean LARGE) world.
  The freedom of choosing factions.
  Ways to improve your character. 
  Exploration this huge 
 land. 
  
  And then theres these addons (Bloodmon & Tribunal) that makes it even more large and challenging. 
 
  
  Sure theres glitches, rather many of em infact, but I think it was this game that taught me to 
 quicksave as soon as youre going to do something/anything at all. But the whole experience of 
 this game is just amazing. 
  
  In fact writing about it makes me wanna play again. 
  
  So right about now Im about to install it... and play... and just enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianpwilliams
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is astounding. I've only had it for a couple of weeks and I just don't ever want to stop. 
 The game is HUGE, but brilliant. The entire island of Vvardenell has been hand-crafted (how long 
 must that have taken???) for you to explore with your character, which by the way can be customized 
 however you like, giving you so many possibilities that you can (and will) play it again and again. 
 You have main quests which you do, although you can ignore them for as long as you want and go 
 off exploring, finding caves, tombs, dungeons and all kinds of wonderful things hidden away off 
 the beaten track. There are also many side quests you can do for many many people, and lots of 
 groups you can join to do yet more quests and work your way up the ranks. This is a beautiful game 
 - and the only game I've ever played where I've been on the west coast and it's early evening, 
 and I've just stood to watch the sun go down over the rippling water just to admire the incredible 
 view. There are also excellent changing weather effects, from sunny/cloudy days to sandstorms to 
 fog to downpours to thunder and lightning (which can make you jump if you're in the middle of nowhere 
 in the middle of the night) . There is also a construction set (game of the year edition only? not 
 sure) meaning you can make your own islands, characters, houses, monsters, treasure, anytihng you 
 want - or of couse you can be like me and just take advantage of all the wonderful fan-made mods 
 and plug-ins out there, making the game even bigger! If you are an RPG fan, or even just a computer 
 game fan, please buy this game, preferably the Game of the Year edition because it includes two 
 explansion packs which include a really useful quest list and the ability to make notes on the 
 map (can't tell you how useful that is) .
  
  Gameplay - 9 - People put the gameplay down a bit but I think it does everything it needs to, and 
 I absolutely love it.
  
  Graphics - 9 - I have found some very small glitches in it but overall the game is just beautiful, 
 takes your breath away. Watch the sunset some time, you won't regret it.
  
  Sound - 10 - The sounds in this game are fantastic, the voices of the various NPC's is very good 
 and general effects really draw you into the game. The music, although fantastic, can get a bit 
 repetitive when you've been spening 100's of hours playing, but you can add mp3's to the data folder 
 and the game will play all of them. Brilliant.
  
  Replayability - 9 - Although (I assume) the island will be exactly the same every time, as will 
 the quests, characters and everything else, you can still do whatever ever you want, whenever you 
 want, in any order, and over such an absolutely massive island that you will no doubt forget a 
 lot of what you've done by the time you've completed it, and there's no doubt you will miss things 
 each time you go through. Also, with the custom character/class option you can be a very different 
 character from what you've been before. With GOTY you also have a difficulty slider (about 200 
 settings or something crazy!) which you can up to make it harder too if you want.
  
  Overall - 9.6 although even that sounds a little bit too low to me, I have a PC and a PS2 and a 
 huge amount of games I love on both, but since I've got Morrowind there is simply no other game 
 I want to play, and I can see it staying that way for a very very long time to come. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics lack in quality, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is a great game. Morrowind 
 is set in the world of Vvardenfall, with your character on a boat to Seyda Neen, the newbie town, 
 where you choose things such as Race, Class, Symbol, and some more to finish the character. From 
 there the story, unlike other games, let's you take your time. I spent a week doing my own thing, 
 and that didn't affect the world at all, other than my level going up, and helping people. The 
 story is extremely interesting, it is the first story in a game that I have played that keeps the 
 story so much under wraps, until you progress, that it's not too predictable, but not too confusing. 
 In addition to the fun, exciting storyline in this amazing game, there are guilds to join and progress 
 in, including the Thieves Guild, the Fighters Guild, The Mages Guild, a group of spies, called 
 the Blades (The story greatly reveals the cloud around this) , and much much more. A minor detail 
 to the game is the Graphics. But of course, the story and characters pull me in so much that the 
 Graphics become such a small detail that eventually it becomes ignored. The gameplay is fun, and 
 keeps you coming back for more. Although the world isn't the largest in a game world, the dungeons 
 add a large abundancy to the size of the game. If you get tired of the main story or want to take 
 a break, there are weeks-worth of side quests for doing, including pillaging a ruin, killing an 
 outlaw, assassinating the leader of an opposing guild, or blowing the cover of a smugging group. 
 Overall this game is overly immersive, and is just plain great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  I have spent over 500 hours playing this game. And I loved every minute. No game has grabbed me 
 and compelled me to play ever since. No, I do not play MMOs. This game was an obsession for me 
 for several years. I write this review now, because I feel strongly that oblivion did not live 
 up to the legacy fo the elder scrolls, set by arena, and upheld by daggerfall and morrowind
  
  Morrowind, at the time I played it, literally was another life. It was my frist RPG, and I 
 was entranced. For its time, the graphics were excellent, but more importantly the world they conveyed 
 was the most creative and beautiful video game world I have ever seen. 
  
  The music was unbelievably good, and I burned myself a CD of it just to listen to it in the car. 
 The sounds were all so immerisve, the world so incredible. 
  
  The gameplay was pretty standard for RPGs, but It was crafted so well, all I wanted to do was play 
 morrowind. 
  
  Morrowind was released on may 2, 2002. It is June 1, 2006. I am still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The highest point in this game is the freelanceness of your ability to do just anything just about. 
 from Going and presueing the main quest or getting side tracked by side quests. The Customizeble 
 stuff for Morrowind is a good thing for its day, but it can by no means rivial Oblivion's Customizeble 
 material.
  
  The downside to this game is the really, really boring combat melee wise, its very limited, and 
 it will push you away from the game evenually. if you dont have enough patience.
  
  But even with a flaw like that, this game is pretty much flawless and still a classic for its time, 
 but if you wanna move on to something bigger and better, go to ites seccuessor, Elders Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonfb
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best pc games ever. the best rpg i know. there is a world the size of, 
 honestly, texas. realisticly. that is a HUGE world for a game. there is hundreds of armors and 
 weopons. choose to be in first person or third. freedom at its max. do whatever you want. period. 
 the game has dozens of quests, including the main quest if you dont like the open ended gameplay. 
 the game is simply the best rpg tou can pick up (besides oblivion) that dosent take a monster to 
 run:) there are many races such as  though there called 
 dumner) and many more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games that i have played so far. I have played the first two chapters 
 of The Elder Scrolls series but they didn't come anywhere near the game-play of this one. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who I would think that would like this game. If you want a game that 
 is packed with tasks to fulfill, enemies to kill and tasks which can be challenging to complete 
 then this is the game for you. If this game is anything to go by then I can't wait to play Elder 
 Scrolls 4: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  This was a great RPG game for the PC and Xbox but man was it long. And I mean long. The game hadf 
 great grpahics for a game released in 2002. THe sound and gameplay were above average. I think 
 the game was way to long though. I mean I spent at least 60-70 hours playing this game. I almost 
 flunked school because it was getting to good point in the story. THe game has great battle skills 
 and great spells. The characters choice is extende and excellent. I really enjoyed Morrowind for 
 a while and I really love Oblivion. The Elder Scrolls series is doing great but the legth of the 
 game was just rediculous. I really hope to see more game like Morrwind in the future. If you love 
 fantasy RPG games that keep you playing for a long time, them you will fall in love with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKAssasinIndy
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series are both popular because of two elements. Freedom and choices. But if 
 the game is great, the bugs and errors are much more visible, so TES is also very bugged (long 
 live the Daggerfall) . If you ask me what is the matrix (oh sorry, i mean Morrowind) , then my answer 
 is: "What would you like? Be superman or simple thief? Be wizard or Conan? Be anything, do anything. 
 Live the life of one province of Tamriel." 
  But if you are online player and MMORPG veteran, the answer is: "It is single player online rpg. 
 It is not such fun like WoW or any other massive game. It is only world for lone wolfs."
  The question is, do you want to play alone, but long? For very long time? To be consumed by the 
 simple story of an outlander traveling by the boat to the province Morrowind? If the answers for 
 those questions are positive, then go forward! Go to the Morrowind!
  You will be thrown into world of alchemy, fencing, magic and intrigues. It sounds like commercial, 
 but it is true. The game is still popular. You have the choice to do you own way to fulfill the 
 prophecy of game. And this is what I like. No barriers, no stupid scripts, nothing in your way! 
 Nice scripts makes beautifull game of course, but will you play it again? The Morrowind can not 
 be finished. The quests are countless. One main prophecy, but many interensting journeys and duties 
 for a guilds.
  If you seek adventure, you will find it all in Morrowind.
  Because you can choose your way. Remember, many fails, but one remains. And he will be reward with 
 amazing game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 19, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Please dont send hate letters this is my opnion i dont give a crap wut u think. I'll tell my reasons 
 why this game sucks. First people look like crap... sorta like the ones in half life 1. Another 
 thing is that the day changes. I hate playing in the night time. Also the names were so confusing. 
 Go here do that. And when you try to steal something like a broom everyone in towns tries to kill 
 you, there is no story line... its just killing and stealing. This is probably the worst rpg ive 
 played. Word of advice dont even buy this game even if it costs 10$ get Half Life.. WOOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III Morrowind is a supergame for PC and in my opinion is the best RPG of all 
 time. I didn't know about The Elder Scrolls series until I heard about Oblivion, and I decided 
 to test this kind of game. It is one of the best looking RPGs I've ever seen, it has a great story 
 and it'll let you be a free citizen of the world in-game.
  Morrowind starts in a boat, you're a prisoner from a distant land, and by the order of the king 
 you were brought to Morrowind, the reason is unknown, but you have to do some tasks in the name 
 of king instead. The game story is very well created, but sometimes you'll get lost in some quests 
 because there are many things to do, and you'll rarely find a place where you don't have nothing 
 to do at all.
  As a soldier of the king, you'll have to get yourself registred as a citizen of Morrowind, you 
 must say your name, choose your race, your sex and your physical traits. There are many races for 
 you to choose : Orc, Dark elf , Wooden elf , Imperial and many other races. Then, you'll have to 
 choose a class. You can answer some questions to see what's your class really is, or you can just 
 pick one class of the list, and you can even make your own class. There are many classes, such 
 as Warrior, Crusader, Knight, Archer, Thief, Spellsword, Rogue, Wizard and many others. You can also 
 choose your sign in-game, there are many and they are connected with your primary skills. Creating 
 a character is very fun, and there are many opitions for making an unique character.
  I think the most interesting part in creating your hero is the equipment itself. Every equipment 
 that you equip in your character is displayed and showed in it. So you can create an almost unique 
 character. But it doesn't really matters , because in this game there's no multiplayer mode. I 
 think that is the worst problem of Morrowind, it doesn't have a multiplayer mode for you to test 
 your abilities against another players.
  Morrowind graphics are the greatest I've ever seen. Of course that there are many better graphics 
 in other RPGs, but the design of the graphic itself is very good, one of the brightest and more 
 realistc I've ever seen. For example, when you're in the top of a mountain and you look down you 
 can see a very realistc forest, and then when you enter the forest you can see beautiful trees 
 and you can notice swamps, and you can see many rivers and things like this which make this game 
 really unique in its graphics. The character are very well designed too, you're going to see lots 
 of interesting people, interesting weapons and armor and different kinds of characters along the 
 game. And what's most interesting is that the facial expression of every people you meet, you can 
 see they moving their lips while they are talking and things like this really interesting.
  Another good topic of the graphics is the lightinning effects which are really great. The magics 
 itself are very common but the effects of a thunderstorm and the lights such as torches and many 
 other sources of light are very well-designed and made. Some of the best in all RPGs.
  The sounds of the game aren't as good as its graphics. I think the sounds are the same of other 
 RPGs, so there's nothing innovative. And most part of the game you'll have to read long texts because 
 almost all characters in this game don't have voice. The game soundtrack is the best of part of 
 its sound. It remembers Zelda and Final Fantasy games, pretty much fun than many other soundtracks 
 of RPGs.
  Although Morrowind have great graphics, realistics sounds, and enjoyble storyline with an enjoyble 
 interface, the game lacks in gameplay. It is a first person role-playing game, so everything is 
 on your character view. Actually, it is much more interesting for exploring cities, forest and 
 dungeons, but for the combat itself this kind of camera really doesn't help. You're going to see 
 that using a sword isn't that fun, 'cause you'll never do combos and you'll never perform special 
 attacks. You have to focus just one target, and sometimes your weapon can't reach it so you'll 
 have to get nearer and there are many big monsters. Sometimes you'll be attack by many monsters 
 at once, and the shielding system isn't that good. So that's it, it is very fun the first-person 
 looking camera, but for combats it is a little bit bad.
  The world in The Elder Scrolls III is very big. You're going to see a lot of different places and 
 a lot of different people, and you'll spend many hours exploring every corner of it. Morrowind 
 is a continent of the TES world. The continent is an island which were inhabited by the elves, 
 but after the imperial invasion, there are all kinds of races in the area. Morrowind have many 
 cities, villages and towns. You'll see many small farming villages, where people live peacefully 
 as you'll see many forts and towns at war against some force. The world in-game is just very fun.
 
  As you play through the world, you'll become known by the things you do. If you're a killer, then 
 the people you'll be afraid of you. If you're a criminal, then the guards will keep attention an 
 eye on you, and so on. You're a true citizen of Morrowind, you can talk with everyone, but if you 
 don't respect people, then they won't talk to you and they won't do anything for you. So, if you 
 want to survive easily in the land of Morrowind, you'll need to make friends and treat everybody 
 well. This is very interesting, because this system let you create your own personality in your 
 character.
  VEREDICT : So, The Elder Scrolls III Morrowind is a very valuable game. The game have is very big 
 and very fun, but if you aren't a RPG player, you're not going to like it. But if you are a RPG 
 player, you'll like it for sure, and you're going to play and replay it many times, because it 
 is one of the funiest ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffythewise
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I love this game; there is so much to this game. Not only can you play this game for hours or even 
 days and still a lot of freakin stuff to do, but there are so many mods you can get here of gamespot. 
 The game consist of a main story line and and a million different side quests. You can play as 
 close to or as different from the story line as you'd like. You can make your character into anything 
 you would like. You can be a mage, a warrior, a stealthy ranger, or all the above. There are many 
 different guilds you can join too; there is the Thieves guild, Mages guild, Fighter's guild, as 
 well as three great houses and many other factions such as the Morag Tong. You can constantly change 
 your weapons and armor to fit whatever kinda mission you are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exeeded_limit
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is one of my favorite rpg games. It is very imense and I have explored a lot of the world 
 and still have not seen everything. You can nuy any weapon you wish and armor as well. You can 
 cast spells or summun the dead. This added to my liking of the game. I didn't have to choose between 
 a wizard, warrior, or archer because i could be all three at once mixing my skills by first stunning 
 an enemy, then casting fireballs at him or shooting arrows, and finally killing him with my sword. 
 There is and a range of weapons to choose from so as soon as you get tired of one you can buy another. 
 The graphics of the game amazed me too. Firstly because of the rich detail given to the people 
 who inhabit morrowind, secondly because of the armor and weapons, but the most amazing thing to 
 me was the huge amount of land scape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Ever felt like living another life in another world. Well you can. THis beautiful limetless world 
 surely does do what a RPG should. Travel the land and go on pilgrimages to shrines. Become part 
 of a theives guild and hunt down and unfaithful memeber! THis game for the PC also comes with a 
 TES construction set which allows you to easily create your own addition to the game. This game 
 surely is the best for a third of four in its series! play as
  Imperial
  Argonian (Lizard creature)
  Kajhitt (Cat creature)
  Orc
  Redgaurd
  Breton 
  Nord 
  
 High elf
  Dark Elf
  Wood elf
  
  Summary:
  Beautiful world with no limits. excellent amount of replayablity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game has flaws but by them is one of the best games ever made avalible.
  
  Gameplay:
  Morrowind, what else can I say! This game has won over 60 awards including RPG of 
 the Year and Game of the Year. Combat is not definatly Morrowind's strongest suit. It is hard to 
 hit the enemy and if you do the effects are not that good. The quests are long and for some parts 
 boring. They can take hours of looking to find what you are looking for. The gameplay has a few 
 really big problems. One of which is memory leaks. You can get a cool weapon one day and the next 
 day you play it will be gone. That got really annoying. To slove it is that you should save in 
 different slots. It helps but not all of the time. You can be diiferent species to play as. Everything 
 from Elfs to Orcs. From there you can choose your class. There are 3 catagories. One is based off 
 of combat. You can be knights and archers and other ones in that catagory. The other is Magika. 
 Just FYI: Magika is magic. Here you can be mage like classes. The last one is stealth. Basicly 
 an assasins class. If none of these fit you, you can make your own class. There you could make 
 yourself stealthy but have strong Magika skills. As you progress you will level up just like every 
 other RPG to date. Do not be surprised if you do not level up very fast. It takes a while at first 
 then it goes faster. You can join different factions. The are the follwing: Imperial Guild, Imperial 
 Cult, Mages Guild and Fighters Guild. The best one to join for n00bs is Imperial Guild. Thier quests 
 are really easy and you get some good stuff for working with them. There are many weapons to have 
 fun with here in Morrowind. You can also get different spells by talking to people. So all in all. 
 the gameplay is fun but not the best part of Morrowind.
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  The look really good for a game that game out whte a while ago. This game isn't very demanding 
 on the graphics front. I do not know the specs but you can pass on the RAM front with only 256 
 MB of RAM. I have a 1024 and the loading time for game is fine and dandy. Your graphics card is 
 going to need no upgrading to play this game. I have a NVIDIA GeForce FX 5200 and I can run it 
 on high. Note: this is only game I can run on high. That is how bad my computer is. The Elder Scrolls 
 games are known for pushing the envolope graphical wise. Oblivion does it and so does this game. 
 The previos games the Elder Srolls series did it for thier time and so does this one. So if you 
 are trying to save up for a computer that can run Oblivion I recomend picking this game up to keep 
 you going for a while. 
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  There is little voice acting to be had in Elder Srolls Morrowind. The only time you hear someone 
 talking is when you walk by them. ANd trust me, they all say the same thing 80 times over. The 
 music makes up for this. It is really good. It is dark and ominus. And some points, it may scare 
 you.
  8/10
  
  Value:
  Oh, boy... this is were it gets fun! :D The world you live on is so big that you can get lost. 
 Thankfully there is a map to guid you along. There are about 60 places to visit. Each with its 
 own number of quwests to enjoy and beat. Out side of each town is a few dungens to visit. You mainly 
 have to free slaves or just randomly kill things. There are great training places. If you get the 
 PC game of the year version you get a few expansion packs that add a new islands to visit. One 
 is Solestheem were you can kill polar bears. The other is the capital city of Mournhold. You can 
 visit new shops and get really rare and good weapons. Even gamespot gave the value a ten. If that 
 doesn't say anything you need help, in da brain. This game doesn't totally make you loose your 
 social life but it is pretty addicting. This game lags so much gameplay you can't miss it. 
  10/10
  
  Tilt:
  This was the Elder Srolls game I had ever played. It got me hooked and I 
 am upgrading my computer just to play Elder Srolls 4 Oblivion. 
  9/10
  
  Wrap Up: A. K. A. Summery
  Winner of over 60 awards inculuding best RPG and Game of the Year, this 
 one lags almost 1000 hours of gameplay. With it's sprawling enviroments and almost unlimeted number 
 of vilages there is so much to be had. If you get the Game of the Year Edition you also get the 
 two PC only expansion packs which add new villages to plunder. You also get a construction set 
 to use to make your own stuff for the game. The normal Elder Scrolles 3 Morrowind is only on the 
 XBOX. The Game of the Year Edition is on both of the PC and XBOX.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Result:
  8.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  If there has ever been a better RPG ever, please speak up now. Thats how good The Elder Scrolls 
 III Morrowind is. If you want a game where you can basically do whatever the hell you feel like 
 doing, and DO NOT have to follow the storyline, then look no further than this very title.
  
  The story is somewhat confusing at first, but rolls along the line of one main quest where 
 you are some sort of savior. You are a prisoner of the Imperial City born on a certain day and 
 supposedly chosen to be a hero in Morrowind. You arrive in Morrowind and are shown in to the census 
 office where you are officially released. After that, its all up to you. Use your imagination 
 and make up any story you want. 
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Even by todays standards, these graphics are very impressive. For starters, the framerate manages 
 to stay smooth and strong which is no small feat, especially given the massive open, expansive 
 environments in this game. The character models look pretty good, but theres some clipping in 
 between, and a lot of clipping when you walk on any type of terrain. Dont let that bother you 
 however, as most people can easily look past this. The game can be viewed from either a first or 
 third person perspective, which makes the balance of viewing and combat easier. Theres also a 
 fully 3D camera that you can rotate around your character, so you can see how he/she looks like 
 on all fronts when you put a new suit of armor on. Overall, the graphics are impressive, even by 
 todays standards. 
  
  Sound- 7/10
  The sound is mostly good. The voice acting is good, the weather sound effects are really good and 
 most of the environmental sounds are acceptable. As for your character, there were some sounds 
 I really liked. For instance, when you pull out a sword, it sounds like you are pulling out a sword. 
 The footsteps sound good, but I would have preferred more variety to them. The water sounds very 
 lifelike, and the combat sounds are decent enough. However, I would have preferred more dialogue 
 to each character, and more voices for the wide selection of characters. The characters only have 
 a few lines to them, and most of the characters sound the same. Other than that however, the sound 
 is still good, but nothing too spectacular. 
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  This is an outstanding game when it comes to the gameplay aspect. To start off, its a RPG, which 
 means that you get to design your own character. But you have never experienced designing your 
 own character until you have played this game. To start off, you can design your character down 
 to the smallest trait. You can pick your sex, race, class, everything. You can then design the 
 properties for your class if you choose to create a custom character. You can pick the major, minor, 
 and miscellaneous skills. The major skills level up faster than other skills, and you can even 
 receive training for each specific skill. The best part of the game however, is that for once, 
 you dont need to follow the storyline. You can do whatever you want. You can break into peoples 
 houses, and steal their stuff and sell it to the highest bidder. You can go around killing people, 
 or take on the Imperial Guard. You can simply explore the wilderness, find caverns and explore 
 them. You can assassinate important people crucial to the storyline, join a faction and many other 
 things. As for combat, there are many ways you can conduct it, and can conduct it in either a first 
 person or third person perspective. I prefer the first person because its easier to do. The combat 
 can get frustrating at times, and may seem somewhat clunky, but this game was not based solely 
 on combat, it was built for many more things. There are a variety of types of armor that you can 
 use to help take less damage, and can even receive training to be more flexible while wearing them. 
 The possibilities are endless. With 400 mini quests at your disposal, this game should keep you 
 bust for at least 100 hours, maybe longer. If you buy the game of the year edition, you receive 
 the two expansion packs which add even more replay value to an already outstanding game. All you 
 need to do is use your imagination.
  
  Overall, if you are willing to use your imagination to fill in a few blanks, you can find long 
 hours of enjoyment out of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This massive RPG is a great way to waste your life wallowing in front of your computer screen in 
 its mightiness. This game provides countless hours of gameplay, but it can be a little slow to 
 get started.
  The game has a story line... somewhere, but with the unorganized journal the cataclysmic story 
 line of the game gets mixed up with whether or not you found a book for Joe Shmoe. When you feel 
 like doing a quest you have already started, you have to spend ages looking for the actual quest 
 name, and hope for the best that you guessed right. Your journal's unorganization is the only major 
 drawback to this game.
  The combat is a minor flaw. The only option you have is to click you mouse and it uses your weapon. 
 It would have been nice to have been able to block on your own, but it happens randomly. I have 
 no idea what Bethesda was thinking when they came up with that one.
  The game has a more than expansive map, and it seems impossible to cover it all. You can enjoy 
 hours of fun just exploring the countryside and seeing what quests are available there, or you 
 can spend your time leveling up.
  The graphics of the game are decent, but they don't seem to be all that sharp. The weather system 
 adds a nice effect to the game. The weather affects your mood as your playing and makes it seem 
 more realistic. The original music is beautiful. This is a great game in itself, but the added 
 expansion packs include more quests and land to explore, and they make it even better.
  This game provides many hours of fun gameplay, but the story line gets caught up in the jumble 
 of things. The time spent playing this game is well worth it. I highly recommend this to everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is so much better than Oblivion on so many levels it is just amazing.
  If you download and install the graphics mods for Morrowind it looks almost as good as Oblivion 
 and is much easier on a PC.
  I can't believe that Bethesda has worked on Oblivion for so long.
  99% of the time must have 
 been on doing the graphics.
  Anyway about Morrowind.
  This is probably the most addictive game I have ever played.
  The wierd thing is that I hated 
 it the first time I played it.
  I guess it is just a formula I was uncomfortable with at first.
  This is my favorite game of 
 all time.
  Probably followed by Diablo II.
  I think that gamespot's reviews of Oblivion and Morrowind should be reversed and then they will 
 be much more accurate.
  I think that after the initial rush of Oblivion is over that people will realize that Morrowind 
 is a much much deeper and far more satisfying game.
  I am still playing Morrowind today.
  Maby Hellgate London will make me move on.
  Are there any truely good RPG'S today?
  I hate 
 MMO's.
  Anyways that is my Opinion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metaltude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The one game I just keep going with. Even now I got Oblivion. Morrowind runs smoother and if you're 
 tired of the common and basic world, you just download some mods and there you go.. an other world. 
 Even if you're not interested in the main quest, you can spend hours wandering in the wilderness. 
 Killing beasts, and other beings. Emptying mines and creating new potions will give you the money 
 you need. It's an urge you can't resist, you just want to get better and more powerful... In the 
 end the quests are just business to be done at the end... or not, it's your decision, your path 
 to choose, your end.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikkus_Chaos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  First off when you start the game you dont get given a character you create one, from dark elves 
 to bretons and even kaij (large cat-like people.) Also you choose your class and its not the nomal 
 Fighter, Mage or Ranger you can pick lots from a list, make your own or generate one by answering 
 questions!
  
  The weapons and spells in this are great with lots to choose from or even creating your own spells 
 and putting spells on weapons (eg: firestrike on sword.)
  
  The main story can get lost in this game as there are ever expanding side quests, Plus you can 
 join guilds [and rise in ranks] like the Fighters Guild, Mages Guild or even the underground Theifs 
 Guild. But thats not all you can join temples and royal gaurds and then some!
  
  So as far as rollercoster rides go this one takes the cake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_dimmer
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about morrowind it was from one of my good friends. He said that the game wasent 
 soo good as Oblivion, but it was worth playing! So i borrowed the game and installed it. I had 
 a lot of expectations for the game so when i started the first thing there disapointed me was the 
 graphics. Becouse i had played Oblivion. The gameplay was enough to outshine the graphics. The 
 island was enormous and it took me 2 hours to complete the first quest. I just love the game, and 
 the only reason for not buying it becouse of Oblivion. I only have one word for games like these:
 
  Fantastic!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2003 or so, I picked up Morrowind almost on a whim. I saw it sitting on a shelf in Best 
 Buy and the mention of open-ended gameplay interested me even though I had no prior knowledge of 
 the game. Ever since, I've been hooked. I always come back to this game and I'm never bored with 
 it. Despite being a single player game that isn't constantly updated, I've never run out of quests 
 to complete, caves to explore, or items to find. True, artificial intelligence is spotty but the 
 sheer size of the game and world makes it almost like a bonus to have thinking characters at all. 
 With all the dunderheads playing MMORPG's, I can live with it. Morrowind never runs out of gameplay, 
 and as long as you're playing you'll be immersed. It does exactly what gaming should do and what 
 books do, let you escape from life and live in another world. Morrowind, its successor, and its 
 predecessors are some of the best things to happen to gaming. Anybody who wants to get away should 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to begin. Let's get this out of the way first. Elder Scrolls III, is without a doubt 
 one of the best games I have ever played. And this from a fan of games like Doom, Half Life, and 
 Duke Nukem ( Hey where the hell is Duke Nukem Forever Anyway, ah who cares. ) With a game as good 
 as Elder Scrolls III, I've become a convert from boring games like Doom and Half Life, to one of 
 the most entertaining games to date. Really there's no way to do this game justice with a 100 word 
 review. You'd need at least 10,000 words for a proper review, but most people would probably fall 
 asleep before getting to the end. So I Won't bore you, go out now and purchase this game you won't 
 regret it. Oh and forget about Elder Scrolls 4 it sucks compared to this game mainly because it 
 was developed with the XBox 360 in mind not the PC. So you'll just be playing a console port. DOWN 
 with console ports, it's an injustice to PC gamers everywhere. Oh sorry I lost my mind for a moment. 
 Anyway Buy Elder Scrolls III you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaodyn5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a beautiful game, set in a land of magic and mystery. Morrowind is chock full of all kinds 
 of quests and creatures, spells and items. Hundreds of characters populate the world and there 
 are innumerable places to discover and explore. Tombs and cult worship sites are spread throughout 
 the land, full of demons and the undead and, of course, the ancient items of power they protect. 
 There are numerous guilds to join and climb the ranks even three clans of Vampyr that can be joined, 
 at the price of humanity and sanity. Even after the main quest is complete you are left to explore 
 the world as you would and everywhere you go some thing can be stolen, killed, discovered or quested 
 for. Morrowind is definitly a genre defining game and is worth every penny spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  RPG games have always been a huge franchise. RPG worlds are supposed to be big and give you all 
 freedom possible. They should also have rich sound and rich music to the game. The Elder Scrolls: 
 Morrowind sets all of it! It's just a perfect game to play if you are a RPG lover. 
  
  The graphics of the game are impressive, since the game was made back in 2002, the graphics sets 
 it out. The water is good looking and character animations look ok. The grounds and walls look 
 and feel like you are in the game. 
  
  The AI of the game are ok. They sometimes get lazy and dumb, and they just run around being stupid. 
 They can't even open doors. But that is ok, it makes it easier for you. Since there are characters 
 in the game that are very hard to defeat, this makes it easier for you.
  
  The sound of the game is very good, but a bit disappointing, the soundtrack is only 8-10 minutes 
 long, and it repeats itself most of the time which annoyed me. But what you can do is to put some 
 of your favorite music in the Morrowind music map, and it will play the music automatically when 
 you are playing.
  
  The game-play is just excellent! However, sometimes you get frustrated when some weather effects 
 just repeats themselves. Otherwise, the game-play is really good.
  
  You get tires of the game after 6-8 months when you are basically almost done with the game because 
 the game is just hundreds of hours long. It is not hard to understand how the game works, but it 
 is a hard game, since you have to do very hard quests all the time. In overall, the game just rocks 
 and you should try it if you are a RPG fan. It's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind puts you in the shoes of your own customized character. You choose the class, race, stats, 
 and special powers. It has you join a guild from the start and follow missions for the main game, 
 or just go off and do whatever you want. The greatest thing about this game is that it is not linear 
 in any way. You can explore any city or mountaintop, plain or coast, dungeon or tavern right from 
 the start!
  
  There are many many NPCs (non player characters) in this game. Merchants, guards, bandits, witches, 
 and all of the enemies you face. Almost every single item in the game you can steal or pick up.
 
  
  I fell in love with this game right from the start! There are some tech issues though. The draw 
 distance isn't what you call superb, along with some pop-up issues. With so many characters and 
 cities, loading times are constant although not frequent to take away from the gameplay. Lastly, 
 there is no hit detection. You don't know if you have hit someone with your weapon or not.
  
  Past those issues, with great graphics, RPG fans (or just any-kind gamers) will love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmollea
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Morrowind seems to replicate the flaws Daggerfall already exposed: graphically marvellous, but 
 quickly boring.
  Well, maybe I'm wrong. Is more frustrating than boring. First quests are too much hack'n'slash 
 and the combat system isn't quite user friendly. The difficulty setting is high and you risk your 
 life very quickly. The world is again very vast and wandering at the beginning isn't much rewarding 
 and risky. Guild quests again are of the same type with few variety.
  In a few words: "Life is hard, then you die..."
  I was quickly frustrated and stopped playing 
 it very soon.
  If you can, rent it, and play it, maybe you will not be disappointed as I was.
  
  A special 
 mention should be done for the editor. That, at least as the NeverWinterNight editor, is funny 
 and entertaining. A little bit complex, but adds spice to the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodWerewolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Morrowind was one of the most, if not the, revolutionary RPG title of 2003. It gave you an open 
 world and let you explore it however you chose. Bethesda should be proud.
  
  At the offset of the game, you wake up abord an Imperial prison ship, talking with another inmate. 
 You are quickly taken off and let go in the city of Seyda Neen, a fishing village. From there, 
 you must make your way to Balmora where you will begin the main quest to uncover your destiny.
 
  
  The game lets you pick your name, race, class, and birthsigns to customize your character. You 
 can pick from ten races, from the smooth-talking Imperials to the lizard-like citizens of Blackmarsh, 
 the Argonians. Your class can be one of 21 preselected classes, or you can create your own. 
  
  Although you can't make every one of the 27 skills major ones, you can improve the ones you 
 don't know well to make your character perform better. Paying for training, or frying woodland 
 creatures will raise your level, and once you gain ten points in major or minor skills, you will 
 level up, after taking a nap. Hey, this is interesting.
  
  The Main Quest in Morrowind may be the central plot, but there are numerous guilds and Great Houses 
 you can join to raise your reputation in the world. Each one has over twenty quests to perform 
 and sometimes, you will have to choose your sides. 
  
  Besides taking up almost four square miles, Vvardenfell contains numerous locations to explore. 
 You can plunder Daedric shrines, vampire lairs, almost twenty cities, and much, much more.
  
  There's just too much to do to list here. 
  
  If you enjoy any kind of RPG, you would be 
 wise to give Morrowind a try. It's just too much fun to ignore, unless you're not patient. The 
 game is very long and makes you work for your meals, so to speak. For example, the guild known 
 as the Imperial Legion will reward you with an enchanted curiass and claymore, but you must finish 
 every last quest before you get that chance.
  
  Still, Morrowind is a best seller for a reason. It's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that the Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is one of if not the best and most immersive 
 RPG in gaming today. Morrowind puts you in the huge (I mean huge) world of Vvardenfell and sets 
 you loose. You can be whoever you want or do anything you want.
  
  The gameplay rocks in that you can do really anything that you set your mind to. You can steal, 
 fight, and simply do all sorts of things that will make Morrowind seem real. The combat engine 
 is simple, but effective, and the sneak engine adds some stealth to the gameplay that adds some 
 depth when you see an item that you could snag and sell or keep for yourself. Another giant plus 
 is the game's sheer amount of stuff to do. In Morrowind you have multiple factions or guilds to 
 join and move up in the ranks after completing tasks. Aside from the guilds you have people around 
 the world that will ask you to do things for them and you can either accept or decline their offers. 
 You have the choice in pretty much everything you will encounter in Vvardenfell.
  
  The graphics are great, and if your computer is powerful enough it may even look like (or as good) 
 as the XBox version. The character models are wonderful, and the environments and weapons look 
 even better. You'll have a blast just looking at the shimmering water. In my opinion the most impressive 
 graphics in this game is the huge sky. Call me crazy, but the sky looks so serene and peaceful 
 and calm at night with all the stars. Really, the graphics will have you drooling.
  
  The sound is good, and offers some funny moments. For example, I heard this silt strider guy say 
 something to the effect: "I'm going to kill that guar. Those boots are ruined." You'll encounter 
 other funny remarks if people don't like you very much like if you walk around with only undies 
 on. That's another funny example. The music perhaps is the best in sound as it offers what's going 
 on at a certain time. For example, when it's peaceful, you get this smooth score, but when enemies 
 are on to you or attacking you the music quickly changes to something faster and has a tone of 
 urgency. I would also have to say the dialogue of the gods you meet is pretty cool.
  
  Value is great. This is the kind of game that will steal your hours, your days, your weeks, your 
 months, and literally your years. The game is so huge, there is so much to do, you can't possibly 
 do it all. With the main game, the faction/guild quests, and miscellaneous quests, you won't even 
 know where to start it all. But I'll tell you- it's worth it. It has tremendous replay value like 
 no other game and you will find no other game as deep and long as the Elder Scrolls III.
  
  Tilt is good, but leaves a few shady areas. Despite being one of the best RPG games out this second, 
 it can't double as being perfect. Like the guys here on GS said there are a few (just a few) empty 
 spots that you will need to fill in as you go along. Otherwise, this game is worth every cent you 
 pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --__-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls is the third game in the Elder Scrolls series which have been huge open-ended RPG's. 
 Each game, although great, had a number of bugs. Oddly, Morrowind continues this tradition by making 
 a good, somewhat buggy game.
  
  STORY: It won't be winning any awards. Just you're basic underdog adventurer who rises up to become 
 savior of the world (Morrowind) . That's the main quest anyway. There's still plenty of other factions, 
 guilds, or groups to join. 7/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where the meat of the game is. And suffice to say, it delivers. For example, 
 instead of killing things to gain levels and experiance, instead you must practice a selection 
 skills. That way you gain stealth experiance by sneaking around things, not taking out a big sword 
 and start bashing them to hell. Other neat features include enchantment and spellmaking. Not to 
 mention you can make your own potions. The only thing that could have been better is the map and 
 journal system. 9/10
  
  GRAPHICS: Morrowind stands out strong in the graphics department. Beautifully detailed cities and 
 creatures stand out in a lush world. The only problem is, you'd need a beast to handle it. There 
 are also some graphical glitches, such as funky draw distance. All in all, the graphics are good, 
 not perfect. 8/10
  
  SOUND: Ouch! This is were Morrowind sucks the most. Voice-overs are done nicely (I wouldn't even 
 know how to imitate a Dark Elf) . The music is done well, but there's only 3 tracks that keep repeating 
 themselves over and over and over... Also, some of the sound effects are absolutely ridiculous. 
 Like when you hit an enemy and it makes a stereotypic "wha-poocsh." Enviromental effects are okay, 
 though. 7/10
  
  REPLAYABILITY: Morrowind is a game that you will spend alot of time getting familiar with. There 
 are just so many things to do. Join guilds, steal stuff, kill people... Heck, kill EVERYONE!!! 
 The game lets you. Why don't create a Nord who wears nothing but leopard underwear and kills mudcrabs 
 and slaughterfish while running through the woods? Best thing about it? You can do it. Just because 
 it doesn't have multi-player doesn't mean it's not replayable. Trust me. 10/10
  
  All in all Morrowind is a good buy. Not to mention that the Tribunal and Bloodmoon expansions add 
 on hours of gameplay. If not quite ready for Oblivion... Try Morrowind.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9/10 (not an average)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afterburner1313
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  This game is quite a surprise. My first impression of this game after I played it for a while soon 
 after i get this game out from its box this game is trash and I curses all the praises to this 
 game out there. I mostly hated the combat... it's very silly and clumsy. I don't touch this game 
 for quite long, but then one morning rather I have nothing to do in my spare time, since I've wasted 
 some bucks on this one I give it another shot just for a minute or two. I reinstall this game and 
 explore the world a little, tried to finish some quests... suddenly those minutes becomes hours 
 and hours. My character gain experiences and then those hours becoming a day without any sleep. 
 This game got me hooked slowly without making me realizes it. Then I got some family matters and 
 need to get off from my PC, the only things I have in mind is "where should i get raw ebonies to 
 hire the mage?" or "which house should I join?"... and all i want is to get back to my PC and continue 
 my saved game. 
  
  I'm telling you this game is dangerous, it plays with your mind...
  
  Gameplay:
  Morrowind's world is big. It has a lot of cities and villages, but you can reach 
 most of them by foot if you want. You have tons to do, way lot things to do in Morrowind even than 
 in your real life. Do what you want to do, be what you want to be. That's what make this game sweet. 
 You'll never run out of activities here, and what's important you won't get bored doing it. Your 
 duties are very varied and the challenges is there. There's no confusing puzzles or anything that 
 will get you stuck. Even if you do, you can leave the current quest and head on with another quests, 
 except the main quests of course which you'll have to do in order to finish the game. 
  
  The character you play has alot of attributes, and you don't pick which one you want to upgrade 
 but simply by doing them over and over again, just like in real life, except if you choose to get 
 some training on your skills of course. 
  
  Until this second, I still don't quite like the combat. While my character have reached higher 
 level it's less and lesser annoying but still combat is the weakest part of this game IMO. While 
 there's projectile weapons available but my character's a fighter and fights with close combat 
 weapon. So here's what i thought about close combat in Morrowind ; You can charge your attack before 
 executing it to the enemy, charging your attack is simply by holding the attack button (left mouse 
 button by default) for a few second, the longer you hold the button the bigger the damage it'll 
 do. There's no problem using this concept, but in close combat your attacks miss often, and hitting 
 your enemy doesn't give any satisfying marks, just small blood puffs. If there's no enemy health 
 bar shown you won't notice if your enemy's dying. In first person perspective you don't know if 
 your attack are fully charged or not. ARX Fatalis does this concept better, the charge indicator 
 helps you manage on charging your attacks, and if your attack hits it hits, but on some different 
 part the attack does different damage, like if you hit the helmet your enemy wont suffer any damage 
 and there's a lot of blood and sparks to know wether you miss or not. But we're not talking about 
 ARX here, just a comparation on which concept should work better. If Morrowind uses ARX Fatalis' 
 attack concept this game would blast every RPG games out there.
  
  Graphics:
  I can't give much comment on the graphics, since my system aren't capable running this game at 
 full detail setting. But overall even with some details turned off (pixel shader and shadows) and 
 lower resolution (800x600) the graphics aren't dissapointing. What I like the most is the weather, 
 the game really do the weather and time well. In morning you'll see the sunrise and when there's 
 a storm coming the environment really feld harsh.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects are well done, just on some points, not much variations like footsteps on different 
 ground, and some sound effects doesn't seem quite fit in, like the attack sound or the door to 
 the dwemmer ruins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sly_Hippo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The huge world of Morrowind is one that is hard to forget from the high mountains to the crazy 
 rat lady all these things drag you in to this massive world and make you connect to it.
  
  One of the only games that would get close to offering you as much time as an MMORPG. With quests 
 to be done, weapons to be found and monsters to be fought this is an almost endless game. With 
 the added construction set it truly can be a game with no end. 
  
  The learning curve may be quite steep for some but it all depends on the games you may have played 
 before it. Many things can be found out the hard way such as the first time I picked something 
 up in someones house 
  after playing for a few hours without saving. But once you learn you can start to appreciate this 
 game and how good it actually is.
  
  The gameplay is quite good with the excitement of creating your own character and equipping him 
 or her for is long adventure he is about to face is one of the huge perks that the game offers 
 but the only let down is the combat which becomes easily repetitive and is so simple it takes no 
 skill at all.
  But with the good gameplay, good graphics and great lifespan that this game has it is truly worth 
 at least a go, especially if you enjoy RPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III : Morrowind was my first RPG about 3 and a half years ago. Since then I have 
 played it about 4 times again and again. I enjoy playing this game every time. although now I 'm 
 playing the next chapter : Oblivion but that is another review and another story. 
  Morrowind for me is an excellent game and the only bad thing is the combat mode with mellie weapons.. In 
 the beginning you won't be able to hit anything and that is something that will piss you of. Furthermore 
 there are some bugs and some cheats but hey... if you played it without giving any attention to 
 them then you are going to have a wonderful time... And for those who are complaining for the long 
 time you will have to spent on journeys, I tell them that I have found in these journeys weapons 
 that they are not have been mentioned yet in hints&cheats!!! And no my friends there is no patch 
 from me...
  I have also played the two expansions of Morrowind and I think Tribunal is a little bit better 
 than Bloodmoon... But the good thing both have is a high level of difficulty. I was in level 75 
 with all main attributes and skills in 100 and though a lot of times I found my self get killed 
 by some NPCs (which npcs?? play it and learn) . Although some will say that these are bugs, ok I 
 like these bugs... I hate killing someone with one hit.
  Ok, the moves of someones character and the fact that the NPCs of the game in cities and villages 
 are staying in their positions telling you most of the times the same and the same things it's 
 one disadvantage of the game but I believe that everyone can live with that.
  The good of the game?? A fantastic world which is open to you to explore... A lot of quests to fulfill 
 and a lot of ranks to climb up. Some say that this is wrong but I say that I like to be the Arch-mage, 
 the master of fighters and thieves, the high priest in the temple the leader in one of the three 
 houses (why one play to find out) . Furthermore you can do quests for the deadra lords in order to 
 supply your character with mythic weapons etc etc. 
  I love this game because I do almost everything that I want. And as far as the main quest is quite 
 exacting.
  So if you are not playing The ELder Scrolls IV : Oblivion or if you finished it and want to see 
 a similar but sometimes and a completely different game play Morrowind (with the expansions) and 
 enjoy a game which for me is a legend of RPGs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlaheji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  really nice game (for 2002)
  it had great graphics for that time.
  immersive storyline.
  GREAT music (i'd say sometimes better than oblivion)
  vaaaaaasst open world. 
  you can do anything 
 u want.
  spent over 4 months playing *only* this for 2 hrs min a day. i think i finished  97%
  for those 
 who want to know what all the fuss about oblivion is, but dont have the pc to play oblivion, give 
 this a try. very similar gameplay. u'll understand why oblivion is the most anticipated game of 
 the year
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rytis6lod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is one of the best or even the best game i've played. There is so many quests that you 
 can do. In the first 30 minutes of gameplay (if you talk with much people) you can get at least 
 10 quests. The skills take also some time to masterise so just to masterise your skills it adds 
 up to 20 hours of gameplay. You can nearly do what you want like killing people in their own houses 
 and storing all your stuff in.
  
  But killing primary characters can take away many quests so its better to not try. Also sometimes 
 the game can instanly crash. But except that and some little bugs, Morrowind is a great game for 
 the year it was made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a great game. Theres no real way to describe this game except 'freakin huge'. The 
 gameplay in this game is quite fun, though it could have been better if u didnt miss 1/3 of the 
 time. Its ok though u still have fun, just a little fustrating thats all. The graphics for the time 
 are extremely good. I was like holy hell when i first saw them. Though today there laughable. The 
 game is just absoutely huge. You though san andreas was big wait till u play this. 
  
  My final thoughts: It's probalby the most innovative rpg of all time and will be the last elder 
 scrolls made for the old school fans (like me) before the elder scrolls series changes for the new 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bellytops123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  The 3rd installment in he Elder Scrolls Series is revolutionary, perhaps, the only thing better 
 is it's sequal: Oblivion... However if You cannot afford an Xbox 360 or your PC is too slow to 
 handle the excellent graphics of Oblivion, Morrowind is an excellent game to tide you over. 
  
  The gameplay is very intense, you can become a noble-warrior who saves the town from the bandits, 
 perhaps, the agile thief sneaking around the duke's manor, or the sorcerer who summons a horde 
 of undead creatures to destroy the town. The amount of possibilities will blow your mind. You can 
 join a number of faction and clans ranging from: The agents of the Blades, to the Imperial legion, 
 or do you prefer a slower paced profession in the Mages guild or one of the great houses. The only 
 thing that gives the gameplay a 9 and not a 10 is no online play! It would of been great to meet 
 other people inside of the virtual world of morrowind. With online play the possibilities could 
 have been endless... The combat system also let the gameplay down, it is just a simple hack and 
 slash mechanism, however combat is not the most important part of the game.
  
  The graphics were good at the time but now have been beaten by the release of the Xbox 360.
  
 
  As soon as you start you are greeted to a relaxing, tranquil tune in the background, however, the 
 soundtrack just keeps on looping around, so theres never anything new with the soundtrack unless 
 you download a mod or something.
  
  Now for value... if i could rate it any higher than ten it would be 20/10. It is well worth the 
 price of 20 to 30.
  
  I don't know what reviewers tilt is so i just put it on 9 to get the overall rating to what it 
 should be.
  
  Overall morrowind is a very good game, that can be improved by the 2 expansion packs: BloodMoon 
 and Tribunal, BloodMoon unlocks a new island called Solstheim and a new main quest and Tribunal 
 unlocks the Capital city of Mournhold and a new storyline.
  
  An Excellent Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind arrived in my game shelf some months ago and I was pleasantly surprised. 
 Next to Knights of the Old Republic and the Diablo games it is the best singelplayer RPG the PC 
 has to offer.
  In spite of bugs and technical issues Bethesda offers a great game experience with stunning graphics 
 and sound, and an amazing feeling.
  Morrowind is also a huge game, almost as huge as a MMORPG and almost as time-consuming too.
  
 The only real disadvantage with Morrowind that the game is so madly huge that you actually gets 
 lost sometimes, but Im sure that you understand that this is just small matters.
  
  Elder Scrolls: Morrowind is a real jewel if youre just willing to put a lot of time in it.
 
  A must own for an RPG fan!
  
  If you want to give feedback on this review, send me a mail on sirduke_91@hotmail. com!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Arena, Daggerfall and now this. Bethesda Softworks continues it's brilliance with Elder Scrolls 
 3: Morrowind. Quite the accomplishment on all scales this game shows that sequels can be done better. 
 Playing this game is more of a career choice from the play time standpoint and ALL sides of the 
 game are highly entertaining. Character customization is fun and innovative and will take the new 
 gamer about 20 minutes to finish . The sound effects and music of the game are awe inspiring, the 
 graphics are about as real as can be in an imaginary world and gameplay is so involved you'd be 
 hard pressed to finish this one in under 20 hours, (unless you opened the cheat console) . Combine 
 the three major facets of gameplay with and exceptional story and you have a winner! The ONLY dissapointment 
 is that combat is a little bland and there is no real benefit to being a spellcaster. Other than 
 that, this game is as close to perfect as they get. Be prepared to lose sleep and a bit of you 
 personal life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter226
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  well i have to say The Elder Scrols 3 Morrowind is one of the most involving games i have ever 
 played. You get to choose almost everything from what race you are, are you good or evil, do you 
 wanna specalize in melee or magic the choice is yours. I definitly recomened this game for the 
 PC it is also great for the X-box but you might be waiting a while between load times. Overall 
 if you like Rpgs this is agreat game for u also there is a new Elder Scrols out Oblivion but if 
 you are looking for a cheap game to involve yourself with (cause with 200 hours of gameplay it 
 will take alittle while to get through) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikedevilsfan
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  OK, I waited forever to play and complete Morrowind and here is my review. Its not as good as 
 all the reviewers here say it is. The main reason people give it a 10 is because it is so free 
 form and the world is huge which it is, but this isnt necessarily a good thing (more on that later) .
 
  
  Here is my list of complaints-
  1. The dungeons suck. They all look pretty much the same. All the caverns look the same with a 
 couple of minor exceptions. Many of them have ladders leading into water with nothing in them. 
 Once you have seen a couple of tombs, caves etc. you have seen them all. And the mines are worthless.
 
  2. The Monsters suck. Yes, it is true that there are more unique characters in this game than 
 most others, but they are all pretty much of two or three verities. There are only about a dozen 
 or so monsters in the game and some of those are the annoying pest kind (cliff racers, nix hounds, 
 mud crabs) etc. Where are the liches, the witches, the minotaurs, giants, spiders!!!, flying creatures 
 other than cliff racers etc? Might and Magic 6 had better monsters than this.
  3. The loot sucks! After killing some mean monster you expect to be rewarded right? Wrong. This 
 game is filled with crates that have 10 GP in it. After a while this really gets old.
  4. The weapons are not that great. There could have been more options and more unique or artifact 
 weapons. Try and find a Daedric long sword.
  5. Alchemy sucks. Its too complex and the results are not worth it. For instance in Might and 
 Magic 8 there was a purpose to alchemy. Mainly to get good enough to make black potions which 
 would increase your skill score (such as strength) . The ingredients were not extremely hard to 
 find either. In this game you will spend a lot of time wasted only to have something you can buy 
 in a spell.
  6. The spells are not that great. Decent, but not great.
  7. And now the big problem= too much time spent on the unimportant. There is a huge world, yes, 
 but it all looks very similar. There are thousands of items, yes, but most of them are cups and 
 plates and flowers and shrubs and garbage like that. What they should have done was leave out the 
 grottos, the egg mines (?!) and put more effort into better dungeons, caves and monsters.
  8. The combat is hack and slash.
  
  It is a fun game for a while, although the ending is pretty 
 lame ( wont spoil it for you) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind IS absolutely the absolute RPG ever indeed. Think when you have a game 
 with so many  and items galore, places to explore, replay 
 value, beautiful landscapes, and a great musical score, and on top of all that.... choices ,choices, 
 choices. As well as months and months of game play. Ever since I was little (back in the days of Atari 
 2600) I had dreamt of a game that would be developed in this scope and point of view. As I grew older 
 and technology advanced to CPU's in every school and now in every house hold, I saw more and more 
 game developers leaning towards what is now "The Elder Scrolls Series"of games. In short if you 
 are an RPG fan and have never played this game.... Well... You do not know what your missing. I cannot 
 wait for the release of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion in a week or two. This game for me anyway will 
 be one in my collection for as long as it stands the test of time and wear and tear. That's how 
 much I myself feel about this game. Elder Scrolls is definitely what I had always thought an RPG 
 game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 3 : Morrowind is a greata ccomplishment of the elder scrolls series. It allows you 
 to play as a wide variety of characters and venture into the world as ytou battle your way through 
 tests, enemies. The graphics in the game are great, sound is amazing, and the over-all style of 
 it is juts remarkable. The fast enemires and creatures you have to battle gove you a unique way 
 to fight and come up with some pretty jaw dropping visuals. 
  
  Graphics - they are above average and do create a moment in every place that you go to.
  
  
 Sound - is perfectly fit witht he game due to haveing it start at the right time and increase at 
 a good point. 
  
  Gameplay - it is easy and is very well done.
  
  Value - well aint all that great but does give you a good look at what it could have been.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeBallz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of 2 extremes. On one hand, you have the completely handcrafted world (which is 
 a relief from Daggerfall) , where almost everything has it's place. On the other hand, it's very 
 open, and the surmise of freedom creates a lot of paradoxes you might miss the first time around.
 
  
  The start is very slow, and very short. What Bethesda presents as a tutorial doesn't cover everything 
 you might want to know, especially regarding the skills of your class. Alchemy is still a riddle 
 to me for example, but then again, i never bothered with it. 
  
  There comes the other side of the game - it's VERY open ended. Bethesda originally stated that 
 if you wanted to play through the entire game, sub quests and all, you'd need about 3 weeks time 
 - non-stop. That's a lot for any singleplayer game, not to mention that for quite a lot of the 
 subquests you need to make a new character aswell (joining the houses for example) .
  
  And, we fall back to the negative point. It can be too open-ended for some. If you like your RPG's 
 Baldur's Gate or Final Fantasy style, you might have a hard time adjusting to Morrowind's slow 
 pace and non-linear gameplay. You can either focues on the main quest, or you can choose not to 
 and pursue the countless sub-quests in the game. I'd say the main quest only accounts for about 
 5 to 10% of the entire game, so it's worth checking out what's there.
  
  It has a lot of inconsistencies, especially in what the NPC's do. They walk around all day on a 
 set path, they stand around all day selling stuff they materialize from nothing, and above all, 
 they seem to be able to live without a single farm to sustain the population. The farms that can 
 be found on the island are mostly privately held by the NPC's, not that you ever see them actually 
 working on them, save for a few slaves... But these are only details that dawn on you after quite 
 a while of playing. At first, they're a minor detail, but they do creep up to you after a while. 
 Shrugging them off is not a difficult thing to do though.
  
  There are a lot of plots in the game, the main quest is just one of them. Add to that the expansions, 
 and you'll be looking at a lot of 'work' your character can do, if you want. Or not, actually... 
 You can just go on an exploring spree and go into all the dungeons you want, or you can start killing 
 off villages, or guards....
  
  You can, actually, interrupt the main quest if you want, by simply killing one of the essential 
 NPC's. Doing so only interrupts the questline though, and nothing will change except your ability 
 to finish the main quest. Still, it IS possible.... A nice change from the god mode events you 
 usually witness in other games (Irenicus, anyone?) .
  
  And then there's the skill/level system. As stil the only system in the gaming world, you level 
 *only* by using those skills your class uses, and you only level those particular skills. Once 
 you have gotten enough skill-ups, you gain a level, and you can add to your attributes. However, 
 you can only add more than 1 point to attributes you; ve actually been using, so if you're swining 
 swords all day, you can't expect to gain a lot of intelligence.
  
  I'll have to talk about the negative points too, though. Firstly, the character graphics are almost 
 awful. The way the characters look is simply ugly in most cases, due to the bad way that the clothing/armor 
 system has been set up. Modders have solved most of those problems though, if you lok hard enough, 
 but still.
  
  On the other hand, the design has to be complemented - there aren't a lot of games who simply excel 
 in design. When you're walking around in the game, you know that it's Morrowind you're playing, 
 wherever you might be. That's also the plus side of the characters: They all have a distinct look, 
 nothing of the generic fantasy setting style stuff you see in most other games.
  
  I can drone on about either plusses or minusses, but that won't really help. Morrowind is just 
 a game for patient people. The level system makes for a game that revolves around questing and 
 character development more than grinding, which is always a good thing. Too bad that most of the 
 conversations require a lot of reading... There are apparently 220,000 lines of text in the game. 
 There isn't a lot of spoken dialogue, and the rest of the sound is also not exactly of either the 
 highest quantity or quality, except for the music, which is a masterpiece from Jeremy Soule. However, 
 the soundtrack is only 37 minutes long....
  
  Good character generation, character development and no actual grind to speak of, and enormous 
 player freedom make this one of the best RPG's ever made. Too bad for the flaws, though. It could 
 ahve been a lot better.
  
  //Graphics and sound are rated at 2002 standards. They'd only get a 6/6 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Some games just get completed and some don't. This is one of those games that cam be played over 
 and over again because each time you play it your going to notice something you didn't notice before. 
 I was amazed they could jam all of this onto one cd-rom. The games graphics are good even by today's 
 standards. This game takes alot of patience and some reading to get through but if your patient 
 it's enjoyable. The web is full of plugins making the games replay value decent.
  
  If you've ever played the game daggerfall (the previous chapter to this game) there is a good chance 
 you will enjoy this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with great graphics theres no end to it you are free to walk around and enjoy 
 the sights morrowind and it is great that there is so many quests the game never stops its like 
 a HUGE version of runescape only it dosent go online unfortunatley and it offers a wide range of 
 accesories and weapons at your disposal when you buy these and it is quite a hard game two because 
 if you do the main thing (destroy the king of evil and become the 'neverarine') it would take you 
 a year of playing this it took me loads of cheats to do and trust me theres more to do than working 
 for the emporer.
  
  There is also two other islands you get to explore i cant remember the name but one is a oriental 
 kingdom and the other is a cold northern island with snow and bears and all that stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewjackman
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, as a project Bethesda can be proud of what they have created. In many ways 
 this game deserves the praise that is heaped upon it but for many who expect rpg's to deliver an 
 engaging experience, an epic story and memorable characters Morrowind suffers from being what the 
 developers designed it to be; a world to get lost in.
  
  Lost is the operative word. Bethesda has created a massive and unique world but its lack of a central 
 focus will leave many players lost in the huge environments with little idea of what they are supposed 
 to be doing. While for many this is the strength of the Morrowind series it is also its greatest 
 weakness... but not its only one.
  
  The game mechanics reward players for practicing the skills they wish to develop. This is an intuitive 
 model that many would describe as "realistic." However this mode of skill progression promotes 
 and even rewards players for taking actions that can destroy the realism that Morrowind attempts 
 to create. On the long treks to far off dungeons players may find themselves running, jumping and 
 casting spells at offending rocks all in the effort of improving skills for when you finally reach 
 the dungeon halfway across the world.
  
  In the end Morrowind is one of those games that will divide opinion. For some the game is the pinnacle 
 of crpg's but for others all it provides is a big but rather empty sandbox which alienates the 
 player. So before they buy this game players must ask themselves if they are the type of player 
 who will appreciate what Bethesda has created otherwise this game will quickly be returned to the 
 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlwynndnn1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind IS absolutely the absolute RPG ever indeed. Think when you have a game 
 with so many  and items galore, places to explore, replay 
 value, beautiful landscapes, and a great musical score, and on top of all that.... choices ,choices, 
 choices. As well as months and months of game play. Ever since I was little (back in the days of Atari 
 2600) I had dreamt of a game that would be developed in this scope and point of view. As I grew older 
 and technology advanced to CPU's in every school and now in every house hold, I saw more and more 
 game developers leaning towards what is now "The Elder Scrolls Series"of games. In short if you 
 are an RPG fan and have never played this game.... Well... You do not know what your missing. I cannot 
 wait for the release of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion in a week or two. This game for me anyway will 
 be one in my collection for as long as it stands the test of time and wear and tear. That's how 
 much I myself feel about this game. Elder Scrolls is definitely what I had always thought an RPG 
 game should be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetto200313
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Not long ago i was at eb looking for a new game to play and i saw morrwind and i though that i 
 heard people saying very good things about it so i buy it go home and play it
  
  It was alot better than i thought 
  
  I was amazed at the detail they went into come on you 
 can steal nearly everything in the game which is cool monsters look good gameplay is emensly great 
 what else could you want 
  
  Maybe people being nicer but its just like real life now isnt it
  
  i must say it was the best 
 $9.95 ive ever spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2man223
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RPG's has to offer. The very detailed world and in-depth storyline are the 
 basis for this game. The game even includes hundreds of booos in the game that are more than 30 
 pages long. There is so much to do in this game and there never is and end to the things you can 
 do. When I first played this game I didn't even know there was a main quest because I had so much 
 else to do in the game. You can explore ancient ruins, read up on your morrowind history and lore, 
 beat a guild, hunt for fun, go artifact seeking, do the main quests, and much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Psycho
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  
  Jesus! I found like 2 quests in like 10-20 hours... eaither i suck at this game, i suck at looking 
 around, or this game sucks. I think its number 2...
  Anyway, i found this game really hard, i did a quest where i had to clear a house of 3 rats... 
 i almost died. I kept missing with my war axe what was i supose to do? Using cheats is awesome, 
 mods r great as well. The game's alright, but if u are like me and some other people (who suck 
 at single player RPGs) don't get it... it's hard for a new comer to RPGs.
  
  Gameplay: Pritty good, just hard for new comer.
  
  Graphics: was good at the time.
  
  Sound: 
 Music was stand able but don't get me started when u pick up gold...
  
  Value: I'd say this game is worth $40.00-$50.00.
  
  Tilt: Idk what tilt is (so i used it to 
 help make the rating i think it is) .
  
  Overall: Worth trying you should borrow it or something first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastycrumbs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  ir you have played this game stopped because you cant even complete the first quest, believe me 
 I have been there too. you might have stopped playing because you cant get over the crappy models. 
 You might have stoped playing because you cant stand first person mode and the third person mode 
 is horibble. But if you give it some time, some mods and some help then this game will be awesome.
 
  
  the game play is amazing. you are given a huge world to play in and do what ever you wat to. go 
 join guilds and do quests from the inkeeper. if you do everything in this game, you will have spent 
 AT LEAST 200 hours. i have been playing even more that that and i havent done one quest in the 
 game. now if yuo want to play right through the game it will take you about 20-23 hours. 
  
  now the graphics. I know i called the character models bad but the rest of the world is amazing! 
 the trees have items on them, the sowrds are very disingwishable and among all that the bst part 
 is attacking some one. you see there face change, and they get mad.
  
  the sound... you can here enimes aproching, the music changes in the place you are in (i have gotten 
 scared just to turn my speekers off the one thing that could have made the sound bwttwr was diolouge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay, it has some bugs. So what? Dispite the fact that there are many minor bugs in the game, doesn't 
 mean the game sucks. For it's age, it's got really nice graphics, and Morrowind's gameplay is as 
 good as legendary. Never has a game been this addictive. I uninstalled it once, a year after it's 
 first installment. Right after the uninstallation, I felt sorry. 'How could I? I was just being 
 cruel to myself! Why am I missing out?' and other overdramatic thougts immediately entered my mind. 
 So I reinstalled it. And I still love the game. The story, the wide variety of choises, the freedom. 
 You can do whatever you want. Wanna go berserk? Go berserk, but mind the death warrant in cities 
 and villages! Wanna heal people for no good reason? Suit yourself. If you don't have this game 
 yet, don't feel sorry for being just plain stupid, Morrowind's predecessor, Oblivion, is around 
 the corner, still 2 more weeks 'til it comes out in Europe. Until then, get this game, play, get 
 familiar and LOVE the game with all your heart (maybe a bit much, but it's such a great game) . 
 WE WANT MORE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  While I was playing elder scrolls 3 morrowind I wound this game very cool. The main good thing 
 in this game is that you have a lot of freedom. Although you still have a main quest but that does 
 not matter that much. I been playing the game already for 2 years in a row and still I have not 
 completed all of the quests in the game!! In the game there is a bunch of places to go (caverns, 
 cities, crypts etc.) and every one of them is different and sometimes has its own artifacts. Also 
 one of the best things in the game is its plug-in option. Plugins are like addons for morrowind 
 like new houses, creatures, dungeons, races etc. Some of the plug-ins are a little bit cheaty because 
 its easier to play with them. I beat the hole game without plug-ins (but I had Bloodmoon and tribunal) . 
 I recomend this game to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabbamonkey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Bethesda Software has outdone themselves. The creation of the Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is an 
 instant classic, and an achievement that is beyond compare. The game is a 1st person (or 3rd person, 
 if you choose) RPG, set in an enormous and unique world. The game allows you the freedom to explore 
 as you see fit. You can pickup almost any item in the world, and interact with mostly anyone. And 
 the great thing is, even if you choose to avoid the storyline (which you can pickup at anytime) , 
 there are hundreds of side quests and plenty of factions to join. You can aid adventurers in defeating 
 a creature, help a trader find his robbers, or take one of the gods quests and obtain a unique 
 item. Or, you can choose to join a guild (fighter, mage, thief, blade) , or join a great house (Telvanni, 
 Redoran, Hlaull) , and perform all the tasks they assign. However, if you do choose to follow the 
 main quest, you will not be disappointed. The storyline is rich and fulfilling.
  
  In addition to the quests and the storyline, there are some other fantastic elements of the game. 
 Your character can create their own spells and enchant items (or you can pay someone to do this, 
 if your skill is too low) . In addition, alchemy is fantastically done, as many items scattered 
 around the world can be used to make potions (such as mushrooms, or plants) .
  
  The game also has plenty of weapons and armor to keep any RPG player happy. And, as already mentioned, 
 you can enchant any non-enchanted weapon/armor/clothes/rings you find.
  
  The world is so diverse and beautifully created. Each city is beautifully created, and the dungeons 
 are dark and foreboding. Even if you spend 100 hours playing, you are certain that you've missed 
 something. And, the game allows for modding - so if you want to try something new, download some 
 new lands, or adventures!
  
  I love this game. It is a game that shows other development companies what greatness is in the 
 industry. This one is NOT to be missed!!!! Get it today!!!!
  
  On a side note - March 20th, 2006 "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" is released. Although you do 
 not need to play Morrowind to understand Oblivion, I still recommend getting Morrowind. The game 
 is fantastic!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  A masterpiece of an RPG that is by far one of the biggest you'll ever play!
  I'll start by saying that the gameplay is a little slow to begin with but once ur on ur way.... Oh 
 boy does it get rewarding.
  Its the stuff RPG's are usually made for Aka Following a main story while doing countless... and 
 i do mean countless sidequests to help yourself along. But the quests are not only fun... well trhe 
 fun is the main part but they feel so rewarding you'll want to keep doing them for ages!!! its 
 not like in a lot of other RPG's where it feels like a chore! But like most RPG's u do get to a 
 point where your just too powerful! Killing enemies with 1-hit etc. however it does take a while 
 to get there.
  The Graphics are beautiful envrioments and nicely animated characters, weapons and armour. The Country 
 that the game is set really is breathtaking from Little farm house villages to Damp swamp land 
 its all really nice and varied and like i said very well done.
  The sound is great with satisfying warcries and Clashes from the swords, however the "uplifting" 
 score can get a bit irritating so u might want to put on your own music instead :D.
  Overall a benchmark game in terms of RPG's and one of the biggest most rewarding ive ever played. 
 P. S get the Game of the year edition with the expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is a classic, a revolutionary step in RPG's that everyone should bow down to. It is immerisive, 
 exciting, massive, you name an RPG element and Morrowind maxed it out.
  The gameplay is simplified yet has many different options to make every character unique. The world 
 is huge and full of things to do and take part in. There are guilds, merchants, kings, underground 
 socieities, magic, everything that is needed in a game like this. You must experience it to believe 
 how amazing this game really is.
  I have spent countless hours immersing myself in the world of Morrowind, exploring dungeons and 
 defeating monsters. Working my way to become a legend, which really is one of the coolest parts. 
 The more you do in the world of Tamriel, the more reknown you become. Its crazy when you walk somewhere 
 you havent been and people recognize you and respect you because of all the different things you've 
 done.
  And let us not forget the mod community is huge, so even if you feel like you've done everything, 
 you can go out and download tons of new content!
  The only downpart to this game is the lack of realism in the AI. They are very static. But with 
 all the other things to do, you wont notice all that much.
  So please, for the love of God, play this game. Once you kill Dagoth Ur and explore ancient ruins 
 you will thank me. This game truely is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is huge! its so goos especially for its time. this definately is one of the best role 
 playing games for the pc ever created. the graphics are decent, the custmoization is quite immense 
 and so is the spell and weapon selection, and as for quests theres a liftime supply of a mixture, 
 and i mean mixture of missions. The races are cool you have almost evrything you can think of. 
 this game has so manu stats and each player is bound to be different to another one. this game 
 set the standard for rpg's. evrthing is atleast 'good' from gameplay to graphics, and even the 
 sound is good, could do with some better music though. this game is a must have if u call urself 
 an rpg fanatic and you dont have this game then sorry your living a lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  morowind is one of the greatest rpg games ever made. whats so great about it is the fact that the 
 world is so huge and there is no invisble walls so u can rome this greeat world for hours upon 
 time. if u were to see a mountain for in the distance you can go there. its also great because theres 
 so many side missions to do that the game almost never ends .you can steal anything you see and 
 you can have bountys on you. what truely makes this game is the level of detail. do whatever you 
 want. what i find so crazy in the game is that if you kill like the king whom is like leader of 
 the world then a mesage pops up saying you killed the king rreload or live in the corupt world. 
 and then if u play in the corupt world earth turns into hell and you engage in a fight with the 
 devil which is imposible there is minor glitches and the fighting system is ok.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasGray
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics were very good but not "top-notch" as many praised them, by that i mean that the models 
 looked blocky/disproportionate and i'd say even repugnant in some cases (mostly the humans - other 
 races were fairly better looking) , as the levels and lighting were very good.
  All in all it was very good considering this game fits on 1 CD...
  The AI is slightly retarded 
 at times and due to some bugs in the game seems to have psychic abilities.... maybe now there's 
 a patch to fix this, that would be good... the fight sistem is (for me at least) annoying at first, 
 you get the hang of it very fast though. The story is a very complex one, RPG fans will enjoy this 
 greatly, the world it presents just seems to get more and more interesting as you advance in the 
 game, i strongly advise you to explore as much as you can, IT IS WORTH IT !! You can join guilds... 
 these will offer you a rank/status in their midst and will offer you missions... these will vary 
 greatly and take you through all of the island...
  SAVE ALOT !! You never know what you'll encounter on your way from A to B... Try and keep your 
 own journal, its way better to remember stuff, ... its very easy to forget what you did yesterday 
 if you've just battled a horde of enemies :p...
  
  This game is HUGE and will bring alot of fun to RPG fans and simple gamers alike... at one point 
 it reminded me of Fallout 2 .. because of the fact that it was huge and still had some bugs... 
 but any further comparison is futile, as all similarities stop there...
  
  Definitely, worth while ... and if you've played and liked this game you should try "The Elder 
 Scrolls : Oblivion" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Normally i dont really care much about graphics at all.. Gameplay and atmosphere is what counts 
 for me:
  
  But concerning a roleplaying Game, i dont like it at all.. if I am standing before character creation.. 
 and have absolutely no clue.. which race or class is suited to certain skills.. and what might 
 be more or less "acceptable" or "useful".
  
  I admit. I only played this Game 2x 7.5 Minutes. It was looking at me in the shop, for a bargain 
 price. And i was bored. It tricked me to buy.. but in the end.. i wouldnt play.
  
  I managed to get through Character creation once. But then.. i forgot to save, because after character 
 creation i got really tired and bored and i just quit. I dont know if it was the graphics, the 
 time-consuming gameplay or me forgetting to save, and noticing that i had to do the character creation 
 again.
  
  But hey. Seriously.. In my opinion. Even Nethack (And dont take this even as diminutive of Nethack) .. 
 has better Gameplay AND Graphics!!!
  
  IF the Oblivion thing is the same, with nice graphics... then it will be a waste and i wont buy 
 it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Strangely enough the first place I found out about Morrowind was Ebay. The description was enough 
 to stoke the interest in me. Complete freedom, choose your own quests, travel a beautiful fantasy 
 land. A few screenshots later and I was sold. I still remember the first time I played it, it really 
 felt like I had walked into a different realm. I took the Silt Strider to Balmora and thats where 
 things really started to take off. There were literally hundreds of things to do, it was overwhelming! 
 So much so that I just stopped playing for about a week, I was just in awe at the scope of the 
 game.
  
  Part of the charm of MW is the graphical detail: there are hundreds of different weapons, armour, 
 items, spells. The variety makes the whole game seem so vast. The different areas are also very 
 different from each other. In places, the land seems like it was formed using of those special 
 terrain tools but with expert guidance on how mountains are shaped and how grasslands look and 
 even how the weather changes.
  
  My favourite thing about the game is the central quest that you learn about as you explore and 
 talk to people. Going on all the different sub-quests is part of building up your character to 
 allow you to complete the main quest. The whole game is tied together so well.
  
  The sounds are also worth mentioning as that is important part of RPGs that is usually overlooked. 
 The speech of the NPCs is used well to make the player forget he is playing a game, and the sound 
 effects of the different animals and monsters always seem fresh and original, not just the usual 
 roar! and aargh! One sound that I remember even after 6 months of not playing the game is the Silt 
 Strider, it's like the call of a very large bird but sounds like it just belongs in the game.
 
  
  Overall I loved the game. It always felt to me like it had been made by gamers like myself who 
 know what makes a good RPG. There were hardly ever any dull moments, probably because there was 
 so much to do and see. The whole game just has amazing variety. I could pretty much recommend this 
 game to anyone, even someone who has never played an RPG, it literally is so easy and natural to 
 play, but at the same time, so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Nelson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game is huge. The map would take you about an hour just to run across, which you can never 
 really seem to manage with so many distractions. The gameplay is good, but combat is a little clunkey 
 (your sword passes through an enemies head but doesn't hit) . The real gem is the story line, which 
 is fantastic.
  
  This is a true sandbox game, you can go anywhere, do anything. Want to kill off entire towns? Go 
 for it. Want to run straight through the story and end the game quick? Sure.
  
  There are many classes and types of weapons in this game. So many that I am frequently dissapointed 
 by current games selections. Same goes for armor.
  
  At it's release (when I actually bought it) the game was revolutionary in terms of graphics and 
 still today, nearly 4 years later, rivals many games.
  
  If you don't have it, get it. It's a bargin bin title at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Morrowind III is one of the most immersive games on the market right now. You start off as a criminal 
 being sent to a new world called Morrowind. From here, you can do almost absolutely anything. There's 
 just so much to do and so many places to travel, you must play this game a lot to actually experience 
 it in full.
  
  The gameplay is very addicting, but it's not for everyone. The gameplay is a little boring and 
 repetitive, but you still get a really fun game, with the immersive elements of the game, and the 
 fact of the huge exploration makes up for it. There are so many items, and quests, that it would 
 take you too long to do in a week.
  
  The graphics are really good, and the little details are also really good. There are some really 
 nice lighting effects, and the game is just really fun. There are some problems. The character 
 models aren't amazing, but it is good. Don't expect to be blown away by the graphics of this game.
 
  
  The sound is really catchy. There are a lot of nice tunes, no matter which town you are in. When 
 you are exploring, the music turns off and you hear a lot of ambient sounds espeically in the night 
 time, that helps set the mood.
  
  The value is probably the best part of the game. You'll want to come back and play this game as 
 much as possible. There's just so much to explore and do it's amazing. You can try almost anything 
 in the game, from killing villagers to try and picking locks, the fun is amazing.
  
  Morrowind is currently the best game in the series, but it seems like oblivion is going to be just 
 as good or even better. This is a game you might want to pick up and try to see how oblivion is 
 going to be played. This game right now costs about 20$, so i suggest you buy it and enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  And here's the game that makes World of Warcraft look like s***. The third Elder Scrolls game is 
 here and it's here to stay! You see, I've played all the Elder Scrolls games and this is one of 
 the best, but I think Tribunal is the best. But anyways, this game almost has it all. An awesome 
 presentation, quite good graphics and decent sound. And almost most important of all: Lots and 
 lots of replay value. You can't get enough of this game, if you already have started a character. 
 I've played Morrowind for a year now and I have a level 88 Dumner, barbarian, with a long blade 
 called Umbra. It really kicks ass. 
  
  The GooD:
  - Superb presentation.
  - Beautiful landscapes.
  - With so much replay value, you can play this game for years.
  - 
 Very detailed monsters and characters.
  - Somehow it's almost impossible to finish all tasks and side tasks.
  
  The BaD: 
  - Combat 
 in Morrwind isn't completely well done.
  - The game is crashing a lot of times.
  - Some glitches and bugs.
  
  The game gameplay is something revolutionary, and it is really 
 something everybody should love! It just has some much in it! I like the "joining guilds and houses" 
 part. This way you can get a good reputation and put a good a good word in for yourself.
  
  The graphics aren't the most hardcore I've seen yet. But it's great anyway. Except for a few graphical 
 glitches here and there. Sometimes I'm crossing a bridge and then suddenly I fall right through 
 it! But anyway the graphics really suits the game perfectly... could have been better but okay.
 
  
  The sound and music is great. Especially the music. It really creates a good mood in the game. 
 I really like when the music is changing because a creature or an enemy is charging you. The sound 
 is also great, for example when you run or the combat sounds. But I don't like the jumping sound 
 when you fall to the ground. It sound like a stone that's being dropped. But anyway some cool sound 
 effects all over the game.
  
  The replay value is the games strongest side! You can play Morrowind for years to come, and there's 
 still missions and tasks to be completed. It's like World of Warcraft but even better! 
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is a game for everyone. Buy the game now, create your own personal 
 character and become a fan and player of a Elder Scrolls game, like thousands of others!
  
  Dope999 - please recommend this review then I'll recommend yours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igurman10
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Not many games acomplish what morrowind had accomplished, most of the role playing games are doll, 
 and boring, and in a very closed areas with limits, but not morrowind, here you can build yourself, 
 you can be yourself, you can live your life, and you can anything you have in mind, and when i 
 say anything, i mean it.
  
  the character building process is short, though very specific, you can name your character's proffesion 
 yourself, you can choose which skills are going to be your main skills, which stats your character 
 is going to concetrate on, and which powers and sighns it has, so you basicly can build your haracter 
 in any way you want.
  there comes the look, you can choose 1 race of many races, and there is a really big arsenal of 
 faces and bodies, all - to your choise.
  
  then, you go out to the world, which is simply amazing, the graphics is awsome even though it is 
 from 2002, the world is huge, there are hunderedes of cities and settelments, so many places to 
 see, so many things to do, so many enemies to kill and so many friends to make, and so many time 
 we have for all of that.
  
  you can obviously just concetrate on the main quest, but it won't reveal the real game, the real 
 face of morrowind, to trully understand it, you have to do side quests, you have to explore, you 
 have to live morrowind, to feel it, and you will find it very easy to do, as you play you will 
 make friends, you wil ltalk to people, you will do countless missions, you will build your own 
 house, you will travel, and most important - you will have fun.
  
  the number of objects in the game is amazing, you have house tools, wepons, clothes. armor, plants, 
 ppotions, scrolls, even horses or boats (if you use mods) , and so much more. every object has its 
 own shape, its own looks, and its own use.
  
  not like in other RPG games, here you are not asked to "go and kill X, and return to me", here 
 you will have delievery missions, sneaking missions, stealing, sneaking, running, escorting, finsing, talking, 
 persuading, and so much more types of missions. 
  
  each city has its own type of building and sorroundings, all is special and uniqe, with amazing 
 graphics, and every one of the cities has uniqe quests, uniqe NPC to talk to, hate, kill, or make 
 friends with, of course - it's your choise.
  
  the skills system is perfect, here you have to use a skill to develop it, meaning if you fight 
 with an axe a lot, your "axe" skill will increase, same for swords, ot different kinds of magic, 
 you have to work hard to improve your skills.
  
  slight diadvantage in the game is that if you are working hard and getting to a high lvl, the enemies 
 become very very easy., but that doesn't ruin the fun.
  
  the fighting system is cool too, you can chop, slash, crash and more, so is block if you have a 
 shield, a slight disadvantage in this is thtat there are no combos, and you cannot block blows 
 with your sword, but the battle looks very realistic and it is very fun to participate in one.
 
  
  another awsome system in morrowind is the conversation system, when you enter a conversation with 
 someone, he has many things to tell you, and you hoose a topic you want to ask him about, from 
 what he knows, and if he knoes it, he'll tell you all he knows about it, a slight disadvatage here 
 is that there is no sound within the conversations, all is text, but, some will say it is an advantage, 
 because you don't have to hear all the setntences they have to say.
  
  the graphics is amazing, the gameplay is amazing, the sound is awsome as well, the value is 10, 
 and the tilt also, this is a perfect game, perfect, and if you won't play it, you cannot call yourself 
 a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanjacholke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is an epic, open-ended single-player game where you create and 
 play any kind of character you can imagine. Be the noble hero embarking on an epic quest, or an 
 insidious thief rising to leadership of his guild. Be a malevolent sorcerer developing the ultimate 
 spell of destruction, or a reverent healer searching for the cure to a plague. Your actions define 
 your character, and your gameplay changes and evolves in response to your actions. Confront the 
 assassins' guild, and they take out a contract on you. Impress them, and they try to recruit you 
 instead. No two sagas are the same in the world of Morrowind. 
  
  Players can choose to follow the intriguing main storyline, or set off to explore the huge province 
 of Morrowind and the many interesting people and exotic locations it contains. Vast cities and 
 remote villages dot the landscape, each with its own unique look and feel. Hundreds of quests and 
 adventures await as you interact with characters and learn more. Regardless of whether you play 
 a murdering assassin or a noble knight, the game holds endless possibilities and allows you to 
 revisit the main storyline at any time. 
  
  With Morrowind, the unparalleled Elder Scrolls character system is coupled with an exponential 
 increase in the world's richness of detail and level of visual splendor. Utilizing the latest in 
 3D technology, Morrowind will feature hyper-realistic textures and polygon counts, real-time shadows, 
 vast landscapes, skeletal based animation, and a complete weather system. 
  
  Gameplay is further extended with the inclusion of The Elder Scrolls Construction Set, which will 
 be included with the game. This powerful tool is being used to create the entire game, and will 
 also allow players to modify and add to Morrowind in any way they see fit. Change character or 
 creature attributes and skills, introduce new weapons or dungeons into the game, or create entire 
 new worlds to explore. You'll be amazed how simple it is to use, and astounded by how much bigger 
 it makes an already immense game universe. Players can easily swap files and add or delete them 
 from their game with the click of a mouse, ensuring that no file can ever damage your game or change 
 it permanently. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkZephyr999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  You step off the ship, in the dingy little settlement of Seyda Neen, and as soon as the lapping 
 waves and glistening sunshine meet your eyes, you just know that this is going to be a long journey. 
 
  Welcome to Morrowind - one of the most immense games ever released. So immense, in fact, that there 
 just don't seem to be enough days in a year when it comes to playing it...
  
  The first thing that strikes you about Morrowind is just how lush some of the graphics are, in 
 comparison to the often blocky and/or long-distance visuals often associated with Fantasy RPG games. 
 While they're nothing particularly revolutionary, there are certainly some elements (particularly 
 the scenery) that warrant an amazed sigh the first time you see them. Believe me, once you see 
 the murky seawater being assaulted by the rain, you'll be enchanted. Morrowind has, by far, the 
 most stunningly realistic water effects I have ever had the pleasure of seeing in a game.
  
  The sound is a bit of a mixed bag - that is to say that some elements are more impressive than 
 others. The first few times that you hear the soundtrack, you'll likely be as stunned as I was 
 (particularly by the main theme) . However, the music runs on an infinite loop, and unless you add 
 your own music - or else download an appropriate mod from the 'net - you'll soon find the pleasing 
 soundtrack starts to become a little repetitive. 
  Voices are both amusing and memorable, with some truly characteristic personalities given to the 
 different races. The Dark Elf males speak in gruff, sandpaper growls, while the men of the primal 
 Nord race boom out an intense and fierce imitation of Scottish. The tiny Wood Elves squeal and 
 shriek, while the grand Imperial soldiers speak with all the finesse of Julius Caesar. This amalgamation 
 of vastly different voices clearly helps to differentiate not only the races themselves, but also 
 the stereotyped personalities attributed to them.
  
  The main story in Morrowind follows the quest to destroy an evil being, Dagoth Ur, who is unsurprisingly 
 intent on destroying everything above and beneath his feet. Upon choosing your character's various 
 attributes, you begin the long and winding journey that will eventually lead you to a confrontation 
 with this feared, God-like demon of sorts. Unfortunately, Dagoth Ur himself is something of a disappointment. 
 Not only does his cheesy American voice not in any way match the character, but he can also be 
 defeated with absolute ease, simply by attacking him until he falls from a ledge, to his lava-fuelled 
 death. In fact, he's really quite a pathetic 'final boss' - so pathetic that my character has taken 
 to laughing at anyone who dares speak his name in my presence...
  
  The main quest will take the average gamer around 20 to 30 hours to complete, when tasks such as 
 levelling your character, and gathering equipment are considered. It is the side quests, however, 
 that truly make Morrowind both a huge game, and a thoroughly enjoyable experience. 
  A selection of guilds, groups and individuals are scattered throughout Morrowind; each offering 
 their own plethora of quests and tasks to complete. In fact, there are so many quests available 
 throughout the course of the game that it's likely even the developers lost count! It's astounding, 
 but while many of the missions provide the same kinds of tasks, I don't think I've encountered 
 two to this day that are identical. When you consider the sheer size of the game, and the huge 
 number of quests available, this is certainly something to be admired.
  
  If this sheer size wasn't enough, the Game of the Year (GotY) edition, available for both PC and 
 XBOX, features both of the add-on packs as well - Tribunal and Bloodmoon. These two packs are effectively 
 games in their own right, and thus add a significant amount of gaming to an already heaving game. 
 It's truly amazing just how monstrously huge Morrowind gets when treated to Tribunal, Bloodmoon 
 and a series of quest-expanding mods. I couldn't even begin to describe it...
  
  Gamers familiar with the Fantasy RPG genre may have an idea as to the mechanics that govern character 
 development in Morrowind. At the start of the game, you choose a race, class and birthsign - all 
 of which grant you certain advantages and disadvantages that will remain with you throughout the 
 game. It's astounding just how difficult creating a character can be - there aren't exactly infinite 
 options on offer, but throughout the creation process, you're always aware that your choices here 
 will affect the rest of the game. Looking to create a mage? Then you need to choose the class, 
 sign and abilities that will best enhance and augment your magic-casting abilities. Want to be 
 virtually invisible? Then stealth-based attributes could be very important. While many of the skills 
 and such are available through general character development, you'll want to give your adventurer 
 a neat little boost from the word 'Go'... 
  
  Take one look on the internet, and it's clear to see that Morrowind has a remarkable fan-base. 
 One of the most amazing features in the game is the sheer extent of the 'moddability' (self-customisation) 
 on offer. There are literally thousands of user-created mods, designed to both add and modify various 
 features in the game. Mods such as Better Bodies and Better Heads augment the graphics brilliantly, 
 making the somewhat lacklustre character animations a whole lot nicer to look at. In addition, 
 hundreds of new quests, characters, locations and buildings have been added through mods - in essence, 
 making a huge game even bigger!
  
  The combat and magic systems seem a little flimsy, though not to the point of frustration or dislike. 
 Like any game, Morrowind has its problems, but none of them are particularly drastic, and when 
 placed beside the behemoth of excellent gaming to be had, they are nothing more than minor niggles.
 
  The biggest problem technically with Morrowind is the game's annoying tendency to crash as you 
 progress further through the game (or else overload your saves with mods - DON'T do this, whatever 
 you do!) Eventually, the instability can become something of a problem, but nine times out of ten, 
 it's not an error with the game, but rather problems with your hardware, that are causing the majority 
 of the problems. Once you figure out how to solve these, there's little standing between you and 
 a colossal gaming experience
  
  The game is so immense that it's impossible to truly sum everything up in this one review. However, 
 it does cover some of the more important factors that a prospective buyer would need to know. 
 
  Put simply, Morrowind is something of a gaming Marmite: - either you love it to the point of unnatural, 
 sleepless addicition, or else the very sound of its name causes you to break out in hives. It's 
 the sort of game where immersion is absolutely paramount - if after a day or so of gameplay you 
 don't feel even slightly addicted, then chances are you won't. The main game may take about 20 
 to 30 hours to complete, but when you throw the countless side quests and other tasks and activities 
 into the melting pot, you're looking at well over 100 hours of potential gameplay - a wonderfully 
 refreshing lifespan, in an age where games take between 6 and 36 hours to complete. 
  If you're not willing to spend more than this on a game, then maybe Morrowind isn't for you. But 
 if you find yourself salivating at the idea of entering a rich, fantastic world; full of intriguing 
 characters and unforgettable journeys, what are you waiting for?! Even if you're a bit dubious, 
 why not give it a try - you might just be surprised at how addictive and wonderful an experience 
 it can be!
  
  What's more, UK gamers can now buy the PC Version of Morrowind Game of the Year (GotY) for just 
 15 - a ridiculously low price for what is, in essence, one of the most addictively massive, and 
 massively addictive games ever released... EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Bulgebelly
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I've had several experiences with this game. I first purchased it for PC back when it first came 
 out and was totally overwhelmed. I had no idea what was going on and was killed several times right 
 out of the gate. So I got frustrated and traded it in. 
  When it arrived on XBOX I was hankering for a good long RPG so I bought it again. I spent probably 
 500 or 600 hours playing this game, getting all the items available and doing all the quests possible. 
 Then the GOTY edition came out for XBOX and spent another probably 100 hours on the two expansions.
 
  Most recently, in anticipation for the release of Oblivion, I purchased the GOTY edition for PC. 
 I figured I needed a time killer until it came out. I am very pleased with the PC edition of Morrowind 
 many becuase of the modding community. Some VERY talented people have come out with all sorts or 
 modifications for this game; better graphics, new lands to explore, quests, items, all available 
 to download. Some mods I would have never thought possible for a game. 
  If you're looking for a good game to kill some time I would strongly suggest picking up this game. 
 While it's not without it's faults, I think if you invest some time into this game you will be 
 very pleased! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game my first feeling was: Man! This game is huge!
  
  Gameplay: The Elder Scrolls III Morrowind takes place in the world of fantasy. This world is similar 
 to the world that is in the "Lord of The Rings". You have a lot of characters to choose, I mean 
 that you must create your hero by yourself. Morrowind is like never ending story. This game is 
 great. We have a lot of interesting missions to choose. We have really big world to explore. Mines, 
 caves, cities, forests, everything is open to us. The storyline is very long and interesting. We 
 can talk with anybody, we can steal, we can buy equipment in the shops. We can do everything what 
 offers really good RPG. The world of Morrowind lives. I can say that this game lives. Bethesda 
 Softworks did a superb game. This game is very, very long. You need to have a lot of time to play 
 this game because in Morrowind we have libraries filled with books and reading a books can take 
 a couple of hours. It's a huge game. Maybe it's even bigger than GTA San Andreas. In Elder Scrolls 
 III Morrowind you can be a warrior, mag, thief and more, it's up to you who you will be. After 
 playing we can change our perspective to third perspective or first person. I think that the FPP 
 is better in this game. 
  
  Graphics: Graphically this game is great. The environment looks really cool and detailed. Textures 
 are very good, but they could be better. The weather, lighting effects are very good. Especially 
 water looks fantastic. Character models are looking good, but we can see pixels.
  
  Sound: The music in Morrowind is one of the best. The orchestra plays cool soundtracks. Overall, 
 sounds in Morrowind are outstanding.
  
  Overall: I'm not an RPG fan, but I like them and Morrowind shows, how superb this genre could be. 
 This game gives an unforgettable feelings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilplayer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  the makers have out done them selfs in creating one of the best roleplayers around, one of the 
 biggest and best games you can get, fantastic, a must buy, the graphics are great and the game 
 play is wicked which combinned with a great story is a combernation for a success you'll find you 
 can not take your eyes or mind of this fantastic game, so when you see it on trhe market, do not 
 miss your chance to buy it. the new game oblivion is coming out which should be a real blast, they've 
 been working on it and improving since 2002 so were excpecting something big. although they've 
 got hard standards that they've set for them selfs, they have to do better then this classic, lets 
 hope when oblivion comes out it gets a ten out of ten, and that it has the same, fast paced action 
 and brillience of the last which im sure it will, people get out your wallets and get out your 
 pc's. morrowind is here to stay!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youdie15
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect in every way. From the huge world to the fun combat to the over all fun playing 
 this game. Warning this game will suck many hours out of your life. If your cool with that then 
 you have to pick this game up you owe it to yourself. I am not jocking this game is that good. 
 Its old by now so pick it up cheap and play it like crazy its not like you have a choice because 
 this game is insanely engrossing. If you dont buy this you are seriously missing out. Even if this 
 game has no multiplayer the games till kicks major ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudy_dreams
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun and extensive! You can do practically anything you want, and can be very fun! 
 The graphics are extreme, and the character building possibilities are amazing. I would highly 
 suggest this game. On top of this, the story-line is extensive, and if you beat the game, there 
 are countless guilds and side-quests that you can do. Plus, there are countless caves and temples 
 where you can just reak havok, and the map is huge! The guilds also can form to all your possibilties, 
 with mage guilds, fighter guilds, and guilds just for all of you thieving pranksters. Just a slight 
 suggestion: get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinstol
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to give this a quick review since the game has been out so long, distilling it down 
 a list of pros and cons:
  
  Pros:
  
  * Vast world, with lots of NPCs, stories and quests.
  * Many factions to join.
  * The game 
 is moddable and lots of quality addon content has been produced by fans.
  * Excellent graphics for its day.
  * All of the above combine to create a rather immersive "sandbox" 
 type experience.
  
  Cons:
  
  * Weak, unbalanced combat system. Fighting is boring.
  * Pretty much nothing in the way of mini-games or other challenges, except perhaps sneaking around 
 to steal, which seldom requires sneaking.
  * Character development and skill progress system flawed in that certain skills advance very quickly 
 and easily, while others can only be raised with tedious repetition that borders on exploitive 
 behavior.
  * It's possible to become the leader of joinable factions, but your leadership means nothing other 
 than the fact that you are addressed by a somewhat loftier title and the fact that you will be 
 receiving no more quests from that faction.
  * Unresolved dialog trees after certain quests (including the main quest) have been completed.
 
  * Stability problems, even with the latest patch on high end systems released years after the 
 game itself.
  
  This could have been a great game if they had complemented the massive amount of content in the 
 game with systems and game mechanics that are actually fun, instead of relying totally on the vast 
 nature of the world and the freedom that the player has in it to keep themselves entertained.
 
  
  It's still a very good game, at least in certain respects, but it lacks the core element of good 
 gameplay to achieve true greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fated_Eclipse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is the tell of a character you create and use to traverse one of the largest in game 
 worlds I have ever seen.
  You begin the game on a ship, and the game is played from 1st person at first so you can't see 
 yourself, though later you can play from 3rd person if you wish to. After you get off the ship 
 you travel to the customs offices, where you choose your race. You may choose from several races 
 including Argonians, who are lizard people, a few human types, and many other races, which each 
 have their won unique natural abilities. Next you choose your class, your class determines what 
 skills you will be good at, such as combat with different weapons, alchemy, and several other skills. 
 After this is chosen you also choose your birth sign, all of which have special abilities and you 
 may choose the one that best suites your tastes.
  Once this is complete you are free to explore the world of Morrowind. There is so much for you 
 to do there is no way I could explain it here. But you are free to do what you wish, you may talk 
 to anyone you wish, fight who or whatever you want. You do have the ability to fight whomever you 
 wish, but if you attack them the guards will get you for murder, and you must pay a fine or go 
 to jail, unless you can convince your target to throw the first punch. You also have the ability 
 to steal, and will get off scott-free if no one notices, but if they notice you will be fined and 
 have to give the stolen item back if the guards catch you.
  Besides having all these things to do, there is also a story line that you will follow. The story 
 line is the same no matter what race and class you are, and will carry you to the farthest reaches 
 of the world, so it is worth progressing the story so you get stronger and find the many towns 
 and such scattered over the land of Morrowing easily.
  There is too much about this game to explain, so all I have to say is go out and buy it! now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  When I first played Zelda I was absolutely shocked at how open it was. You could go anywhere and 
 you could keep the items that you found. Morrowind is the new Zelda. It takes a huge epic story 
 and organizes it in a huge epic world. You can play the game as simple or as complicated as you 
 wish. Pick up a sword and start swinging to improve that skill. Take a trip accross the world and 
 you will become a better traveler. Nothing that you do goes unnoticed. Wizardry can be learned, 
 alchemy, archery. The huge overarching story is subtle at first. Later you realize just how much 
 there is to be done. The sidestories and plots add to the realism. This is a game that took an 
 amazing concept and almost pulled it off. This is a step in the right direction... we want BIGGER 
 games.. OPEN worlds and characters. Thank you Bethesda for making real RPG's. Not anime with linear 
 story lines. This game should get an 11 out of 10 in value.
  
  Strengths: Wide Open Gamplay, Huge world, Epic Story, Insane RPG engine, Construction Kit for Users, 
 Imagination allowed to run wild.
  
  Weaknesses: Graphics are poor without user made mods, NPC Characters are somewhat static. Stealing 
 is too easy and can lead to riches too quickly (ballance issues) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaamods22
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  in my mind it is the best game there is because there is so much you can do. You can get files 
 others make or make some yourself, the graphics are very smoothly done, water looks amazing, and 
 there are about 170 quests. There are just to many things to this game that i cannot say. Great 
 armor, quests, npcs, shops, houses, buildings, islands, castles, cities, regions, meshes & textures, 
 no lag, you get the point. You can have real full conversasion with the npcs, they walk around, 
 you can steal anything you want, you can attack any1, but the guards will probaly kill you. Learn 
 about 50 different skills, such as sneak where you can walk very quietly without being heard (great 
 for stealing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Morrowind was, and still is, one of the best video games of all time: its 
 huge world and open-ended gameplay made it perfect for anyone who chose to devote enough time or 
 downloading to make it the best game ever.
  
  After four years of being released to the public, Morrowind has gathered hundreds of plug-ins, 
 or mods. The game makes it very easy to use these plug-ins, and even includes the TES: Construction 
 Set to make your own. After four years of being released, Bethesda graphics are lackluster, compared 
 to other games on the market today. But, thanks to the overwhelming amount of plug-ins, you can 
 now replace textures, heads, and bodies, to create a whole new experience.
  
  The game is very open-ended and you are free to roam around, and allows you to make many different 
 choices. As you first step off the ship that takes you the island of Vvardenfell, you are confronted 
 with a choice of race: you can become an Argonian, Breton, Nord, Imperial, Khajiit, Dark Elf, Wood 
 Elf, High Elf, or Redguard  each with their own skill bonuses, abilities, and powers. Next, you 
 create your class  you can answer questions to determine your profession, pick your class, or 
 create your own. Each class follows the basic thief/mage/warrior rule, but there are dozens, if 
 not hundreds, of possibilities, thanks to many different skills to advance in.
  
  TESIII: Morrowind takes place on Vvardenfell, a large island off the coast of Morrowind, a land 
 of Tamriel. While you can join over seven factions, the main storyline starts when you join the 
 Blades faction, a sort of secret agency for the Emperor. You advance through the ranks, and eventually 
 become a powerful hero. 
  
  Even with the seven-plus factions and the main storyline, you can also do dozens of freelance jobs, 
 or just explore the hundreds of caves, dungeons, and burial tombs. You can collect treasure, or 
 hunt down monsters, or simply explore the huge island. The game has everything: drugs, a strip 
 club, taverns, arenas, and more. You can buy clothes, weapons, armor, or peruse books, or sell 
 off your treasure. You can become a vampire. The possibilities are endless.
  
  The game is not without its faults, however. The combat system has come under some criticism: your 
 ability to hit with a specific weapon is judged by your skill with said weapon. This means, if 
 your axe skill is 20, you will have about a 20% chance of hitting with an axe. Luckily, you can 
 train your skills without actually fighting by paying trainers. Unfortunately, this takes a large 
 amount of gold, but there are numerous strategies to quickly power level your beginning character.
 
  
  Morrowind is so large, I can go on forever about the details. But, to put it bluntly: the game 
 is awesome, and a must-own for any PC gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is the best game i`ve ever played . Why ? He is the opportunity to better understand 
 what a rpg should look like and why a good scenario is the best promo to increase the number of 
 fans . Don`t be fooled by complains about how difficult he is . A good mix of enchanted items/weapons 
 make him accesible and even in the beginning you get a lot of potions that keep your character 
 alive when facing hard NPC . This mix is enough to make every race / character you choose interesting 
 , because you have the opportunity to play over and over again and adapt items to enhance / cover 
 the hero weak and strong points . The only real complaint is related to the game instabile engine 
 who crash or freeze suddenly , destroying hard work along the main quest or secondary missions 
 . The only solution is to press T ( rest ) a lot and avoid ESC to save , except if you want to 
 replay that quest . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White-Tornado
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game and it has many options of play. you can chose different classes of charaters. 
 the options are endless in this rpg and you can do whatever you want. the controls were a little 
 difficult to learn but once you do learn them woo the game just takes off. this was in my opinion 
 a very good game and i don't understand why anyone would say different. myself i like how you can 
 chose your weapons and armor and different skills you can learn but its weird how people react 
 towards you when you do these things. oh and heres a tip early on do not i repeat do not attack 
 the colliseam gaurds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This really is an amazing game, everything about it just screams quality and it is one that you 
 will find hard to put down.
  
  Bethesda have created something really special here and I was astounded at just how much there 
 was to do and how much there was to see.
  
  By todays standards the graphics and sound are a little lack lustre but the gameplay is where it 
 is at and it is the gameplay that keeps you playing this for hours on end.
  
  Just finish this quest, just explore that area over there, just go and talk to that NPC, it just 
 goes on and on.
  
  What I think I like the most is that you are not railroaded down a single path and am pretty much 
 free to go where you like and do whatever you like. There are a multitude of different options 
 and settings that you can choose when creating your character and it gives the feeling of uniqueness 
 when playing.
  
  This is how every RPG should be and it is a great taster for the next installment, Oblivion, which 
 is just around the corner. So if I were you I would grab a copy now and jump into this wonderful 
 world and see for yourself just how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The good: Stunning map. Great character creation system. Can get arrested. Lots of things to level 
 up. Huge map. If you hit a character, they attack you. A detailed description of each items.
  
  The bad: Too much exploring. It's really easy to hit someone by accident.
  
  For today, 
 I shall be reviewing the famous RPG game The Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind. The Elder Scrolls III: 
 Morrowind submerges the player in an extraordinarily detailed world of Bethesda's creation, rich 
 with history and intrigue.
  
  This game is in an imperial, and magical province that is called Tamriel, and guess who's coming 
 in? You, if you get the game that is. As you begin playing the game, you can be in a imperial-friendly 
 guild, such as fighting, or mage. Or, you may decide to be neutral, and just pick jobs from here 
 and there. This game begins by you being in a boat. Why that is you might ask? Is because you were 
 a prisoner, and now is being released. First off, there's this weird looking creature beside you. 
 Talking to you for a bit. Then a guard comes in, he asks for you to follow him. When you get off 
 of the boat, and onto the harbour, a man will ask you for your identity. Which is your race, gender, 
 basically, your basic look.
  
  Then, you enter a building, where you meet another man who will sign your release form. This is 
 to basically, pick your class. You have 3 options onto how you will pick your class. You can either 
 selecting a pre-made character class from a list, find an appropriate one by answering a series 
 of questions, or simply create your own. These class picks your primary strengths, which includes 
 3 key areas, 2 primary attributes, and other major and minor attributes.
  
  Just remember, the city is just as important as you are, so don't break the law. Anyway, early 
 in the game, you're treated with mistrust by the natives, and it's easy to witness conflict between 
 the dunmers, and the imperials. Because of this and several other cultural differences, there is 
 a law there, no outlaws including you. Ouch. During your tenure in Morrowind, you will face imperialism, 
 slavery, megalomania, xenophobia, necromancers, vampires, prophecy and a particularly debilitating 
 disease called The Blight, which drives its victims insane while devouring their body. And, there 
 is no cure for the blight. That is what they say.
  
  Even after the in-game character generation, there are many paths open to you. The great thing 
 is, this isn't one of those games where you head straight for the story. This gives you time to 
 get a feel for the game, and able to master all of the controls.
  
  There are several factions available for you to join, each one with its own requirements, benefits 
 and political dispositions regarding the other factions. Each factions has quests and rewards for 
 you to do, as well as supplies to help you. You can also join any of the three noble houses, but 
 those are requirements. Also, you can spend countless hours running errands, gaining status and 
 fighting the private wars of Tamriel's factions before you ever discover why the Emperor actually 
 sent you there. So, with all of the sidequests including in the game as well, you will be busy 
 in the game as well as me. You might even play as much as me.
  
  Your character has several base attributes such as Strength or Willpower that affect directly the 
 skills that rely on them. Skills are rated on a 1-100 scale. Each reace as an advantage, and a 
 disadvantage on increasing some of the skills. Also, one of the features in this game includes 
 a birth sign, which adds perks, and bad perks as well. You gain levels, and you also raise base 
 abilities with every level according to the skills you improved through practice.
  
  Skills go up as well. If let's say, one of your two primary skills is axe fighting, then the easier 
 it is for this skill to increase. The bad thing is, if you're a fighter, it's nearly impossible 
 to survive with using magic only, and vice versa. If you guys are one of those people who always 
 hops around during traveling, and likes to swing their axe from time to time, then those skills 
 will increase also. If you really need a skill, you can ask a trainer to train you a skill, in 
 exchange for quite some money. I would only use this for a last resort though.
  
  Basically, this game provides lots of weapons, spells, and way more. The graphics are excellent, 
 and the game will keep you busy for a long time. I would suggest for you to get this game now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has been around for a long time. Bethesda has made quite a name for themselves 
 with Arena and Daggerfall, but Morrowind is clearly their greatest achievement. The Elder Scrolls 
 III: Morrowind is a huge, open-ended, beautiful, and memorable game that will satisfy anyone's 
 taste. There's so much to do in Morrowind that it is unlikely one can ever get bored. You can fight, 
 steal, socialize, swim, do drugs, and pretty much anything else you can think of. However, the 
 gameplay does have some flaws. The combat system is not very good. It's a hack-and-slash system 
 that only relies on you clicking the mouse really fast. This procedure can get kind of dull. Also, 
 the skill system is pretty bad. You can literally buy skills from more experienced individuals. 
 The game does have really good graphics, though. In fact, they can be breathtaking at times. Character 
 models look excellent and some environments are so incredibly realistic you would swear they were 
 real. The audio in the game is fine. The voice acting is pretty good and sound effects are great. 
 However, the music is very repetitive. Morrowind has a very small soundtrack and you will soon 
 find yourself going crazy hearing the same song over and over again. A big plus for this game is 
 its open-ended gameplay. The island of Morrowind is huge and rivals Grand Theft Auto cities in 
 size and liveliness. Also, there are so many possible ways to achieve goals and so many goals to 
 achieve that you will be playing this game for weeks, months even. The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind 
 will keep you hooked to your computer or Xbox for days and you will not regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motahead
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at a game shop sale for $7.50 so i definitely got value for money. I have only 
 played it for about 10 hours and found it to be addictive and fun to play. You are not forced into 
 combative situations and can roam around the map at your own pace. It is a very open ended game 
 with no set missions to complete. The graphics are good and adequate for a game made in 2002.
  The game could be improved by better graphics where you could see into this distance instead of 
 fog blocking out the horizon. The stars at nite and blue sky and clouds in the daytime look great 
 along with water effects.
  If some humour was introduced in your conversations with npcs this would enhance the game experience. Maybe 
 when you enter a inn there could be some music and dance and play games with the npcs. Maybe win 
 a heart and have a good time instead of killing people.
  Lastly there should be a compass to help you go in the right direction when on a quest for a guild. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game and spent a couple of hours playing Morrowind. There is this strange 
 bond between me and the game that makes me enjoy whatever I do in the game. This game lets you 
 explore a never ending world of Vvardenfall. Before anything else this game is huge it offers so 
 much quest for you to complete I imagine that this game is 100hours +. You would not get bored 
 of this game and would find pleasure playing it. The character development is immersive it lets 
 you dwell deep into the player and offer alot of skills and challenges. Morrowind is a must buy 
 game for rpg lovers and it is one game to be remembered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZERICW
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good value and is very good. Although, it does have a few cons. The best thing 
 about the game in my point of view are its graphics. Top in its class and when it came out it had 
 better, clearer sound and visual aspects than most other games. Its RPG type is very good and the 
 makers did a good job with that. The fighting was relatively boring although it's exactly a high 
 fighting game. The skills are also kind of slow to achieve, and when you begin you are very slow. 
 Other than that this game was a big hit and did very well in my house too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Addzi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'll be honest and say I played this game for about an hour. It didn't grab me at all.
 
  I'm a big fan of RPG's, but this one felt like it threw me in at the deep end with no real explanation 
 of what I was supposed to be doing. 
  
  The first enemy I encountered left me dead with no trouble at all, and this was one of the first 
 missions I attempted.
  
  The graphics are dated and bleak. The sound is mediocre. The combat is very basic.
  
  I'm probably 
 being harsh with this title, but I simply do not have the time (nor the desire) to learn to play 
 this game.
  
  If you're a real die hard RPG fan, this might just float your boat, but for newbies to the 3D RPG, 
 it might just leave you limp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZCAB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  I believe it was back in 2000 that I got my first videogame-worthy PC; it had a Geforce 2 MX, a 
 decent AMD processor and Windows 98. Not much of a top-of-the-line machine, even back then. I was 
 lucky to have an uncle who knew his games. It was he who recommended me Half-Life and Unreal Tournament; 
 older, but excellent games that my PC would be able to handle without sweat. I got hooked, but 
 because my knowledge of PC games was limited (I was a console gamer before) I didnt quite realise 
 that better hardware would be invented in the near future, and that videogames would follow it 
 in its tracks. It wasnt until 2003 that I got tired of UT and HL for several reasons, and I decided 
 to head into town to look for new games. I was shocked to find that videogames had gained in on 
 my PC, tripped it, and left it miles behind; there were even some games that, according to the 
 system requirement tables printed on the back of the boxes, simply wouldnt run on my PC due to 
 the steep system needs. But I browsed on, and between the newest  
 titles, and the  titles, I 
 found The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. I glanced at the back of the box for a while, not being 
 sure what to think of the game, but I decided to buy it anyway. Along with its two expansions, 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal and The Elder Scrolls III: Bloodmoon. It wasnt until later that 
 these three would be bundled into The Elder Scrolls III: Game Of The Year Edition.
  
  Installing Done. Starting the game hey, nice tune. Lets try clicking New Game. Damn, a pre-rendered 
 cutscene. Skipping okay, now were talking. Hey, who is this guy? Whats with the blue skin? Hmmm, 
 apparently his name is Jiub. Wait, what is MY name? Hmmm, how about Conan the Barbarian! Yeah, 
 that sounds decent. Hey, some guy with a goatee is coming to pick me up. He kind of looks like 
 Matthew Perry. With a goatee of course. Lets try to keep this as civil as possible? Who do you 
 think you are, you jerk? Where is my sword? Wait, never mind, That man looks a bit nicer. Hey, 
 hes coming up to me. Where I am from? Oh, you want me to choose my race! Huh? TEN RACES? But I 
 I I just begun and I dont know what race to pick, you know? Oh, that race called the Nords 
 has cool facial paintings. And they are good with blunt weapons and axes and stuff. They look Barbarian-ish 
 enough. Okay, whats next? Oh no! THIRTY CLASSES to pick from? What are you people putting me through?
 
  
  Morrowind is incredibly overwhelming when you first start. The sheer amount of choices you can 
 (read: cn) make is amazing. And it does in fact make a difference what choice you make; do you 
 want to be a brawny warrior, a quick, silent thief or a know-it-all mage? Do you strive to make 
 Vvardenfell (the sizeable island the game takes place in) a better place, or do you enjoy making 
 innocents kneel at your feet, begging for their lives? Do you want to explore the land, or work 
 you way up in one of the islands three Houses (large organisations, each representing another 
 way of life) ? The possibilities are endless. There are hundreds of quest to do, heavily varying 
 in difficulty, and it'll take you at least five-hundred hours and multiple characters to do them 
 all. While this huge variety of choices is, like I said before, pretty much a bad thing when you 
 just get started, it is all the more appreciated when you advance into the yeah, I know my way 
 around-stage. Its amazing to spend a whopping eighty hours (about eight times as long as the 
 average video game these days) on a character, get bored, only to be able to start over with a 
 new character and play, what feels like a whole nother game, for another eighty hours.
  
  The games first-person view gives you such a brilliant look at the world, that you wonder to yourself 
 why the third-person view is so much more popular in the Role-Playing game genre. Graphically, 
 Morrowind was received very well back in 2002. This was mainly because of its great-looking pixel-shaded 
 water and the lighting (the look and feel of exteriors change dramatically as day and night succeed 
 each other) . However, these things are done better by almost every game today. That brings me to 
 the question: should I review Morrowinds graphics compared to todays graphics, or should I review 
 them like when I was blown away by them back in 03? If youre the type of person that dislikes 
 any game that is not up to todays graphical standards, you will not be surprised that this three-and-a-half 
 year old game is not one for you; Morrowinds stock textures and character models are simply 
 ugly compared to todays standards. However, due to the games great modding system (working with 
 plugins that do not alter the games files, but load a different set of files temporarily so 
 that mods gone awry can be fixed or removed immediately) , several people have made some excellent 
 texture and player model replacements that still dont make the game the prettiest on the market, 
 but certainly blow new life into it.
  This story is kind of the same for the sounds, with the main difference that they weren't excellent 
 for their time like the GFX were. The game is a text-based RPG, which means that most dialogue 
 lacks speech. Though this sounds like a bad thing, it isn't; the player can take his \ her time 
 reading everything and it allows for much longer dialogue than a full-speech system does. There 
 is some speech, though. When a non-player character encounters the player, he or she will react 
 with a sentence, depending on what he or she thinks of the player. These lines of speech are done 
 well by the voice-actors and they really capture the personality of the NPCs that say them. The 
 bad thing about the sound effects is that there sometimes is just a lack of them. Walking through 
 a wildlife-infested swamp has absolutely no sounds except that of the water, your footsteps on 
 the mossy ground, and the cries of the creatures you encounter. The same works for a busy building; 
 no one says a word except to the player (and occasionally themselves) . Caves don't have sounds 
 of water dripping down stalagtites, no echos. Too bad.
  
  Nevertheless, Morrowinds gameplay casts such a thick, dark shadow over its bad features that 
 you just dont care that they are there. But, they re there. For example, the games combat system 
 leaves enough to wish for. There are five melee weapon skills: Long Blade, Short Blade, Blunt Weapon, 
 Axe, and Spear. Besides some small oddities in this system, like the fact that training a skill 
 with a small weapon will also increase your skill with big ones, the main problem with the system 
 is that it not only decides with what strength you hit your foe, but also how accurately. Say you 
 have a 5\100 Long Blade skill; this means that with every strike of a Long Blade, there is a 5% 
 chance you actually hit your foe. This means that most of the time, only one of every twenty strikes 
 will actually hit an enemy, and even then, you will still deal little damage. However, a 5\100 
 skill is the very lowest, and when you choose a weapon skill you will often start at 30\100. 
 But even though this will make you better with the specific weapon, the combat itself isnt all 
 that flashy either; hitting someone with a sword will only cause an awkward thud and a cloud 
 of not too convincing, nor very wince-inspiring, blood. In the non-patched version of Morrowind 
 without expansion packs, you cant even see how much damage you are dealing to your foe, so have 
 to keep hacking, slashing and shooting until he \ she \ it drops dead, having no idea when exactly 
 that is going to be. And besides all this, the game is pretty glitchy; you can get stuck in geometry, 
 people will sometimes levitate without reason or even disappear completely, some quests can not 
 be finished because of bugs, and random crashes occur.
  
  So yes, Morrowind has it's bads. But no, I don't care, because for every crash, glitch, bug and 
 flawed gameplay feature there are hours and hours of immersive, entertaining, overwhelming gameplay. 
 I can recommend this game to just about any gamer with patience, who hasn't a need for state-of-the-art 
 graphics or shotguns.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  You know, the intervals between the times I ask myself what makes a game perfect are so short and 
 few that, well, they're pretty much non-existant. Now whether or not I've actually come up with 
 anything is a completely different story, a 1-word story that begins and ends with 'sortofbutnotreally'. 
 One thing I have concluded though is that a very, very, oh so very important factor to a perfect 
 game is balance. 
  
  And that's where perfection slaps Morrowind in the face and calls it names like 'dumb dumb' and 
 'stupid butt'. That the game is ENORMOUS, there is no doubt. That the quests and side quests are 
 ENDLESS, there is no doubt. That the graphics are BEAUTIFUL and the tunes quite catchy (I didn't 
 think catchy deserved any capitals) , there is certainly no doubt. However, what can such a vast 
 world lack balance in? 
  
  Depth, that's what. Sure, the oceans there go pretty deep and even have some dungeons in them, 
 but that's not the point. Gorgeous landscapes are no downside, don't get me wrong... neither are 
 lush magical forests and boiling wastelands. But when you're travelling through them for hours 
 upon hours upon hours searching for a single person or cave entry, such enormousness does get on 
 your nerves. And not that there is anything so awful about seeing the nice mountains or countryside 
 as you freelance for some treasure-infected caves you can clear out, but when you move so slowly 
 on such a huge map, it does tend to get irritating and even intimidating. 
  
  However, all that has to do with the sheer size of the world. 'Too big' isn't the right description, 
 but rather something like 'too empty'. Environments aren't very interactive, there's nothing much 
 to do in the wild aside from kill some monsters and search for caves with bandits, and although 
 cities and side quests are nice, 90% of the time they involve running back and forth over such 
 a huge world for vain tasks that prove rather unrewarding. 
  
  The story, on the other hand, is quite good. I know that sounds bland, but to tell you the truth 
 I don't know any way to put it. Overall, it's nothing earth-shattering or phenomenal, and its execution 
 through quests instead of through a story degrades its value quite a bit. However it does get quite 
 epic and exciting (though not too difficult beyond chasing riddles over the gigantic world) , even 
 though the final boss crashed and burned miles below my expectations in looks and difficulty (who 
 would have thought a mighty name like Dagoth Ur would end up looking like a child with a stupid 
 mask and a ridiculous voice?) . 
  
  The gameplay is below average. I don't know any subtle ways to give it to you, but there you have 
 it. Below average and no better. Clicking is attacking. Period. No fireworks, no acrobats, just 
 that. One click, one attack. Yawn. Grumble. Curse. Jump off a cliff because you expected better. 
 But there you have it. Just a simple, very simple click. 
  
  Magic, however, isn't so simple. In fact, it's pretty darn great. If you don't get a kick out of 
 creating your own magic items and spells, then there's a pretty good chance that you live under 
 a rock or don't exist at all. That they get incredibly expensive at higher levels is something 
 else, but fact is, when you have a fireball that explodes in lightning and poisons the survivors 
 and, most importantly, is named after you... heck, how could you go wrong? Well, for the most part, 
 you can't, though the graphical effects that accompany these feats are nothing astronomical. 
 
  
  But when it all comes down to it, this game is quite beautiful. Unbalanced and far from perfect, 
 but beautiful nonetheless. Its sheer size, number of choices in character creation, side quests, 
 mods, plug-ins, and just about everything else about it make it a very long-time resident in your 
 cd-drive, and the number of days you call in sick so you can finish that extra quest or two or 
 three is much more than you could count if you have ten times the number of fingers you probably 
 do now (no offense to handicaps, of course) . I very highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSheep
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind
  
  Alot can be said about Morrowind but if you have to describe it in one word: Perfect... Really 
 its that good, if you are even remotely an RPG fan and you see it in a store, buy it, chances are 
 that you wont go wrong with it, if you see a GOTY version, even better.
  
  In the beginning of the game, you are left to Seyeda Neen from a prison ship whitch is a small 
 town in Morrowind. The first thing you notice is how the character creation is elegantely embedded 
 to the game, this kind of discretion carries out in just about every aspect of the game, witch 
 keeps the game intresting and inviting. There is no define your character here or define every 
 aspect of your profession here kind of irritating sequences, whitch normally ruin the game experiece 
 of an RPG.
  
  The graphics on todays standards are outdated but beyrable, yet still they can be increased with 
 mods that are easily obtainable; if you dont have the time to download, then look at the bright 
 side, you can be pretty certain that your computer will run Morrowind.
  
  Sounds that yet again can be modded, are even without amazing, the music is very discrieet and 
 wont annoy gaming experience.
  
  To make things eaven better you get The Elder Scrolls: Contructionset that you can use to make 
 your own modifications, and donate them to yours and others good, gaming wise. Morrowind is one 
 of those games that keep growing and keep getting more intresting as it gets older.
  
  Ofcourse Morrowind is not for everybody, if you lack intrest in adventuring, it can get boring, 
 but if you are one of those who feel the need to check every corner, every hole and bush... you 
 will get a game that will last you times to come, with the feeling of nostalgy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgmccoy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  This was the first title I had played in the Elder Scrolls series. I have to say that I was impressed. 
 The world is HUGE, the quests are to numerous to count, and a wide range of races and abilities 
 make this game great. You can play the game for months and never do the main quest. The world is 
 that big and the side missions that numerous. Also, there are quite a few user created mods out 
 there, since the game comes with software to make your own mods. On the Elder Scroll website you 
 can find official mods as well. The replayability of this game is huge because of the wide range 
 of characters one can create and limitless user created content. The graphics are good, the sound 
 is good, the gameplay is great. You'll not be disappointed by this game if you like RPGs. There 
 are two expansion packs you can get for Morrowind, Tribunal and Bloodmoon. You'll want both of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkPVC
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind the sequel to Arena and Daggerfall the award winning 1994 and 1996 RPGs of the year. 
 Elder Scroll has done it again with this Fantastic display of visual candy for your eyes. 
  The gameplay is almost endless allowing you to do pretty much anything you want in the game. You 
 can follow the main quest or do side-quests and trust me there are A LOT of them.
  You start the game as a freed slave with nothing and work your way up as a Warrior, Thief, Mage 
 or whatever you want to be. Doesnt matter because you can also be anything and everything throughout 
 the course of the game.
  This game will hook you in for ours on end, some parts might be long but just the wanting to see 
 what comes next keeps you going.
  Morrowind is set on an island that is littered with little towns up to cities around, just a matter 
 of finding them and along your way you will find those extra quests and things to do in order to 
 make your character unbeatable.
  Trust me when I say you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs I can think of to date. The expansive world of Morrowind allows for 
 hundreds of hours of exploration while embroiled with a cool storyline. You can get the two expansions 
 to make this game even longer. Graphics are good and so is the sound. I found myself addicted to 
 this game when it first came out. Besides the main storyline, there are hundreds, if not thousands, 
 of quests to do. Everything from love stories to assassinations- yoou'll fin just about everything 
 you could want. The many different races and open class selection (even custom) make this game 
 thoroughly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moocow21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I have owned the Elder Scrolls III Morrowind since it first came out in the summer of 2002, and 
 I still play it today. First let me start by saying that Morrowind GOTY is also available on Xbox, 
 but the PC version is far superior for two reasons - Loading times and Mods. But this is a review 
 of the PC version of the game. Let me start by saying this: Morrowind is an open-ended RPG that 
 is unlike any other RPG (save previous ES titles) .
  
  The graphics are great for when the game came out, as this is a late review I'm obviously not going 
 to compare the games graphics to modern games like HL2 and FEAR. The environments are beautiful 
 and the water effects are great. Remember, I'm talking about this as if this was 2002 when it came 
 out.
  
  The sound in Morrowind definately suffices, but there isn't anything special here. When on ships 
 you can hear them creak, and there are lots of sound effects like that, but there isn't much of 
 a variety of voice acting though.
  
  Gameplay... In Morrowind it is good and there is lots of it, and I mean A LOT. I've put hundreds 
 upon hundreds of hours into this game easily since I got the game. I don't know about you, but 
 on my watch, that's good value. The main quest won't win an oscar for story, but the quests are 
 fun and it should last a good 20-25 hours to complete it. There are also guilds and factions to 
 join like the fighter's, mage, thieves, and 3 house factions to choose from, theres the imperial 
 legion/cult, etc... So there are a lot of quests there, plus hundreds of miscellaneous quests to 
 be found all over Vvardenfell. There are lots of weapons to find and utilize like blades, bows, 
 spears, axes, etc... Along with a lot of variety of the three types of armors - heavy, medium, 
 and light - for example: Daedric, Dreugh, and Glass respectively. The A. I. is probably the most 
 disappointing part of Morrowind. Unfortunately there isn't anything special about it. Enemies are 
 basically just scripted to charge at you and keep hitting you - that's all there is too it. 
  
  Overall though, Morrowind is definately one of the greatest RPG's of all time, and another 
 worthy entry into the Elder Scrolls series. For $30 you can get the Morrowind and the two expansions, 
 Tribunal and Bloodmoon, and that should guarantee you 200-400 hours of gameplay right there. The 
 best part about Morrowind is that you can do whatever the heck you want. Don't want to do quests? 
 Just roam across the literal miles of gameland and scourge dungeons and rampage villages for fun... 
 You can do anything, and that's what makes Morrowind such a fun, memoriable, RPG experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calkaimainer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game... I picked it up at a shop for $9 NZD, and I had heard good things about this game, so 
 I tried it out.
  I was amazed, you know RPGS, you just point and click, or they use platformer controls, this one 
 takes the FPS approach, and it executes it well.
  Now, you may have heard the word Non-Linear in the title, so i'll tell you why:
  I started it 
 up, went through the tutorial stuff, and learned what you can do.
  Now, as soon as I got out of it, I just went to where I was supposed to, but stopped at a village 
 near where I was supposed to be going. Guess what I did - Went into a villager's house, killed 
 them, then robbed them. I had just became a theif by testing out what I could do. Though you might 
 wanna save often doing this, as being killed lets you restart from your last save.
  RPGs don't have much value in them usually, but what gives this it's value?
  Well, Mods, and 
 Non-Linear-ity gives it a never ending feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azollars
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  A friend of mine lent me this game during a "video-gaming lull" one summer. He had talked this 
 game up quite a bit to me and I was willing to give it a try. He included the official Game Guide 
 that you can purchase from Best Buy, CompUSA, etc. 
  
  First of all, without the guide, I think I would have given up quickly on this game. At $20, the 
 guide is a steal. As it were, all remnants of free time and a social life were completely obliterated 
 by the addictive black hole of time that is Morrowind. This is undoubtedly the most immersive gaming 
 experience I have ever participated in. Every other game that I have played since then has felt 
 small and shallow by comparison. If you like a good RPG, you absolutely must play this.
  
  That being said, I have several friends who are into RPG's, but could not get into this game. They 
 will spend hours playing Diablo 2, but having played that one myself, I wouldn't consider it in 
 the same league as Morrowind. Sure it's a ton of fun, and Blizzard always makes a quality game, 
 but Morrowind takes the RPG to an entirely different dimension. Diablo is very linear, where Morrowind 
 is wide-open with tons of linear little paths meandering in diifferent directions, all woven into 
 one main story line that helps carry you through the game. 
  
  And the thing about Morrowind, is that you never really "finish" it. There is a main quest, but 
 once you complete it, the game is not over. There is no end sequence with credits rolling. Understandably, 
 the idea of a game with this open-ended can be off-putting to some. I spent at least 75% of my 
 time playing the other stories that help immerse you into the lore and politics of the land. By 
 comparison, I played the Neverwinter Nights Platinum edition (including expansion packs) in about 
 half the time it took me to complete Morrowind's main quest.
  
  Item collection and alteration are a significant part of this game (as it is with most RPG's) , 
 but it's not what makes Morrowind special to me. Of course it's exciting to discover a new sword 
 in a cave after you've hacked away some especially tough NPCs, or have a random conversation with 
 another NPC result in them revealing the location of a signifcant weapon buried in a sunken ship 
 off the coast of somplace you've never been or even heard of. It's also tons of fun to be able 
 to create your own magical items out of the thousands of possible combinations of Morrowinds magic 
 and natural resources. It's the fact that when you finally locate that sunken ship and see the 
 item they were describing, you realize how huge the world really is. There are hundreds of these 
 seemingly random events scattered all over Morrowind. And if you decide to follow even half of 
 these little threads and read the hundreds of interesting short stories, you will begin to appreciate 
 the scope of this game. 
  
  I could go on about all the interesting factions and guilds you can join, and the history of Morrowind 
 to be discovered during the game. But that's what I love most about it.... the discovery. Once 
 you get off the boat (which is how you end up on Morrowind in the first place) , the game gives 
 you one quest to get you started in the right direction. Beyond that, it's up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This looks like a fun game by the detailed characters shown on the back of the box, but no matter 
 how much i turn up my video settings everything still looks pretty crappy (with the exception of 
 the water that becomes EXTREMELY ripply even from long distances and this makes the frame rate 
 take an inconvenient dive) . 
  You start out with no point to your being in Morrowind, then you still have no point. You can pretty 
 much do anything you want and quest are everywhere, you just have to know where to look. They're 
 still pretty boring though. After a while it gets repetitive and this is about how it will go: 
 
  
  You buy the game after seeing the detailed armor on the back or hearing about how good it was from 
 a friend, and install it and play it that day. After around an hour or two your lost/dying repeatedly 
 from wandering into unlabeled "high level" area. After a while of not knowing what to do other 
 than killing the one person that runs the weapons shop or general store and taking everything in 
 the house to the shop next door, you decide to stop playing. Weeks go by and you see the box and 
 say, "You know I never really gave it a chance", so you play it again, only to remind yourself 
 why you stopped. You will see the box after that but remember why you stopped.
  
  Here's the deal, if you've played any MMORPGs, you will find this game extremely... different. There's 
 no "team" effort, it's all you. Think soloing raids in WoW. Yeah, that would be cool... on a server 
 where you could show off the gear you get to yourself. Stick with P2P games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somethingplease
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  You know that first-person games are going to be elected the best game-type ever created.
  Morrowind is just like a wall between the outstanding games like Morrowind and the boring and non-original 
 games like... (i'm afraid to say names because i can be badly judged.)
  If someone thinks that Morrowind is just a b*llch**t, this one will have to e-mail me at robinhoodarqueiro@hotmail. com, 
 because since i knew Morrowind, i introduced it to everyone, and just one person didn't like it. 
 Have a search around the graveyard for Daniel Mey if he is scarying other ghosts like him. (just 
 kidding)
  My classification on this game is not ONLY surprisingly good. I wanted to put: Worth the wait, 
 Worth playing, Surprisingly good, revolutionary, masterpiece, Just plain fun (not just) , Innovative, 
 Highly addictive, Instant classic, Best in series and Amazing. Something that it's also truth: 
 
  1) Too short. In fact, this is a very long game, but in this conditions (best game, always want 
 more, etc...) , it should be far longer play-time to end it. From 135 to 270 hours. THAT should 
 be the game time enough to finish.
  2) Hard to describe. Well actually, this game is SO fun and nice, that we can't express it anyway. 
 And if you think that someone could do it, i'm gonna ask you to read again both posts (mine and 
 his/hers) and play the game 'till the end and check again if you still think that someone can describe 
 it perfectly.
  I can't even imagine how Oblivion will be. Everyone says that it will be far better than Morrowind. 
 Actually i do think it will, because it should! Imagine yourself and a team developing a game since 
 mid 2002 and releasing just now, march 30th, knowing that almost everything that they posted on 
 the forums wanting something was answered in the game, that all your money is gone with this game 
 but the forseen income is far enough to have money to give, sell and throw through the window!
 
  Sometimes i get angry living here in Brazil, because i'm always the last one to be able to buy 
 these launches unless i spend tons of money with shipping, while you can buy directly from the 
 store. Now i must say: i'm jealous of those who can buy it next from your own home.
  Well, i think i get excited too easy if i talk about this game. That's why i don't see the time 
 running and the text growing. I'm sorry for the size, i'm really sorry.
  WHO DIDN'T READ MY POST, JUST ROLLED DOWN, I'LL HAVE TO ASK YOU TO PLEASE READ IT, unless morrowind 
 REALLY don't interest you, because this is also an invitation to buy it.
  
  Please e-mail me speaking of what you thought about this text and what you think about this text, 
 then we can argue a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is great once you get used to the freedom. I get tired of games that are completely linear 
 (go here, do this, next. . .) . This game doesn't have that problem at all. Indeed, it took awhile 
 for me to get comfortable with the fact that the whole thing was wide open to me. You pick your 
 own movements, do things in whatever order you want, and skip any that don't appeal to you. True, 
 there is a Naverrine (sp?) quest that is the core of the game and I suppose that to truly finish 
 requires finishing this quest, but I've played for hours and barely addressed it.
  As to replay possibilities. . .that depends, I suppose, on what all you do the first time around. 
 If you join all the possible guilds and complete all the possible quests for your character the 
 first time, a second character type and a few different choices in the beginning (thieves guild, 
 for instance) would create a completely different game. Of course, I'm still wandering around, 
 not yet having completed the game.
  I am on my second run. I used the first as an experimental model and spent an amazing amount of 
 time playing and learning the shortcomings of my character choice as related to my style of gameplay. 
 Now I'm beginning again with a self-made character, more suited to my style. Although everything 
 I've done so far is technically a repeat, the change in characteristics has kept me from even approaching 
 bored.
  I can't recommend this game highly enough for those brave enough to approach an open world of adventure.
 
  My scoring is difficult to do. The game is hard- - in a good way. I haven't a clue how many hours 
 I've played. You can learn how to play almost instantly, but still be discovering new things days 
 later. The sound I don't pay much attention to and the graphics are secondary for me. Take the 
 scores with this in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf_Hunter194
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  One of the longest games Ive ever played is Morrowind. It is very flexible and allows you to do 
 whatever you want. I own the Game of the Year Edition so you may see this review in the Tribunal 
 and Bloodmoon sections. Perhaps what makes this game truly great is the vast amount of possibilities 
 that wait you. Will you become a blood-thirsty assassin or a power-hungry mage? Its up to you! 
 You control your destiny! The only thing wrong with this game is the fact that it is so large that 
 you may no even care about finishing it! There are a few cases where the game might crash or you 
 run out of virtual memory but it is still a great game although few people even know about it! 
 (Maybe it's just people around here.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunez12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very great rpg, though ive liked others more, this one is a keeper, it will take 
 you months to beat this one, if not a year, this is for the more experienced gamers, and i would 
 definltly recommend this game for people that are very experienced with rpgs, i, myself love rpgs 
 but am a beginner at them, so this one was great but a little advanced, still, i recomend it for 
 all gamers, just to see if youll enjoy it. This game is very long, but you have so many choices, 
 of what to do, you dont have to play the storyline at all, all you have to do is play, you can 
 run around stealing from town to town, or just try to get your stats up, this game has no destinated 
 place, it depends on what you feel like doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sano90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much i have it for XBOX and PC (PC is DEFINATELY better)
  The graphics are pretty good, and the enviroment will make you drool. Theres much left to be said 
 about it's fighting though... the constant "Click-and-Pray" method as i will call it tends to get 
 on your nerves... just clicking and hoping for a hit. In all other aspects the games amazing though. 
 The controls are a peice of cake to figure out, and you start out nice and slow and work your way 
 up (or for you speed freaks/impatient ppl, on the PC version you can bring up a console and modify 
 your stats to your liking)
  
  It's a great game to let yourself get addicted to, that's for sure. Especially since if you dont 
 follow the plotted path, the game doesnt really end... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noirsake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to play a good RPG and not follow the story line? Have you wanted to be the 
 hero or evil villian? Have you wanted to do WHATEVER you wanted to do without the stupid story 
 line where you have to kill the bad guy who destroyed your village and stole your girl? If you 
 have said yes to any of these this game is for you. 
  
  Great game with terrible character graphics, but amazing everything else.
  Just a game where 
 you do anything however you want to do it. Make sure you get it for PC and not XBOX (PC has good 
 cheats =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 273kelvins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  Morrowind offers something that your average RPG does not: freedom. In Morrowind, you can do whatever 
 you want. You can become the hero of the land, you can become the leader of various organizations, 
 or you can even become a notorious criminal. Very few games can give you as much for your money. 
 If you get bored with what the game has to offer, you can simply add your own content using the 
 Construction Set. This game has something for everybody.
  
  Another great thing about the game is that it does not require an expansive gaming rig to run it. 
 It will even run stable at 1024x768 with an ATI Rage 128 Ultra from 1998, and the graphics are 
 still pretty good. A beefier graphics card makes the game quite visually appealing.
  
  The soundtrack is good, but can become a tad repetitive.
  
  Overall, this game is a must buy 
 for any fan of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  this is one of the most detailed and interactive games to date. this is the game that brought me 
 into the amazing series that is the elder scrolls... this game is detailed all the way down to lanterns 
 on walls and pails on the ground... you can interact w/ all of these items... you may choose to be 
 a theif that breaks into locked houses and loots them for large amounts of money, or a ground shaking 
 wizard that controls everything that happens..... this game is easily the best game so far in the 
 series and the best game ever on the xbox or pc... there can be no better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This review mainly talks about the differences between the xbox and pc versions of the game. See 
 my xbox review for a full review of the game. Morrowind came out on the PC and then shortly after, 
 came out on the Xbox. There were very few differences between the versions in terms of gameplay, 
 but the PC has some very serious advantages over the xbox one.
  
  Morrowind features a vast world and on xbox it can be bogged down by load times, but on the PC 
 load times become all most non existent. Also the graphics are greatly improved by the higher resolution 
 and show off a lot more detail. Sound is roughly the same as the xbox. The biggest improvement 
 on the PC is the modding tools. The game ships with an editor allowing any one to mod the game. 
 The community took this tool and has created some of the most impressive mods. This helps to even 
 further the value of the game.
  
  Overall the PC version is a much better version then the xbox one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSmaster4321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  If you like adventure games this is perfect its a MMO onl; y offline its so much fun though and 
 the grahpics depedns on which kind of pc you got but it still good graphics and the sounds i great 
 the gameplay is awesome the value of the game is great I would never sell it or get rid of it but 
 the xbox one is a dissapointment the pc one is awesome but the xbox one takes to long to load anything 
 cant put mods on it or cheat amke your guy go crazy but still some fun I guess and if you eveen 
 tryed this game you'd get hooked on it its so much fun its kind ahrd to figure out kinda gotta 
 think a bit and it takes a bit to egt the hang of but once you do its no stop fun definately get 
 this game for pc its the perfect adventure game for any warrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloneTrooper501
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda hits the shelves with the third installment in the legendary elder scrolls series.
  
  Gameplay: while the hack n slash may be a bit tedious and repetitive, you know what your fighting 
 for. In other words you basally get what you kill. There Hundreds of thousands of armour types, 
 weapons and other varies things. Magic is so cool in this game. It will take a long time to get 
 into the game. I just cant wait to get Oblivion to become a real Necromancer.
  
  Graphics: Graphics were pretty good for when it came out. For the sheer size of the game im amazed 
 they squeezed all this into a game. The chracter modles are nice and smooth sometimes it can be 
 a bit choppy but for the most part it is awesome!!
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty average in this game, the soundtrack is about 5 mins long. There is basally 
 no voice acting in this game and you have to read a lot, But i enjoy reading Elder Scrolls Lore.
 
  
  Value: I ahve played this game for apporximatley 200 hours and have yet to complete everything. 
 Plus the expansions add a lot of hours of play in. Like 100 hours each. For the most part its ot 
 quantity over quality. This Game an extremly longevity rating and i have been playing it for about 
 6-7 months. It is also extremly immersive and you will feel like your in the world of morrowind ( 
 I already Am) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is admittedly getting a little old by now, but I still love it. You can create your character 
 to look however you want, go wherever you want, and DO WHATEVER YOU WANT! It is amazingly fun, 
 and I love it. You can steal stuff, or you can be noble. The expansions are worth getting, too. 
 You can be male or female, but I've found that, in the game, guys are stronger and women are sneakier. 
 Which is stereotypical, but whatever. Anyway, this game is amazingly fun, and I recommend it highly. 
 By the way, a quick hint: don't bother with the cheat codes. Go make a birthmark that will give 
 you all the spells and amazing attributes, then take it if you want to play that way. And the fourth 
 one is coming out soon! Can't wait, can't wait, can't wait...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying, I like this game, all things considered. the graphics are pretty good, 
 and it's refreshing to play a game that isn't so linear, unlike most other RPG's. However, that 
 freedom comes at a price, as it is not long before you are not sure exactly what the heck you are 
 supposed to be doing. You go around, randomly picking up quests here and there, but there's a lack 
 of purpose or direction that heavily detracts from the game. 
  
  Like I said, it is a pretty unique RPG, mostly in the way your character is generated, and the 
 way you progress and advance. You get better at skills by using them, as opposed to gaining a certain 
 amount of XP. When you do gain a level, you get to increase attributes, and I am definitely a fan 
 of the different attributes (stamina, personality I think is one) , it is not the typical D&D rip 
 off. Character development is a big plus for this game, as you pick skills that you are good at, 
 and a few that are secondary. The cool thing is that there are different types of skills/abilities 
 to select within the typical rogue/fighter/mage genre. Really, its not so much a matter of picking 
 a fighter or mage as your "class", but the skills you pick determine what your character is like. 
 You can pick long blades, alchemy, and mysticism as primary skills, for example. Such a character 
 would be good with long swords, making potions, and using mysticism type spells. very refreshing, 
 as I was used to picking the type of character first, then picking skills within that limited scope. 
 The combinations of skills and race that make up your character are really limitless, and the world 
 is HUGE. I can't think of a single game out there that beats Morrowind in terms of replayability 
 value.
  
  The negatives about the game, are, as mentioned before, the lack of purpose. While it is cool that 
 you are not hacking u goblin after goblin trying to get to the evil end boss or whatnot, it also 
 detracts from the gameplay, not knowing what it is you are after. I'm also not a huge fan of the 
 races you get to pick from, but Morrowind does a good job of not giving you the same old dwarf, 
 elf, or human to pick from. 
  
  To sum it up, the world is huge, and this game's strengths are its uniqueness and the size of the 
 game world. I don't know if there is any way you could really see and do everything, and there 
 are so many different ways you can build and develop your character. I really like that you can 
 create your own spells (for example, I created a spell that did both lightning and poison damage) 
 and enchant weapons. Overall, a very solid RPG, and I would definitely recommend this game to those 
 who haven't tried it out, particularly if you are looking for an RPG with a big game world that 
 isn't another imitation of Dungeons & Dragons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_Sa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The game can be played for as long as you can play it. There are so many things to do, not to mention 
 the TES construction editor that lets you have limitless fun in Morrowind. There are many many 
 races, classes, spells, creatures, places, and quests that will have you playing this game for 
 hours and hours until it owns you... I myself have a total of almost 300 hours of game time, and 
 I still havent even completed everything that came with the game. To completly master this game 
 will probably take around 500 hours. Then once you get Mods for the game and learn to make them 
 yourself, you will never stop playing Morrowind... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Ever since "Elder Scrolls: Arena", I have been a major fan of the series. The game is just plain 
 great. Compaired to other RPG/Adventure games I have played, this one rules them all.
  
  First, the graphics... I will say that I was not really impressed with the overall looks of characters 
 and monsters. So graphics are not so great, but that's not what's really important, and don't be 
 talking nasty about the game until you finish reading the rest of the review. Trust me, graphics 
 don't make the game....
  
  Second, the controls... This is one of the best things about the game. Not too many buttons to remember 
 and it's easy to go from one to the other. (At least for me) I am a little sick of all those games 
 that have so much stuff to keep in mind when you want to get from one menu or another, this button 
 for weapons, this button for armour, this button to equip, this button for a map. The Elder Scroll 
 series (Especially Morrowind...) is all simplified. Everything is shown on one screen. You can 
 even reajust the screens to your liking.
  
  Third, Playability... This is THE BEST PART OF ALL!!! Before I get to this, let me ask you something... When 
 was the last time you actually played a game that literally required you to actually travel the 
 ACTUAL DISTANCE to another city or town? (And I don't mean travel 20-50 feet like in Final Fantasy, 
 I mean travel 5-10 miles) To top it all off, you literally do have to travel like in real life. 
 You actually walk around as if it were real life, finding and fighting odd creatures along the 
 way. Plus, all battles are in real time, not turn based like most RPG's are. Some creatures are 
 easy, some are moderate, and others are very difficult. Not only that, you can even find plants 
 and be able to pick them up for mixing stuff later on in the game when you learn ALCHEMY as a main, 
 secondary or third rate ability. You also gain abilities on the spot when you attack, defend, run, 
 walk, jump or anything else as you progress in the game. Abilities can also be baught when you 
 talk to certain people in towns/cities. Along with that, you also have to swim in certain areas, 
 just like in the other games of this series. And lets not forget the simulation of DAY and NIGHT. 
 Yes, time also plays a part in this game. Even certain abilities can be effected by what you do. 
 If you run/walk a lot, your fatigue bar will slowly go down. Fighting will also bring your fatigue 
 down. And should I get to the part where you can go on missions for certain guilds you join? You 
 get a lot of great stuff once you have gone on a lot of quests as well as build up your status 
 in the guild.
  
  Fourth, The Construction Set... This is a nice addition. I, myself, love making my own worlds and 
 areas of interest as well as a compelling story to go with it. The only real downside to this part 
 is that you will need to understand 3D art, some programming skills, and how the event handler 
 works. The Construction Set program is not that easy to use if you are new to working with editors 
 like this. You really have to know what you are doing when you use this program, otherwise, you 
 can really screw up something along the way and not figure out what you did.
  
  Fifth, Overall... This is a very intriguing game to play and offers a lot of replay value, just 
 like the others in the series. Even though I play Daggerfall and Arena more than this one, this 
 is still a very worth while choice for RPG gamers who want something with a bit of realism and 
 a sense of a real adventure. You will not find too many games that offer such a compelling and 
 intense gameplay/storyline as well as offer such an interesting way of character design and overall 
 character building. As mentioned, the graphics are not that great, but that's not what makes this 
 game great, and I wouldn't buy this game for the graphics. Buy this game for the replay value and 
 the way the game is played. I promise you, you will not be disappointed with this RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elegrand
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind, the next installment in the popular Elder Scrolls franchise, is a great overall game, 
 but doesn't exactly appeal to everyone.
  
  This game ultimately doesn't do a very good job of giving you a feeling of sword fighting. It's 
 basically click click click, but the fatigue bar provides some good ideas, basically, the lower 
 your fatigue is, the harder it is to successfully preform an action. So, if your fatigue is low, 
 it will be more difficult to hit a foe, or to pick a lock.
  The skills take a while to learn and understand, but sometimes some don't make sense. Like, why 
 should athletics and acrobatics be different?
  The value on this game is awesome, with TONNES of plugins extending the game time, hence the huge 
 value.
  
  In short, this is a great game if you don't want high-speed action, but a good environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game brought me out from one dimension to another.
  Every time i played this game, i felt as if i was actualy there taking part in the quests or joining 
 in with a good chit chat, getting envloved with fights and joining forces with the imperial guards, 
 and earning my way up in life throught higer RANKS.
  
  Then i got the full respect from other guards and became much stronger then other guards.
  
 
  The only thing that i thought was lacking from this game, was, once i became a guard, no one else 
 from other towns treat me any different and i couldn't boss any one else to do any of my tasks 
 for me.
  
  I worked my way to the top but had NO control over other people in town.
  So there was no actual point in becomeing a guard.
  
  I enjoyed the fact you could adventure 
 any where in the Morrowind world, opening doors, swimming under water and using different skills 
 that you've learnt, weither to steal, locked treasure chests and pick lock them to steal the goods 
 and sell the items, or Mod your armour to become very protective against evil powers from nasty 
 demons.
  
  The expansions also made this game so much more interesting, but as from this first game, there 
 was alot of reading to do, from scripts, books and jounals from your own book to keep notes in.
 
  There was soo much to do, and for the PC, you got download more mods and quests to do, which made 
 this game alot more fun and challenging.
  
  Overall this game was so enjoyable, i cant wait until they release the NEW oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer_9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Once I met a gamer who didn't know what Morrowind or the Eldar Scrolls were and I slapped him. 
 He laughed at me and was like what was that for and I was like "SIr you are not a gamer, GTFO!"
 
  
  So the point of that is that play Morrowind because if you haven't then I'm telling you that you 
 are really missing out on a great game. Now lets talk about this incredible game.
  
  So lets talk about the make your dude part of the game. You need to think fairly specific as to 
 what you want to be able to do. Make sure you get thief skills if you want to steal crap and be 
 sure to get magic stats if you want to be able to rape monsters with fire. Theres quite a few good 
 combinations in this game and making combo custom classes is a great idea. Like my one character 
 is a big bulky warrior chemist. He can whip up a potion just as quickly as he can whip your ass! 
 The custom class option is really where its at for making the most powerful characters. However 
 if your a retard you may have difficulty in this area. I"m still not sure if this is a cheat or 
 just a really dumb idea; you can put athletics as a major skill you will level up insanely fast. 
 However you will end up being a level 20 with no stats to back it up. Personly I like a slow leveling 
 character that could kick this quick level guy at 1/3 his level.
  
  Some reasons why I love this game:
  You can choose to not play the story line and still find 
 crap to do. I played for years and just yesturday I decided to start the main quest with my newest 
 character. For the first time I went and foudn that stupid little puzzle cube.
  Another great feature is how you can kill everyone and everything. Basicly thats what I spent the 
 other years doing, killing crap. Its fun to take your high leveled dude and wipe out entire cities 
 in under an hour. The only thing you may want to watch out for is main mission critical caracters 
 that screw up the main story line if you kill them. Basicly that means when King Yedar Jedar send 
 you to fetch the young maiden Jarlsburg and that you killed her a few days ago. Well lets just 
 say you can't find her and your screwed. 
  
  I have more stuff to say but I need to get back to work on my final Java game project ( they make 
 us work hard at college) .
  
  - Slayer Nine slayer. nine@gmail. com
  
  p. s. if you noticed I classified the game as "Great Multiplayer" this would be my joke that everything 
 about this game is great except the fact that it has no multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Still one of my favourite game's of all time, if i could explain morrowind , i would say it was 
 unique, a rare find.
  When i first started Morrowind, it was truely a wonderful sight, such detail, looking at the water 
 and how the light reflected of it, sensational.
  But does great graphics and reflection's make a great game?
  Well morrowind seem's to pull it 
 of in the gameplay department to, playing baldur's gate II, then going to morrowind was a strange 
 yet refreshing change.
  Moving round in a gorgeus 3D world was a definete plus, but pulling of some of the trick's of the 
 trade, is also a very attractive part of the game.
  Being a thief , in a these lovely town's, where many house's are unlocked, ready for visitor's 
 is a sweet touch.
  I remember practically emptying all the house's at the starting town, and making not bad cash from 
 it.
  Saw some wep's or armour i liked, of the shelf it came, this was really to good to be true, a thief's 
 paradise.
  Unlike other RPG game's though, your not restricted to class's either, you basically have your 
 main skill's, your secondary skill's, then lesser skill's, which imo work's great.
  Say your stealing can increase quick, but your sword skill's are crap, if you have the attribute's (and 
 the cash) , you can still improve and match your crap skill's to your main skill's that you use, 
 which to me is a great and thoughtful touch.
  Morrowind to me , is a fantastic game, any shouldn't be missed by RPG fan's or newcomer's to RPG.
 
  Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaulding257
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off with this note. If you've ever played Runescape (A massive multiplayer online 
 game) This game is just about everything you could ever want, and need. There is a new game that 
 has been anounced, The elder scrolls 4 morrowind. That game is bound to drop jaws. So if you havnt 
 ever played one of these games... or if you plan on buying The upcoming games, pick up this game 
 its only like $30 (in my area) but enough of my recomendations... This game is incredable, the 
 map is MASSIVE, ok let me put it this way... running, it takes me about an hour to run across the 
 width of the map... and with expansions you can turn into a werewolf (thats right you get to kill 
 everyone in your path as a werewolf) , you can turn into a vampire (you wont be able to go out in 
 the sun, but you can rule the nightime) or just stay as a human and kill people that upset you... 
 well when i say you can do anything, i mean it.. you can steal from shops, pickpocket people, kill 
 and living creature on the map, go to jail for stealing, summon a creature from another relm and 
 kill gaurds, ect, ect, ect. well when i say you can steal from shops i mean this, if you have 1,000 
 septims (gold) and theres a silver claymore that your just dieing to have thats 1,600 septims. 
 then just simply steal it off the desk, and run, because the shop owner will attack you.. the ability 
 to do this will test even the goodest people.. youll find yourself fighting the urge to just whip 
 out your shortsword, longsword, claymore, broadsword, staff, bow, crossbow, katana, wakizaki, diakatana, 
 throwing stars, throwing darts, (theres plenty more) or desimating the enemy with your magic. there 
 is different types of weapons too (silver, glass, iron, deadra, ect) and they all have different 
 values and can be enchanted with magic powers.. you get to pick from about 10 different calsses 
 (Nords, dark elves, high elves, wood elves, bretons, arogons, and a few other) you pick their harstyle, 
 and whatever you eqipt them with is what youll see.... you can run around in underware, if thats 
 all you have on... the game is very addictive.. ive spent about 100 hours playing to date.. i recomend 
 this to anyone tahts up for an adventure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eoeo123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this is one of the best rpg game ever played. You can choose from a wide range of characters. 
 You do not have to fallow a preset guide line. The graphics for the time are great and the world 
 is uge. 
  
  You can play the game for houre without ever being bord. but one thing is for shure, if you are 
 not a rpg fan, do not play this game, It will leave you a bit confused at point. One interesting 
 thing about the in game missions is that you can do multiple missions at a time and you can raise 
 in rank from different guilds at the same time. 
  
  The music and embiant sound isn't great but you can load any mp3 in the sound directory and listen 
 to your favorite music will playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakbuky_ted
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 3 Morrowind Rules. It is by far the greatest game of all time (except for Elder 
 scrolls 4 Oblivion) . You start on a prison ship where you are finally released. It is said that 
 you are "the chosen one" "the one in my dreams" and lots of other cheesy names. You are the one 
 meant to destroy the devil, Dagoth-Ur. And after dozens of quests you will finally destroy Dagoth-Ur. 
 In the two expansion packs, Bloodmoon and Tribunal, you get even more quests. And Outside the main 
 quest you can join differentfactions like: Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves Guild, Assasins 
 Guild (aka Morag Tong) , one of the three great houses (Redoran, Telvanni, or Hlaalu) , the temple 
 and more! You Can also do misc quests to help NPC's or destroy them. Also this is one of the few 
 games where you are aloud to kill anyone including regular towns folk. The game also has it's own 
 laws so if you steal, or kill people in town you will have to pay fines or go to jail (or my favorite 
 to resist arrest) . And if you do lot's of quests you can build up your reputation so people know 
 you better. There are also dozens of types of spells so you can use magic. And many different skills 
 you can use like sneaking, picking locks, useing different weapons etc.
  There is also many other skills and missions i have not discused but if i said everything i would 
 be hear typing for the next Ten years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt-commander
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is amazing, choosing your race changing your appearance going to sleep 
 training your skills commiting crimes this game has it all with a map that would take about an 
 hour straight of walking to travel across.
  While the graphics themselves are incredible, for all the weapons and armour etc. that was made.
 
  Sounds are great aswell from an axe swining through the air to a person screaming for there life.
 
  Although this game doesn't support multy player you will find out the best or one of the best 
 games you have ever played, travel were ever whenever you want accept quests and do them at your 
 own pace and time or join guilds and work to get your rank up.
  This game is a have to get if your an owner of an xbox or a pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephencole
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  I may not have every RPG ever made but I think that morrowind is by far the best. I mean, how many 
 othe games give you such a big map, hundreds of characters, the ability to do anything (even become 
 a vampire) and a great story to boot. Aswell as this you can have endless fun with the supplied 
 editor. Also you can get rich in game and then spend all your money on absolutely stupid things 
 like 208 copies of the same book.
  
  FUN FUN AND FUN AGAIN
  
  A joke
  
  What do you do if a blonde throws a grenade at you?
  
  Throw it back. This time with the pin 
 pulled 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bentheidiot91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  The elder scrolls 3: morrowind was released in 2002 ,before this anticipation was high among elder 
 scrolls fans. The anticipation was well deserved. The story starts you off on a prison ship where 
 you first choose your name. When you arrive at the docks you can choose out of Dunmer (Dark elf) , Altmer (High 
 elf)
  imperial, breton, nord, orc and more. You then walk into a room to pick your class
  you can pick from pre defined classes (Warrior, mage, etc..) or you can make your own class so if 
 you liked warriors and mages you could maybe go in between. At this time you also pick a birth sign, 
 which along with your'e race can give you extra powers. After this you are released into vvardenfell 
 which is huge
  (I have been playing it for about a year and still haven't found everything) You can start the main 
 quest straight away or go and do errands. On top of main quests you can do guild missions. With some 
 affecting others for example if you do a certain imperial legion mission you then cannot progress 
 throug great house hlallu. Character development is great you can buy armour, skills, clothes. Even 
 at level 30 you can still improve a great deal more.
  The world itself is huge with a vast amount of cities, towns and villages each with its own look 
 and feel. On top of that there are hundreds of dungeons to explore some with massive rewards. The 
 world is full of surprises you can catch diseases or become a vampire (you are disliked if you 
 are either) . There are also laws in morrowind which if are broken could lead to a fine, imprisonment 
 or even death. When you eventually find everything. The graphics are dated but thanks to such mods 
 as Better Bodies and Several game retextures on Morrowind Summit morrowind still looks as good 
 as it ever did. There is a powerful construction set which allows you to develop your own  
 morrowind has its fair share of bugs overall morrowind is definately a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloppelop2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  I have never tried other Elder Scrolls games, only Morrowind, and therefore I was amazed over the 
 huge and beautifully made World, which is very detailed and changes from place to place.
  The music is good, but as it is a long game, I recommand others to change the music or at least 
 add new, before you get crazy...
  The Difficulty is good, and it is easy to learn...
  The game, on the other hand, is big and there are many both good and bad things to say about it.
 
  For examble, the combat system is a bit... boring... and combat is really not fun or exciting. 
 
  On the other hand, I cant keep saying how beautiful the game is, and you can really feel in a mood 
 in the middle of a sandstorm or waking up to see the sun rise over the waters.
  That is also a nice thing. Your character, which you have a LOT of options to form as you like, 
 evolves and changes. However, you dont need to sleep, and the "reality" would have been better, 
 if you were forced to sleep, eat and drink. 
  Anyway, it feels nice to walk around in the world, though it can be some long walks sometimes. 
 
  The AI seems a bit stupid, and it is annoying to see that the NPC's only stands the same places 
 and do nothing all the time...
  The story of the game, is as I said good, but the open ending, is a bit strange... And feels wrong...
 
  But the story is also the same, and I really dont feel I want to start up a new game, just to 
 go the same places, talk with the same persons and do the same jobs... So, if the open ending is 
 such a good idea, the creators should instead have made other ways of ending it, and other MAJOR 
 things to do, so you are not forced to play the same story.
  But dont get me wrong... The missions are plentyful, they are only minor, and it feels a bit... 
 yeah... That you have turned your back to your original mission...
  But all in all, worth playing, and good entertaining, until it ends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z44sms
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I found it to have alot of Play value infact too much. I played this game several months and kept 
 finding new things to do it has hundreds of quests and many NPCs to deal with. This is the best 
 AI with each char having a relationship to you. Everything you kill other then wild animals dies 
 and stays dead that's pretty cool cause it remembers everything I did in past. I killed someone 
 and took over their house and started using their home as my base since it was in a well placed 
 area I kept all my items in the chest and started placing weapons and special items inside it. 
 Next say you kill a guard in a city they remember that and the entire guards hate you. As you level 
 strange but true based on what you use most so if you never use magic you never level in it if 
 you start you start to level so thats pretty cool. Another thing is the world is super huge like 
 I said months and I was still finding things in ocean on land in pools in castles in houses extra. 
 I found that has a most comprensive editor many people have made or changed quest online which 
 is pretty cool as well. I am a computer person I played never winter nights which is pretty cool 
 as well but this similar but more options since your profession changes the relationships. Although 
 the story line is somewhat mysterious cause you can do or not do any quest it is great. Only sad 
 thing is single player fact that no one can go on your adventures is disappointing also didn't 
 like wildlife respawning on me all time while I was sleeping or adventuring thought they should 
 of lessened them to respawn every 20 days or so instead of every 1-2 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predking2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  Now beleive me, This game is so cool!
  right from the start your sucked in and you just cant stop playing (And do you relise how much 
 mods i have?) . But because this is 3 (almost 4) years old the graphics can be improved however 
 right when hear the main menu music youll just fall in love with the game. And combine that with 
 a very usefull (for making modifcations) tool set this game is just plain awesome... But now to 
 the bad parts, firstly I've been really annoyed at having to cheat and raise my combat skills to 
 200 just so i can hit a monster, And the tool set can take a while to get use to. so this all equals 
 a very good 8.5/10. if you liked my review then send an email to pred_king@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  i bought this game to try and see how a game could be both 1st person and 3rd person (i have yet 
 to see 2nd person in the process) it was a biit hard getting used to the traveling theing bit other 
 than that i saw the game as flawless.
  
  i liked how you could alter the story or destroy the story and keep on playing.
  
  my favorite 
 thing to d was walk into a small town and basically tear everyone apart and take everything they 
 got and sell it to another place hell i had heaps of gold. then i got into a fight with a zombie 
 and well it killed my strenght i had to wal around naked and look fora guy who could give me strenght 
 but i couldnt find so i quite but im commin back and well yea.
  
  the graphics arent the best but they were good for its time. the monsters were creative the npc's 
 were usually rude but hell they had personality and i liked that. if one guy gives me an attitude 
 i just killed him it was so realistic. 
  
  the trust feature thing was amazing wel play to find out what it means.
  
  over alll i saw 
 it as a solid game in its genre which is graded hardly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesys_4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  this is ur world. at last it came out this is the 3rd installment for Elder Scroll series, after 
 7 long years from the last Elder Scroll 2. they r games that came out in that period of time like 
 battlespire and redguard, but I wonder why they didn't categorize that into Elder Scroll series. 
 eitherway, u can do whatever u want to do. this is actually a true-RPG, a classic to say. it stands 
 out with the likes of M&M series. needless to say this is actually what u'd do in this kinda environment. 
 what u see is what u do. the nicest thing is u can even kill some1 who is related to the gamplay 
 and a message will appear saying u've disturbed the gameplay, would u rather reload or continue. 
 well since it's u in that world, basically what u do reflects who u r.
  if u do enjoy the massive true-RPG type of genre, don't think this is definitely 4 u (I know I 
 do) , though they ain't many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serenityfire
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best story lines ever. Also a deep story line, but lots of free play. 
 You can become what ever you want. There is almost unlimited game play. Always new things to discover. 
 If you get board of the game ( i don't know how) it has some of the most complete mods ever. offering 
 whole new world along with many new weapons. The AI is just right and you can change just about 
 anything to make your character you. You will imediately get sucked in i've spent more than 200 
 hours with my friends playing. I have made friends, and enemy's. you can form secret organisation 
 along with colecting slaves. to do some of the dirty work. If you don't do some of the work though 
 your character won't learn, and society will look down on him as dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoMinotauroO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history 
 of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most 
 detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of 
 the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most 
 detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of 
 the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most 
 detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of 
 the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most 
 detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of 
 the world and it shows. The most detailed game in the history of the world and it shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert-33
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The best part of Morrowind is the freedom.
  And you dont have to kill innocent people to rob them.
  It feels similar to GTA3 when you are 
 running around but
  I feel it is much better in the morals department.
  In GTA you can kill cops and get away with it, but in morrowind you will be hunted down and killed. 
 The reason I think its better than KOTOR is that KOTOR pushed you into making choices. In morrowind 
 if you don`t want to do something you can just walk off.
  
  In short It`s the best RPG I have ever played.
  You can buy it for 10 bucks at EB games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liticom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series, has to be one of the best RPG series ever, with the likes of Wizardry, 
 hell not even one of the best RPG series ever, but one of the best game series ever. Its graphics 
 are great for that time period. 
  
  Its a huge world you can get lost in (I know) . Sometimes you get so lost, and don't know what to 
 do, that you quit for awhile, happened to me. I quit for awhile then came back a few weeks later. 
 
  
  The game is long, it takes a lot of time and effort to complete, and its hard as well. This game 
 can be played for 100 hours. 
  
  Somethings are wrong with this game, theres some issues with graphics, and loading, as well as 
 combat. Combat in this game, is pretty messed up, just because of all the behind the scenes dice 
 rolling and what not. But these problems don't keep it from being great, it keeps it from being 
 near-perfect. It's pretty much as great as you can be before near-perfect.
  
  All I have to say is if Oblivion improves on the problems of Morrowind, then it will be pretty 
 much perfect. 
  
  I am a harsh grader when it comes to my video games, so Morrowind gets a 9.4 out of 10. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyfalse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  While the game starts off slow it picks up momentum, the character generation is fun and gives 
 you a surprising amount of control. The gameplay is wonderful with an immersive storyline and hundreds 
 of things to do wear eat create and kill. the graphics are average, nothing to special but with 
 the size of the game it's probably for the better that the graphics werent the best. sound... now 
 that was a letdown, it was highly repetitve and the music was pretty bad, i personally played my 
 own music in the background and turned all the game sound off. Other than the music the game is 
 worth every cent, it will keep you busy for a very long time. I would reccomend this to anyone 
 who's interested in RPG and also some 1st person gamers may be turned off by the combat system 
 but personally i think it is clever. (bear with me this is my first review) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blobfg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you havn't played it then well... play it. Quite frankly the best RPG in the world at the moment 
 Morrowind offers an amount of freedom that no other game lets you experiance. You could nick a 
 sword from a guard and slaughter a few villagers, steal their belongings but you'd have to face 
 the consequences. Run from the guards and live a life a a fuigitive or give yourself up. The possibiliteis 
 are endless. The story, although sometimes predictable offers a basis superb gameplay that just 
 keeps on giving. The one downside has to be the fight 'system'. Basicly flail your arms at your 
 enemy and hope that it connects. Later on, with experiance it is easier to hit your little annoyance 
 but then the monotomy begins. You just hit the mouse button as many times as possible. The real 
 gameplay is in the real gritty adventuring that you will get down to as a wizard, theif warrior 
 or practicly anything your mind can conjour up as you don't have to pick a certain class, you can 
 make your own up! If you want to be a Housewife Of The Crazy-Udders then please do. The graphics 
 may look pretty bof-standard by todays standards but that wont put you off the utter masterpiece 
 that is Morrowind. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Audaciousmoose
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, when playing this game, I had the attention span of a person with hardcore ADHD on speed. 
 I stole everything in site. I would go to towns JUST to steal everything. I didn't pay attention 
 to the story, the characters, the level progression, all of it, for the first 30 hours of gameplay. 
 
  
  I stole from miners, I stole from shop keepers, I stole from aristocrats (yeah, like Robin Hood, 
 except for the fact that I killed them so I could take their expensive clothes too) , I stole the 
 walker from the old lady I helped across the street, I stole from the Thieve's Guild (ironic?) , 
 I stole cash from my own pocket. 
  
  Now on to the rest of the game:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  Ok so this has a pretty user-friendly interface. The combat, however, is too simple. You can 
 get by left clicking all day. Spells are convenient, but not a necessity. 
  
  There were a lot of bugs (for me anyways, although my computer's RAM is going into the negatives) . 
 Sometimes I would enter a dungeon and everything would be one color, but a quick switch of resolutions 
 would remedy the situation (for the most part) .
  
  Interesting quests. Here's an example:
  
  Some idiot owes a guard money (bribery of some sort) . 
 Unfortunately, this man has stashed away his money in some secret hiding place. Why not kill the 
 peasant, you say? Well, let's get the money first. So I talk to the peasant, who won't give me 
 a hint whatsoever. So I decide to spy on him from this lighthouse. After dusk, he takes out his 
 torch and goes off to his hiding place, which happens to be a tree stump. Who hides their money 
 in tree stumps? Anyways, I retrieve the money from the tree stump, keep it all, kill the serf, 
 level up, come back to town, slaughter the guards, shopkeepers, townsfolk, snobby rich folks, and 
 run off with their goods.
  
  The end.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Nothing to complain about here. 
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Not a fabulous musical score. Epic, adventure 
 music. Like Warcraft. Quite generic. 
  
  Value: 10
  
  There's so many places to go, so many people to see, so many things to... steal... you won't get 
 bored for quite some time. Not to mention there's an interesting story, a lot of side quests, guilds 
 to join, all that jazz. 
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  As I said, this is a wonderful game, and is deffinitely worth your $50 (or $20, whatever the price 
 is these days) . Although you could rent the game for $5, play it straight for 120 hours, and probably 
 die of  murderer, I suggest you go out and buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  A Historic RPG Gaming Monument of Epic Proportions! Then why just a 7? Read inside.
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 7/10
  - Story 8/10
  - Graphics 2/5
  - Sound 1/5
 
  - Effort/Innovation 5/5
  - Presentation 5/5
  - Overall 7.5/10
  - Overall with mods 9/10
  - Replay Value Very High
  - Monetary Value $50 + $20 per expansion
 
  
  Before starting the review let me explain the heading of this review.
  
  Morrowind is arguably the most influential game in modern RPG gaming history!
  
  This is a 
 bold statement and the reasons are not what you might think. As you will find while reading my 
 review, I actually thought the game itself was rather dull and average all around but the genius 
 of this game was never the game itself, rather the Construction Set that was bundled with it and 
 the enormous effort put into the creation of this monster of a game.
  
  The Construction Set included in this game is by far the most advanced and user friendly construction 
 set ever released with an RPG (or any game as far as I know) and the results have been nothing 
 short a phenomenon that remains ongoing today (March 2005) . The construction set is used to create 
 mods for the game and the modding scene has taken a life of its own. There are easily hundreds 
 if not thousands of mods for Morrowind. Most fall in the mediocre category however some like Better 
 Bodies project, rebalancing mods, and the additions NPCs go beyond anyones expectation in quality. 
 In fact, some mods are so high standard they best out anything Bethesda made in Morrowind themselves. 
 The mods add gameplay, new features, new weapons, graphics, objects, enemies, quests, land masses, 
 dungeons, items, and countless other things that DO NOT interfere with the normal game itself unless 
 they do so purposely in order to better balance the game. Many people have installed over 300 (hundred) 
 mods to their game without any downside save for minor conflicts that can be corrected with the 
 right tools. You want better graphics for NPCs and environments? No problem. More weapons and 
 armor? No problem. New quests, races, classes, shops, and sound enhancements? No problem. Game 
 balances, banks, real estate, houses, game fixes its all there and its like playing a whole new 
 game each time you install more mods. The modding scene is nothing short of remarkable.
  
  In essence, the mods made by modders have continuously added to the shelf life and enjoyment of 
 Morrowind and none of this would have been possible if Bethesda had not released the construction 
 set to the public. Thank you Bethesda, and thank you to all the modders who put so much effort 
 into improving the Morrowind experience for gamers.
  
  To see a list of some of the best mods created for Morrowind check out the following list.
  
 
  http://www. mwmythicmods. com/telesphoros. htm
  
  To learn more about mods check out the Bethesda forums under the construction set header at
 
  
  http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/
  
  Now on to the review.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (7/10)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (5/10) + Options (10/10) + Fluidity (9/10) = 24 out of 30 or 8/10
  
  Morrowind is a basic 
 1st person hack and slash type game. You can switch to 3rd person view so the choice is yours. 
 You will always control only your main character although at times you may have a companion tag 
 along but you have no control over them whatsoever.
  
  Combat : 5/10
  
  Argggg so boring. Its true that you can perform combat in any way you like but in the end there 
 is just no thought involved to encounters. Enemy AI is extremely simple and easy to defeat. The 
 game presents almost no challenge at all midway through the game. You essentially become godly 
 in about 15 hours and the rest of the game becomes a boring drag. There are no special moves in 
 combat aside from slash, thrust, or chop. You can cast spells but as you will find it is much easier 
 to just hack at everything even if you are playing as a spell caster. Spells are essentially worthless 
 due to the inability of the enemy AI. You can raise the difficulty of the game and it does help 
 a little by making things more challenging initially however once you have high armor and attack 
 ratings (15 hours in game) you are back to the same problem of nothing presenting a challenge any 
 more. Also raising the difficulty farther reduces spell usefulness in combat making magic all but 
 non-existent in combat. All in all combat and spell casting needs a serious makeover and although 
 some mods address this, this review does not cover mod enhancements.
  
  As a final note, combat becomes even more unbalanced if you decide to play the game a second time. 
 The 2nd time through you will know where all the high end items are you will know how to level 
 up quickly. This is the kind of game where you can become godly in less than 2 hours however you 
 will need to know all the tricks and you will not know all the tricks the 1st time through.
  
  Options : 10/10
  
  Holly Toledo options galore.
  
  Character creation presents you 
 with many options including, race, class, and symbols. You can even create your own custom class 
 and select the abilities and specialties you want. There is a lot of customization there however 
 you will find that for the most part your race and the symbol you choose will be overshadowed by 
 your stats halfway through the game. What I mean is, they just arent as important as they seem 
 which is really a shame however it does allow you to play the game any way you want which is what 
 Morrowind is all about.
  
  You can specialize in range combat with bows and arrows, or you can stick to the tried and true 
 melee weapons such as swords and axes, or you can do them both (but not necessary to beat the game) 
 or you can become a magic caster and blow everyone away with spells.
  
  Outside of character creation, there are countless amounts of clothing, armors, weapons, and jewelry 
 all around that you can buy or steal or find throughout the game. You can create your own spells 
 and make your own potions or you can buy ready made spells and potions from vendors. You can trap 
 the souls of creatures you kill in combat into soul gems and then you can use the soul gems to 
 enchant your armors, clothing, weapons, and jewelry to give them enhanced magical powers. If you 
 don't want to learn how to enchant you can pay an enchanter to do it for you.
  
  You can become a vampire or werewolf if you wish to do so in the game. You can join many of the 
 factions by doing quests in the game. You can even kill the gods and disregard the main quest if 
 you want The list goes on and on and I am sure I must have missed a lot of things.
  
  Fluidity : 9/10
  
  The game is huge gigantic even. The only game that exceeds it in size as 
 far as I know, is Everquest with its countless expansions but that is an online game that has never 
 stopped being developed and this is just a single player game and as far as single player games 
 go, no other game comes close to its size. The main landmass of Morrowind is huge and has dozens 
 of crypts and dungeons and quests thrown all around and you are free to explore them at any time 
 you like. Unfortunately dungeons suffer from deja vu syndrome since they all look very similar 
 and have the same enemies and fixtures. Perhaps its the sheer number of them that makes it seem 
 this way but nonetheless after a while they get boring because they are very small, and enemies 
 are too few to be anything of a challenge. There are some exceptions to this which is why you may 
 want to continue your dungeon explorations in game.
  
  There are dozens of towns, villages, and strongholds all over the place and again you can explore 
 them whenever you wish. Within towns, you can essentially go into every house, and every room in 
 the game. You can steal almost anything you see using spells, or stealth &amp; security skills. 
 You can attack anyone and you can do almost anything you want but unfortunately killing the wrong 
 people may make your game unbeatable although you can argue that beating the game is not really 
 the main purpose of playing this game anyway.
  
  NPCs come in different flavors and sizes from shop keepers, and guild masters, to assassins and 
 thieves some give quests, some attack out of the blue, other are there to provide information and 
 still other are just a decoration. They come from differing factions and have their own dispositions 
 and dialogs. Unfortunately due to the number of NPCs in game you will find many NPC simply repeat 
 the same dialog options and share the same voices but I can see how this unavoidable in a game 
 of this size. Luckily you never have to go through all the dialogs with every npc, which brings 
 us to the fantastic dialog system ingame. Dialog works by selecting subjects from a list of accessible 
 subjects available to the NPC. In other words, you can select what to talk about rather than wait 
 for him to ramble about things randomly. Sometimes, quests and dialogs open new subject which are 
 then added to the list and you can always return to npc and ask about specific things when ever 
 you wish to do so. If you are ever stuck, simply select the subject you wish to talk about and 
 the game will put you back on track. This is how all RPGs should be and other RPGs (especially 
 console types) should take notes.
  
  I can continue on and on about the game flow but suffice to say that it is incredibly good. Not 
 perfect but that is only because of the relative size of the game. The only bad part I can think 
 of is the annoying constant loading of the game. Once you are able to move fast, you will find 
 that the game needs to load ever 5 seconds and it become a real drag.
  
  Combat (25/10) + Options (10/10) + Fluidity (9/10) = 24 out of 30 or 8/10
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY (8/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  You arrive 
 to Morrowind on a slave ship and you don't know why. As you progress through the game you find 
 that you have an important roll to play and that you can choose to follow it or not.
  
  The Good:
  
  That's it its short and on the surface its not very interesting at all however 
 if you decide to read the books in the game (strongly recommended) it will make the entire thing 
 much more interesting. You will find that the world of Morrowind is very rich in history and background 
 and there is a lot more to the plot than simply saving the day. You will have to play detective 
 and between the books and talking to critical NPCs you will uncover what truly happened in the 
 past that led to your involvement in the game. Unfortunately there are some holes
  
  The Bad:
  
  The actually plot is not that great and there is little character interactions 
 since you are the only controllable character in game. NPC are dry and somewhat lifeless but they 
 do the job of relaying information when needed. The game never sufficiently explains your origins 
 or how you were found and brought to Morrowind. Playing through the plot without investigating 
 the books and talking to certain factions leaves the plot hallow and meaningless since it is poorly 
 explained during plot gameplay.
  
  It is a good story but you have to investigate thoroughly to uncover all the information outside 
 of playing the plot itself. Definitely above average overall.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS (3/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Positives:
  Overall the game looked good given that it was implemented in full 3D giving the 
 player full control of the camera in 1st person view. Other camera options are also available and 
 the cameras were fairly flexible as well.
  
  Weapons look good but that magical item glow is ugly (removable via mods) . The environments and 
 building look good especially when you take into account the differing architectures in different 
 cities throughout the game. Each city looked unique but unfortunately we could not say that about 
 dungeons and ruins. Negatives:
  Even for its time, the NPC/Player models were bad. The faces are crude and lifeless. The bodies 
 look like globs of parts stuck together with glue rather than one body. There arent very many 
 variations in faces so you will find most NPCs look (and sound) the same. Clothing and armors 
 look somewhat dull save for a few exceptions here and there.
  
  The graphic engine is a mess especially in the way it loads areas. You will find that at some point 
 in the game (when you become really fast) , the game will load every 5 seconds while running making 
 gameplay unbearable at times. They really should have implemented separate non-continuous cells 
 similar to their own indoor cells, but they decided to make everything continuous which was a bad 
 decision in my opinion. They could have also given players an option to load larger areas depending 
 on how much memory they had in their PCs to help alleviate the constant loading. I don't mind 
 longer load times if they are far and few between but loading every few seconds is unbearable and 
 I really did turn off the game due to frustration from this issue a few times.
  
  Overall I would say that the graphics are average at best.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND (2/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Nonexistent 
 for the most part but at least they don't annoy you to death. Voice acting for NPCs is average 
 but there is so little of it and it repeats so often that it becomes especially annoying. Some 
 voice actors don't sound very good at all especially some of the deities. Thank goodness for background 
 MP3s. At best this game has slightly below average sound quality out of box.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (5/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The epitome 
 of effort and innovation. Despite its shortcomings, you can easily see that Bethesda put an enormous 
 effort into this game. Its sheer size may have watered the game down but its size is also one of 
 its appealing features. As I said before, I am unaware of any game (save for Daggerfall) that has 
 as much playable land mass as Morrowind and in this game not only is it playable but the land mass 
 includes thousands of details that the player can interact with. The customization features were 
 also plentiful and so were the many player joinable factions and countless other quests.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (5/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game comes with a manual, map, and keyboard layout. The map was very helpful, and the manual 
 described a lot of the character skills and abilities fairly well. The manual could have explained 
 soul trapping, enchanting, alchemy, and spell making a bit better however. The lack of enemy variation, 
 and the fact that many NPCs shared the same faces and voices does not help with the presentation 
 of the game. The ingame books were a nice addition and added a lot of depth to the game. The ingame 
 dialog system was a great boon for this game. The lack of FMV (full motion video) , and character 
 interaction made things a bit boring. The constant loading of areas was a huge drag sometimes. 
 The easy to use construction set allows players to create or use other players mods. This addition 
 alone adds so much to the life of the game that it earned a 5 score.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (30/40 
 or 7.5/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Do not let the 7 score fool you. I am a very tough critic and a 7.5 is actually very good. 
 This is without a doubt my favorite RPG of all time beating out even Planescape Torment, Chrono 
 Trigger, and everything else in the past that may have received a higher rating. In other words 
 this is just a critical score based on facts as I see them rather than on my personal feeling for 
 the game. If you own the PC version and play with mods, the overall rating skyrockets up to 9/10 
 with the mods that are currently available.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  On its own, replaying the game offers little benefit. However, if played with the Tribunal and 
 Bloodmoon expansions, you may enjoy starting a new character of different race to join differing 
 factions and such. If you decide to install mods, then the replay value shoots through the roof 
 and you have all sorts of new reasons to play again.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  How much is this game worth to me? This game can easily burn hundreds of hours of your life especially 
 if you play around with mods. Despite the games lacking review this game is still worth every penny 
 spent on it.
  
  I am the type of person who does not mind paying full price on items when I feel the price was 
 earned. In this case, the effort put into the creation of this game alone makes it worth the tag 
 of $50 if for nothing else, to motivate the team to create the next game. It is also worth it to 
 purchase the Tribunal and Bloodmoon expansions. Get the game, play it, and you will see what I 
 mean when I say these guys are the closest developers around to creating the perfect RPG. Who knows, 
 Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion may just be the one we are all waiting for but I think it will take more 
 time. We will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  this masterpeice is beautiful. pick your race, choose atributes, and equip your hero with countless 
 weapons. battle countless enemies, discover countless ruins, visit countless beautifully decorated 
 citys, and have countless hours of fun with this addicting game. buy this game for pc for 10$ and 
 have the time of your life. I own the collectors edition with the soundtrack of the game (which 
 is totally awesome) a collectors figure, map editor CD, and game art. it cost 40$ but to me. . 
 . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . priceless just like this game that ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mephistopheles9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  for the first few days i had this, i loved it. i was basking in the freedom the game gave me, and 
 pretty soon i was on killing sprees, and stealing from that huge treasury in that big city was 
 a personal favorite. but then, i got sick of the lack of structure. i felt like i had nothing to 
 do, no were to go that would advance me in the game. remeber, this is just me. maybe i got so hooked 
 on the rampages that i couldent do anything else. but this game left me a litlle disapointed. very 
 good graphics tho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katfish1990
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  If you like RPG's, you will love this game. It's not a suggestion, it's a RULE! Morrowind takes 
 open ended gameplay to the next level with an almost endless world that is actually fun to explore. 
 The detail of everything from gardens to stone walls is breathtaking, and makes the game world 
 come alive with a unique brilliance. Although combat is lacking and often unfair (you cant see 
 what level your enemies are) , the game will make you feel like you are truly a member of a living, 
 responsive world. Every NPC can be killed, interacted with, and charmed. When you start, you will 
 be at the mercy of the law. but once you are strong, you can peel apart your opponents and wipe 
 out entire cities if it is your wish. 
  Morrowind has a storyline, I just couldn't find it. the open-endedness of Morrowind may actually 
 come as a deterant to some people. The lack of guidence and direction presents this game's only 
 real fault.... you either like it or you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  In my book, ESIII: Morrowind is the end-all, beat-all number 1 pc RPG to date. No other game has 
 come as close to a true pen-and-paper role playing experience as this game. A solid system that 
 is easily and readily modable by the end user allows for endless variations and additions to an 
 already thorough and complete world. This game is the best. Period. 
  
  I bought it when it was released, and have completed it twice. I'm now playing it for the third 
 time, and it has not gotten old or predectable. Its open-ended stucture allows for every possible 
 variation in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidCaboose
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  The world is huge and fully explorable. The main story is driven and engaging. What makes the game, 
 however, are the side quests and the character creation. When creating a character, you can opt 
 for some typical archetypes, or design a class from scratch. All the archetypes are essentially 
 are a group of pre-chosen skills. When creating a class, you can choose your primary and secondary 
 skills yourself. Once this is done, you set out into the world, and begin deciding your destiny 
 through choice of side quests and group associations. The main story eventually calls for you to 
 explore and join a couple of groups... but from the start you are free to travel pretty much anywhere, 
 and interact with anyone. Before starting the main story, you may join any number of groups, and 
 complete vast amounts of quests. And the quests are all related to the groups with which you decide 
 to associate yourself. 
  What this allows is the potential for great game immersion. You decide what you want your character 
 to be, and which paths out of many you will travel down. 
  The only drawback I found was the combat... which is a bit cumbersome and mechanical. Otherwise, 
 Morrowind is by far the greatest RPG I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cawscorp
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game will take over you life. This game is head and shoulders above the rest for graphics, 
 story line (main and side) , open ended game play, replayability, I could go on. This game is one 
 of very few that is worth it's pricing. From the original plot lines made by developers, to the 
 immense world created by USER MODS!! I just can't say enough. THANK YOU BETHESDA!!!!! The same 
 quality is carried over into the 2 expansion packs for the game, Tribunal and to a lesser extent, 
 Bloodmoon. The Morrowind world has something for every RPG lover: whether you're a battle lusting 
 warrior type, scheming political type, thieving rougue type, or spellcasting wizard type. There 
 are myriad paths and factions to chose, so each gamer can truly make the game uniquely theirs. 
 And that is what is so great about this game. PLUS, it is one of the few game out there, (intentionally 
 or not) that makes female gamers (at least this female gamer) feel right at home, not an afterthought, 
 or totally exluded alltogether. I can't wait for Bethesda's next offering from the Elderscrolls 
 saga (Oblivion) and I LOVE THIS GAME!
  GO BUY AND PLAY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  To me Morrowind is a true RPG; you can be whatever you want and side with whomever you want. You 
 can make friends and be a champion of justice, or an opportunistic mercenary and rob from friends 
 and enemies. Or be the scourge of Morrowind. 
  
  The game does have a few minor limitations; if you kill someone in the game who was vital to your 
 main quest you have essentially lost the game but can continue playing in the doomed world you 
 have created. You can't marry or have actual relationships with people, which is actually negligible. 
 
  
  It's easy to get stuck on certain quests and some of the sub quests are more trouble than they 
 are worth. Over all this is a great game that I would recommend to anyone who is an RPG fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guycalledrob
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot to this game. This game itself has a big map - one big map with little sub-maps. 
 It's quite big - the only game bigger I can think of is it's predeccessor. You can spend a long 
 time wandering through it's maps and dungeons. Fighting, Reading, Learning, Collecting, Selling, 
 Buying, Dressing, Exploring, Wandering... small note the books in the game are rather good - especially 
 at their purpose short novelletes to emerse you in the game - read a few.
  
  After a long time the gameplay can get monotonous, even after you go thru the mods. Similar to 
 other games of this sort there is trouble in the go hack-slash model. It just get's old. There 
 are things to liven up the gameplay such as throwing weapons, magic, and jumping - but it could 
 go further and we all hope it does.
  
  The music selection could improve - more of it rather and more engrossing. But in a long game, 
 a large variety of music keeps one going. But the sounds are good, and the 5.1 works very well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind. It's a name to make an RPG fan's heart skip a beat. Epic, open ended, and with virtually 
 no restrictions on what you can do, where you can go, and who you can be, you will get many, many 
 hours out of it.
  
  The game begins on a prison ship, where you wake up to being questioned about your identity by 
 another prisoner (and, as you answer his questions, you create your character) . After proceeding 
 through the census office, where you can grab a dagger, food, and a magic ring, you're thrust into 
 world. Granted, this can be a little confusing, but after talking to some of the town's residents 
 you should get the hang of how things work. And the way things work is beautifully complex. The 
 island you are on has recently been opened up for colonization, so you'll find a good mixture of 
 races from across the empire -- although the natives, Dark Elves, are most numerous. You can play 
 as any of these races, and you're choice will affect your entire gameplay experience. Dark elves, 
 for instance, are scornful of the beast races, whom they keep as slaves (you'll find numerous slave 
 markets as you traverse the island) , and are angry at the empire for opening their island to "outlanders". 
 Which race you are will affect how much people like you, you're starting skills, and more. Each 
 town also has it's own unique architecture and guards, depending on which of the games numerous 
 cultures constructed it.
  
  As you play thorough the game, you'll level up certain skills (depending on which profession you 
 choose or create, you'll need to level up certain ones to raise an overall level) . There's a good 
 variety of skills, although some of them seem rather pointless (bribing people over and over again 
 raises "speechcraft", jumping up and down constantly raises "acrobatics") . You can buy some skills 
 too, and after a while you'll realize that some skills can be raised with ease and some have to 
 be bought. However, raising the right skills and improving you're abilities is essential in the 
 game, whether you enjoy thieving, fighting, or blasting enemies with magic.
  
  There is a main storyline, but you never even have to start it if you don't want to. Just exploring 
 the many cities, ruins, and open lands you find is a great experience. Alternatively, you can join 
 one of the games numerous guilds (one of three great houses, the mages guild, fighters guild, thieves 
 guild, assassins guild, and more) , and do the guild masters missions to raise you're rank and gain 
 access to new areas and services.
  
  The game's graphics are nearing three years old, so they're hardly state of the are -- except for 
 the water animations, which are still absolutely jaw dropping. There is some erratic stuff -- sometimes 
 you will do damage to an enemy, even though you missed him with you're sword, or be bumping into 
 someone repeatedly and still be counted as "unnoticed". The NPC characters can seem pretty dumb, 
 too, wandering around the same spot of ground day or night, rain or shine, despite the fact that 
 they all have enter-able houses in the city.
  
  These are all minor quibbles, though. Morrowind is a massive, stunning game with easily hundreds 
 of hours of gameplay packed into it. Whether your struggling to overcome an evil presence, creeping 
 through ancient tombs, or just stealing the forks off of someone's table, you'll be loving it. 
 I highly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  T. E. S has taken place in the land of Morrowind, which is the dark elven country. You can visit 
 epic sized regions and dwelve into great dungeons, and best of all, Have hundreds ours of fun and 
 interactivity. Though i will admit with Gamespot that the game isent for everyone, but only those 
 who want to explore, and use time on doing things and that.
  
  Someplaces you'll have to figure out how to get past special areas, or entering dungeons such as 
 Anghthand where you have to pull a lewer and then enter before the door closes again.
  
  There are many factions to join including fighters guild and mages guild etc. You can also join 
 special large syndicates such as Hlaalu and Redoran. 
  
  The quests can be a bit confusing since that the peaple who says to you "find that thing which 
 is to the west from here" but sometimes you have to figure out where in the west that thing is. 
 But anyway the quests is chalenging and can last up to several hours, and when thinking of that 
 there are hundreds maybe thousands of quests then Weew.
  
  The journal is the only thing i can complain about, since that all information you have recovered 
 later will end in the back of your journal since it so quickly become updated. This is very anoying 
 because if you have some quest you are in progress with, you have to find it through your neverending 
 damn journal.
  
  Combat is simple, neither hack and slash, shooting with bow and arrow or going in a spell casting 
 frenzy. You will find it very hard to hit at the start, but later you will advance in that kind 
 of weapon so you can use them better.
  
  Exploreing the magical powers of destruction, alteration, illusion, conjuration, mysticism and 
 restoration is quite funny. you can learn magic like levitation so you can fly in the air, or maybe 
 learn to breath under water, or maybe learn to walk on water. You might want to learn to summon 
 monsters, or bound your items so they become powerful daedric weapons and armors. There is no limit 
 in the magical universe and you can even make your own spells, and now thats what i call COOL!
 
  
  If you are looking for a large game with tons of quests and places to visit, Morrowind is you game.
 
  
  (A little where to find special artifacts guide)
  Lords mail: Found in ebonheart dungeon, where you have to kill an imperial to get it.
  Mentor 
 ring: Found in an ancestral tomb west from Seyda Neen.
  Hircines ring (Bloodmoon only) : after beating the skaal chieftain in last bloodmoon quest.
  
 
  I might come with a little more later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metakit5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Eldar Scrolls III: Morrowind is one of my favorite games i've ever had the pleasure of playing. 
 Many people say it's overrated; others that it's underrated. I think it's pretty dead even. Unless 
 you're a PC gamer who can handle more openness and acceptance that you may have to go searching 
 for a few hours to find one thing, then you won't enjoy this game.
  
  Playing this game is living the life of another person. How you came into this island is the same 
 all around, but other than that, you're free to do what you want. Go become a Mage or a fighter, 
 then switch and start using more sneaky moves and become a rogue or ninja character. It doesn't 
 matter. This game allows for small changes like that. Unfortunately, the replies from many of the 
 people in the game get repetitive, but that's understandable aftter seeing the 500 + NPC's or so 
 in the game. Graphics and sound could use more work, but there's never a perfect game. 
  
  Overall, i would recommend that you try this game before buying it. I borrowed it to a friend and 
 he hated it, but his brother loved it. It all depends on the games you enjoy to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is nothing short of amazing. the world you travverse at your own leisure, Vvardenfell 
 is possible about half the size of New Jersey. Packed with weapons, books, potions, spells, characters, 
 creatures, ingredients, cities you never run out of things to do. And I'm serious. Never.
  
  Getting this game when I was an inexperienced games (about 11) and playing it was boring. Too 
 much reading, too hard, so basically i screwed abound with the codes for eons. Lending it to a 
 friend and not getting it back, I bought the Game of the year Edition for PC. I fell in love with 
 the old island, and the two new huge expansions. 
  
  Weapons upon weapons apparently enough for some people. You can enchant swords, axes, bows, crossbows, 
 throwing darts, ninja stars, maces, spears, clubs, and warhammers with useful spells and name them 
 whatever you want. In the editor that comes with the game, you can even create your very own weapons 
 and set amount of damage, weight, spells, dictance... there's just endless things to do. 
  
  The characters are in the thousands, each with their own personality and way to think of you. 
 
  
  I can't even finish this review, I must play Morrowind! Buy it and if you don't like it at first, 
 keep playing it. It is simply the most rewarding game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Morrowind makes an excellent game on all levels, hours of enjoyable game play, awesome story line 
 to keep players on their toes, well mixed and recorded audio and speech and overall an great game 
 to Own, Morrowind sets you in a world where everything you see can be manipulated or interacted 
 with wheter this means killing it, Stealing it or Something else the choice is Yours the story 
 line is rich and leaves you within the wake of a world that is under threat by an ancient Evil 
 and the literally every choice you make will effect your characters skills and story in one way, 
 that could be wheter he is a sword master or a master shooter , wheter he is a Great Thief or a 
 Knoble Knight Morrowind leaves you in the giant realm of Vvandernfell where you make all the choices 
 and is defenitely a game Worth paying Full Price. also check Out The Game Of The Year Edition, 
 Bloodmoon, Tribunal or The Sequel Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeybones4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  In this game you can do just about anything that would be possible to do in that time period. This 
 is great game other than the extremely long loading and all the glitches in it. You can steal anything 
 from a legendary sword to a wooden spoon. You can kill anyone from a citizen to a guard to a god. 
 You can be a lot of different species with a lot of different hair styles and a lot of different 
 looks. I have never seen a bigger map to a game, you can go anywhere on it. I seriously doubt that 
 there is a game with more mysteries and things to do in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  With the next game in the Elder Scrolls series, Oblivion, soon to ship, Morrowind still stands 
 as one of the best RPG's I have ever played. This game actually got me into RPG's and made me an 
 instant fan of Bethesda and their Elder Scrolls universe. I found it to be innovative in its skill 
 system and gameplay, and a vast history and world that was a pleasure to learn about and immerse 
 myself in.
  The skill system itself was awesome to use. The character develops solely based on how the player 
 plays the game, rather than how the player decides how to allocate arbitrary skill points. Basically, 
 the more you do something, the better you are at it. The more you sneak around, the better you 
 become at sneaking. The more you hit enemies with an axe, the more accurate you are with it in 
 the future.
  The world itself in the game was absolutely enormous and there are tons of mountains, forests, 
 cities, and dungeons to explore. This definitely allowed for lots of my life to be wasted away 
 trying to appreciate each inch of the landscape the designers had put effort into making. However, 
 it was also a little overwhelming especially when I first started the game to decide where I wanted 
 to go in this vast world. Also, the landscape is a little... boring if you really look at it. Many 
 regions are just rolling hills with few details, because, well as a level designer thats just really 
 easy to do.
  The game's story was fairly interesting and played out pretty well. I personally found the ending 
 anti-climatic as I would have preferred my character to die in the end rather than ruin the feel 
 of the game by becoming, what I felt as, a nobody. There are also hundreds of hours of side missions, 
 quests, and entire plots to be played out and explored allowing characters to feel involved playing 
 out roles totally disconnected from the main story. However, I feel gaining the top level of a 
 guild should have provided more benefits and recognition.
  Technically the game wasn't so smooth. I found interface for the map, inventory, and skills to 
 be a little cluttered. The game also crashed... a lot. Especially for me during fighting when I 
 hit something or was hit, but other times totally randomly. Having to play out the same part over 
 again could be really annoying. Also some kind of system of telling apart friendlies from enemies 
 would have been nice as apparently there was a friendly character in a cave of enemies that I just 
 didn't feel like checking to see if he would attack me on sight, only to find a few hours and several 
 saves later that I ruined a whole side-quest by murdering him.
  Damn this is long, hopefully helpful to anyone. I do suggest playing this game maybe even if you 
 are not a big fan of RPG's. I heard the whole pack with add-ons is only 20 dollars now so if you 
 have the money I really do think its worth it. Or just wait for Oblivion. This is one of my favorite 
 games though, even though it took a good deal of my life away, better put into this game then something 
 totally useless like school and social skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herosuperdude
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the only rpg games I play. I personally don't enjoy third person games usually, 
 but this game is different. YOu fights with swords and axes, and occasionally with a bow and arrow. 
 But you can also switch to first person mode. 
  What really makes this game cool, is that you have no missions. You can be a good guy, you can 
 join all sorts of guilds, you can help people in distress, you can kill people and take over their 
 house, and you can slowly kill everybody in a villiage, and take the whole town over if you're 
 good at fighting. 
  It also has a cool mystic feeling to it. You are in an imaginary world, with all kinds of strange 
 creatures. You can go anywhere in the world too. The only bummer is, it takes a long time to travel 
 from one side of the planet to the other. 
  There aren't many voies on it, so when you talk to a character, they don't speak with audible sounds. 
 Instead they have a text box, whih reads the same thing every time you speak with them. 
  But the good in the game outweighs the bad, in my opnion. I was hooked on this game for months. 
 Every spare minute I had I played this game.
  Overall I'd say this is an awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Huge island to explore, superb graphics, lots of quests, lots of items and lore, tons of charechters 
 to talk with, a lot of freedom to do as you please, and some nice dungeons.
  
  The bad:
  The sound could be a lot better, combat isn't morrowind strongest side (tough it's still fun) , 
 the AI really need improvment, the charecters sometime look funny, some minor bugs
  
  In the end, if you dont have the time to talk to hundreds of NPCs and complete quests, and you 
 don't find it intresting to explore those sprawilng dungeons and huge lands, than I guess you are 
 going now right away to play halo/ unreal/ counter-strike or anyother shooter, and i'm with you! 
 after i finish this little quest... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Bethesda Softworks has really Done It With This Game, Morrowind Has A Huge World And An Enormous 
 Amount Of Quests, Items And Dungeons,
  and One Of The Best Thing About Morrowind Is That You Dont Need To Follow The Main Quest, You 
 Have A Huge Selection Of Other Quest, For Exampel Theres 4 Guilds And 3 Houses, All With Diffrent 
 Quest And Rewards. I Garanti Loades Of Fun :D
  
  I Highly Recommend Others To Play This Huge RPG. This Must Be One Of the Best RPGs Ever. The Only 
 Thing That Could Been Better Is The Fighting System 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of the RPG genre, but Morrowind looked so fantastic in the shop, so I 
 simply had to buy it, and I don't regret it. 
  
  
  The environments are so realistic that you won't believe it. The sunset and moonshine is simply 
 awesome. The characters is not that brilliant though, they are good animated and so on, but is 
 not as impressive as the natural environment. 
  
  The music is very good, but the fact that there are only about 10 tunes in the whole game is very 
 dissapointing. But simply add your own MP3 tunes into the game easy as pie. I would personaly recommend 
 Celtic Circle 1 and 2, which fits perfectly into the game. Some of the tunes fits even better then 
 the ones that are in the game. The sound effects is awesome with sounds for every single beast 
 in the game. There are a lot of voice acting to, and the actors have done a pretty good job. 
 
  
  The gameplay is what really makes this game shine. The fact that the game is so extremely huge 
 is very impressive. You can walk for hours without going in circles. There are over 300 quest for 
 you to complete, and I would guess it will would take you more than 80 hours to complete them all. 
 
  
  + 
  Huge environment. Great graphics and weather effects. Great music. A large amount of cities to 
 visit. More than 300 quests. 
  
  - 
  To few tunes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_o69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Even though the graphics are a bit dated, this is a very good RPG. The only thing i would change 
 is the way you speak to the NPC's. All it would need to make it better is a lot more VO's, there 
 are hardley any in this game. The funnest thing to do in this game by far is stealing stuff from 
 unsuspecting store owners, and then selling it to someone else for a huge profit. Also the way 
 you can walk around and do whatever you want at any given time is oustanding. You can kill anyone 
 you want at any given time, but you have to be careful about that because you don't want to kill 
 anyone that is important to the story. Overall this is one of the best RPG's i have ever played, 
 and i recommend it to all RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csbellina
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say? This game is one of THE best Western RPGs, I originally played this game 
 on my Xbox but I wasn't really drawn into it so I traded it in for 2 dollars, well now I got the 
 chance to play it on my PC and I have to say, I don't know what I did right or wrong here that 
 made it more enjoyable but I have to say that it is a really good game.
  
  The game world is HUGE almost 10 square miles, full of people, towns, beasts and over 200 dungeons. 
 There is 200+ hours of gameplay here, this game is so big your head might explode of all the information 
 you are given, mainly because the journal you are given to record your quests and so on isn't particualrly 
 useful as it is hard to find the information you are looking for.
  
  The game world is so huge that a compass would be greatly appreciated, unfortuantely all you get 
 is a very small map at the corner of your screen and a bigger, though not much more useful, map 
 in your inventory screen.
  
  Even with these problems Morrowind is still a great game, I haven't had so much fan with an RPG 
 in a very long time, now it might be a little late to jump into the game considering that Oblivion, 
 the sequel, is just a little over a month away, but if you don't have the system to run it, or 
 just want to familiarize yourself with the basics of the Elder Scrolls games before jumping into 
 Oblivion I greatly recommend this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 26, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is defiantly one of the greatest games I've ever played. I am a huge rpg fan and this 
 is by far my favorite. Not only are there hundreds of hours in the game, it is so open-ended. There 
 is no set path, you land on Morrowind are your literally set free. With dozens of guilds and factons 
 and a very extensive main quest there is always something left to do. The PC version also adds 
 so much more with the construction set which allows you to create mods. Mods have ranged from as 
 simple as a new trader or as detailed as a whole new game. I can't think of anything you can't 
 do in this game. The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is one of the greatest rpgs of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 31, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Morrowind is the much-anticipated third installment of the Elder Scrolls series. Arriving four 
 years after the release of its predecessor, The Elder Scrolls II: Daggerfall, Morrowind seems more 
 than worthy to carry on the tradition of the immerse and non-linear style of role-playing game. 
 Like Daggerfall, Morrowind is a first-person RPG that lets you basically choose your own adventure -- a 
 style of game that admittedly isnt for everyone. However for those with an independent streak 
 who would rather go it alone than be shepherded from scenario to scenario, Morrowind will not 
 disappoint.
  
  Story and Gameplay
  
  This game has even less of a premise than Daggerfall, a game which basically dumped you onto a 
 continent with a vague order from the Emperor to investigate the ghost of a king who was haunting 
 the castle of the capital city. Morrowind gives you even less to work with. You are a convict; 
 nameless, faceless, without a history, who has been mysteriously granted freedom by the Emperor, 
 released onto the giant island-continent Vvardenfell and given orders to deliver a package to a 
 certain individual in a nearby town. This is the extent to which your quest is introduced -- the 
 rest is up to you.
  
  Your first step will be creating a character, and Morrowind has one of the most thorough and detailed 
 character generation systems I have ever seen. Not only can you specify your characters race and 
 gender, but can then choose from several different physical representations of that race, each 
 with different facial features and hairstyles. Most of the races available in Daggerfall have been 
 carried over and a few new choices have been added: there are the human races of Redguard, Nord, 
 Imperial and Breton; the elven races of High Elf, Dark Elf and Wood Elf, and the bestial Khajit 
 (cat-like creatures) and Argonians (lizard-men) . Orcs are also a playable race this time, instead 
 of being the mindless monsters they were in Daggerfall. Once a race has been chosen you can assign 
 a profession for your character, each of which has different major, minor and miscellaneous skills. 
 (These skills fall into three broad categories of Combat, Magic and Stealth and include the various 
 magical disciplines and fighting arts as well as things like lock-picking, sneaking, acrobatics, 
 swimming, armor-repair and mercantile abilities. Major and minor skills will be easier to increase 
 and affect your characters level advancement.) It is also possible to create a custom class and 
 choose your own skill-sets. You can even choose what sign your character was born under. (Each 
 sign gives your character certain special abilities.) The sign feature replaces the assignment 
 of certain specific strengths and weaknesses in Daggerfall. In Morrowind, strengths and handicaps 
 such as night vision, weakness to disease, immunity to poison, magic resistance and such are decided 
 by the race and sign that you select
  
  You begin your quest in one of the more backwater towns of Vvardenfell, but from there the entire 
 continent becomes open to you. You can elect to begin the main quest straight away by delivering 
 the package as you were told, or ignore orders for the time being and set off exploring on your 
 own. For those with an adventurous spirit, Morrowind is full of dungeons, shipwrecks, ruins and 
 mines full of monsters and treasure. Or, you can become involved in the politics of Vvardenfell 
 by joining guilds or one of the three Imperial Houses. Guilds include the Thieves, Fighters and 
 Mages guilds, and there are several other factions that accept recruits as well. However, you must 
 be careful who you ally yourself with because politics are always in motion and you will almost 
 certainly end up making enemies with another faction. Great Houses are farther reaching, and allying 
 yourself with one is a major decision that cannot be revoked.
  
  The thing that becomes apparent almost straight away is that Morrowind is very complex, much more 
 so than the previous games in the series. Racial and social tensions, slavery, factional scheming 
 and conflicting political agendas all simmer together under the shadow of a malevolent being named 
 Dagoth Ur who resides behind the Ghostgate in the center of Vvardenfell and sends ash and blight 
 across the land, encroaching slowly but inexorably into ever wider territory. Combined with this 
 evil is the classic conflict of old verses new. The Dunmer, or Dark Elves, had been the ancestral 
 inhabitants of Vvardenfell but have recently been displaced to an extent by new arrivals, the Imperials. 
 Many resent this new influence from the West, and some fanatics are willing to take their hatred 
 to the extreme. There is also the presence of several older, more ancient technologies on the island -- relics 
 of long forgotten civilizations. Huge ruins full of artifacts that have long ago ceased to work, 
 but who beckon to be rediscovered and used. There are even rumors of secret cults of demon worshippers 
 and vampires.
  
  Guilds and Great Houses will give quests, as will various NPCs. These are not, as they were in 
 Daggerfall, randomly generated and will be the same every time through the game. Nevertheless, 
 the possibility for replay is endless, especially if you actually role-play your character and 
 take on a persona. Perhaps you are a noble knight who helps people in distress and expects no reward 
 in return, or a thief who never pays for anything if he can help it but prefers to pickpocket and 
 shoplift, or an ambitious mage whose goal is to advance through the ranks of the guild and become 
 Grand Master, or a Robin Hood type character who frees slaves and steals from the rich, or an 
 evil outlaw who spurns authority and will kill for the shirt off someones back. Add to this the 
 fact that becoming a member of certain factions excludes you from joining others, meaning you will 
 have to play the game multiple times to experience everything.
  
  But all this development would be for nothing without good game mechanics, and Morrowind delivers 
 there as well. Morrowind is a skills-based game, which means that your character improves by successfully 
 performing a skill as opposed to gaining experience points. For example, if your character successfully 
 picks a lock or casts a spell enough times, his skill level will improve. For this reason, the 
 character will be weak in the beginning of the game, which makes things quite challenging, but 
 as skills improve and the character becomes more powerful, the game will get easier. You will be 
 able to notice your characters performance improving over the course of the game is his skills 
 increase. For example, as Athleticism and Acrobatics are increased, there will be a noticeable 
 improvement in the characters speed and how high she can jump. Not only is this highly realistic, 
 but also allows you to focus on the skills you want to improve rather than getting blanket improvements 
 to each skill every time you level up. Stats, on the other hand, are improved by leveling up, and 
 leveling up happens each time major and minor skills increase by a total of 10. Stats are the usual 
 categories of strength, intelligence, willpower, etc and govern how well skills are performed and 
 certain other things like maximum HP and MP.
  
  The world of Morrowind is 3-D at its best, in that you can make your way into every nook and cranny 
 of the game environment. By climbing, swimming or using levitation you can scale mountains, reach 
 underground caverns, cross lakes or ravines, or even climb over the walls and roofs of buildings, 
 often discovering secrets in the process. The game comes with a decent paper map, but at least 
 80% of the areas in Morrowind are unmarked and waiting to be discovered by the explorer.
  
  Combat
  
  The fighting in Morrowind is fairly basic, and does not have to be the focus of the 
 game unless your character is a fighter. Basically you dont engage an enemy in a one-on-one 
 turn-based battle, but can take a swipe at anyone who is close enough to you. Once fighting you 
 can attempt to run away (you will be chased, however) , or continue until one of you is dead. You 
 attack by clicking the mouse on the monster and dragging it various ways to represent different 
 weapon strokes. Certain strokes such as jabs, thrusts or slashes, work better with different foes. 
 Offensive magic can be used during fights, and weapons can be enchanted to have certain destructive 
 magical properties. Weapons include axes, spears, various types of swords and daggers, hammers 
 and staves, and there are also several powerful artifact weapons that have special bonuses. Armor 
 also comes in great variety in light, medium or heavy weights that affect how quickly your character 
 can move verses how well they absorb hits.
  
  Magic
  
  There are six schools of magic in Morrowind, and every character will have to master at least a 
 few spells if he wishes to go far in the game. Conjuration is the summoning magic that lets you 
 summon monsters or items to aid you in battle. Destruction encompasses attack spells like fireball. 
 Restoration is healing magic. Illusion changes peoples perceptions of you, and includes spells 
 like invisibility. Alteration and Mysticism are varied schools that allow everything from water 
 walking and water-breathing to levitation and telekinesis. These spells can be bought at guilds, 
 or learned from NPCs, but by far the coolest feature is the Spellmaker, which lets you create spells 
 of your own choosing where you can specify the velocity, duration and effects.
  
  Visuals
  
  In a genre where producing stunning visuals is not always the top priority, Morrowind 
 is a rare example of and RPG with superb graphics balanced with great depth of gameplay. The game 
 is absolutely stunning, with characters that are very realistic and life-like, and objects and 
 backgrounds with amazing levels of detail. The wilderness areas are particularly breathtaking, 
 and the various weather patterns such as dust storms and rain add a lot to the experience.
  
  Sound and Music
  
  The audio is very well done with a nice selection of voices to complement 
 text conversations. NPCs utter a variety of phrases as your character approaches them (not just 
 one or two repeated ad nauseam, but a fair sized list of 15 or 20) , and their tone changes depending 
 on their disposition towards your character. The voice acting is absolutely outstanding, with nuances 
 and inflections that ad spice and interest to the world of Vvardenfell and its various races. The 
 soundtrack, composed by Jeremy Soule, is in an elegant and suitably epic orchestral style. The 
 music is subtle enough not to become intrusive, yet still contains some beautiful and memorable 
 melodic lines. The only complaint here is that there is not a big enough variety of musical tracks 
 to compliment such a large and complicated game. There are only about 10 tracks in total, which 
 means there is a lot of repetition.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Play it! Any self-respecting RPGer owes it to themselves to play this game! I mean words cannot 
 describe how flawless this game is (besides this review of course) . Everything is put together 
 so perfectly and executed without fail.
  
  So we are going to say it this way.... Calling this game perfect would be an incredible understatement. 
 This is a masterpiece in every way, shape, and form. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnell
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scroll 3: Morrowind
  This is the first game in the elder scroll collection I have ever played. And I have to say Im 
 hooked now. This was the best RPG I play. Put all the rest to shame. On the xbox the graphics are 
 fairly good and the game plays nice but there is slow load time and I have had trouble with game 
 freezing. But that is nothing compared to the fun I playing this game. The day I first got it I 
 played for over 12 hours with out a break. The addiction continued and now Im a huge fan. Even 
 joined a union for the game. Next I go the morrowind and the 2-expansion pack for my PC. With improved 
 graphics and sound my love for this game grow again. Also with all the expansion I have seen and 
 plane on trying out once I plead the game for a little wile, it doubles the world. I strongly recommend 
 this game for any fan of RPG, it make take you a few minutes to get into but once you do you live 
 the life of Morrowind. The PC version also has an editor, I have not try it out yet but I can only 
 imagine what I be able to do. This is a must have game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgsfan1447
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I got Morrowind free with my old video card, I was sitting here looking at the selection thinking, 
 well, this one has two discs, I suppose I'll try it. Well, that was a good desicion, because it 
 was a while before I even looked at the other two again. You start off on a boat, apparently a 
 prison boat, and they are letting you go free for a yet unexplained reason. You have to give your 
 fellow inmate your name, choose carefully, you will have that name for the whole game. He leads 
 you out onto the deck, and show you the dock which you have t walk off to. When you get about halfway 
 down the dock, a man asks for your appearence, now you get to pick what you will look like in this 
 expansive world. After you done he tells you where to go to pick you class. After that you recieve 
 orders from a man named Caius Corsades, and then you off, free to do your will, but there is of 
 course, a storyline you will eentually have to follow, but you can do that as you wish.
  
  That's the great thing about Morrowind, you can do what you want, when you want, but of course 
 that action may have side effects or consequences. The realm of Morrowind is quite expansive, it 
 will take you a while to get every where, and discover everything. a very long time actually. Don't 
 get Morrowind expecting to fly through it, it WILL take a long time no matter how hard you try.
 
  
  The graphics aren't anything to write home about, but I don't thik they're quite as bad as some 
 people say. The characters aren't great, but I think the world is beautiful. The two balance out 
 for a 7. The sound is pretty good. The quality is very good, and there are so many NPC's in the 
 game that actually say something, its amazing.
  
  If you like RPG' even remotely, this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kivzirrum
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 6, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game almost a year ago, and played it for awhile before picking up other games and 
 pretty much ignoring Morrowind. I didn't forget it, however, and about a month and a half ago picked 
 it up again, and beat it and achieved a whole lot more. THis isn't an easy game to review because 
 you can do so much, and the storyline is hardly the focus of gameplay. You can really roleplay 
 in this game, but there are a lot of faults. If you can overlook some technical issues, a lack 
 of focus, and so-so combat then definitely check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaCentauri14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews and got the game. Played the game. Hard!! Didnt get far - so whats the score?
 
  
  I've been playing the game over a period of 3 years. After a number of starts and reading helpful 
 FAQs I got my head round the systems. Patches and addons improved the interface. The reast is history. 
 But what a history!
  
  I still have to fininsh a lot of the game - but I have had a great time and look forward to time 
 to play the game again. It sucks you in. Each skill development, each quest and each exploration 
 make the whole experience electic.
  
  What makes it hard?
  Dying! Lots. Finding yourselgf in tricky situations. Lots!
  The game has a plot, but it is not 
 tightly scripted - so you can do anything.
  This means that you dont get hints like Knights of the old republic and you can kill people who 
 are important for future quests!
  
  Why play more?
  More skills, more things to do. Now I can make potions, now I can make spells. I can combine features 
 of spells I know. Suddenly your strategies rely on multicast spells and potions as well as features 
 of your spells and magics and weapons.
  
  So!?
  Did I mention the comunity?
  Lots of stuff to download mean this will never end!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  Any game that has the potential to take you away from work, school, your wife, friends, children 
 and just about every single other thing out there is a game that you should be looking into. Even 
 as old as it is now, this game can still whomp most games out there. I graded this game based on 
 what I originally gave it back when GS allowed newbs to use the grading scale with attributes and 
 whatnot. Anyway, the only thing that wears on about this game is that the combat mode is "too simple," 
 as numerous reviewers have said, and that the sound is kinda iffy at times -- with extraordinary 
 music that starts to get old after 100 hours. Basically, if you've been living in a cave and haven't 
 played this yet: do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurlayneVeddel
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2005 3:53 am PT
Review:  I'm honestly far too lazy to explain what you even do in this game, but my score should tell you 
 my thoughts :P.
  The Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind is, in terms of pure size and scope, one of the "biggest" games 
 of all time. You can do anything, kill anyone, save anyone, steal anything, travel anywhere, bascially 
 whatever you do... for once is up to you. You could never even know the first thing about the plot 
 and become a complete addict to the game. There is no set path. Top-notch graphics, high quality 
 sound and a beautiful orchestral score (along with many classes, races, weapons and magic options) 
 make this my favorite game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  Not has a game look so beautifully detailed and vast as Morrowind and here are the reasons.
  1: It has phenomenal graphics ranging from the biggest mountain to the smallest mushroom.
  2: 
 Lots of NPCs who interact with you and the environment.
  3: Hundreds of armor and weapons to choose from polished all the way down to the smallest detail.
 
  4: Plenty of monsters to kill.
  That's all good and such but the only downsides is how time consuming it is to fully customize 
 your character. You get to choose what race and gender your character wants to be but the part 
 I don't like is how you choose your class. Stealth classes normally aren't skillful with heavy 
 equippment while Magic classes aren't good against close encounters. Plus there's the leveling 
 up part where you have to max out all your skills to 100. At one point I was maxing out my Acrobatics 
 that my thumb went numb. Despite the bugs and glitches Morrowind is a addictive and often enjoyable 
 experience from start to finish.
  
  THE GOODS: Beautiful to look at, decent controls, highly addictive.
  
  THE DOWNSIDES: A few 
 bugs here and there, repetitive music, leveling up your character is really time consuming.
  
  SCORE: 9.2 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. Fully explorable world... that's right, every inch can be explored! 
 Character development is awesome, fully tweakable, fully dork-able.
  
  Plot is wide-open; do what you want, when you want. Join whatever faction you want, specialize 
 in whatever school you want. To date, there is simply nothing like it.
  
  Looking forward to Oblivion!
  
  Gameplay 10 (Battles are well-balanced; quick keys are great; 
 fighting styles very deep)
  Graphics 9 (Beautiful. Day/night/rain/wind. Amazing)
  Sound 9 (Great environments, but after long hours can get repetitive)
  Value 9 (100 hrs easy... SO 
 MUCH to explore!)
  Story 10 (Very in-depth, very complex, good twists and turns) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, the answer is no. It's a good game but not he greatest RPG of all time. But the amount of 
 freedom that you have is really great. I don't want to know how big Oblivion is going to be. 
 
  
  The gameplay is like any other RPG from this time. You can do almost everything in this game. You 
 can go fishing and some other stuff like that. 
  
  If you're searching for a revolutionary looking game, then this is not a game for you. The graphics 
 are ok but the frame rate is very low. The character models are pretty detailed and Morrowind looks 
 good overall.
  
  The sound is good. It sounds like a real world but the sound is sometimes very repetitive.
  
 
  After 100 hours you still have a lot to do in this game. It is probably one of the biggest RPG's 
 of all time. And you have a lot of quests to do so this game will keep you busy for a wail.
  
  Morrowind is an enjoyable game to play but I liked Fable and the FF-games more then this game. 
 It isn't a bad game but not the greatest RPG of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArgoSmekkie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay is great. You can do almost everything. Explore the land, complete the mainquest or 
 just kill everybody in whole Morrowind. 
  
  The Graphics are great for the time of release of the game. Only the frame-rating is slow only 
 not annoying.
  
  Sound is great. Sometimes the "main-music" is boring but still good. For instance, as you walk 
 on a ship it appears to real.
  
  Value is GREAT. 500-600 hours to complete the whole game with all dungeons and quests,
  and 100 
 hours to complete the main quest. 
  
  The Construction set is really good only to difficult for non-experienced. You can create, edit 
 and copy everything. You can also download users creations on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, Morrowind is exactly what an RPG should be. The world is completely open-ended 
 without boarders or limits to what you can do. You can kill any character, steal any item, go anywhere 
 you would like, and you can never truly complete it. I have spent the last two years playing Morrowind 
 and I am having just as much fun now as I was when I first started playing.
  
  The gameplay is great. There are thousands of quests spread through the world, and most of them 
 you can take a number of different paths on. Not to mention the 10 factions, all of which have 
 their own chain of fun and rewarding quests. This is one of the few RPGs that I have found that 
 actually lets you roleplay with complete freedom. There is nothing that you are required to do, 
 hell you could play the game for a year without ever touching the main quest.
  
  The character creation in this game is exceptional, you can choose from a number of races, over 
 a dozen "star signs" which usually give your character a stat boost or unique ability, and you 
 can choose a pre-built class or make a custom one for yourself. Of course you can also choose your 
 face, hair, and name as well. There is also a wide variety of weapons, armor, and clothing in the 
 game to help you customize your character's appearance.
  
  The graphics and sound are great even now, after almost three years the artistic quality of the 
 graphics is still amazing. Certain major characters in the game have full voice acting, but every 
 character in the game talks at least a little. What a character in the game says to you can be 
 different depending on your condition as well, they will know if you have a bounty on your head, 
 if you are sick or injured, and even if you are clothed. The ambient sounds and music in the game 
 are extremely well-done as well.
  
  There is also a very good construction set included with the game and thousands of mods that you 
 can download. I should also mention that there is a wide variety of wildlife in the game as well, 
 everything from common cave rats to powerful Daedra. Overall, this is an incredible game that should 
 keep you busy for a very long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  Graphically, Morrowind is great. Most of the time, I don't really care too much about graphics; 
 however, with Morrowind, the graphics actually got me more interested in the game. It offersg raphics 
 that, while it still is similar to our world, has it's own touch that sometimes makes you stop 
 in the middle of your quests just to look at something that cathes your eye (though that might 
 just be me) . 
  
  Sounds are good, but repetitve. When you have as many NPC's and creatures as Morrowind does, many 
 of the sounds are going to be repeated. It's not a big problem, I know, but it is kind of sad to 
 visit so many different places (Elven villages, Sea Port Villages, Desert Cities) and listen to 
 the same people. It would have been nice if the places had different accents to make each area 
 a bit more interesting. 
  
  Fighting will take up most of the time in this game, though that's to be expected in an Action-RPG. 
 I have read some arguments that Morrowind's combat is quite indepth and involving, but I did not 
 get that feeling. Maybe I just ignored the intricacies and played the game like a hack-and-slash, 
 or maybe it is a hack-and-slash. I don't want to get into an argument, so I'll just say it *felt* 
 like a hack-and-slash to me. Again, this isn't a big problem, but combat was repetitive to me. 
 You can use Melee, Magic and Ranged, or combinations of all, but that's all it came down to. There 
 isn't any unique skills or spells to cast that noticebly change how you fight. (There are mods 
 available that help improve combat, but it takes a while to search through the multitudes of other 
 mods available to find them) . 
  
  Magic is a bit boring as well. Though you can create your own spells, you can only change what 
 effect the spell has and to what degree. Because of this, there are no unique spells that can be 
 made, just spells to be used in certain situations. Say, you can make a very damaging fireball, 
 or a mildly damage cold spell that freezes the opponent for a few seconds. It feels like ordering 
 a burger really; you choose what type of burger and what to put on it, but you know you're not 
 making anything wild or unique, just something to satisfy you. You can also make your own potions 
 through alchemy, and enchant your own weapons, but they feel much the same way as creating your 
 own spells. 
  
  The RPG part however, is nice, though I wouldn't say extraordinary. A good story to follow, as 
 well as numerous side quests. Though many of the sidequests are the same (Fetch this, Kill that) , 
 they're atleast interesting, and many times worthwhile. There are also a few different guilds you 
 can join and advance in. However, advancing in a guild does little more than give you a new title 
 and access to better trainers/traders. Advancing in a guild does not dramatically effect the world, 
 besides making numerous NPC's a little nicer to you (though again, most will give the same compliments) . 
 
  
  There are numerous skills in the game with numerous ways to increase them; however most only deal 
 with combat. There were a few non-combat skills, but just not enough. I often got tired of fighting 
 all the time and wanted to level other skills, unfortunantly the non-combat skills are too few 
 and all together uninteresting. With so many interesting locations to visit, it would have been 
 nice to make a 'trader', who could hire his own gaurds and... trade. 
  
  Morrowind has a huge world with many different cities and locations, but you never get the feeling 
 those cities and locations are alive. It would have been great had the NPC's been shown to do daily 
 activities, instead of walking around randomly then just standing there. Even worse is the dialogue. 
 Thankfully, every NPC has their own unique name, but the dialogue is shared. With the exception 
 of a few major NPC's, most have the same dialogue as others similar to themselves (i. e. guards, 
 commoners, etc...) . Of course, it would have been quite time consuming to give 3,000 NPC's their 
 own unique dialogue (I think that was the number of NPC's...) . It's a lose-lose situation though, 
 and regardless, most other rpg's are the same way. 
  
  The Action-RPG series, Gothic, had these elements; and is why I was a little dissapointed with 
 Morrowind. You could easily get addicted to Gothic since it felt like you were a part of an entirely 
 different world, with unique and active NPC's. Morrowind offers a much larger map, a much more 
 interesting world (graphic wise) , and many more NPC's, but it doesn't pull you into the game and 
 give you that much more of an enjoyment. 
  
  Morrowind comes with it's dissapointments, to me atleast, but it is still an extremely good game. 
 There is something to be said about mods though, there are many talented individuals out there 
 that are improving the game tremendously. Some fix some of the dissapointments I have talked about, 
 while others add the creator's own unique creations and additions to the game; of course, there 
 are also those extremely dedicated individuals who are creating their own total conversions with 
 Morrowind's engine. If you plan on buying this game, look up some mods, they may drastically change 
 your outlook on the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skydiver8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  Morrowind (and its expansions Tribunal and Bloodmoon) is, to me, what an RPG should be. You can 
 be and do whatever you want. Join a guild, kill everything that moves, steal everything that isn't 
 nailed down, do the main quest, ignore the main quest, raid tombs, go spelunking, wander around 
 the huge game world, etc, etc, etc.
  
  I could care less about combat, and the fact that I don't have to have the hand-eye coordination 
 of Serena Williams in order to play the game is a huge relief.
  
  I gave this a 10 because no other game has held my attention for so long. No other game has me 
 making my own games to go along with it (mods using the Construction set) . 
  
  Until Oblivion (the next in the series) comes out, I will continue to play Morrowind, especially 
 with all of the great mods out there. 
  
  True, this game isn't for everyone, especially those with the attention spans of gnats. But it's 
 for me. If every CRPG were like Morrowind, I'd never leave my PC. :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: preben_kristian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the largest games ever made, a lot like a MMORPG. But this game really gives 
 you the true feeling to what RPG are all about. And that is. "To live a life in another world".
 
  
  This game will offer you so many choices that you can`t get away from it. When you have the choice 
 to not follow the story and do things at your own pace, you can go to a library and read about 
 the history in the game. This game offers you everything, if you have a lot of time to spare i recommend 
 this game to every gamer out there! This game allows you to join many different houses or guilds. But 
 you MUST be aware of to only join one guild at the time. Because sometimes you will be given an 
 ultimatum. For example when you are a member of fighters guild you can not be a member of thieves 
 guild. When you are a member of fighters guild you got to kill some of the leaders in thieves guild. This 
 will give you some differences and you will be kicked out of thieves guild.
  
  The gameplay are what can i say. "kinda dull". But true RPG lovers don`t care about this matter. 
 Because RPG has never been about great gameplay and never will be. You can comfort yourself that 
 you can easily switch weapons and drink potions when you fight.
  
  The graphics in the game are great. With great fog effects, believable lighting and incredibly texture 
 quality. The armor types like daederic and ebony are great, this really gives you a feeling to 
 have everything.
  
  This game are only for very patient gamers because traveling can be a bore, but this will only give 
 you a feeling of how big this game is. And if you buy "tribunal" and "blodmoon" you will not regret 
 it. You will face so many different quests in tribunal and blodmoon, and new armor types are to 
 be discovered.
  
  This may just be one of the best games ever made, because of your wide array of choices in the 
 game, and the alive feeling you will have when you live your life in Vvardenfell. So to every gamer 
 out there, rent it at first and check it out. Because you might find yourself to hate it or to 
 love it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind crashes to my desktop every time I play long enough. Also, it manages to pause every 
 now and again even when not loading an area. I still gave it a 9.2 because it is that good. From 
 pixel-shaded vistas that represent some of the most beautiful scenery real-time digital media can 
 produce today to the almost disgusting amount of open-endedness in the game. Add this to the editor, 
 and while you can still gripe about the gnat-like bugs, you'd be missing the forest for the trees, 
 so to speak. Yes, bugs are bad, Mm-kay? No, I don't ENJOY being thrown back to the desktop by any 
 game, but in a game this amazing, I guess you have to employ a, um, teleological suspension of 
 the entertaining. (Kierkgaard is rolling in his grave.) If you are able to look past the bugs, 
 this is one of the best games released since Torment. Buy it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymous21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2005 1:31 am PT
Review:  Over the years, I have played dozens upon dozens of video games- and to me, none compare with Morrowind. 
 The first person perspective works wonders for the immersion factor. The island is so atmospheric 
 you almost expect to smell the rain. You will never, ever, ever, run out of interesting things 
 to do. This game is perfect.
  
  However, it is not for everybody. An imagination is definitely required, as some things (ex: NPC 
 animations) are not totally fleshed out. You must be patient and, at times, very observant to get 
 the best opportunities.
  
  You can do anything. You can join the Legion, become involved in guild wars, pledge allegience 
 to a political party (there are 3 to choose from) , become a vampire, find and support a well-hidden 
 assassin's group, and save the world. The possibilities are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Morrowind since soon after its release and now own both expansion packs: Tribunal 
 and Bloodmoon. To date I've picked the game up on three seperate occasions and played from scratch. 
 Each time I've have a completely different experience - quests, abilities, locations, and non-player 
 characters that I had never experienced in earlier run-throughs always come up each time I play 
 again. Even now, nearly three years after its release the game is still visually impressive. It's 
 simply a joy to wander the islands of Vvardenfell and take in the sights. Although the music becomes 
 repetative over many hours, the sound effects and music itself is never annoying or out of place. 
 Until The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion's release, this will continue to be the best single-player 
 RPG on the market. If you haven't played already, don't miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LloydNFisk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind has something for everyone. It has been a hallmark of the Elder Scroll series to allow 
 players to choose their own path and Morrowind is no exception. It's a testament to this game that 
 there is so much in it that you can ignore whole sections that don't fit your play style. If learning 
 alchemy isn't you, then you don't have to explore it.
  
  The combat system if fairly simplistic but it's really only a means to an end. The real joy of 
 the game is exploring and uncovering the story. There are more missions/quests than you can shake 
 a glass shortsword at.
  
  I'm not certain how many hours I've spent playing but I'm sure it's quite shameful. I'm still married 
 so it can be done. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  When i first played The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind I was fairly shocked, in a bad way, at how 
 the game was made and played. The graphics truly did impress me at first, but I was disappopinted 
 in the lack of a really enveloping storyline or sense of direction. This game throws you in a world 
 where you feel lost and confused, and I admit i panicked a bit about it at first. The truly half-assed 
 voice acting, for lack of a better term, really doesn't add to the games value and i found it as 
 a let down. Text rpgs never really bugged me that much before this game and I still havn't really 
 figuered it out. 
  The gameplay through and through i find pretty damn amazing accually. The combat, it's kind of 
 poor, but made up for by open end exploration and freedom to do as you please. You can practically 
 be at level 1 and own all the best items in the game if you know what you're doing and where you're 
 going. Quests can keep you playing the game for weeks on end, they are almost all completely unique 
 and most of them are super duper fun. To tell the truth I couldn't stop playing the game for years 
 because there was so much to do, i found myself looking for items i couldn't even use, let alone 
 accually needed, and I loved it. 
  Like i said the graphics blew me away three years ago, but do little value today. Some of the models 
 looked pretty bad and out of place, like some of the elves resembled ogres and goblins and I was 
 disappointed by it. However the environments in the game really do suprise me even today, alot 
 of them look utterly superb and it's pleasing walking through the game just to admire it. Magic 
 spells on weapons, armor and clothing acually look really good and add to the experience on a few 
 levels.
  The musical soundtrack this game has to offer may be pretty repetive but takes a while to get bored 
 off, I think it's well placed in the background. There is infact some voice acting, but it's virtually 
 useless and pretty annoying sometimes. all the other backround noises are implemented almost perfectly.
 
  This game was worth every penny, especially since i got an old copy from a friend, but i'd still 
 definetly recommend that you go out and buy this game, whether it be for PC or Xbox, it's definetly 
 worth your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2004 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is another favourite. One of the games I go back to when I'm in a gaming lull and need the 
 comfort of an old friend.
  
  Graphics - stunning landscapes, great draw distance - this game has to be played on a high end 
 system to really be appreciated visually. For the time it was released, it's gorgeous.
  
  Sound - sound is actually rather sparse - they could have done a lot more with the wild life and 
 city sounds. It could have been much richer. The addition of the bitter coast sound patch remedied 
 this somewhat but overall there needed to be more. 
  
  Quests - tonnes of them! Oodles of them! I'm sure I still haven't got them all! The majority are 
 quite fun. The escort quests really get under my skin but I do them anyways because I am stubborn. 
 
  
  Travel - walking around has its advantages, new NPCs and quests are scattered throughout the world, 
 and you can build up your athletic skills. It can become tedious once you've walked a certain route 
 a few times. The rapid travel options are handy but having to return to a town to use them can 
 be a pain when you are miles away from nowhere. 
  
  Character / skill building - lots of options for how you go about this. The fastest way is of course 
 to pay for training, but it is much more satisfying to gain skill levels by actually using your 
 skills. The fact that you are not restricted to the skills you started out with is a great feature 
 - if you realize halfway through the game that you really should have taken the lockpick skill 
 you can still train it up. Also the ability to create custom characters that are not confined to 
 a standard class like thief, mage, or warrior is fantastic. You can build yourself a great swordfighter 
 who can wipe the floor with a fireball and deftly pick a lock. Brilliant!
  
  Diversions - plenty of them. No need to embark on the actually storyline. You could spend months 
 doing side quests and treasure hunting. By the time you get around to the story you've forgotten 
 what it's about! Treasure hunting is a favourite of mine, I've spent hours upon hours raiding buildings 
 and caverns collecting trophies and other items to adorn my lovely custom built home on the outskirts 
 of Vivec. The fact that you can pick up just about any object in the game is great!
  
  TES construction set - a great tool included with the game. Build and furnish a lovely beach-side 
 home for yourself or design your own quests and dungeons. It takes a bit to get used to using the 
 program, but the possibilties are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderF
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 10:36 pm PT
Review:  TES 3: Morrowind has to be one of the most immersive PC games made. The world is open for you to 
 do whatever you want - in some respects, a lot like an MMORPG - but with a more personal and 'real' 
 feel to it.
  
  The game allows you to join multiple 'houses' and 'guilds' which provide quests for you to do, 
 as well as the main quest of the game - but in all cases, you are not held to any particular path. 
 In fact, at times, you are forced to choose BETWEEN guilds - leaving one to advance in another. 
 And you can only join one house at a time, in any case. There is no time limit on the game, so 
 you are free to explore and become part of the world at your own pace.
  
  And there is so much to do in the world - even trivial things like visiting the libraries of the 
 world and reading all the books, creating new potions, upgrading your armor, enchanting various 
 things, etc. Freedom to do whatever you want in a world so large with terrain so varied really 
 creates a very LONG game if you take your time!
  
  The graphics in the game were also impressively ahead of their time - pixel shaded water, fog effects, 
 incredibly texture quality, believable lighting, etc - it completed the realism of this world.
 
  
  Also worth noting, only because of how rare it's become, the game's physical contents are also 
 quite exceptional. A map of Vvardenfell and game guide booklet are included with the install - 
 which, amazingly, comes on only a single CD.
  
  With the gameplay alone, this game should shine as a beacon to developers how to "do a game right", 
 but with the added content with the game, Morrowind just cries out as the best game ever made! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF_Matt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2004 10:19 pm PT
Review:  While I realize I am reviewing this a few years after it was released, I remember my impressions 
 of the game when I first bought it. It was impressive then and still is today, due to the huge 
 scope of the world as well as the amount of detail put into the many quests.
  
  Test System
  ----------------
  PIV 2.4@3.12ghz
  ASUS P4P800 MB
  XFX 6600GT 128mb
  1gig 
 PC3200 RAM
  WinXP Pro
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  ---------------------
  The gameplay was excellent to say the least. From shooting a bow and arrow to levitating over cities, 
 the variety of tools at your disposal made the game incredibly immersive. Morrowind succeeded in 
 presenting a classic RPG in first person perspective.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  ---------------------
  The graphics when released were cutting edge. The detail put into every 
 town and landscape was incredible. The scope of the cantons in Vivec, for example, was unlike anything 
 ever seen in this type of game. From the water effects to the creatively constructed monsters, 
 this game had excellent visuals.
  
  Sound 10/10
  -----------------
  The sound was also surprisingly well done. From ambient sounds that varied depending on the environment 
 to the characteristic sounds of certain creatures, a lot of attention was placed on the audio in 
 this game. To top it off, a solid orchestral score accompanied this game that was surprisingly 
 good for a PC game.
  
  Value 10/10
  -----------------
  The value of Morrowind is incredible. There are countless different guilds to join, each with their 
 own quest lines. On top of that, there is the epic main quest as well as countless mini-quests 
 scattered throughout the land. The replayability of this game was excellent, ensuring many hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  -------------
  I was amazed at this game when it was released and am looking forward to the fourth installment, 
 due in about a year. The amount of detail put into this game was impressive and made for a memorable 
 experience.
  
  Overall 9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanFox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2004 9:04 am PT
Review:  Games these days are not getting longer, they're getting shorter. It's hard to find a game that 
 leaves the gamer entertained for days, weeks, or even months striving to complete its quest. Thankfully, 
 Bethesda answered the call by providing gamers with an in-depth game that does just that. You take 
 the role of a no-name ex-prisoner released under mysterious conditions. With only a few pieces 
 of gold and a package to an unknown man in the north, you set out on a journey that inevitably 
 leads you through lush and dank swamps, to volcanic mountains, and everything in between. The graphics 
 are absolutely dazzling, with the look and feel of actually being in a living, breathing world.
 
  
  Gameplay itself is very long and engaging, with hundreds of side quests and over twenty-five main 
 quests that take you all over the island of Vardenfell. While many RPGs allow you to kill anyone 
 and anything (but not NPCs) , Morrowind allows to release that inner serial killer in all of us, 
 letting us destroy anything and everything in your path. Just watch out for the guards that try 
 to bust you. On top of a vast array of weapons available to your arsenal, there are over 200 different 
 spell effects let you can use to create the ultimate spell.
  
  The game does, initially, suffer from glitches and a horrific journal system. The glitches have 
 been secured by a patch, but not all have been fixed and the journal still sucks. Having possessed 
 a P4 1.6 GHz computer with a ATI All-In-Wonder Radeon video card when reviewing this, I did not 
 experience any major graphical glitches or random crashes, but try running on the computer you 
 haven't upgraded in four or five years and your looking at 2-5 frames per second if it runs at 
 all. Still, Morrowind provides a solid amount of gameplay that no one should pass up. Its graphics, 
 sound, and feel will be a standard for RPGs to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2004 12:53 am PT
Review:  Well there is no denying Morrowind is an achievment in the RPG genre. That is not to say it is 
 for every RPGamer though. Morrowind is truly unique in that one moment you will swear that it is 
 the best game ever, and the next you think of it as the worst.
  
  Gameplay: No game to date has this much.. openness. From the moment you choose your character stats, 
 race, appearence, etc., you have the ability to go anywhere in the world and do anything. Really. 
 There are limits though, as I discovered the first 5 minutes. I immediately hacked some random 
 person on the street with a knife. I was foolishly assuming no one would care. I was jumped by 
 2 imperial guards and died in the ensuing battle. 
  
  However, as you progress and gain levels, there is virtually nothing to impede you. Once you get 
 some good equipment you become a walking tank. You can use this power to destroy evildoers or, 
 as I did, slaughter entire towns and steal everything to sell later. This openness is Morrowind's 
 strength, and it truly is as impressive and wonderful as it sounds. 
  
  But with all that, there is one major downfall. The story. While the storyline is certainly as 
 involving, long, and good as most other RPG storylines, it takes forever to get anywhere or develop 
 the story at all. This is no minor shortcoming for an rpg, and it brings the overall score down 
 and lower overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are simply astonishing, still some of the best graphics to date on the 
 PC.
  
  Sound: There is not enough music in this game, I wish there was a lot more, as often times the 
 only sound you hear is your own footsteps. Otherwise, sound effects are well done and the music 
 that you do hear is good.
  
  Value: Well, given that this game has virtually unlimited possibilities and is only 20$ now, its 
 value is perfect.
  
  Tilt: A great game with a few major shortcomings. If Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (sequel to this 
 game) can overcome the faults of Morrowind, it can easily become the greatest RPG of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weaving-A-Dream
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 2:24 am PT
Review:  Games with massive, sprawling environments, and almost limitless quests are rare these days. The 
 feeling of playing through a (almost) limitless game, with seemingly no horizons in sight is both 
 enjoyable and exhilarating. Games like Morrowind, which were common in the early days of gaming, 
 are very rare nowadays. We get the occasional open-ended RPG with large environments, and lots 
 of side quests, but it seems that gamers have lost interest, and that of developers with it. It's 
 even hard to remember back, maybe ten years ago, when developers would spend ages working on a 
 game's vivid story, side quests, and the massive world in which the game took place. Now, the only 
 real polish developers seem to be giving games is that of the needless cutting-edge graphics, or 
 the sound effects.
  
  However, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is one of the few games that can realistically promise 
 a massive world with hundreds of hours of immersive gaming, and a good story. Bethesda Softworks 
 has looked to their roots (or at least the roots of other companies) and made a great game, which 
 will remind you of the old days of gaming, despite obvious graphical updates. However, the old 
 days of gaming werent perfect either, and there are many large scratches with Morrowind that really 
 should have been itched before release.
  
  In The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind you start off as a prisoner coming to the large island of Morrowind. 
 On the way, however, you are plagued with confusing dreams. These may not have much meaning right 
 away, but they are an important part of the story. After arriving in the small village of Seyda 
 Neen, you get to customize your character. You can pick between a variety of different races and 
 species, including elves, tall lizard-men, and several variations of humans, among others. You 
 can also decide on your sex, hair, and face. The customization is very deep, and you pick between 
 many things. Each species you pick has different benefits, too. For example, Wood Elves are good 
 at archery, while Bretons (a variation of a human) are good at magic. Its all quite complicated, 
 and first-time players may feel lost. More direction would have been very nice.
  
  Morrowind is very much a game based on large adventure. You explore the huge landscape, and do 
 quests for various people or guilds. You will then be awarded with either gold, or items like armour 
 of weapons. This is very much how the whole game works. You join guilds and do various, often interesting 
 tasks, and get rewarded upon return. This is very enjoyable at first, but after a while it grows 
 much less interesting. The tasks feel uninspired, and often repetitive. Nonetheless, the openness 
 of it all makes for many choices, and different paths to follow.
  
  While the tasks are interesting, and there are many fun and adventurous quests available, the combat 
 is seriously lacking. In fact, its horrendous; it takes away from the whole experience. Its completely 
 hack-and-slash, and its very poorly executed. The fighting gets so boring, and even frustrating 
 that youll often find yourself avoiding it altogether, and sticking to just adventuring through 
 the open terrain.
  
  While Morrowind doesnt push graphical limits in any way, you wouldnt really expect it to with 
 its massive environments. The character models are pretty good, although they are often blurry, 
 and sometimes a little too pixelated for my liking. The landscapes, though massive and interesting, 
 are often rigid, and occasionally bland, as sometimes landscapes appear borrowed, or overused to 
 make up room for the massive island of Morrowind. However, the graphics are fine, and there are 
 few times when they will actually detract from the gameplay; in fact, they most often enhance it.
 
  
  When playing a game, the noise isnt normally a key factor in the enjoyment. Rather, its a bonus 
 thats either there, or its not. In Morrowind, its there, but its by no means a huge bonus. 
 There is some voice acting, although nothing spectacular, which characters say, but they're often 
 just small lines. The music, however, is nice, and the folks at Bethesda did a good job of making 
 the music fit the environments and atmosphere of the game. While the music is good, and well composed, 
 there sadly isnt too much. There are a few notable compositions, but compared to some other games, 
 particularly RPGs, theyre quite sparse.
  
  The average game released now is a shooter, or rehashed sports title; both of which will last you 
 about 10 to 20 hours. A game which will last you over this is rare, but in many RPGs you can even 
 get up to a 60 hour game. In Morrowind, its a whole different ballpark. This game will easily 
 last you over 100 hours, assuming that youre enjoying it. You can do almost limitless things with 
 each character, and if you get the expansion packs then theres even more value. The replay value 
 is also great, as you can begin the game as a completely different person, thus equalling you doing 
 completely different missions, and focusing on completely different parts of the game. This game 
 will rarely collect dust on your shelf, and it will keep you occupied for hundreds of hours, literally.
 
  
  At the end of it all, Morrowind is a game that either you like or you dont like. There are many 
 die-hard fans who play this game obsessively, and others who find the combat too annoying, and 
 the story too repetitive to actually have a good experience. In the end, the gameplay is quite 
 impressive, especially due to the size of the game, but that stinkin combat sadly degenerates 
 the whole game. The graphics and sound are both nothing too notable, but nothing bad either. It 
 is a game based purely on taste, as many people cant truly appreciate the beauty, and depth of 
 the game. It is for hard-core fans only, and only fans who have a lot of time to spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadAirPsycho
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 14, 2004 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a D&D fan. I'm not a Final Fantasy fan. My one attempt to play D&D with my cousin ended 
 badly because I kept saying, "I don't get it. Why can't I do X? Why is your guy so powerful and 
 mine sucks?" I like immediate gratification. D&D and its computer/console counterparts just weren't.... 
 well, gratifying. I just didn't get the appeal of tediously building up a character by continuosly 
 whacking monsters in the head.
  
  But, all that changed when I tried Morrowind. Morrowind has all the elements of classic RPG play: 
 character building, classes, levels, quests, monster bashing, magic, etc. But, it makes all that 
 accessible and fun to immediate gratification guy... me. Morrowind immerses you in a wonderous 
 world where you can bascially do anything you want. You don't have to worry about the rules because 
 you inherently understand what your character is. The details of landscape and characters are wonderful 
 and make gameplay a cinch. The sounds are rich and the storyline and subplots deep and as interesting 
 as a good novel. Morrowind sold me on the RPG experience. Can't wait for Elder Scrolls IV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisjosh657
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2004 4:46 am PT
Review:  as one of the only RPGs on the Xbox, Morrowind has a lot to offer. By a lot, I mean over 300 hours 
 of leveling up, dungeons, dialogue, combat, sidequests, a main story, more sidequests, a huge magic 
 system, and the ability to play as any character you can imagine. That's quite a bit to offer for 
 you hardcore gamers out there. Which brings me to my next point: THIS GAME IS FOR HARDCORE RPG 
 GAMERS ONLY. Some casual gamer girls might like the customization and character creation, but seriously, 
 the only people that are going to finish this game 100 percent (or at least 90) are the elite macho-gamers 
 that have beaten every other game out there. Or if this is the only game you play for the next 
 3 years, then you can beat it. This game is freakin huge. so large in fact, that no one has ever 
 beaten this game 100 percent. NO ONE!!!!!! I dare you to say otherwise.
  Enough on how big it is. The real-time combat really sucks the first time you play this game. You'll 
 say, "Wow this game sucks, why did I listen to my nerdy friend who persuaded me to buy this peice 
 of garbage?!" When you get better and you level up, combat doesn't suck so bad because you can 
 actually hit other monsters. It still sucks though, because it looks really retarded and there 
 is no HP meter. 
  Graphics in this game are very good. Environments look outstanding, but character models move kinda 
 jerky and awkwardly. The music is great, (composed by Jeremy Soule) and adds an atmosphere and 
 mood to the game that is all it's own. Too bad the main score plays over and over and over...
 
  This game is still one of my most favorite games ever despite it's flaws. The super open-ended 
 gameplay and size of this game may turn off a lot of people, but I think this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:36 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is a hard game to review. For starters it's very, very open ended and will keep you playing 
 for a long time, but on the other hand the combat is a huge bore. It's just not fun to swing you 
 sword at the same person 50 times until they die, it gets boring. But on the plus side you will 
 play forever because of how open ended this game is. Want to sleep in the persons bed? Go ahead 
 kill them and do it! That get's quite fun but there has to be more than that to keep a game going. 
 Also the paths for quests can confuse you because you'll end up running the wrong way, get lost 
 and have to walk all the way back. The graphics and sound are pretty average too, nothing spectacular 
 about it, just what you'd expect. But still if the combat was a little bit more fun this game would 
 get a much higher score, unfortunatly I found myself fairly bored while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgetthename
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2004 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind is a great RPG with a great graphic. You find yourself on a boat 
 on your way to a little town calle Seyda Neen, this place is to get started, where you choose your 
 name (you can take your own or just another name) , your class and your race (dark elf, high elf, 
 redguard etc.) and you train yourself in different things. Here you get some orders, that will 
 be written in your journal. Now you find yourself in the 'real' world, you can talk to different 
 people and maybe get some small missions (by doing them you can build up your reputation.) You 
 can also just start to take the 'siltsrider' to the city balmora to start on the real mission. 
 The graphic is great and detailed, but you'll need a powerfull computer to run it right. The sound 
 functions works well, but is not the best seen.
  One problem with the game is that it's too big. You need to have patience to play this game, cause 
 there is dozens of missions to play, though you don't need to do them all, and the world is big, 
 so you'll need to walk/run alot. Another problem is all the stuff you get, you just can't carry 
 it, so you'll need to go to a seller often that even can't afford the half of it, but you can just 
 avoid picking it up, it just gives a bad feeling to leave a item with a value on 10.000+. Though 
 if you like to play alot, and love to sell alot of stuff and walk alot in the invironment, then 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npearson713
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2004 10:53 am PT
Review:  This is my absolute favorite game on PC. I originally played this for ALL of the summer of 2003, 
 and actually missed it when I went back to college. 
  
  The world is so incredibly immersive that you truly feel like you are an integral part of it, even 
 if it isn't all that animated. Characters just kind of stand around doing nothing, waiting for 
 you to talk to them. A common complaint was the text-based communications system that this game 
 employs, but I see that as one of the benefits. The ability to quickly skim through an article 
 of conversation is key to keeping this game interesting. If each topic was an audio clip, and I 
 had to hear the first few seconds of it each time I clicked the topic, I would have gone insane. 
 Many of the characters repeat what youve already been told or already know think of it as small 
 talk.
  
  The complaints about the combats system are true, it is horrible and repetitive. Luckily, a patch 
 fixed the problem where you couldnt tell how much you were damaging an opponent. However, with 
 dozens of hours of gameplay, you quickly realize how flawed the system is. Swords charge by how 
 long you hold back a strike (which leaves you open to attack if your Block skill isnt up to par) , 
 and you can still miss after spending those precious 3 seconds holding back your weapon. The entire 
 system is bad, but you can tell it was not the focus of the game.
  
  Try to see this game as a massive world that has been created solely so you can discover every 
 little nook and cranny. Whether you play as a thief, hero, or mage, you just need to PLAY.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maelgon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2004 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game represents the closest I've yet come to the ideal that I had been searching for since 
 I first fell in love with RPGs. I'm an addict of the first-person perspective as I feel it's the 
 only true way to immerse yourself in a game. The sand-box approach of a truly open-ended world 
 to explore and do with as you please made this game irresistable to me for the longest time. The 
 graphics, while now dated, were at least an order of magnitude better than the previous daggerfall, 
 which I had greatly enjoyed also. As First-person shooters have become better and better at plot, 
 I've gravitated toward them more and more, but I'm still waiting for something new to take the 
 Morrowind crown and once again have me chasing levels. (MMORPGs need not apply) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyrr
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 16, 2004 3:30 pm PT
Review:  After waiting years for Daggerfall, I was very disappointed. Most of the skills and such remained 
 but some of the interaction was dumbed down. The NPC interaction in my opinion is awful. I understand 
 that it's an immensely sized world but after finishing the game there were no NPCs with any personality 
 despite one demon at the end. The only speech involved in this game are the canned responses from 
 wandering NPCs, guards, townsfolk whatever (which simply wander around such as in old nintendo 
 titles like Dragon Warrior) . Not a big deal really but an undercut to the hype of this game.
  
  The main thing I DO enjoy about the game is class customization which is ENTIRELY up to you. 
 That is, at least in stats. The direct affect they have in gameplay eventually evens out and you 
 have just a "power" character. The weapons make most of the difference. The combat is sluggish, 
 and rather boring. There is nothing exciting about finding a new foe - it's a simple act of hitting 
 the "fight" key again and again until it dies and whatever spells you use inbetween (but mostly 
 you hack or just heal yourself) .
  
  Just like in Daggerfall, the immense size of the game is what the developers headed up while sacrificing 
 the rest. Sure, the game is beautiful and the stats vary but they don't let you interact much with 
 the environment. The dungeons aren't as detailed even as they were in Daggerfall (which were randomly 
 selected most of the time) . Only about 10% of the dungeons are really enjoyable if even that many.
 
  
  If you want to be impressed by an RPG that is more oriented on storyline, NPC interaction and a 
 little more combat detailed I would go for the Gothic games. Gothic I and Gothic II are for any 
 RPG gamer out there who is true to the genre. Morrowind I find in contrast, lacks A LOT where many 
 other RPGs triumph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalOZ
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2004 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is a brilliant RPG with a rich, large, open-ended and unique world. It has one major 
 flaw: game balance and combat. From the starting sequence of interactions to creating your character 
 the complex and completely optional main quest, I was captivated by this game. The graphics are 
 first rate for any game environment, which says even more for the RPG world where graphics engines 
 are often second-rate. The main quest is interesting and long and exposes you to most of the continent 
 where Morrowind takes place. 
  
  This is a completely open-ended RPG. Although there are lots to do in this world, there is nothing 
 you must do. The skills based character development system is excellent. The world is fresh and 
 unique. It is not populated with orcs and goblins. 
  
  This is game is near perfection with one significant flaw: the combat system is miserable and the 
 game is not well balanced. It is very difficult to advance in the earlier levels and then gets 
 to the point where advancement and combat is so easy it is almost not fun. However, the rich world 
 and stories and the vast number of places to explore make up for this shortcoming. If only the 
 combat model had been improved, this game would have been a perfect 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MACK__
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2004 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Having never played any of the preceding Bethesda titles, I found Morrowind to be a truly fun and 
 immersive experience, with slight problems such as weak character development, steep requirements 
 and a few bugs here and there. Onto the review: 
  
  Gameplay:8. 
  As I mentioned before, I never picked up any of the other titles (Daggerfall is still sitting on 
 my hard drive, untouched) so the gameplay experience simply blew all gaming concepts known to me 
 out of the water for awhile. There's nothing more gratifying then being able to ignore an NPC's 
 plea for help (and give 'em a good slap with your sword) or add that shiny new shield to your inventory 
 through home invasion. There is a high level of interactivity and you can expect to interact with 
 or pick up anything you fancy. You are basically free to do what you want, but if you ever hope 
 to lure a guard into a dark alley and actually win the fight. You have to focus on leveling up 
 your skills (which you can buy as training or level up by using the actual skill itself) . Choosing 
 your character's attributes and skill points may leave you feeling a bit overwhelmed since there 
 are so many options to a first timer, but if your feeling inexperienced you can take a personality 
 test or choose a prefabricated generic template (thieves are fun!!!) . Character's range from mage's 
 to thieves to fighters, variety is definitely not a problem. You are free to join guilds (multiple 
 at a time) from which you get quests, which advance your rank upon completion and earns you trust 
 between your fellow guildmates. The quests are sometimes dull e. g. get me samples of this mushroom 
 from lalaland and bring back, but there are also more intriguing ones that can be solved multiple 
 ways e. g.  etc.. but it's a lot of fun to just explore the gigantic 
 world. Another fun aspect of the game is the persuasion factor, which basically let's you get good 
 deals on merchandise, extract information or get someone to just plain smitten you with affection, 
 you're able to change their disposition towards you by bribing them (gold) , taunting, admiring and/or 
 intimidating them. Your ability to pull this off successfully depends on your level of speechcraft 
 points. The NPC's reactions to you sometimes don't coincide to your immediate situation though, 
 and will fluctuate for no reason at times. Also there really isn't any NPC character development 
 and you'll get sick of hearing mindless drones repeat the same sentence again and again (which can 
 always be remedied with a stabee) . The fighting in this game is pretty terrible as there are no 
 health indicators letting you know how close you are to beating your enemy to a pulp, and the actual 
 melee control is really cumbersome and inacurate seeming. It mainly consists of hack and slash. 
 The spells can be put on a quick bar which helps out a great deal at times and there is a huge 
 variety of magic you can learn (you can even make your own) . One downside to this game is the bugs 
 and random crashes, so I advise saving frequently, but a lot of bugs are beneficial and lucrative 
 so no biggie. The gameplay can get boring later on due to repetiveness for some people, but for 
 others. It can stay with you for hours! 
  
  Story 
  Well.. it's almost non-existent. You wake up on a ship to find that you've arrived in morrowind 
 and are being released. After the initial character creation there isn't much more, other than 
 the quests. But I like the idea of defining your character by his/her actions if only the NPC's 
 had more of a reaction and your reputation affected gameplay more.
  
  Graphics:9.
  The way they are supposed to look is truly amazing! If you have a video card that supports pixel 
 shading! I'm stuck with a low end geforce4 mx440 so the graphics look nice and detailed just not 
 as splendid. It definitely doesn't take away from the overall experience though, as there are frequent 
 weather changes, and amazing storm effects. You can play in 1st/3rd person throughout the whole 
 game and there is even a vanity mode which shows your character from the front (for screenshots) . 
 Sometimes gazing up into the sky will leave you breathless as there is such an amount of detail 
 put into everything. there is a wide variety of armor/weapons and the such, so you'll never get 
 bored. The environments are well designed and will definitely suck you in and make you feel a part 
 of it all. The draw distance is the flaw about it, you cant see too far but overall its very nicely 
 done. 
  
  Sound:7.
  Your typical medieval theme tootin along, after a while you won't even notice it anymore. The music 
 does change according to your situation and npc's will yell and show their hatred for you, proclaiming 
 that your pain shall end soon or commanding that you die. Weapons cling and clang and spells have 
 your stereotypical magical noises. Some of the weather related effects (thunder) are really amazing 
 though, and will surely rattle you a bit the first time you hear them. It gets repetitive later 
 on so you would even want to turn off the sound.
  
  Playtime/Replayability 
  Well seeing as this game is so non linear, open-ended whatever you prefer, every time you begin 
 a new character you can play differently. Decide you want to go on rampage and slaughter a town? 
 So be it. Want citizens to pathetically grovel at your feet in adoration, it can be done! Want 
 to actually level your character and complete quests, ok! With the included editor the possibilities 
 are endless as you can create your own quests, itmes, towns tec... Finally a game where you really 
 can do whatever you like. Like I said before, some people may find this game boring from the begginning 
 or when you put forth hours and hours.
  
  Final Recomendation 
  Aside from the bugs, and the steep computer requirements this is definitely a game you shouldn't 
 pass up! No matter what faults a game has, when it's a genre buster like this one, it has to be 
 experienced at least once. If you're feeling like all rpg's you're playing are becoming a chore, 
 get this game, it definitely offers something to all types of RPG gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2004 12:40 am PT
Review:  Anybody who's never played a game like this before will probably be put off by this game at first. 
 I WAS. Then my friends started getting into it and I got to see aspects of the game that I didn't 
 know about. The first time I played it, it seemed like an FPS style of fighting... BUT it's definately 
 not. The fighting style is the only downside to this game. You can't hit anything when you first 
 start off. So it's really frustrating when rats are killing you left and right, and when a bird 
 comes after you, you have to flee for you life. Also money is everything at the beginning of the 
 game and of course you have none. SO I started killing everyone and taking EVERYTHING and pawning 
 it off. I made alittle money, but in the grand sceme of things I made nothing at all. So I got 
 to lvl 2 and quit.
  
  Second time around I knew a few tricks to help you start out. "SPOILER" When you first start out 
 it's a good idea to go to Balmora and fight hand to hand with someone (do NOT kill them.) And keep 
 doing this until you gain about 5 levels. Hand to hand is probably the most under rated fighting 
 style in the game. If you have hand to hand over 70 and a good amount of health and armor then 
 you can beat almost anyone. After doing this I was good enough to go out on my own. This is where 
 you need to take alot in.
  
  This game is more fun when you know where alot of things are. Knowledge in Morrowind is power. 
 I. E. The last time I played the game my lvl1 character was good enough to beat the game. It's alot 
 of fun stealing, making your own spells that kill everything. The world is HUGE and takes days 
 to explore. The game offers so much that you'll have to play it several times to get the full effect.
 
  
  As far as the story and main quest missions go. The story's interesting, but the missions can get 
 a bit tedious. But all in all it balences out.
  
  Graphics: The characters don't look that good, but everything else is beautiful. Has the best looking 
 water graphics to date besides Far Cry.
  
  The greatest part about this game is that just by wandering around and exploring a hidden cave 
 you can find some crazy items that make the game more fun. I say give it a shot and play it with 
 some friends (meaning you take turns playing, surprisingly it's quite fun to just watch this game.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daelyn75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2003 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the first review Ive ever written of a game here on gamespot, but this game I feel 
 deserves one from me if any ever do. I've spent more time playing the role-playing game then any 
 other. Its definitely a one of a kind. Morrowind is a very open ended game, which was quite difficult 
 to get used to if you've never played a game like this. If you don't care about following the main 
 plot you can do so, but the main plot is where the game absolutely shines and its what dragged 
 me into it. 
  
  I'm also an avid reader and I found this game to be something akin to a good novel, not only that 
 but the many "books" scattered around the game world are full of short stories which I found to 
 be quite good; but be careful, some of them absolutely grossed me out, as the author of these short 
 stories is not afraid of writing gory horror stories, and nearly all of them where either very 
 predictable or had a very serious plot twist at the end. The short stories helped to bring me into 
 the game world, and in doing so I found out that the Morrowind world is very detailed and has a 
 lot of history that was partly chronicled in several previous Elder Scrolls games. I'm kicking 
 myself right now for not getting Arena and Daggerfall back in their day, as its too late now because 
 they are old DOS based games.
  
  Its true though the open-ended ness of the game can overwhelm one and send them into a state of 
 boredom, because if your like me you want to finish all the sub quests which can take a hundred 
 hours or so, or worse you can go and download thousands of Morrowind mods out there that add even 
 more quests which could conceivably make this game never end. With that happening its difficult 
 to get into the main plot of the game, but I can assure you once you do get into the main plot 
 you won't be disappointed.
  
  The bad points of the game are many in my opinion, for one the Character models and animation are 
 extremely sub-par, thereby limiting a persons acceptance of being fully drawn in. The NPCs legs 
 are unrealistically long and people walk like they are on stilts. The NPCs faces are poorly done 
 making many faces unpleasant to look at, while the best faces are merely average, Im not sure 
 if this is a type of stylistic art for the game world or just that Bethseda hired an artist that 
 wasn't very skilled. The most glaring sore point I have with the game is the difficulty, its difficult 
 at first when you have little idea of where to go and what to do, but when you get into it becomes 
 a little too easy, and mid-way through the game the challenge is lost as the creatures you fight 
 peter out in power. I'm not sure why at all anyone would design a game that can let you reach level 
 100 but after level 20 you are the better of every monster in the game. Its another reason why 
 I gave up often because of the lack of challenge before finally forcing myself to finish it. Pathing 
 for NPCs who follow you are very poor as well, lets just say this don't walk up or down any hills 
 as the AI seems unable to comprehend where you went and will either run in circles or will take 
 an extremely long way around to get to you, and if they fall in water in an enclosed place . . 
 . You better reload you game. Melee combat is way to simplistic, often I don't know who Im aiming 
 at if friend and foe are right next to each other, although I found archery to be a lot of fun. 
 When you start out you tend to walk a little too slow IMO, but that can eventually be helped with 
 skill advancements and magic spells/items. Your Mana bar only regenerates when you sleep, other 
 then that getting potions to replenish your mana are way to rare and when you do find a seller 
 its too few to buy that would suit your needs; mods can really help here as you can even make your 
 own magic ring of magicka regeneration and place it down wherever you want -- not as the developers 
 intended but a small regeneration of magicka can really make the game take off for the better. 
 The crashes are pretty annoying, it tends to happen on my system about every 1-3 hours and I don't 
 think theres a person out there that has been able to solve this problem, and Bethseda's previous 
 game Daggerfall suffered from crashes as well, poor testing . . . But it is a gigantic game world 
 with many variables so Bethesda cannot be completely faulted if you ask me. Creatures that can 
 fall to you in one swing (Cliff Racers anyone?) even at level 100 will still attack you, and that 
 gets a little irritating. The money system in the game is bizarre, the best weapons such as Daedric 
 or even some rare artifacts say on them that they can sell for 50 000 -300 000 yet the highest 
 amount of gold on any NPC vendor with the game unmodded is 10 000 and thats at a remote place 
 out in the swamps, does this make sense? Also everything you sell sells for half the listed value 
 barring some haggling you can make if you have a good mercantile skill yet when you adjust the 
 gold you want out of a deal the money meter moves way too slowly, if you want 5000 more gold be 
 prepared to hold the button down for 30 seconds, thankfully the expansions have a new button that 
 maximizes the amount of gold the NPC has to give you in a trade to make a deal, so you no longer 
 have to hold down the money meter button for 5 minutes if the vendor has 5000 gold and your weapon 
 is worth 50 000 gold. I'm sure there are a few more things that aren't balanced out quite right 
 or little irritating things like the money trading as so forth, but I don't want to write anymore 
 about the games problems, as it really is a good game.
  
  Baring the huge list of problems I wrote about above, the game has many good things about it to 
 be praised, and one thing that I feel really saves the game in many of its faults is the unparalled 
 modding ability that anyone can do if they care to spend a few hours learning how to do it. The 
 game comes with a construction set, though I found it daunting at first, its actually not too difficult 
 to do some tweaks here and there, but I happen to know its very time consuming if you are hell 
 bent on making new dungeons/creatures/quests or just about anything you want thats beyond a few 
 spreadsheet type changes. I was so disappointed in the lack of a challenge in the game when my 
 character was in its 40+ levels I actually went in and made the end bad guy boss more then 10 times 
 as powerful, and it was a worthy challenge when I went in and faced him, I was actually proud of 
 the game for it. The landscape graphics are absolutely wonderful looking and the ambient sounds 
 I found to be just as fantastic. The background music is very non-distracting even if you have 
 heard them five thousand times it presents the right kind of atmosphere in my opinion. I'm very 
 glad the game came with a large map, I used that map more then any other game accessory in my 20 
 years of gaming combined, its much more detailed then most people think, I can see probably the 
 majority of dungeon entrances if you look at the map real close and see the little black dots -- 
 no kidding I actually found places doing that. And again I cannot stress how well the main plot 
 and with that all the games background and history contributes to making this game good, I found 
 it that engrossing, and if you are a fan of fantasy novels then you just might be dragged into 
 this game too!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2003 8:12 am PT
Review:  I gave Morrowind a swing several months ago but gave up after a few brief sessions. Initially overwhelmed 
 by how in-depth and expansive the world was, I couldn't devote the time to learning the interface, 
 the spells, the world history and geography... and the SLOW walking speed didn't help matters much.
 
  
  But after hunkering down to give it another shot a few weeks ago, all I can say is I'm sorry I 
 didn't have any patience sooner. This world is phenomenal. This is one of the most immersive RPGs 
 I've ever played -- you could talk about the presentation alone for hours. With such detailed graphics 
 and life-like weather and day/night cycles, you can easily transport your brain into this world. 
 The intricate plot and guild stories wrap you tighter into the world. And the music just wraps 
 it all up. Beautiful orchestral pieces, which surprisingly aren't as repetitive as what others 
 complain about. It's enough variety (and subtle enough music) where you don't really notice ... 
 it's definitely mood-setting music that sinks in the background to set a tone.
  
  Combat is very simplistic, which is surprising considering how detailed the rest of the gameplay 
 is.
  
  Can't wait for a true sequel. No more expansion packs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 7, 2003 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind had got to be one of the most over-hyped games I have ever played.
  
  I'm not quite sure what to make of this game... it almost seems like a massive on-line game like 
 Sony's Ever Quests, except you're the only player. One of the best features is the ability to create 
 your very own character from scratch, mixing his or her abilities up to create a totally unique 
 persona. But bringing up your skills is rather difficult. You basically have to run off and fight 
 continuously, and use the skills over and over and over to bring them up. If you wanted to, you 
 could stand in one spot and just use your skills until you're bored to tears and hopefully bring 
 them up a bit.
  
  There is a story in the game, but its not that great of a story. As I played I found myself unable 
 to keep track of it, mainly from being disinterested. There is very little dialog in the game, 
 as most of it is just text. Man characters say the exact same thing to you, which gets you no where. 
 Luckily a log is kept of all important information which will aid you in your quest.
  
  You can join any type of guild that you would like, and you can even become afflicted with diseases 
 or curses such as vampirism. But joining guilds serves little purpose other than to serve as a 
 place to increase your skills for gold or barter.
  
  The graphics are pretty sub-par for a somewhat new game, and the character models are by far the 
 UGLIEST character models I have ever seen in any PC game since the start of true 3d graphics. None 
 of the characters, especially the faces, are visually appealing. They all look like gross, malformed 
 masks. As for your character's look, you are extremely limited in choosing faces. This becomes 
 evident throughout the entire game, as you see the same faces repeated on hundreds of npc's, which 
 just ruins the feeling of individuality, something that a game like this really needs.
  
  If you are a fan of RPG's this game will probably interest you, but it gets lonely after a while 
 because it is a fairly vast world, and you have no real companions to travel with. A multiplayer 
 feature would've benefit this game in ways that the developers apparently could not comprehend. 
 If this game were multiplayer, it easily would've brought my score up from a 5.8 to probaly an 
 8.0. But the fact of the matter is that the game is just tedious, repetetive and boring. It was 
 extremely over-hyped for its time and I have to say I am very, very disappointed that I paid full 
 price for this game. I have picked it up again recently and my interest in it has grown, but it 
 will die out probably within a matter of hours, just as it did the last 3 or 4 times I tried to 
 play the game again.
  
  Fanatical RPG fans will be delighted. Regular RPG fans and casual gamers will be turned off. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
