-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/elderscrolls3tribunal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,748 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 6, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
When combined with the original game, Morrowind Tribunal's complementary features make an excellent 
 role-playing game even better. 

 Even though they are becoming increasingly common, expansion packs for role-playing games don't 
 generally offer a rewarding experience for anyone other than the most devoted fans of the original 
 game. By the end of a role-playing game, your character has typically developed great abilities 
 and explored vast territories in order to dispatch a nigh invincible foe in an epic confrontation. 
 Most RPGs offer sufficient closure in this regard, so expansion packs often end up diluting the 
 original experience by tacking on a few anticlimactic quests and offering several new absurdly 
 powerful magic items that unbalance the gameplay. The Elder Scrolls: Tribunal avoids most of these 
 problems by offering an experience that is both sufficiently novel and interesting and yet also 
 integrates well into the Elder Scrolls setting.           The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal has several 
 new, tougher monsters.    

  Recently, RPG developers have become more adept at making worthwhile expansion packs. Diablo II: 
 Lord of Destruction improved the graphics of the original game, offered new and diverse characters, 
 and concluded the main plot of the series. Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal was even more satisfying, 
 since it offered a lengthy plot that logically concluded that series of games. Those expansion 
 packs were so successful because they sensibly expanded upon and resolved the plots of the original 
 games, while previous RPG expansions had just tossed in a few extra quests that didn't necessarily 
 resolve the main series' plot. Tribunal, on the other hand, makes a compromise by letting you explore 
 its areas either before or after resolving Morrowind's main plot. Since Tribunal's plot ties in 
 well with the lore revealed in the original game, it's a design approach that works reasonably 
 well, even though a direct continuation of Morrowind's main plot would probably have been more 
 satisfying.           In Tribunal, you'll meet some legendary Elder Scrolls characters.    

  Tribunal is set entirely in Mournhold, the capital city of the Imperial Province of Morrowind. 
 Mournhold and its political intrigues were frequently described by characters and texts in the 
 original game. The royal family of Mournhold was the subject of several books that could be found 
 in Morrowind, and the recently deceased former monarch was a member of one of the three dark elf 
 "great houses" your character could join. Finally, Mournhold is also the residence of Almalexia, 
 one of the three mortal heroes who created the tribunal after ascending to divinity. Since one 
 of the most appealing aspects of the original game was exploring its expansive geographical areas, 
 it's somewhat surprising that the Tribunal expansion confines your adventures to the relatively 
 small setting of the municipality. The city contains the royal palace and four separate districts, 
 each of which only consists of a handful of buildings or landmarks, and the entire area is populated 
 by only a few dozen non-player characters -- while the original game had more than 2,000 NPCs. However, 
 there are plenty of things to do in the more-confined setting, because virtually every character 
 you meet plays a role in one or more quests. While the original game offered a fairly free-form 
 world to explore, Tribunal provides a more-focused, story-driven experience, which may disappoint 
 players looking for more open-ended exploration.   

  The events in Tribunal revolve around unveiling the true nature of the threat spawned by the simmering 
 rivalry between the Imperial Monarchy and Almalexia. The main plot is conveyed through solving 
 quests for one or both of those rivals, and scripted events are used more frequently and effectively 
 in Tribunal than in Morrowind. There are also quite a few ancillary quests, several of which have 
 goals that are more novel than the standard "fetch this" or "kill this monster" quests in the original 
 game.    

 In The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal, you'll get the opportunity to play at being a matchmaker, spy 
 on the unfaithful, and even assume a dramatic role in a rendition of a play that was referred to 
 in the original game. The expansion's quests are generally quite involved, although it's disappointing 
 that there are no additional guild or faction quests and that Morrowind's main themes, such as 
 the return of sixth house and the disappearance of the dwarves, aren't advanced in any material 
 way. There are a number of gameplay improvements that can be carried over to the main game, but 
 otherwise, Tribunal is a separate and discrete experience.           The revised journal lets you 
 view completed and active quests.    

  The graphics in Tribunal are on par with the excellent visuals in the original game, but the expansion's 
 sound effects and music are less memorable. Then again, since most of Tribunal is set in relatively 
 enclosed environments, the game generally runs more smoothly and at higher frame rates. The ability 
 to add notes to maps improves an already excellent auto-mapping feature, and the journal has now 
 been reorganized to let you quickly view all relevant notes for each quest. If you've explored 
 a lot of the main game already, it can take almost an hour when you first install the game to reorganize 
 the journal notes by quests. The revised journal didn't correctly note the completion of a few 
 older quests, but it greatly enhances the journal's utility overall. Like several of Tribunal's 
 enhancements, it's a feature that will be better appreciated by those who haven't already played 
 through the main game.   

  In addition to offering more-useful note-taking and mapping functions and providing a more story-driven 
 experience, Tribunal addresses some of the original game's issues. An advanced character who has 
 completed Morrowind and is equipped with powerful artifacts and maximized attributes will be able 
 to quickly advance through Tribunal's areas, but the expansion is still definitely more difficult 
 than the original game, even without adjusting the difficulty slider that was added in a game patch. 
 The expansion also adds several new monster types, as well as a few more-difficult adaptations 
 of creatures from the original game. In addition to the new fauna, Tribunal provides several new 
 flora types and new alchemy ingredients. Tribunal is still a single-character game, but you can 
 now hire a mercenary companion, and the followers are now much quicker and more capable of tracking 
 your movements. You can also purchase a few pets, including pack rats capable of lugging loot around 
 for you. There are three different types of pets, and you can have up to three of each of them 
 with your character, which actually lets you assemble quite a troop, especially since you can also 
 have several human companions join you. However, it's difficult to keep the whole party assembled, 
 even with the expansion's improved companion pathfinding. Scribs, which are the most entertaining 
 pets, consistently get lost in deep water, so they're better suited to traveling through the open 
 territories of the main game than the waterlogged dungeons in Tribunal.           You can gather 
 a variety of human and animal companions.    

  Judged as a stand-alone product, Tribunal doesn't have many of the features that made Morrowind 
 so appealing. It's more linear, it's less open-ended, and it doesn't offer faction and guild quests 
 so you can role-play a variety of character types. On the other hand, it offers more-complex story-driven 
 quests, a plot that ties in well with the setting's established lore, a greatly improved journal, 
 and the opportunity to assemble a group of adventuring companions. When combined with the original 
 game, The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal's features make an excellent role-playing game even better. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  Tribunal, the first expansion to Morrowind is a little too hard for characters whose stats haven't 
 developed. One unique feature of Morrowind worth mentioning is the fact that Tribunal needs to 
 be started before finishing the original Morrowind. So if you have finished the original Morrowind, 
 then you need to start over again. To start Tribunal, you need to sleep in the open (which is illegal) 
 and the very next moment you will be attacked by an assassin. Trying this in Morrowind (i. e. without 
 installing Tribunal) would result in all the guards running up to capture you, but in Tribunal 
 the guard will come up to you and tell you about the assassin. The rest of Tribunal mainly follows 
 that storyline. Not much new locations in Tribunal don't much of add an environment to the game 
 than what was available from the original game.
  A few new NPC are all what Tribunal changes to the landscape. Tribunal should be kept along with 
 the original game only if you want to complete the set (along with Bloodmoon which is quite good) 
 or if you have bought the GOTY edition in which case Tribunal will be supplied to you with the 
 other 2 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I liked the story (although it was a bit sad) , the new lore, and the quests/interactions with important 
 Morrowind characters, but don't expect a huge new open area to explore.
  
  Only a few of the quests were innovative. You get to play a part in a play, and be a matchmaker.
 
  
  There are a few key locations though that were truly cool, especially the large Daedric Shrine 
 and Dwarven Ruin, and the Wailingdelve. The clockwork city was a bit of let down for me.
  
  I also enjoyed searching for some of the well-hidden and hard to find treasure. Levitation required! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The First Expansion made for the Elder Scrolls morrowind adds an entire new city and sewers section 
 to the allready gigantic game. You are still the nameless hero born under a certain day and sign, 
 but this time your journey takes you to the city of Mournhold, the city of Almalexia, one of the 
 Tribunal. The Story starts when men in black try to murder you after you take a rest, investigating 
 this will eventually bring you to the city in which there is alot to discover. Bassicly its a expansion 
 made for higher level characters, lvl 20 and above is a good way to go.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Gameplay remain's pretty much unchanged, the combat and magic system are the same, but there 
 is new spells and items to find, as well as a ton of new enemies and a engaging story to rival 
 the main game. As with the original there are ton's of quests to fufill and alot of engaging characters 
 to meet. There is also another great feature, in the form of a museum for the dedicated item hunter 
 who wants to sell his most famous acomplisments, gaining horrendus somes of money, all in all very 
 fun. The main story should take you between 20 and 30 hours to complete, depending on your level.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics remain virtually unchanged from the main game, featuring only slight improvements 
 here and there which you wont notice unless you specificly search for them, but considering the 
 good graphics of the original, this isnt so dramatic.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound and music once again are very well done, more speech has been added, since the main game 
 features little of that, its an improvement. Value:
  
  All in all this game has alot of material to play through, many sidequests, an engaging main story, 
 all very well done, but there is that nagging doubt, that there could have been more to the main 
 story. still, all thoughts aside, this is what an expansion should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  After playing the original Morrowind for a few days, I decided to try out the expansions that I 
 got in the GOTY edition. Tribunal was my first pick, and though it was fun, it was EXTREMELY hard 
 for my low-level character. Everything techincal such as graphics and sound was as good in this 
 game as it was in Morrowind. However, it was the gameplay that I had trouble with. I found it EXTREMELY 
 hard to do anything, as any quest that I undertook ended up with me getting easily owned or forced 
 to stop because my skills were to low. Now I know that this game is aimed to towards people who 
 have already beaten Morrowind, and they should have lots of fun with this expansaion. However, 
 for people like me it was unbearable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I originally beat Morrowind fairly soon after the game came out. It was some time after that that 
 I got this expansion, and because I was out of the game for a while, it was even longer until I 
 tried the expansion.
  
  It was a real mixed bag jumping back in. It is SO hard remembering everything. Morrowind is so 
 expansive, you just lose it so quickly. The only saving grace is that this game is much more story 
 driven, and takes place in a small unattached (anywhere on the map) place. You CAN get back into 
 it, but even just remembering my character again was tricky. I really need to play this again from 
 the beginning. Especially since the second add on was even harder to get into, and I never completed 
 it.
  
  Enough rambling about that. This was fun. The plot was much more coherent. At the same time, I 
 kind of liked the open ended messiness of the original plot in Morrowind. I gave a real sense of 
 mystery and epic past . This one was much more cut and dry. It was fine that way. I enjoyed it. 
 Can't say I liked it as much as the original. I really just adds to the whole experience.
  
  For the next game in the series, I'm waiting until all the expansions are out first. It is 
 way to hard going back again rather than just enjoying this stuff from the beginning I suspect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal is the first expansion for the amazing game that is TES III: Morrowind. 
 It adds a new city to explore, new books, new items, and several new quests. It takes place in 
 Mournhold which is the capital city of the province of Morrowind which is actually off of Vvardenfell 
 the island where the original game takes place. If you've already played Morrowinds main story 
 through you will begin the story for Tribunal the first time you rest. Or if your starting a new 
 game, the same events will occur after you've picked up a few levels and played a bit of the main 
 game.
  
  The gameplay for Tribunal is exactly the same as that which you experienced playing Morrowind. 
 Only that the battles in Tribunal are often harder then most of what you'll experience in Morrowind. 
 Which is a bit strange if you play Morrowind first as you'll end the game with a very powerful 
 character decked out in great armor. Suddenly being defeated by goblins and a certain begging wood 
 elf over and over feels kind of strange. One of the things that the game adds is that you can hire 
 a mercenary. They use the same terrible AI as everyone else in Morrowind but they are helpful if 
 your trying to get away from a fight and heal yourself. They also double up as a packhorse and 
 let you carry around the piles of loot you'll come across in your quests. The new quests and storyline 
 are the main features of Tribunal and they are both varied and involving as you'll do everything 
 from acting in a public performance, to working for a god (again) , to matchmaking. The main quests 
 are full of political undertones and are best understood by people that have spent some time playing 
 the main game long enough to understand the world and to have read some of (or a great deal of) 
 the lore.
  
  Visually the game looks the same. The enviroments leave much to be desired though. The capital 
 is much smaller then it should be, and certainly less populated. The city's plaza and temple areas 
 are much too empty. That and the fact that you can never leave the city walls is somewhat disappointing 
 considering the possibilities that could have been used there.. Morrowind was also quite sparsely 
 populated but it just feels strange in a place that's supposed to be a provincial capital. There 
 are several tunnels under the city but you can also explore them in no time at all. The sound is 
 about the same, a few new enviromental effects around the city are nice but there are no additions 
 to the games already too short musical score. If your already sick of Morrowind music you will 
 have to bear with it a bit longer as you quest about Mournhold.
  
  If you had any tech issues with Morrowind you'll also find them here. Just as before you can expect 
 frame rate drops after heading outdoors. I got the same random desktop crashes I had with Morrowind 
 as well.
  
  Overall if you enjoyed Morrowind then you'll most likely enjoy Tribunal for it's extra quests and 
 areas even if they are too few. While it doesn't fix any of Morrowinds flaws it does breathes a 
 bit of new life into the game for those that loved the original. And for those that haven't played 
 Morrowind yet it makes an enormous game just a little bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  you absolutely, positively didn't like Morrowind at all, then this won't be the droid you're looking 
 for: Tribunal doesn't so much make Morrowind feel like a whole new game, ala Diablo II LOD, but 
 is more of a constrained version of it. It's almost as if you can install the game, start playing, 
 and see something that says NEW SUB-MISSION IS OPEN! Given the fact that everything in Morrowind 
 was intertwined and seamlessly integrated with everything else, it will come as a bit of a letdown 
 to fans of the game that the expansion is more of a self-contained bonus mission. It's a rather 
 long bonus mission, to be sure, but there is much less of the freedom  and pointless wandering 
  of the original. Some will view this as fault, some will view it as a great improvement. The 
 more linear nature of Tribunal certainly helps to flesh out Morrowind's epic story in a more concise 
 nature, for which those with short attention spans will be eternally grateful. Still, those with 
 short attention spans probably shouldn't be playing a game like Morrowind in the first place. Tribunal 
 tacks on an estimated 20 or so hours to a game that already contains potentially hundreds of hours 
 of play, and thus is not for the fickle minded gamer. Playing Tribunal is like reading the abridged 
 version of War and Peace, only in this scenario, you are required to own the full version to read 
 the abridged one. A good investment for fans of Morrowind, but it's not likely to win over those 
 who can't see what all the hooplah is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal was the first expansion for The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. It 
 takes place in the temple/city of Mournhold
  
  This added the quests that make it so you can take on the three Living Gods . The Tribunal
  
 
  This adds a good number of quests that are alot harder than almost any quests found in Morrowind, 
 and boss fights on a whole new level... level 100
  
  A ton of new weapons and armor can be found in this city, and if you can get your hands on it, 
 you are SET, the guards in this city have some of the best... yet the most heavy armor and sword 
 you can find in this game... oh and it sells... really really nice
  
  The graphics didn't get an upgrade, but they didn't need it, though there are some glitches here 
 and there with the graphics
  
  It isn't nearly as solid as Morrowind, but it adds about another 100+ hours to an already huge 
 game
  
  I wish i could go more detail into this game but i cant say much without giving it all away
  
 
  One thing i can say though is if you are a rookie, watch out, even in Vvardenfell your life is 
 in danger from The Drak Brotherhood 
  
  Overall if you liked Morrowind than your like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion pack for one of the greatest games ever created. This game adds a bunch of new 
 areas for you to discover and a bunch of new creatures for you to get mad at and destroy. It also 
 adds tons of new weaponry and tons of new armor. I am a fan of collecting armor and weapons so 
 I totally enjoyed the fact that they had more and more to come. This game totally added more gameplay 
 to the already 100+ hours of morrowind gameplay. But hey I didn't have a problem with that. You 
 didn't hear me complaining. I love the Elder Scrolls series and I love Bethesda for bringing them 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack for The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is a great addon. It adds the royal capital 
 city of Mournhold, complete with 40 new quests, King Hlaau Helseth himself, Lady Almalexia one 
 of the gods, Royal Guards, and a whole new story, following your character. This also adds Assassins 
 which attack you in your sleep. This is a HUGE downside during your lower levels, because if you 
 aren't prepared they are very hard. The assassins are a HUGE source of easy money if they attack 
 you early though. This sort of unbalances the game. But it's up to you wheter you loot their armor 
 or if you just leave it there. This game follows up Morrowind, and precedes Bloodmoon. IT doesn't 
 add any outstanding features but it is the source of about 40-50 hours of fun. IT also adds a Mournhold 
 Museum of Artifacts, where you can turn in your rare items you come upon during your adventures 
 for up to 30,000 gold! 
  
  This game is not too expensive either, hence you can buy Morrowind and both of it's expansions 
 for $10. But it is worth more than that. This even includes a play type thing where you have to 
 say the right lines in a play after reading them from a book given to you. There is a little surprise 
 at the end, for you strong people. 
  
  Overall, this game is excellent, and definately worth a play for RPG fans, MMO Pwners, and Action 
 Gurus alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 13, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  A good expansion pack
  
  Gameplay:
  Much like Morrowind you get a weapon and you kill things. that might be a harsh on this expansion. 
 It does a great job of keeping the magic of Morrowind but doesn't really add that much. Basicly 
 it adds two new places. The capital city Mournhold and the new towns Clockwork City and Sotha Sil. 
 I have not getten to Clockwork City or Sotha Sil but Mournhold is amazing. You get there by talking 
 to some people after being attacked by the Dark Brotherhood via Ebonhart. It adds new shops with 
 amazing amounts of money to rob. With its own quests you must check out Mournhold if you get this 
 expansion pack. 
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  I can't really say much I havn't said in the Morrowind review. You really arn't going to need a 
 high end computer to run this game. Just 256 MB of RAM will make this game run well. An NVIDIA 
 GeForce FX 5200 card will serve you just fine for this game. SOme of this game eviroments are breath 
 takeing!
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  As much as this game changes everything it doesn't make the sound andy better. You need to go get 
 the patch for the sound no mater waht becuase the game sound isn't that good. They didn't fix any 
 of the voice acting, unfortunatly...
  6/10
  
  Value:
  The Value of Tribunal isn't great but with each city having it's own quests and armor and all of 
 that good stuff the value is still execelent. Not as good as Morrowind and not worth paying more 
 than $15 for. $15 is pushing it. In fact, I would say $5 is about right!
  7/10
  
  Tilt:
  WTF, I don't have anything to say other than I now like Elder Scrolls games! 
  8/10
 
  
  Wrap Up: 
  Good expansion pack for about $5.00 but no more.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  Result:
  8.1 
  Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  In preparation for Oblivion, Ive gone back to the land of the Dark Elves to once again save the 
 day. I started off with the plan to just finish Morrowind again, but I got swept up in this expansions 
 plot.
  
  The graphics stay the same for this expansion, whether or not that is a good thing depends on what 
 mods you have downloaded. The architecture of Mournhold is much darker and foreboding than that 
 of Morrowind. While the landscape in Tribunal is a city much larger than a city found in Morrowind, 
 there is a feeling of confinement felt throughout the expansion. The levitation spell is done away 
 with for the most part, blamed on Almexias doing, but the reason is more apparent. The game would 
 be simple if you could just fly away in the city and strike your foes down from above.
  
  For the most part the same sound that youve come to love or hate in Morrowind is back. Only a 
 few new faces are given their own voices for dialog and those are the characters that are most 
 crucial to the plot. So if you liked what Morrowind was doing so far, you cant go wrong in this 
 department.
  
  Gameplay remains relatively unchanged. The only additions seem to be a few new weapons, armor, 
 potions, reagents, creatures and scrolls. The addition of just a few items is done very well. Mournhold 
 gives a feeling of familiarity even though it is a whole new place. Factions aspire against the 
 king, against the goddess and against anyone they disagree with. This nice little mixture gives 
 way to many new quests. While the freedom of the main quest is almost nonexistent, The story line 
 never seems forceful since you can just back out and return to the mainland whenever youd like.
 
  
  The story is well done for a expansion and contains a nice little twist at the end. It really adds 
 to the whole Morrowind experience. The addition of Tribunal is much more cohesive with the main 
 quest than that of Bloodmoons story. This expansion is better played with a more a character in 
 their late teen levels but it can be done earlier with a bit of trial and error. 
  
  In closing, Tribunal is a nice romp that brings you closer to the inner workings of Morrowind. 
 The story is more political, the quests are more amusing and the stakes are just as high. From 
 the very first attempt at your life, Tribunal takes a hold of you and doesnt let do until the 
 end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls Morrowind - Tribunal expansion is a great addition to the world of Vvardenfell. 
 It adds great new content such as a large quest for the mysterious Almalexia that ends in quite 
 a twist, and new creatures that lurk in the extensive Mournhold sewers.
  The overall gameplay was great, be prepared to face all new challanges and find new items/weapons. 
 No graphics changes were noticed and sound remained great. The story like above is good and keeps 
 your wanting more. And lets not forget the new merchants and shopkeepers, always a good addon.
 
  Now for the negatives: Firstly the city they added was small and didnt feel like a place that 
 the King would reside. I was expecting a large maginificent city that could be explored in not 
 hours but days or weeks. There was also a lack of quests; I ran out relativly fast. The assassins 
 that they added were annoying and didnt really create a challenge for characters above level 2. 
 I just would get pissed off and finally did the quest to get rid of them once and for all.
  So it seems like a lot more negatives, but dont worry its mostly a good xpack. And i defiently 
 recommend it to any Morrowind fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I've played all The Elder Scrolls games, and this game is probably the best. There is so many things 
 I like about it, but we'll get to that point. 
  Tribunal starts where you ended in Morrowind or Bloodmoon. When you go to sleep an assassin tries 
 to kill you. He's not a hard opponent, so you can kill him easily. You go report it to a guard, 
 and there after you ask guy after girl, who wants to kill you. Later you are transfered by magic 
 to this strange yet beautiful city called Tribunal. Tribunal is ruled by a king, and the inhabitants 
 is worshipping a goddess. You can choose to work for one of them and they will give you several 
 and challenging tasks. This is all fun of course... what did you expect from a Elder Scrolls game?
 
  
  The GooD: 
  - Awesome gameplay!
  - The graphics are really something special.
  - Excellent sound effects and music. Creates a really great mood in the game.
  - There is so 
 much replay value that will make you lose sleep.
  - The campaign in Tribunal is very detailed and really amazing.
  
  The BaD:
  - The combat 
 in Elder Scrolls is still a bit unfinished.
  - The game can crash sometimes (And it's not only happening to my computer) .
  - If you kill one 
 guy that turns out to useful later in the game, the whole game is ruined. 
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal... is for everyone who likes a excellent RPG game!
  
  Dope999 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Tribunal is for people who like their dungeons ! His quests take place under Mournhold, in sewers 
 and old dwemer strongholds full of robots, fabricants, goblins and mad gods. Personally I enjoy 
 free spaces where at least you could see an enemy coming on you, but Tribunal is quite a refreshing 
 experience grace to Elder Scrolls strong point - the storyline . The bad guys could seem dangerous 
 only for those who choose to play Morrowind and Tribunal in the same time, but if you choose to 
 finish all Morrowind quests first and reach a high level things become clear. A good mix of enchanted 
 items and custom made weapon - a perfect option is the Ebony Scimitar charged with Vivec`s soul 
 trapped inside Azura Star - make goblins easy prey and not even Almalexia god stand a chance. As 
 in Morrowind, Tribunal let you play free and thousands of items await to be put in good use or 
 simple sold to Museum of Artifacts if relic hunter is your passion. Fabricants are the toughest 
 NPC you`ll encounter, except the Temple gods, and they put a lot of fight in Clockwork City, residence 
 of Sotha Sil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When comparing Tribunal to Morrowind, a few words tend to come up. The first is "short". And the 
 second, which I would like to add, is "awesome".
  
  Tribunal mostly takes place in the city of Mournhold, which is the capital of the Province of Morrowind. 
 You go there after being attacked by an assassin from a shadowy guild of killers, the Dark Brotherhood. 
 Once there, you find that the brotherhood is only one of the problems plaguing the capital, and 
 (big suprise) you have to solve them.
  
  I mentioned that Tribunal is frequently described as short, and there's a reason for that. For 
 one, it takes place in a single city, compared to Morrowinds sprawling island. It's a decent sized 
 city, but nowhere near the size of Vivec. As such, it may dissapoint some Morrowind fans. Before 
 skipping this expansion, however, keep in mind that there's a lot packed into this city. Especially 
 in the ruins of the old Mournhold, which now serve as sewers. This is where most of your fights 
 take place, and where you'll meet some hair-raising new enemies. The designers have said that they 
 had higher level characters in mind, and boy, they weren't kidding. You'll meet the goblin army, 
 composed of a variety of ridicoulously tough (in a good way) creatures, ruthless Dark Brotherhood 
 assassins, and demon sorcerors infesting underground temples. And that's just the begining.
  
  The above ground game offers a lot of new stuff too. There's a quarter filled with shops -- shops 
 selling a much wider variety of much better stuff than those in Morrowind. You can also get involved 
 in a theatrical presentation here (believe me, you have to try this for yourself!) . Then there's 
 the plaza, temple quarter, and the central palace, all alive with quests and intrigue. Finally, 
 there's the manor quarter, where deranged foes and a bar in need of a bouner await you. This is, 
 of course, just scratching the surface. 
  
  You can also hire a mercenary to fight for you. In fact the mercenary is a bit dissapointing, since 
 he gets lost easily (as do the several other characters who will follow you during your adventures) 
 and is actually quite weak (as are the several other characters who will follow you during your 
 adventures) .
  
  One thing that definetly does not dissapoint is the quest. Many of them are much more involved 
 than in Morrowind. You'll follow a wayward husband, knock out unruly bar patrons, and in general 
 get more involved than ever in the rich world that is The Elder Scrolls. The dialouge has also 
 gotten more situation specific, and the new grapical stuff -- such as the High Ordinators and Royal 
 Guards -- look great.
  
  All in all, this is a superb expansion to an already amazing game. I highly reccommend it if you 
 at all enjoyed Morrwind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf_Hunter194
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the longest games Ive ever played is Morrowind. It is very flexible and allows you to do 
 whatever you want. I own the Game of the Year Edition so you may see this review in the Morrowind 
 and Bloodmoon sections. Perhaps what makes this game truly great is the vast amount of possibilities 
 that wait you. Will you become a blood-thirsty assassin or a power-hungry mage? Its up to you! 
 You control your destiny! This expansion allows you to travel to Mournhold. Although it seems small, 
 there is a vast nework of tunnels under Mournhold that await you. There are a few cases where the 
 game might crash or you run out of virtual memory but it is still a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was a addon pack to morrowind, 
  Added a brand new area for you to discover, which was based near ebon heart, near vivec town.
 
  
  You need witch craft or magic spells to tranform up there.
  More errans to do for people, more battles and more forces to join up with.
  
  Travel to majestic 
 Mournhold, the Ancient Capital city of Morrowind.
  
  Unravel the mysteries of the clockwork city of sotha sil.
  
  Delve into new epic-sized dungeons.
 
  
  Battle more goblins and linhes and the mysterious fabricants.
  
  Sort quests and annotate maps in the new journal system.
  
  Experiance new quests, armour, 
 weapons, and a whole lot more.
  
  Additional players in the game which can be swapped any point in the game.
  
  More indepth 
 game play.
  
  Great expansion pack game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for another game as great as Morrowind, this isn't it, it has a lot of additions 
 to the game, stuff you can figure out without me having to tell you. The only problem I had with 
 it was that I finished the main quest in under 30 hours. And even with the addition of side/mini-quests 
 the total gameplay time won't be more than 150 hours, though it still is Morrowind in essence, 
 it isn't with the tuned down storyline length, you will beat it and not realize you have until 
 you can't get anymore quests, that was how I was when I finished it. It leaves you wanting more. 
 Now, off to Bloodmoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  Tribunal is the first expansion to the acclaimed 2002 runaway hit Morrowind and proves that even 
 a game as perfect as Morrowind can be improved in some ways.
  
  Gameplay
  Among many other things, Morrowind told the tale of ancient prophecies in the land of the Dark 
 Elves, and the part that equally ancient gods had to play in it. Three gods in particular - who, 
 together, make up the heart of the Temple -- had a hand in this development, although you only 
 ever encountered one, Vivec, in your travels. With the advent of the Tribunal expansion, you get 
 to travel to the capital city of Mournhold, through which you will meet the remaining two: Almalexia, 
 and Sotha Sil, both of whom have issues and motives of their own that draw you in and threaten 
 to destroy the land. It's an interesting plotline that helps to further flesh out the gameworld, 
 and your further involvement with the central figures of the Temple only serves to enhance the 
 overall Morrowind experience. Thankfully, the story developments don't stop there, as you also 
 become involved with the newly appointed and terribly ruthless king of Morrowind, as well as his 
 mother Barenziah, both of whom have figured in various ways and bits of literature in previous 
 Elder Scrolls titles. It's great to finally be involved in the larger figures of the Dark Elves' 
 history and to finally venture from the land of Vvardenfell, though it's unfortunate that you're 
 still very highly restricted to a relatively tiny piece of off-shore land. It lends a bit of claustrophobic 
 feel, at least initially, and although you're later able to venture beneath the city and beyond, 
 it's a feel that you'll have trouble shaking. Still, for those who felt that Morrowind was a bit 
 too wide open, it could be just the thing.
  
  Between and through these central figures, you'll move through the bulk of Tribunal's twisting 
 storyline, which is much more narrow and focused than that to be found in the main body of Morrowind. 
 Rather than allowing you to take sides in the ongoing hostilities between the numerous political 
 struggles that so vividly mark Vvardenfell, Tribunal directs you down a rather specific, highly 
 linear path that doesn't allow for much freedom of choice. As with the playable area itself, this 
 too seems a little restrictive for those such as myself who appreciated the original title for 
 its free-roaming, do-as-you-please approach. However, there's something refreshing about being 
 able to embark upon a series of directed, focused quests that actually serves to rejuvenate the 
 entire feel of the game. It also helps greatly that the quests themselves tend to be expansive, 
 and apart from the "descend into the depths of X dungeon and kill Y monster" bits, quite interesting 
 as well. The larger-scale quests even introduce you to a large series of colossal, sprawling dungeons 
 that were such a staple of both Arena and Daggerfall, and were noticeably missing from Morrowind. 
 There are also a considerable number of side quests that you can take up if you so desire, as virtually 
 every person you find in Mournhold has some dark secret or some quest that needs solving. Probably 
 due in part to their more focused nature, even these are vastly superior to those to be found in 
 Vvardenfell, happily blending good amounts of humor with interesting scripting, such as those you'll 
 find when you're asked to participate practically unprepared in a local play, or when you're asked 
 to act as a bouncer for the local tavern. Almost all of these quests are quite difficult, and are 
 obviously tailored towards the higher-level crowd that finds itself becoming bored with the distinct 
 lack of a challenge that tends to crop up once you've picked up the more powerful weapons and spells. 
 While some would argue that the quests are hardly the heart of this expansion and that the countless 
 player-made mods nullify its value, their quality is such that they do a great deal in making it 
 worth your while, and the extra 30 to 40 hours of gameplay certainly don't hurt any either.
  
  Apart from the new quests and areas, Tribunal also introduces a few new extra features to try 
 and improve your overall experience. The most notable and important of these is the incredibly 
 crucial Quest Sorting feature, which is integrated into and accessible from your journal. Allowing 
 you to split your duties into Active Quests and Completed Quests, you can easily flip through your 
 missions by their title so you have a much better idea of what you have on the go, which became 
 extremely problematic after accumulating several hundred journal pages. It's still quite lacking 
 in that it still rarely specifies which city or organization the quest-giver can be found in, but 
 it is nevertheless an enormous improvement that simplifies matters considerably and should save 
 prospective adventurers from having to take down pages upon pages of handwritten quest notes. The 
 other, less pressing improvement is the addition of a map notation system that allows you to add 
 whatever comment you want in the form of a mouse-over within a tiny red square. This too is quite 
 handy, as comments you've left in one area can be viewed from its entry point within a separate 
 area. Finally, there's also the Seller Max button, which enables you to sell your pricier items 
 for whatever the vendor is able to pay, requiring only a single click as opposed to the endless 
 ages of manually lowering the prices as has been the case. It certainly makes certain aspects of 
 the game much easier to deal with, and with the map notation and quest sorting, represents the 
 main driving reason that the die-hard Morrowind fan should indeed pick up this expansion.
  
  There are still even other additions to the Elder Scrolls environment that fans might appreciate, 
 though in some cases it can be so minor as to be only pleasing to the purists. For instance, there's 
 a couple new armor types: the High Ordinator armor, which is essentially a silvery version of the 
 regular Ordinator armor, and then there's the Royal Guard armor, which is by far one of the most 
 interest sets of armor you're likely to find within the game. Unless you're a high-level character 
 of considerable evil and power, it's unlikely that you'll get your hands on any of it, since the 
 ones who wear them are both strong and in the service of a god and a king. Also, the difficulty 
 of the added quests might make even high-level characters glad that you can purchase pack rats 
 and hire a surpassingly useful mercenary within the city of Mournhold, though his pathfinding AI 
 is beyond irritating and it's a shame that you can't take him back to the Vvardenfell. There are 
 also a number of brand new monster types scattered beneath the city of Mournhold, such as liches, 
 goblins, fabricants, and more; while the goblins and clockwork beasts are particularly nicely modeled 
 and animated, the rest leave much to be desired. Even the anticipated Mournhold armorer is a bit 
 of a letdown: it's great that it enables you to use raw ebony, glass and newfound adamantium ore 
 for creating individual pieces of armor, but not only can you achieve more with the prolific Indestructible's 
 Armorer mod, a separate official patch allows you to purchase a full set of adamantium armor from 
 a certain vendor on Vvardenfell itself. As a result, even the armorer is going to be left as something 
 to be employed solely by dyed-in-the-wool RPG purists.
  
  Not all of these minor additions are a bust, however, as Mournhold's Museum of Artifacts is a wonderful 
 touch that breathes new life into your pursuits of strange and powerful items. The curator of the 
 museum will gladly gape in awe at some of the particularly unique pieces you uncover in your travels, 
 and will also fork over a great deal of money -- up to 30,000 gold, in fact -- for the privilege 
 of displaying it; you can always attempt to steal it back, if you don't want to part with it permanently, 
 but the series of High Ordinators guarding the place might take offense at your less-than-honest 
 tactics. The Museum isn't the only place that seems to have deeper pockets than most; many of Mournhold's 
 vendors are considerably richer than their Vvardenfell brethren, meaning that higher-level characters 
 will finally be able to afford better and bigger enchantments and spells in a rational, challenging 
 way without having to resort to in-game cheats such as the talking Mudcrab. Still, for all these 
 improvements and for all that the expansion offers, it's clear that it's not for everyone.
  
  Graphics
  The city of Mournhold and its underlying areas tend to feature slightly different 
 architecture than what you'll find throughout Vvardenfell, and it's all quite beautiful in its 
 own way. Almalexia's Temple is quite the sight to behold, as are a few of the underground waterfalls 
 and cavernous chambers - not to give away any particularly interesting plot twists -- to be found 
 underneath the city, while even less important structures such as the city's manor district is 
 nicely done and fits perfectly. The new armor types, and the Royal Guard in particular, are rather 
 drool-worthy and lend a certain feeling of importance to what is the Dark Elves' capital city. 
 Even the new monsters look rather nice, and the goblins especially look good enough that you'll 
 wish you'd see them in other areas within Vvardenfell itself. There are no truly drastic changes 
 in the graphical department, but considering that you're still within the realm of the Dark Elves, 
 this is probably a good thing.
  
  Sound
  There are even less changes in the sound department than there is within the graphics, although 
 it should be noted that many Mournhold residents will now audibly make quest-related comments as 
 you pass them by. It's not much of a change, but it's a nice touch, and helps to make the city 
 seem more alive.
  
  Control
  The three primary changes to Morrowind's interface - the map notation, quest sorting and Seller 
 Max button - are so considerably helpful that they become enough of a reason for fans of the game 
 to pick up Tribunal. The quest sorting system in particular is a real godsend, and helps to relieve 
 a lot of the headaches that surround having to keep track of all the minute details, though the 
 regular lack of details as to the locations of the questees can still be a problem.
  
  Overall
  Although it's unlikely to convert disbelievers, The Elder Scrolls III: Tribunal is a 
 solid expansion for an already solid game. Not only does it tack on a good 30 to 40 additional 
 hours of gameplay to a title that already had hundreds of hours worth, but it also addresses a 
 couple of major concerns that players have had since Morrowind's release. While the opportunity 
 to travel to the Dark Elves' capital city, meet the king and meddle in the affairs of the two remaining 
 gods of the Temple is an interesting one, the new quest sorting system is probably the best reason 
 to get ahold of Tribunal. In other words, this expansion is most clearly directed towards those 
 who couldn't tear themselves away from the original title, though it should be noted that the considerably 
 smaller playing area and the highly linear quests are obviously tailored towards those who spurned 
 what they perceived as being an overly open experience. Still, die-hard fans are the ones most 
 likely to appreciate it, and if you've ever found yourself in Morrowind's powerfully addictive 
 grip, you owe it to yourself to pick up Tribunal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 9, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  Morrowind is one of the most fun Action RPGs ever made. A large world to explore with a personality 
 of it's own mixed with an extensive character creation system made it fun to play over and over 
 and over again. The graphics were on par for when it was released, though now you've undoubtedly 
 seen better. The sound and music was, and is, wonderful. The wind blowing, trees creaking in the 
 wind, creature sounds all around you, with a great musical score on top really got you into the 
 game. On numerous occasions, and in all truthfulness that was about half the time I was playing, 
 I was just looking around at the sky, at the wildlife, at the terrain, everything. It all went 
 together so perfectly you couldn't help but get lost in it.
  
  Unfortunantly that feeling didn't transfer to all of the game. While there was an impressive 3,000 
 NPCs, only a few had unique conversations and as is obvious, there were MANY of the same looking 
 NPCs. Towns just felt lifeless. NPCs just wandered around and said the same thing over and over 
 which, in a game that has such an impressive graphical and musical atmosphere, was just dissapointing. 
 Combat was also a little dissapointing in the fact that it was simplistic. A click of the mouse 
 attacked while holding down the mouse would do a more powerful attack. There were a few different 
 types of attacks, such as a thrust or a slash, but it all amounted to the same thing, damaging 
 an opponent. There's no blocking or dodgin since most things are just calculated based off of your 
 stats. Still, it was enough to make the game fun.
  
  Tribunal plays exactly the same with only new additions. A new area and new creatures, all of which 
 you could find for free online in the form of mods. Many of which are even better quality than 
 this. However, the Tribunal expansion is required for many of those mods, so those of you who enjoy 
 downloading mods should probably pick this expansion up. For those who don't, Tribunal just doesn't 
 add enough to make it worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adambomb5060
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2003 5:07 pm PT
Review:  For all you nay-sayers out there, I have one thing to say, come on... COME ON. It may be a little 
 overpriced for the amount of new content in it, but it's still better than most other expansions.
 
  
  Gameplay: Just as good as Morrowind, absolutely great. One of the most fun games i've played. It's 
 just awesome, 10.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful, although framerates suffer in Mournhold a little due to the density of objects 
 that you didn't find in Vvardenfel. The new environments blew me away the first time i saw them. 
 Final verdict: 9.
  
  Sound: Well, i've never like the sound in Morrowind, and it doesn't really change in Tribunal. 
 Though the sound effects are dead on, they get a little repetative. The music manages to bring 
 the sound score to and 8.
  
  Value: I would have expected more from an expansion to Morrowind, but still, it offers more content 
 than i've seen in most expansions. For its pricetag though, it's really not worth it unless you 
 really want to stay up to date on your Morrowind obsession. Which I did, hehe. For the price compared 
 to the content, I give Tribunal a 4.
  
  I wanted to tilt this so it would be a better score, because the game is still all around awesome. 
 There are some fun, sometimes humorous encounters in Mournhold that secure it's identity as a real, 
 living city that has its flaws and that is a very cool feeling in a game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
