-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/elderscrollsivshiveringisles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A large, twisted, and beautiful new world to explore.
 lengthy main quest and plenty of side quests to keep you busy.
 some of the more cleverly designed quests are great.
 new items and crafting system to give you more loot than ever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The Prince of Madness is insanely annoying.
 simplistic fetch quests aren't very exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,004 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shivering Isles adds more than enough new and interesting content to give you a great reason to 
 dive back into the world of Oblivion. 

  As if to answer the decades-old query posed by Iron Maiden in the single "Can I Play With Madness," 
 Bethesda Softworks brings you The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles, an expansion in which you 
 most definitely  can  play with madness. Shivering Isles is an expansion to The Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion and introduces a new world along with a lengthy major quest. It also includes several 
 minor quests, new spells and items, and dozens of completely insane characters with which to interact. 
 The theme of the new world is madness, which is manifested in the batty characters and the twisted 
 yet beautiful landscape. Aside from the new realm, there isn't anything in this expansion that 
 will significantly alter or enhance your experience with the rest of the game. So if you're content 
 with Oblivion, you won't miss out on any integral updates if you decide to pass on Shivering Isles. 
 However, even though Shivering Isles isn't a must-have expansion, it's an excellent value based 
 on the amount of content alone, and a great excuse to revisit an already excellent game.  

          The place looks nice, but it's full of dangerous creatures.     

  Once you've installed 
 the Shivering Isles content, you can access it at any time with any character, regardless of your 
 progress in the rest of the game. Soon after starting, you'll hear a rumor about a mysterious portal 
 that suddenly appeared on an island in Niben Bay. As any adventurer worth his salt knows, the only 
 thing to do with a mysterious portal is throw caution to the wind and dive right into it. You're 
 greeted by an oddly dressed fellow named Haskill who explains that you've entered a portal to the 
 Shivering Isles, which is the realm of the Daedric Prince of Madness, Sheogorath. The world is 
 divided into the colorful, eccentric realm of Mania and the dark, paranoid realm of Dementia. The 
 two different realms and their inhabitants share a less than harmonious, though not overtly hostile, 
 relationship. The ruler of both realms is Sheogorath. It's up to you to act as Sheogorath's servant 
 to carry out his delusional demands and rise in rank in the Court of Madness.  

  For the most part, serving as the right-hand man of the Prince of Madness is just as fun as it 
 sounds. The prince will send you on a lengthy series of quests, and as you complete them, you'll 
 gain rank, eventually rising all the way up to claim the title of Madgod of the Shivering Isles. 
 Most of the quests involve crawling through huge, complex dungeons to gather artifacts and defeat 
 enemies. Some of the quests are interesting and cleverly designed. In one early quest, you have 
 to activate an ancient dungeon that serves as a trap for wayward adventurers who find their way 
 into the isles. Once the dungeon is activated, you get to watch as a party explores it. You can 
 press buttons to either send monsters to kill the adventurers or play tricks on the adventurers 
 to drive them all insane. It's an entertaining way to indulge your sadistic side, which is heartily 
 encouraged in the realm of Sheogorath.  

  Later in the story, the game resorts to sending you off on a seemingly endless string of simplistic 
 fetch quests, which do get tiresome. It doesn't help that most of the dungeons you explore look 
 identical, which will give you a strong sense of dj vu. To help break up the main story quest, 
 there are plenty of side quests you can pick up by talking to people in the two main towns. Many 
 of these quests aren't particularly involved, but they're offbeat and weird enough to provide a 
 nice diversion after hours spent in dungeons. You'll meet one gentleman who is afraid to sleep 
 indoors because he thinks the walls will collapse on him, so he commissions you to find him a suitable 
 place to sleep outside. Another man hates his life but doesn't want to commit suicide, so he hires 
 you to kill him and make it look like an accident. At the very least, these quests lend a bit more 
 character to the world by having you interact with the various interesting people who are each 
 a bit crazy in one way or another.  

  The Carroll-esque world of the Shivering Isles is an entertaining place for a while, but after 
 immersing yourself in a world of madness, you might start to feel a bit touched yourself. Most 
 of the characters are harmlessly nutty, but some of them are downright annoying. Sheogorath himself 
 is one of the most annoying characters you'll find in any video game. The prince almost always 
 talks by shouting and rarely ever makes any sense. Screaming incoherently in a Scottish accent 
 wasn't funny in  Austin Powers , and it's not funny here. The prince's voice is so grating, and 
 his dialogue is so inane, you'll probably want to either turn down your sound or click through 
 the conversation as quickly as possible. On the other hand, Chancellor Haskill is a great character 
 whose subtly sardonic tone and dry wit are often quite funny. The rest of the inhabitants fall 
 somewhere between the two extremes, and most of the characters you meet are entertaining in their 
 own ways.  

  The world of the Shivering Isles also takes on the physical characteristics of the scrambled psyche 
 of the prince. The landscape looks quite different from anything you'll find in Tamriel or Oblivion, 
 and it's all very pretty. From the starry pink skies to the towering phosphorescent mushrooms, 
 there are plenty of great views to admire. But beneath the psychedelic sheen is a world full of 
 monsters waiting to tear you limb from limb. You'll have to fight giant insects, crawling trees, 
 primitive humanoid amphibian creatures, and an entire army of knights known as The Order. Most 
 of the enemies look good, animate well, and put up a respectable challenge in a fight.  

  To combat all those enemies, you will get new weapons, armor, and spells. If that's not enough, 
 you can make your own weapons and armor by collecting materials and recipes. You can collect amber 
 or madness ore and take it to the blacksmith in Mania or Dementia, respectively. Using the material, 
 you can have the blacksmith forge powerful weapons and armor. The items might not replace your 
 current gear, but at the very least, these forged items will fetch a high price from any merchant. 
 Of course, in addition to forged items, there are plenty of treasures for you to discover in the 
 Shivering Isles' many dungeons. By the time you're ready to leave the Shivering Isles for the greener 
 fields of Tamriel, you'll likely be a very wealthy hero. In addition to the new items, there are 
 a few new magic spells in the expansion, including an amusing spell that lets you summon Chancellor 
 Haskill to ask him for advice.  

          You'd think the Prince of Madness would be a cool guy, but instead he's just very, very 
 annoying.     

  Shivering Isles looks fantastic and runs fairly well most of the time, although the stuttering 
 frame rate problem from Oblivion carries over into the expansion as well. On the PC the game also 
 has some stability issues. The game crashed multiple times on two different systems, and locked 
 up one system several times throughout the course of the game.  

  It will take you a good 20 hours to complete the major quest line, but there's plenty more to do 
 afterward. With all the side quests to complete and territory to explore, you could easily spend 
 30 or 40 hours or more losing your mind in Shivering Isles, and you'll find that your time there 
 is well spent. The quests, characters, and world in Shivering Isles are all as creative and intriguing 
 as in the rest of the game. Oblivion was huge before, but now it's bigger and better than ever. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (73 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xXChuckXxSP
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Entering the newly-discovered door in the Nibben Bay, you enter a realm of complete and utter madness, 
 and the story of Daedric Lord Sheogorath unfolds......
  
  The Shivering Isles is the greatest expansion pack to ever exist if there ever was one. The Shivering 
 Isles adds a bit more insanity and creativity to Oblivion. The storyline behind Lord Sheogorath 
 is simply incredible and unlike anything I've ever experienced. The habitat of this new realm is 
 so unique. Even more characters are added to the Oblivion experience, each with their own story 
 and own distinct personalities. The graphics are beautiful. And the quest line is, simply stated, 
 FUN. The best I can describe the expansion is; Epicness in a convenient circular-disc form. The 
 Shivering Isles adds SO much more content to Oblivion.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Gorgeous. 'Nuff said.
  
  Storyline: 10/10
  The most unique and fun storyline I've ever experienced 
 in an expansion pack (probably even in a full-out game.) I can't even describe it. It was just 
 that enjoyable.
  
  Characters: 10/10
  Each character is distinctly different. Lord Sheogorath is the best character ever to be introduced 
 into an Elder Scrolls game. He adds a new twist to the game, and it's definitely a good twist. 
 
  
  Overall: 10/10
  This was one of the greatest gaming experiences I've ever experienced. The Shivering Isles is a 
 must have for any Oblivion gamer, and probably could be a reason to buy Oblivion if you don't already 
 own it.
  
  "I'm so happy to see you, I could just rip out your intestines and strangle you to death!" ~Lord 
 Sheogorath in The Elder Scrolls IV: The Shivering Isles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Most expansions, with other game titles, I have found to be let downs. This one, to Oblivion, is 
 not a let down at all. The new environment is great and strange. The monsters are great, items 
 etc. A wonderful expansion altogether. This is what oblivion needed so badly, a bit more bizare 
 and unexpecting. It is a failry decent size expansion to make it well worth the value. The performance 
 is great, looks, sound quests etc. are all done very nice. If you enjoyed playing Oblivion, this 
 is a must have. This title and the game before it, just leave you wanting more and wishing it would 
 do nothing but continue. As many of you have, I heard they are working on an MMO to this title, 
 hard to say what that will do to such a great game, if it will bring it down or up, but if there 
 was more of this type of performance invovled, it would be a must have, like this expansion is, 
 to fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a great expansion to an already amazing game. The expansion takes you into a strange world 
 where everyone and everything is crazy. You meet with the leader of the Relm. He sends you on tasks 
 to help keep to Relm from attack from other oustide Relms. This involves a lot of hard work but 
 you get pleasently rewarded. There are many things to do besides the main mission line. This adds 
 another good 10 or so hours to the already long game. The missions are just plain crazy. You are 
 told to kill people, set up traps, and even eventully take over his own spot on the Relm. There 
 are many cool items you get from doing all these missions and you can take them back to the normal 
 world. There are many chioces you can make along the way and they all result to different things 
 happening. This is a great expansion and is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_311
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The Shivering Isles provides unorthodox plants, creatures, and NPCs that give a nice break from 
 thos of Tamriel. The plot is a little cheasy, but it is really hard to notice because of all the 
 wierd things in it all. For someone who has played Oblivion forever, it is nice that they added 
 an entirely new plane. They should of added the ability to buy a house in the Shivering Isles, 
 because there are too many cool items that you cannot carry around. There is also no fence, which 
 is a shame because stealing is so fun when the victims are crazy people. The pathetic attempt at 
 comic relief is so sad it is almost awkward even though no one is in the room. The Shivering Isles 
 provide change from Oblivion for those who have logged tons of hours doing the same old quests. 
 If you have not grown tired of Oblivion, however, do not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  As I said in my review of TES IV: Oblivion, it blew my mind, Shivering Isles, while still a great 
 addition to Oblivion, unfortunately failed to do so.
  
  While Shivering Isles adds an immense amount of new content to the already massive world of Oblivion, 
 I feel like the developers concentrated too much on quantity, and not enough on quality. In Oblivion, 
 there was a large amount of choice in terms of what you wanted to do, for example the different 
 factions, the main quest, the arena etc. When I arrived in the Shivering Isles (I mean past the 
 fringe) , I was excited beyond belief. I went looking for what factions might be around, but I couldn't 
 find any. Somewhat disappointed, I moved on to the Main Quest of SI, and I must admit, there are 
 some very fun/funny quests. However the expansion itself did seem quite short, as there is only 
 the main quest and a few miscellaneous quests here and there. 
  
  Another thing that disappointed me was the lack of new  It seems 
 the developers focused a lot on building an entirely new game-world, but not much to fill it with. 
 I was hoping to conquer a new land, find new weapons and armor, buy a new house and so on. But 
 none of that really occurred, aside from Dusk/dawnfang, and the amber and madness equipment, there 
 was little in the way of new toys.
  
  While I feel there are some things missing in Shivering Isles, there are some great features not 
 to be overlooked. For a start, the world is amazing, and one of the things I loved was the large 
 amount of new alchemy ingredients to play with, although some new effects would have been cool. 
 Also the Madgod is very cool, and quite funny at times. 
  
  Shivering Isles is still a great expansion, and maybe my expectations of it were somewhat too high, 
 but don't buy it expecting a new world as immersive as Oblivion was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Even before entering the realm of the mad God known as Sheogorath the player is blessed with visual 
 spectacles and grandness of madness not yet witnessed in Cyrodiil hinting with psychotic bluntness 
 the gaming delights and horrors to come.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Top notch with many new places to visit with echoes of past Elder Scrolls games like MORROWIND 
 and DAGGERFALL. Npcs who populate the two mad realms of Dementia and mania are full of character 
 and life provoking much emotion out of the player along with many a laugh. Combat is very balanced 
 with plenty of new monsters and enemy npcs to fight if varying difficulty. There are plenty of 
 new items and treasures to search for in the Daggerfall and HR Giger like dungeons aswell as the 
 rest of the world.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Are amazing making one gaze at the richness of it all. The skies are truly otherworldly especially 
 at night reminding me of those science fiction images of other planets I would look at as a child 
 of the 1970s in the latest issue of STARLOG magazine. The towns and cities are very buetiful with 
 a old world gothic flavor to them like strolling around some European and Italian country side. 
 Made me feel as if I was walking through a old stage set of a Mario Bava horror movie like KILL 
 BABY! KILL! 
  
  Creature graphics and animation are excellent with many new unusual horrors stalking the lands 
 and dungeons of the mad realms.
  
  Dungeons are monolithic huge with a very menacing sinister atmosphere reminding one of TES 2 DAGGERFALL 
 and somthing out of a ALIEN movie. Like the new creatures there are plenty of new gruesome additions 
 which are quite blood curdling to behold.
  
  Theres also plenty of new clothing, books, ingrediants and other loot to enjoy. The clothing with 
 its more gothic feel is great to wear. Books are very interesting to read and with a much more 
 macabre flavor.
  
  All in all a completely satisfying Expansion with very high replay value which compliments the 
 rpg masterpiece that is OBLIVION. Another winner from the master game makers Bethesda.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Read review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2585,0. html
  
  Shivering Isles is a true, full-length expansion to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and introduces 
 a whole new land. The theme of the new world is madness, which is manifested in the batty characters 
 and the twisted yet beautiful landscape.
  
  Once you install Shivering Isles, you'll learn of a portal which has suddenly opened Niben Bay. 
 After you step through, you step in the world of the Shivering Isles: the realm of the Daedric 
 Prince of Madness, Sheogorath. It is split into the colorful land of Mania and the paranoid realm 
 of Dementia. You are encouraged to act as Sheogorath's servant to carry out his strange demands 
 and gain prestige in the Court of Madness.
  
  As is standard for an RPG, you will embark on a series of quests, gaining rank to eventually claim 
 the title of Madgod of the Shivering Isles. Some quests have you going through huge, complex dungeons 
 to gather artifacts and defeat enemies. One of the more memorable early quests has you activate 
 a trap-filled ancient dungeon. You can watch as a party explores it, pressing buttons to either 
 send monsters to kill the adventurers or play tricks to drive them insane. This sadism is constantly 
 encouraged in the Shivering Isles.
  
  Unfortunately, not all of the tests are this fun and the end of the game is filled with simplistic 
 fetch quests in identical dungeons. Fortunately, there are plenty of side quests you can pick up 
 by talking to people in the two main towns that do provide a nice diversion, allowing you to interact 
 with the Shivering Isles' strange inhabitants.
  
  Some of the characters, including the star, Sheogorath, do get annoying. He always shouts in a 
 strange, non-humorous accent that might even make you want to turn down the volume. Fortunately, 
 his assistant, Chancellor Haskill is a subtle character who ends up being often quite funny. The 
 majority of the characters you meet are a step above what you find in regular RPGs.
  
  Visually, the expansion does much more to set itself apart from Tamriel's world. The world mirrors 
 the prince's schizophrenic nature, providing seemingly two different portions of the world with 
 their own visual themes, characters, and creatures to fight. Animation is top-notch and the game 
 remains a strong graphics showcase. It runs great on medium hardware and can last you nearly 30 
 hours of playtime.
  
  The time and money that you invest into Shivering Isles will be well spent. It manages to add a 
 bucketload of new content without making the game feel stale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles (SI) should be highly appreciated for providing us more hours of diving deep into 
 Oblivion's world. It is really not necessary to discuss the quality of its new content anymore, 
 since Gamespot's official review has done it quite well. Still for me, there lies the question 
 of how to make an expansion package. After seeing what Blizzard did in Brood War, Lord of Destruction 
 or The Frozen Throne, I have come to the conclusion that a genuine expansion is one not only adding 
 worthy new contents but also improving the core game play in such a way that players will not want 
 to return to the original any more. If you agree with me, then SI only satisfies one out of two 
 criteria. And so, it's not really must-buy, though we can still enjoy it nearly as much as the 
 main Oblivion campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV : Shivering Isles is an excellent expansion to Oblivion. It combines the original 
 world and storyline of the Oblivion world, but adds a new map and storyline to explore. 
  
  The Isles are an intersting place to explore and just like the oblivion world is full of dangers 
 and hidden caverns. The game keeps the same sort of feeling as Oblivion so it is easy to feel at 
 home in the new map. 
  
  The story line is interesting, but the Prince of madness is very annoying indeed. At first i thought 
 he was quite quirky and funny but after a few quests he really got on my nerves. 
  
  The Shivering Isles combines both a dark twisted world and a bright pleasant one which helps reincforce 
 that the place is as mad as the prince. 
  
  The quests vary from simple go fetch this object from this cavern to sneak into here and steal 
 this. However, you will soon find that the majority of the quests are very similar, which lets 
 the game down slightly. 
  
  As always there is a lot of NPC's to interact with who provide side quests to entertain yourself 
 with. All of the things Oblivion got right are here, and the expansion is well worth the buy. However 
 it is let down by some lack of originality, and it can seem a little repetitive. 
  
  Anyone who enjoyed Oblivion should definately buy this as it is thouroughly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  First off the base game is great, however, there are tons of mods official and third-party. The 
 expansion is also one of the best expansions I have ever seen. So here are the pro's and con's
 
  
  Pros: Extremely moddable and relatively easy tools to figure out. Game is easy to pick up; the 
 story starts immediately. Nice graphics and original soundtrack. Widespread synchronized voice-face 
 (most NPC's are synced) . Tons of official game content, weapons armor, creatures, NPC's, quests, 
 side-quests, and so on. Several playable races and open ended class specialization. Interactive 
 environment.
  
  Cons: Physics. While the environment is highly interactive the physics aren't very accurate to 
 reality. Sometimes objects glitch when you interact with them in unusual ways. Gameplay is quite 
 repetitive (once you have a decent strategy you can basically stick with it for the whole game, 
 though you can choose to change it if you want) . 
  
  So overall this is a great game, worth every penny. It is quite easy to pick up and has more depth 
 and intricacy than many recent games. When you finish the game there are mods that basically redo 
 the entire game. This is one of the most replayable games of all time in nearly every aspect. Also 
 it is a stand-alone game so you don't need to play the rest of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  \\\\\\\\\
  PROS
  /////////
  1. Creates a whole new world to explore
  2. Dozens of more Quests
  3. More Enemy's to Conquer
  4. More Weapons and armor
  
  ////////
 
  Cons
  \\\\\\\\
  
  This game Rocks... There are no CONS! :)
  
  Yeah like I said this Expansion does what it should do, Expand on a game!
  Well presented, Nice 
 Graphics, Great sound. New Clothes, Armor, and Weapons to be found and forged! IF you have Oblivion 
 then this is one Expansion you cannot miss out on! Only $20 so it is so worth it! Don't just read 
 this review! Go buy This Expansion pack today!!
  
  Only one rating for this game!
  
  ~10~ Perfect!
  
  ___________
  My Character
  
  Level 12
  Custom Class
  Joined all 
 the Guilds
  Born Under the Shadow
  100+ Hours for the Total Oblivion Gameplay!
  
  Play it today!
  You will not be Disappointed! BUY BUY BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When I bought TESO I figured I would try out the Shivering Isles expansion as well, and I am glad 
 that I did. This add-on gives you around 40 hours or so of new game play, weapons, armor and a whole 
 new world to explore.
  
  The Shivering Isles was a land very different than from any other in TESO. At the start one has 
 beautiful colors while the other is dark and dank. These portray Sheogorath's twin personalties 
 so-to-say. Alot of the quests were fetch related which was one of my biggest snears, and the fact 
 of when you become a madgod you still have bounties placed on your head for certain crimes. Which 
 seemed rather odd since you were the god of the isles. But aside from that, the add-on is a good 
 addition to the collection and it was fun to explore the new world and see what awaited me at every 
 turn.
  
  The ability to gain new armors, weapons, magicka, and play through a new world of Morrowind is great 
 fun. Hopefully Bethesda will continue to spray out good add-ons to one of the best RPG's ever, until 
 that is they make Morrowind the MMORPG. LOL, (I can dream)
  
  This is a solid add-on and while it does have it's flaws The Shivering Isles adds a new realm of 
 mystery, dementia and madness to the world of Oblivion and is a worthy addition to any TESO players 
 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  What can be said that hasn't already?
  
  Top notch expansion to an already top notch game.
  
  All the good things that were said about 
 Oblivion's gameplay are identical here. New places, faces, and enemy races.
  
  It's kinda sorta crazy ... but... at times it's a tad too coherent. It's a little Alice in Wonderland 
 and a little Middle Earth. Suppose it could have been a lot more insane for a realm of insanity. 
 There's a handful of disoriented individuals and a some nice contrasting visuals. It's a very whimsical 
 insanity rather than stark raving psycho or mind bending vertigo. 
  
  The concept is pretty interesting. The story draws one in.
  
  They advertise that it's the 
 quarter of the size of tamriel. It probably is. It's worth playing if only to extend the life of 
 Oblivion. Could have been a tad better here and there, but it's pretty consistent with the way 
 Oblivion was. 
  
  Yeah... that... about... sums it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  I might have done this in the wrong consequence, but naturally, I played this expansion after finishing 
 the original campaign and the Knights of the Nine expansion. I couldn't level once throughout the 
 whole expansion which made the whole experience a rather boring stroll from point A to point B 
 on a yet another item fetching quest.
  
  Environments have changed a lot and look much more like Morrowind now but overall it is the same 
 easy and repetitive game. None of the new enemies pose any threat but they manage to be extremely 
 annoying again since being level-sensitive, their HP are so maxed out with me being level 40, that 
 it takes an eternity to bring even one Grummite Deathbringer down. A fight with three of those 
 is a nightmare, because they can't really kill you, but you have to spend a good 10 minutes real 
 time hacking at them.
  
  On the contrary, the final boss somehow manages not to benefit so much from the level-based system 
 and it fell with 5 swings of my sword. Add to this that it looks like an overgrown Knight of Order 
 and really being easier than just one of the abovementioned Grummites and you have yet another 
 HUUUUGE disappointment from Oblivion. Was this supposed to be the fearsome Jiggulag that wipes 
 out the whole realm?!?!
  
  Dungeons hold random treasures again which will never be up to what you already have from Oblivion. 
 There is no better light armour than the Morat Tong leathers, no better sword than Umbra, no better 
 jewelry than the Ring of Perfection and the Necklace of Swords. Pity...
  
  Some of the secondary quests are simply insane! OK, I know this is supposed to be the realm of 
 the madgod, but do they really expect someone to spend days in search for 100 calipers and tongs?!?!? 
 This is not fun. Or the Museum of Oddities quest which, while being fun, is totally impossible 
 to finish even with a walkthrough due to the fact that 2/3 of the items required a randomly generated 
 with such a low chance to be spawned that one has to revisit all the dungeons in the realm countless 
 times in order to get all. Or exploit the game mechanics and save in front of a dungeon and enter 
 it then load until one gets at least one of the rear items, then go to another dungeon and repeat 
 the process. Again not fun.
  
  The only bearable and kind of fun secondary quest which involves seeking many items is Mirili's 
 research quest, however, it is so bugged in many ways that again finishing it properly is impossible 
 IMO.
  
  And speaking of bugs, Shivering Isles manages to introduce a lot of irritating pests to the rather 
 polished Oblivion. I experienced random crashes and people in the world were dying or simply vanishing 
 without any interference on my or anyone's behalf. Most of the bugs are just an annoyance but I 
 hear there are even some campaign stopping ones. Thank God I didn't experience those.
  
  With all that said, it is easy to see how this game deserves no more than a 5. What really manages 
 to singlehandedly save the title is Sheogorath himself! His main quest is much more intriguing 
 than the one from the original Oblivion. The old man is incredibly charming and pretty much all 
 of his lines are instant classics which made me laugh aloud many times.
  
  To many this would not be enough to justify a 2-points rise, but for me this really was the difference 
 between being totally bored by the game and enjoying it at least one bit.
  
  Yet again, Shivering Isles might be one incredible experience I guess, if one skips even the Imperial 
 City at level one and dives straight in the realm of madness. I suspect though, that this might 
 ruin even more the experience from the blunt original Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet review because it's pretty much the same as Oblivion...
  
  I liked playing The Shivering Isles because it gave me another reason to play Oblivion some more 
 which is a great RPG, even though i still hadn't finished everything from the original game. You'll 
 notice from the get go that the world is very much different from Oblivion and it has mroe of a 
 Morrowind feel to it just because it's more fantasy and is more diverse. While this is great for 
 people who prefer a more fantasy look, myself i'm not a great big fan of it and i prefered the 
 more realistic look of Oblivion.
  
  The main quests will last for ages and make this expansion longer than most normal games and it's 
 a fun storyline with the mad prince. However alot of it is quite "same old" to Oblivion and some 
 of it just didn't make alot of sense, like why would you go instantly crazy by seeing aload or 
 keys fall on the ground or a plant thing growing big and then vanishing? lol. Along with this theres 
 tons of great side quests and bonus content there.
  
  The one thing i didn't enjy was how i could never warp about ebcause it always said there was a 
 enemy nearby, for some reason you can't have horses on the Isle so running about everywhere does 
 get quite boring and makes the Isles feel twice as big as Oblivion lol. also because of all the 
 bonus items you get in the expansion, it pretty much makes you a god when you go back to Oblivion 
 if you wern't already and that does make combat pretty uninteresting.
  
  So the sounds and graphics are all top notch again with minor improvements, mainly to the actual 
 art direction itsself. The voice overs are all great aswel and so are the sound effects and the 
 music....
  
  
  So this is a great expansion that should be played by all Oblivion fans, however it wont change 
 your mind if you didn't like the original game and i wouldn't of expected it to anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really buy this. you don't need to. and i didn't pirate it. a friend bought it, and you 
 can just use the disk install it, then you use the regular disk to play it. Anywho, on with the 
 actual review. Once your in the shivering isles, you'lle know it. there are giant mushrooms all 
 over the place and the sky (especially at night) is all pink and green and what have you. It's 
 very shiny as well. yeaaaaaaaaaa. sorry, feeling a bit......... unconcentrated? i don't know, whatever. 
 it's really fun and looks good, and sheogorath is hilarious. if you try and kill him, you get to 
 go for a fun ride. i won't say any more on that topic. sweet new armor, madness or something, really 
 cool. pretty long, 30 or so hours. longer than most full games. and better. (bioshock comes to 
 mind) . fun to explore, two halfes great, gatekeeper was the hardest fight of my life. (considering 
 i didn't use the various things you were supposed to. thats all i can think of to say at the moment, 
 it's bloody great, and should be owned by and elder scrolls fan. (unless you have a friend that 
 owns it, then you can just borrow the disk.) Also, it comes with a new map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't for Sheograth this game would've gotten a 8.5, 8.0, but because of this awesome portrayal 
 of the guy who did the voice for the William Wallace campaign in AoE2 (thats a guess) , I give it 
 a 9.0, but seriously, the game had a great main campaign and nothing else. The comparison of it 
 would be bloodmoon, where you have a main campaign and then lots of side quests all over the place, 
 but here, where there was so much potential, there was so much forgotten. The game could have been 
 filled with more quests with the quirky characters of The shivering Isles, or even just a little 
 in game action figure that would say sheograth lines (auto 10 for that) would have made it take 
 more time, and make it more deep. As far as I know, theres only one village outside of the Fringe, 
 and I'm hoping I'm wrong. The game doesn't take you to the smaller areas, and it gets to the point 
 that you'll completely miss them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles is an aw some expansion pack to Oblivion. It adds a new world with new quests, 
 new enemies, and tons of new weapons and armor. You begin by finding a portal that leads to a new 
 realm. You start off by finding a way to kill this thing called a gate keeper which is this giant 
 monster that has a sword for a hand. Then you go and find the leader of this realm and then you 
 set off on a bunch of new quests. The things a liked most about this game were the weapons and 
 armor. They looked so cool and were fun to use on enemies. The graphics and things have not been 
 updated but the game still looks good. If you are looking for new Oblivion content then you should 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I had fun for about a week then I lost interest. I didn't know 
 how to add mods but had heard others saying it improves the gameplay of Oblivion alot. I decided 
 to reinstall the game after quite a few months and learn how to add mods to see if it would improve 
 my thoughts about this game. I was very pleased to find that it did.
  This game is so immersive with the wonderfull modding communities help, I can't stop playing now. 
 I think everyone that was not into Oblivion and it's expansion needs to give it another go with 
 mods, if you haven't done so already. Thanks to the talented mod community I now have a VampWolf 
 Human character to level 80 and he lives on top of the highest tower in the middle of Imperial 
 City in a plush palace. Thats just one of many scenerios and ideas you could also have with this 
 immersive game and it's expansion. I have grown to love this game from watching the sunrise and 
 the fog form on the meadows to the dark nights in the old forest hunting in nightvision... what 
 a game. Thanks bethseda and the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  To complete and see everything there is in original Oblivion, it may take you more than 100 hours. 
 Then there is Knights of the Nine, a plugin witch ads to ten hours more. In the end, you get a 
 lot of great gameplay. But with Shivering Isles, you get to 20 hours more. So, are the 20 hours 
 worth your time? The answer is yes.
  
  After adding Shivering Isles to Oblivion, you will get a message that tells you about a strange 
 door witch has opened. When getting to that door, you will find a guard and a khajiit woman, whos 
 gone insane. Although, the guard says you to not enter the door, a mysterious voice, who calls 
 for a brave hero, is more convincing then the guard. After entering this door, you find out that 
 it is not a door, but a portal to another realm. You are met by an interesting man named Haskill. 
 He tells you that this is the realm of madness ruled by lord Sheogorath. You find out that Haskill 
 is the trustful servant of Sheogorath and that the lord is waiting for you. The last important 
 thing that you get to know from Haskill is that this realm is divided in two halfs. One is called 
 Dementia and the other is called Mania. Dementia is a colorful place where everything is red, orange 
 and yellow. But Mania is dark, gray and gray-blue place. People living in each half are the same 
 as their living place. For example, count of Dementia loves good celebrations and drugs. But countess 
 of Mania is paranoid woman, who suspects everyone in betrayal.
  
  People in Shivering Isles are a big part of the atmosphere, which this expansion creates. You will 
 meet a lot of interesting characters. For example, there is an argonian that is upset, because 
 his singing fork is missing. Or an man that fears of walls. He thinks that every wall will fall 
 on him and because of that he doesnt live I his house. One of the most interesting characters 
 is lord Sheogorath himself. He is an exact replicate of his realm. He can be polite and threat 
 full at the same time. You can enter his room and hear from him: Please come in, or I will burn 
 your eyes out. But the most interesting character is Haskill. Just because he is the only one 
 normal in Shivering Isles. He is intelligent and hates his job. Haskill is always sad and makes 
 an impression that he would rather die than continue his job.
  
  But there are some problems. The main one is the same as in the original Oblivion. The missions 
 can get pretty boring. Although, at the beginning they are interesting, somewhere in the middle 
 of the game missions get similar. One underground cave is changed by another. Makes you want to 
 say: Been there, done that. But after these missions, you will be a rich traveler. In the end 
 one of the first missions, you will get a powerful sword. At day it is called Dawnfang and strikes 
 with fire. But at night it is called Duskfang and strikes with ice. And every time one sword is 
 changed by another, it is recharged. So in theory, this sword has a never ending magic attack. 
 But be warned, although there are lot of loot in this game, the monsters arent week. Even if you 
 are a strong warrior or a skillful archer, you still have to be careful. Another thing, which may 
 seem a problem is that this expansion pack doesnt do anything to change the core gameplay. It 
 stays unchanged.
  
  To sum up, if you have beaten the original game or you want to see new lands in Oblivion, then 
 this is a game for you. Even though it has the same problems as Oblivion and it doesnt change 
 the main gameplay, it is still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I played Oblivion when it came out and achieved more than I thought the game would offer. The original 
 game has nothing bad to say about it. The expansion of Shivering Isles however goes in a new direction 
 which will leave you wondering about the storyline. I do appreciate every add-on that Bethesda 
 has offered for the Oblivion game, however I believe that a different storyline would had been 
 in order, rather than the one offered. Shivering Isles offers nothing new other than the new storyline 
 and quests. Unfortunately you cannot traverse the terrain with a horse, you must walk everywhere. 
 There seem to be few if any bugs, at least from my experience. If a new game is out that you wish 
 to play, go with it. Otherwise feel confident that Shivering Isles is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  A strange voice radiates from the shining portal, beckoning an adventurer to become his champion. 
 You follow the voice through the gateway and find yourself in a small square room with a chair 
 on either side of a stone table. In the furthest chair sits a mysterious bald man asking for you 
 to be civilized and to take a seat. You do as he says and he introduces himself as Haskill, servant 
 of the Daedric Lord Sheogorath, known as the Prince of Madness and ruler of a divided realm.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: The Shivering Isles expands upon the established gameplay of Oblivion, 
 changing none of the fundamentals, while adding a decent amount of new content. There's an entirely 
 new world to explore, a quarter of the size of Oblivion's Cyrodiil, a new main quest that will 
 take you 15-20 hours to complete, and additional side quests. Monotonous repetition is still at 
 the center of the leveling system, unfortunately. And most of the intriguing landmarks deal with 
 the main quest, so when it comes to exploring the Isles, beauty is only skin deep. Considering 
 the steep price, the amount of content is thin.
  
  You can still expect to roam landscapes finding lost items and friends, defeating dastardly creatures, 
 and making choices of grave consequence. The combat system is straightforward, not concealing any 
 sort of depth. It is the substantial variety of weapons, enemies, and locations that provide the 
 needed support to make up for its simplicity. The number of magical abilities and customizable 
 character attributes only add to an already astounding amount of ways to dispose of enemies.
  
  There are some forgivable quirks, like the stiffness of the non-playable characters, the minimal 
 number of voice actors, and the lack of gender playing any role in how characters differ from each 
 other. Unforgivably, all the music is stripped straight from Oblivion, and the aforementioned leveling 
 system is unchanged. Thankfully the art style takes a unique angle. The wildly rampant mushrooms 
 spread across the Isles makes you wonder if the Bethesda art team wasn't on some special fungus 
 of their own, and certainly grabs your attention. The world is infinitely more aesthetically extraordinary 
 than Oblivion's Cyrodiil.
  
  In the realm of the Shivering Isles, the world has been split into two very distinct territories. 
 To the north lies the land of Mania, a land of pronounced vibrancy, a color splurge of bizarre 
 oversize mushrooms and insane inhabitants. The hills are literally alive with deadly and outlandish 
 creatures. To the south lies the confliction of the vitality of Mania, the land known as Dementia 
 with its warped and twisted landscape, and its paranoid and murderous civilians. A land of eternal 
 swamp, and perpetual misery. The two forces clash uneasily in the capital of New Sheoth, partitioned 
 into Mania's Bliss, and Dementia's Crucible.
  
  The only true disappointment is The Shivering Isles unexpected emptiness. The world is sprawling, 
 the quest is epic, but you reach the end of the path far sooner than seems satisfactory. The main 
 quest will last you a while, but beyond that, the side-quests are minimal. It's feasible to tack 
 on five more hours, but by the time you reach this point you'll have already witnessed the Isles 
 greatest treasures. It is surprising, as you actually explore the Isles, to discover that the locations 
 are sparse, and not as inherently fulfilling to delve in to. The unfortunate nakedness of the Shivering 
 Isles is its key problem considering its steep price.
  
  Don't let that you deter you if Oblivion kept you hooked and begging for more. The Shivering Isles 
 main quest is enjoyable, and fulfilling. Its distinctive look is wonderfully mind melting. Its 
 simplictic yet addictive combat keeps you hooked. But above all else, the core mechanics remain 
 intact, which means more of what made Oblivion the popular and critically acclaimed game it came 
 to be. The negligible flaws and high price barely tarnish this exceptional expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogachi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe... The landscapes are beautiful and amazing, the music and sounds fit right 
 in, and the gameplay and story is highly original and superb... You have new armor to create, quests 
 to be done and... you may choose the death of those who oppose you... Insanity, or violence. The 
 choice is all yours. You can choose what happens in the lands of Mania and Dementia... Basicly 
 all I said above summerizes what I think about this game. It has a great story and gameplay. Very 
 original. I highly recommend this game. I'm a bit short on words today so i'll leave you with that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  So you get a journal popup that states theres a portal that has opened in Niben Bay. Sadly you 
 have to swim there. When you reach the portal's small island you encounter a crazed attack from 
 a madman and told by a mysterious voice that it needs a champion.
  
  Welcome to the Shivering Isles.
  
  After a stunning opening scene that transports you to the 
 first area of the massive landmass you see a swampy and dark environment. After walking to the 
 first small town you learn of a Gatekeeper who manages to keep all adventurers out of the Shivering 
 Isles unless deemed worthy. You earn the title of worthiness by killing the beast. Here you start 
 to the new creative quest choices. To kill the keeper you can gather it's creators tears which 
 it is vulnerable to or shoot bone arrows of it's predecessor. Shivering Isles expansion pack features 
 multiple choices in quests. After all that you are transported to Sheogarath the Prince of Madness's 
 realm, the Shivering Isles. You'll first notice depending on which door you chose that the game 
 has an improvement in graphics even though it's based on a a year old engine. You may see a bright 
 colorful almost blinding environment or a dark swampy foggy environment. The new creatures you 
 will encounter to recieve your first quest from Sheogorath show Bethesda put some time to the creatures 
 creation. Some creatures regain hp while in the water while other's only appear under certain circumstances. 
 The new environments look great and help blend in with the creatures.
  
  On the way to meet Sheogorath in his capital city you may have already (depending on which door 
 you chose earlier) Dark Seducers or Golden Saints. These are the guards of the 2 sides of the Shivering 
 Isles. You may have also encountered cooky citizens. The dialogue in the Shivering Isles and new 
 sounds are much better than boring old Cyrodiil. People here have something interesting and funny 
 to say. This also helps the questlines as the later quests are fetch quests.
  
  The multiple choices in quests, entertaining dialogue and sounds, new creatures, new and still excellent 
 looking graphics aren't all this already great expansion has to offer. What expansion is good if 
 you aren't supplied new items to loot and look for. Some of the armor and weapon designs are creative, 
 intuitive, if not downright funny (you'll see what I mean) . You also get to create your own armor. 
 There's 2 kinds of ores for 2 kinds of armor. Amber for Light and Madness for Heavy. Both look 
 real nice when decked out on the fullset.
  
  So if your getting tired of Cyrodiil or need a plain RPG fix this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I see that Bethesda makes better expansions than original games. Thats a good thing. The first 
 thing that makes you say 'WOW' is the graphics, visual effects are unbelievable and the ski makes 
 you dream you are in other world, or galaxy. Amazing. The gameplay is solid, not anymore bugs, 
 some funny quests and arguments, also the storyline has enough quest and keeps you on PC for about 
 10-14 hours, depending. (i finished it in 13 hours) The music is also very good, a great voice acting, 
 funny, the mad man is awesome, his voice screaming is great :) . I don't see how you could miss 
 this game, is a must have and a worth playing.
  Go get it, better than original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the first full-fledged expansion to Oblivion and boy, is it quite an expansion. The Shivering 
 Isles adds an entirely new land to explore called... the Shivering Isles!!! It's ruled by Sheogorath, 
 the Daedric Prince of Madness who seeks a champion to stop something called the Greymarch, pretty 
 much a crazy version of the Apocalypse. The first thing that hit me is how different the land is, 
 and how all the colors just leap off of the screen. The Isles feature lots of colorful landscapes 
 put the NPC's are the shining jewel. All of them are, well, crazy!!! And the quests they give you 
 are all imaginative, like one of them will ask you to kill him because he doesn't want to live 
 life anymore. The graphics are still top-notch, as is the sound. Haskill (one of the new NPC's) 
 is always hilarious when he speaks. The story is just your standard stop the apocalypse type, but 
 the way its done is so full of creativity that you'll probably never leave this crazy land. There's 
 also tons of new items (the higher the level, the better) , so anyone who has achieved everything 
 on Oblivion should get this expansion. It's well-made, funny, creative, and just plain fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is Oblivion at its center, and carries all its usual problems and what not. What sets 
 this game apart from Oblivion is the contrast of culture, feeling, and style from Oblivion. If 
 you like dark humor you'll love this game. If you don't you'll feel happy in a completely unique 
 environment, possibly one of the most unique environments in all of video gaming. If you own Oblivion 
 this is a must buy. The story is great, and the dungeons are amazing. New traps, and creatures 
 await you, and a massive game world for an expansion. It's just difficult enough to give you a 
 fun challenge. Unique weapons and armor are found, and good luck finding any from Tamerial because 
 you won't. This game would be a great stand alone game, but no, it's just an expansion pack which 
 makes it all that much better. I love this game. More the Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwinJason
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles is a worthy expansion to be checked out by Oblivion fans 
 &amp; other RPS fans as-well. The first thing you would notice is, the excellent graphics as in 
 Oblivion, that definitely adds to the atmosphere &amp; the requirements are not too steep. The 
 audio is also well done, very good voice acting &amp; background music. As an expansion pack, it 
 delivers a whole new world to explore, new enemies to fight &amp; new friends to make. New magic 
 spells, armours &amp; weapons.
  The missions are also very well done, though the main missions quests are a little repetitive, 
 some side missions are very original &amp; innovative. The game play provides good emphasis on 
 combat, magic &amp; many other elements. Overall the game play is a lot of fun &amp; thats where 
 this game really delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV has already been called as the Game of the Year . The second expansion (first 
 expansion -- Knights of the Nine -- was released over half a year after original Oblivion) offers 
 a quite good story, shame it doesn't connect up with the plot of Oblivion. It goes as this: Sheogorath, 
 the Daedric Prince of Madness has opened a doorway to his Realm in search of a mortal champion 
 amongst heroes of Cyrodiil. Apparently, you are the one who was chosen . After you cross the portal, 
 a chamberlain to Sheogorath tells you why all this had happened. It was because a special event 
 called Greymarch was coming to the realm of Sheogorath. You are to stop its effects on the Realm, 
 free another Daedra Lord (Jyggalag -- Prince of Order) and become Sheogorath yourself.
  
  The graphics are pretty the same as they were in Oblivion. There was a bunch of bugs that prevented 
 the game from completing, hovewer, all required fixes are now on the Internet. The sound (voice 
 acting -- music remains the same) is greatly done. The game offers up to 40-60 hours of additional 
 gameplay (including side quests) .
  
  What else there is to say? Well, you are joining a new faction -- the Court of Madness -- and you 
 are progressing in it through completing main quests. The Shivering Isles consist of a continent 
 divided into two small parts: Dementia and Mania. Each of the regions is controlled by a specific 
 Duke, but the whole control of course belongs to Sheogorath. The lands of Mania are guarded by 
 the Aureals -- High Elf sword warriors, while Dementia is protected by Dunmer-like Mazken, who 
 wield maces. Each of the lands has a specific look. While the countryside of Mania looks beautiful 
 and idyllic, the landscape of Dementia look deadly and horrorful.
  
  As this is an addon, you will of course need original Oblivion installed (and a bunch of patches 
 and fixes) . The main minus of the whole game is that SI doesn't continue the storyline from Oblivion (I 
 wonder what happens to the Empire? Perhaps this will be revealed in TES5?) , but overall, this addon 
 is simply brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I love The Elder Scrolls, and when Oblivion came, there was one thing that was missing, and that 
 was the fantasy world that Morrowind had been based on. Well this expansion fixes that! You get 
 to play in a madgods realm which is divided in two realms.
  
  Graphics: They a amazing, and HDR effect was added in houses now so that at day time, light will 
 come from the windows. Its as good as in Oblivion
  
  Sound: The voice acting is great, especially from Sheogorath, who is as funny as hell.
  
  Gameplay: 
 It is very different from Oblivion, yet still the same. Hard to explain, but its a new world and 
 it feels new. Its still the same interface and so on. The only problem I had was that the Expansion 
 is pretty short, took me only 24 hours to complete all the quests in the whole exp. But the quests 
 are very entertaining still and the main quest has a little twist in the end to you wont be dissapointed. 
 Oh, I also expected to play as the two new races Golden Saints, and Dark Devourers. That did not 
 happen though.
  
  Value: If you love Oblivion, get this expansion because it is a really great expansion with a lot 
 of new STUFF.
  
  So what can I say? Its a great expansion, you liked oblivion? then buy this one and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JIMK1209
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Well summer has arrived, I can't go anywhere fun because its so expensive so what the hell I'll 
 check out Shivering Isles. One afternoon i bought the Shivering Isles expansion for The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion. I loaded Oblivion and a screen that has the quests pops out and is titled A Strange 
 Door and tells the player to go to a island near Bravil. When the player arrives to a portal in 
 the mouth of some totem statue (check the box of expansion pack to see gate) . There are two people 
 that come from the other side of the gate but, they lost their mind literally and introduces a 
 name of Sheogorath, the dadreic god of madness and he demands a champion to defend Shivering Isles. 
 I will not go further into plot.
  +Things: Adds at least 40 hours to Oblivion, adds more weapons and armor, and something fun to explore.
 
  - Things: Doesn't add new music to background, Quests get kind of repetitive after awhile
  
  After playing Shivering Isles expansion for PC, The game offers a refreshing feeling to the 
 game and is a must buy for any fan of the Elder Scroll Series. This expansion is a Worth Playing 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Bethesdas Elder Scrolls series has long been the name to beat in the RPG genre, but with Shivering 
 Isles, theyve taken their achievements to an entirely new level. This is, quite simply, the finest 
 role-playing game Ive ever experienced, and one that no Oblivion fan should miss out on.
  
  First, what you actually get for your money: The Shivering Isles is a land mass about one quarter 
 the size of Cyrodill (and not attached to it, since you get there through that RPG staple, a magical 
 portal to another dimension) . As Im sure you already know, the land is divided into two realmsthe 
 swampy, twisted looking Dementia, and the bright, exuberant Mania. The visual differences between 
 the twofrom their plant life to their creatures and structuresare striking, and you know from 
 the minute you enter the Isles that youre not in Tamriel anymore. The giant plant life and hanging 
 roots and vines, the sparkles of light flowing through the air, and the wild looking creatures 
 all combine to create a world that feels truly alien, yet also incredibly beautiful, and its easy 
 to just sit back and enjoy the view at times. Speaking of the creatures, theyre a varied lot. 
 Youll see at least a few familiar faces from Morrowind, as well as a host of new beaties just 
 waiting to rip your face off. Gnarls, which look like walking trees and can absorb magic; skinned 
 hounds, which look exactly like you think they do; scalons, which attack by turning invisible and 
 leaping at your face. One of the better aspects of the creatures is that, like the goblins in Oblivion, 
 many of them have a actual culture that goes on even when the player character isnt there to see 
 it. Youll see frog like grummites worshiping bizarre statures, and rival heretics and zealots 
 battle for control of campsites. These touches are small, but they go a long way to making the 
 world that much more realistic. The main quest is one of the finest in all of Oblivion. You start 
 out in the border area of The Fringea preparation zone for those wishing to enter the Isles 
 proper. From the start, the games wild cast of characters is in evidence, as is another fact: they 
 are, to a man (and woman) , nuts. Where this gets interesting is that everyone has a different type 
 of insanity, and some border on the near normal, while others have been reduced to gibbering (literally) . 
 This could easily have been annoying, but its a tribute to the talent of BethSofts writing team 
 that its actually very effective. Each NPC has their own motives and behaviorsfrom the hypochondriacs 
 to the cutters to the guy who hates catsand the way they interact with you and each other makes 
 them seem that much more real. Three characters stand out: the sardonic, incredibly loyal Haskill, 
 the vaguely sinister, ancient librarian who is all that remains of the worlds greatest store of 
 knowledge, and the charismatic, dangerously unpredictable Sheogorath. Actually, its Sheogorath 
 who really drives the plot. Contrary to Gamespots review, hes not actually annoying, but is one 
 of the deepest and best developed characters in the game. His mood swings constantly between buoyantly 
 exuberant to chillingly sadistic, and while this could easily have come across as forced, it actually 
 lends a lot to the creation of this character. Most importantly, Sheogorath is a sympathetic character, 
 and you can actually feel for him as the story progresses. The story itself is impressively realized, 
 although at first it seems quite simple: Sheogoraths realm is being overrun by the armies of Order, 
 who want to bring his insane creations to an end, and leave a sterile, dead, graybut perfectly 
 orderlyworld. Youll find yourself wanting to fight to protect the Isles, because as twisted as 
 they can be (and theres plenty of room for sadists to work their craft here) , they represent imagination, 
 creativity, and humanity. And unlike Oblivions rather tedious main quest, this one has enough 
 great characters, situations, and battles to keep you playing until the very end.
  
  As in Oblivion, the quest design here is excellent. Youll be simultaneously trying to fight and 
 avoid enemies who possess the drug you need for survival. Youll be fighting a shadowy reflection 
 of your own character. Youll have to play rival armies off each other and make it out of collapsing 
 dungeons. The side quests are just as good. I wont take the time to list them out, but I will 
 mention that I was particularly impressed by the one involving a fortress of ghosts who are doomed 
 to live out their final moments over and over again. Watching each element of the fortresses fall 
 is a disturbing experience, and shows just how well video games can be adapted to tell stories. 
 I could go on, but ultimately, if you liked Oblivion, this is the icing on the cake, and its delicious. 
 If you didnt like Oblivion, theres not a lot of new stuff new here; but the storylines, characters, 
 and new items make this game something that is worth the price for any Oblivion owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Oblivion had some great quest lines, such as the Dark Brotherhood of course, but I enjoyed the 
 main quest of Shivering Isles even more so. The quests in general seem more polished and thought 
 out to me. I did not particularly like the setting and atmosphere, but settled for it either way. 
 I recommend anyone who enjoyed Oblivion even moderately to give Shivering Isles a try, it is worth 
 your time. Don't let the monotony of closing gates in the main Oblivion quest turn you off, this 
 main quest is more fun. I disagree that Sheograth is annoying, I thought he fit the part well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2jacob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles Expansion
  Review by ww2jacob
  
  Graphics : Not much has changed since the original game, meaning that the graphics remain stunning 
 visually, especially if you have a high-end PC. I want to talk about what has changed in the environment 
 you'll be encountering. Basically, the world you'll be seeing is a lot different than what you 
 saw in Oblivion. I think it's similar in a lot of ways to what you saw in Morrowind, basically, 
 it's more fantastic and whimsical. It's nice because it provides a nice change of scenery. Also, 
 there is a major difference between the two duchys or halves of the land: Mania and Dementia. Mania 
 is bright and colorful, with lots of big colorful mushrooms right out of your latest drunken stupor, 
 lol. Dementia, on the other hand, is dark and gloomy; not evil like the planes of Oblivion but 
 just... dark. Think Halloween, so it's great fun for the more evil-minded of us. Other than that, 
 it's nice that there are different interiors for dungeons and stuff to set it apart, and some new 
 animations for the characters.
  SCORE : 9
  
  Sound : One of the low points of the expansion, in my mind. Basically, it uses the same musical 
 soundtrack as Oblivion. While I like that music, I don't quite feel it fits with the exotic Shivering 
 Isles as well as it does with the standard medieval themes of Oblivion. However, there are some 
 nice new sounds for creatures, doors, and background noise. And, of course, all the NPC dialogue 
 is lip-synched and spoken, with certain major characters actually being very humorous.
  SCORE : 8
  
  Gameplay : Abosolutly the high point of the game for me. While vitually all of 
 the core aspects of Oblivion's combat and skill systems remain the same, Shivering Isles does an 
 outstanding job of doing what an expansion should: adding loads of new stuff. All sorts of new 
 weapons, many with fun twists in their attributes, as well as a totally new entourage of ingrediants, 
 clothes, and armor provide a great change of pace. But, my favorite part of all has to be the quests. 
 The main quest itself is amazingly entertaining, involving your character working their way up 
 through the court of madness to become a duke of the realm and eventually even a demi-god in your 
 own right.
  
  The quests and the story behind them are a notch above even Oblivion itself. Quests involve the 
 player doing all sorts of different things from Oblivion. Yes, there are plenty of dungeon crawls, 
 but there are a lot of new things mixed in. Whether you're walking through the city of New Sheoth 
 with a court touturer in tow, zapping random citizens to try and uncover a plot, or fighting alongside 
 a small army of the familar Golden Saints or new Dark Seducers against an attack on the realm, 
 you'll soon find that there's a lot more diversity to the quests in the Shivering Isles. There's 
 even a lot of fun twists to the traditional dungeon crawls and step n' fetches that'll suprise 
 you. And, once you finish the main quest, there are some fun perks that are different (and more 
 fun) than the rewards you got for beating questlines in Oblivion.
  
  The only downside that comes to mind is that there isn't a huge amount to do after you've finished 
 the main quest, as it's sort of the backbone of this expansion. Yes, there are some pretty simple 
 sidequests avaliable in cities and towns, and of course there are some large dungeons to explore 
 on your own, but don't be expecting to join the equivalent of a Fighter's Guild or Dark Brotherhood. 
 Also, some people may be glad to know that they've brought back the armor forging found in the 
 Bloodmoon expansion for Morrowind, and expanded and improved it. Now you can get enchanted versions 
 of the armor and there are two different sets to choose from.
  SCORE : 10
  
  Value : Overall, a very playable game, especially for an expansion. Because of Oblivion's leveling 
 system, an existing player or new player of any level can enter the isles and face enemies and 
 get loot that are matched to their level. And since all the controls and stuff are essentially 
 identical to Oblivion, it's easy. However, there are some mods that are incompatible with the expansion, 
 generally not to the point that they'll mess up your game, but just that you can't bring things 
 like companions and horses to the Isles, and you also can't bring people back from the Isles with 
 you to Cyrodiil. However, all equipment transfers back and forth fine.
  SCORE : 9
  
  Overall : In general, an awesome and deserving expansion for an astounding game. It'll provide 
 you with many, many hours of entertainment. You'll laugh for sure, you might cry, and you might 
 wet yourself, but I'm certain you'll enjoy it. A must-have for any fan of the Elder Scrolls universe.
 
  SCORE : 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_scrolls
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 20, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles is a excellent expansion to have for Oblivion. Shivering 
 Isles adds more than 30 hours of gameplay into the game. It adds more quests, areas and fun! So 
 if you have quit oblivion then this is a good reason to come back into Oblivion. There are however 
 some very minor glitches that you don't really need to worry about, such as crashing to desktop 
 sometimes .Lets hope a patch will fix these. There is also a great union in gamespot with many 
 mods to further enhance your experience with Shivering isles. So get out to a PC shop and buy this 
 expansion :) its worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles is an impressive new expansion to one of the greatest RPG's to ever grace the world, 
 The Elder Schrolls: IV Oblivion. In this add-on, you'll find many brand spanking new things to 
 do and see, in large, a fairly big new realm know as the Shivering Isles. The whole theme of this 
 new place is madness. And here manifests some of the creepiest fiends you will ever see. The world 
 is literally split between two. There is the land of Mania, which hosts a beautiful landscape, 
 and is generally filled with kind hearted people. And as its counterpart, the land of Dementia 
 is essentially the exact opposite. The land is darker as is the attitude of its residents. Once 
 this expansion is installed, you can access this content at any time with any character, greeted 
 by a message pertaining to a strange doorway appearing in Niben Bay. As any hearty adventurer would 
 do, you dive in this glowing door. There you meet this oddly depressing fellow by the name of Haskill, 
 and from him you learn that you have ventured into the land of the Daedric prince Sheogorath. You 
 act as a servant to carry out his plans and become his Champion. One of the quirks to this game 
 is this terribly irratating Daedra Sheogorath; whose incompetence rivals that of Roseanne. In this 
 expansion, there is really no revolutionary change to the combat system. There is however a host 
 of new dungeons, creatures, weapons and armor to be found and forged. And the main questline is 
 lengthly, unique and entertaining, (despite that man Sheogorath) . One particularily notable quest 
 is the fun and equally sadistic dungeon of torture you will be able to command. In these new quests, 
 you have the chance to slay giant insects, walking trees and an entire battalion of Knights known 
 as The Order.
  Complaints? There are many side quests that have a 'fetch' feeling to them, and they aren't too 
 exciting. Once again, enough cannot be said to further derogate the very annoying prince of madness. 
 This is perhaps not a VITAL expansion to Oblivion, but it does add many more hours to an already 
 amazing experience in the original game. Oblivion was large in its own, but now its bigger, better 
 and badder than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Yesterday, I finally got around to getting Shivering Isles and Knights Of The Nine, and I'm pretty 
 happy with it. The first thing I'll mention though, is the installation. Most people shouldn't 
 have any problems, but I had so many mods and add-ons, and I was afraid of them causing conflict. 
 I also had a few files (characters) that had already finished the main quest and a good chunk of 
 the rest of the original game, so I decided to start over. My data folder was a real mess and very 
 disorganized, so I backed up my saves, and uninstalled EVERYthing, and then re-installed the game, 
 the expansion, and Knights Of The Nine. Despite all this, it didn't take long.
  I then quickly dove in and started making my character. Personally I prefer playing as Bosmer, 
 or "Wood Elves", as they call them. I tend to specialize in bows, small blades, illusion and/or 
 alteration spells. Anyway, after fighting my way outside the imperial city prison, I went to the 
 city and picked up some armor, and headed to the Shivering Isles, not sure what to expect. Just 
 as the manual had said, a strange doorway into another dimension opens up in the Niben Bay, not 
 far from Bravil. If you wait a while, you should also get a new entry in your journal telling you 
 about it.
  So as I swam towards the new little island, I could see a large stone head jutting out of the top. 
 Getting closer, I could also see all sorts of bizarre plants growing around it. When I got to the 
 island, I could see a large blue portal in the stone-head's mouth, with a guard and khajiit standing 
 nearby. The guard warns you to stay away, that anything that's gone in has come out, not quite 
 themselves. Boy, he wasn't lying. A troubled looking dark elf stumbles out in a panic, completely 
 delusional. He's babbling incoherently and eventually attacks the guard, who has no choice but 
 to strike him down. If you speak to the khajiit, she basically acts the same way, except she won't 
 attack you. If you want, you don't have to go through... But that's why you got this game. Disregard 
 the guard' and his warning and walk through the blue fire (don't worry, it won't hurt :P ) .
  When you reach the other side, you are standing in a room with a table, and a strange man named 
 Haskill. He informs you that you are in the realm of the Daedric Lord Sheogorath, prince of Madness. 
 You aren't told much, except that his master is looking for a champion, somebody to do his bidding. 
 Many have died trying to get this position, and it's up to you to succeed where others failed. 
 You are never kept against your will and can walk out whenever you want, but you'll need to take 
 a bit of a test before you can set foot onto the shivering isles. When you first leave the room 
 where you met Haskill, you'll probably be quite surprised by how the world looks. The foliage is 
 very bizarre, with tall mushroom-like trees everywhere, and all sorts of beautiful (and sometimes 
 deadly) plants growing. You'll also meet the grummites, little frog-lizard things that try and 
 kill you. There's also a dungeon nearby you can explore. But if you wanna continue on, you'll come 
 to a small village near a big set of gates. In front of the gates is the Gatekeeper, a 15-foot 
 tall...... thing... that blocks your path. You won't be able to kill it right away so don't even 
 try. Meet the locals and ask around, and you'll eventually find the item to bring this big guy 
 down. Once he's dead, you get 2 unique keys, which open the two sides of the Shivering Isles. The 
 Isles are divided into 2 parts, or provinces, called Mania and Dementia. Mania is a very trippy 
 and bright place with more mushroom trees everywhere. Dementia is a complete opposite, with dark, 
 dead-looking landscapes. Many of the NPCs you'll encounter here are extremely paranoid, and even 
 a bit depressing (which is very immersive) . But in Mania, don't think that because it's bright 
 and beautiful, that it's safe. Both sides are full of dangerous monsters, and you'd be best to 
 watch yourself. Even the guards in both areas are varied. In Mania, the guards are these bright 
 gold women (who'll kick your ass) and in Dementia, the guards are a dark purple, called Dark Seducers 
 (these ladies will kick your ass too) . One thing thats kinda cool is that if you commit a crime, 
 it's a bit different from what happens in Cyrodiil. You still have the option of running from guards, 
 or paying. But if you choose "go to jail", you actually end up in what looks like a tomb. There's 
 a bed here and you can still serve your time, but you can also press a button to open a door up. 
 The rest of the place is like a maze, loaded with lots of monsters and traps. If you can manage 
 to get out alive, the bounty goes away and you can get your stuff back. It's still a bit tougher 
 than breaking out of prison in Cyrodiil but it's a fun change. Anyways, once you get through the 
 gate I mentioned earlier, you can find this Lord Sheogorath in his palace in the capital city of 
 New Sheoth. Odds are, people will love or hate this guy. Personally I think he's pretty funny and 
 it's fun to listen to him ramble on, spewing lines like "I'm so happy, I could rip out your intestines 
 and strangle ya with them!". From here, he will send you on quests to do jobs for him. I won't 
 go on about the story more than this but it should definetly pull you in, for those of you that 
 may have gotten tired of Oblivion.
  The graphics still look good as ever but are a bit more varied and colorful now. The new NPCs are 
 fun to interact with, there's some really cool new items and things to find, and the land is pretty 
 big. The voice acting is also still pretty great. The only part where this game suffers a bit is 
 in the music. It would've been nice if there were some new tracks added to the background, but 
 you won't find it here. Still, for the price, this is a damn good deal and it's definitely worth 
 getting if you loved Oblivion but got a bit tired of it. If you're a big Oblivion fan like me, 
 and share the same enthusiasm as I do, you have GOTTA get this expansion pack right away; Cyrodiil 
 isn't NEARLY as huge as Morrowind, but this new dimension makes the world that much bigger and 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  This is best game 4 ever on pc or 360
  but i m so angry with u Bethesda Softworks why are u not coming this game on ps3 ? whyyyy? tell 
 me is ps3 bad? is its hardware bad? it is best all sides then u also not come this game on ps3 
 why?
  i m sending this types of Review then gamespot has taken action my reviews every body know this 
 is truth then why gamespot why are u taken action my reviews?
  
  sorry for bad eng
  sorry for bad eng
  sorry for bad eng
  sorry for bad eng
  sorry for bad eng
  sorry for bad 
 eng 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  There are more than 160 missions in the original Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, but the one everyone 
 remembers is the errand you ran for the Daedric prince Sheogorath, also known as the Mad God. 
 Why? Because it starts with a bunch of people in the woods wearing only their underwear, moves 
 on to the planet's stinkiest cheese, and ends with  SPOILER ALERT  a hailstorm of flaming German 
 Shepherds. There were other great missions, but this was the one that everyone talked about and 
 made sure their friends all played.
  
  Thus, when you learn that Shivering Isles, the games first full-on expansion pack, takes place 
 in the home realm of that same divine nut-job Sheogorath, it should come as no surprise that this 
 expansion is A) pound-for-pound, the most creative and interesting Oblivion content in existence, 
 and B) a must-buy.
  
  The quest begins when you hear a rumor - incidentally, you don't hear it from a particular person. 
 Just install the expansion and wait a day or two, maybe take a nap - about an odd portal on an 
 island near Bravil. Everyone who goes through it comes back unhinged, if at all. Naturally, you 
 dive right in.
  
  Two things define the Shivering Isles: creativity and duality. Everything here mirrors the double-sided 
 persona of its creator: that of a whimsical, brilliant artist, and that of a psychotic killer. 
 Thus, the northern half is colorful, with trees that always look like its fall. The southern half 
 is gray and black, with barren trees sticking out of gloomy marshes.
  
  There are new alchemy ingredients everywhere, including two elements: madness ore and amber, which 
 can both be made into sexy, powerful new armor and weapons. Those will come in handy when vivisecting 
 enemies like psychedelically-hued mantis-ants, frog men and exploding monster skeletons.
  
  
  The towns and people here are just as friendly and demented as their ruler. The main city of 
 Neo Sheoth is divided in two: the happy, druggy, artsy half known as Bliss, and the dreary, skinning-animals-for-fun 
 half called Crucible. Each is protected by its own army of babes in metal bikinis - the Golden 
 Saints and the Dark Seductresses - who naturally hate each other.
  
  Into this abnormal stewpot goes the real meat of this expansion: new missions, most of which are 
 just a little more creative and morbid than all but the best of the main game stuff.
  
  
  A suicidal man pays you to rub him out. You solve an intricate conspiracy plot by walking around 
 town with an inquisitor who lightning-tortures anyone you question until the clues spill out, volt 
 by volt. In another mission, the Saints and Seductresses are battling and you have to befriend 
 both sides then betray one or the other, leading them into the enemy's trap.
  
  You kill a huge monster using the tears of its creator and arrows made of the bones of its predecessor. 
 You find yourself trapped in a fort where two armies of ghosts continually replay their last battle 
 until you help one army win. A fellow you've helped promises to give you one of his old dogs - 
 but it's not what you think.
  
  Our point is made, right? Whether randomly exploring, grabbing side missions or working out the 
 main quest, which involves saving the islands from being destroyed by a being called Jyggalag and 
 his army of machine-like Knights of Order, this is just the shot of creative energy this game needs. 
 We do wish it was cheaper, and heaven help us, why on Earth did the developers recruit the same 
 handful of voice actors? This is a different country - people could and should sound different. 
 But ultimately, this 15-30 hours of gameplay is a must-play for anyone, even if you didn't finish 
 the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles opens a new world to Oblivion. It has new quests, new people, new weapons and armor. 
 New sites to see and has Oblivion has great graphics a beautiful scenery as well as great music 
 and sounds within the world of the Shivering Isles. Unlike other expansions Shivering Isles it 
 not continued after Oblivion finishes it is new component that is added into the game, into Oblivion. 
 Shivering Isles adds about 8-10 more hours of game play if you follow the main quest. Shivering 
 Isles doesn't follow the main story of Oblivion, as Shivering Isles is a new world it has a new 
 threat and so a new main story. Seeing that I got Shivering Isles after I finished Oblivion I had 
 no problem with going to the Shivering Isles right away and do the main quest, but with other players 
 that haven't finished the main quest in Oblivion might be eager to travel to the Shivering Isles 
 and see whats there, they might get caught up with Shivering Isles and completely forget about 
 the main quest is Oblivion. It's not really a big problem but I think it would be better if you 
 could only get to the Shivering Isles after you become champion of Cyrodil but like I said its 
 not that big of a problem if people don't mind. It is a bit too easy and it doesn't have enough 
 challenges and can get a little repetitive with the main quests so its a good idea to do some side 
 quests during the main quests so that it doesn't get to repetitive. All in all Shivering Isles 
 is a fantastic game and is worth buying if you liked Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, when you first start out Shivering Isles can be a bit overwhelming. The 2 cities have many 
 useless backdoors so that threw me off alot when I was trying to memorize the town layouts. XD
 
  
  Um, the voice acting is excellent. Sheogorath is by far my favorite Oblivion character. Sadly the 
 expansion really doens't have that many new quests. There are a few in each city, like 5 in each 
 which is quite lame. The main story is more enjoyable than Oblivion's main story, but it is jsut 
 as short-if not shorter.
  
  My biggest gripe is, not suprisingly, the scaled lvling..... it just completely ruins the game. 
 If you're a fan of Oblivion and are interested in playing it more, wait until OOO or anything conversion 
 mod encompasses SI then buy it, you're sure to have a good time. 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Ok so there is significant lore and understandable reasons why the world is so different, but I 
 really think that the expansion should have played along the same theme as the base game. From 
 a world that possesses a Tolkien-esque atmosphere, to one where it feels like Alice on speed, the 
 continuity seems to be flawed. I can't fault the game other than that mind you. The game play is 
 still a little off, but everything is still standing strong. The storyline (ignoring the base game) 
 is great.
  
  Had the game focused on the parallel medieval take the base game had taken, there is no question 
 the game would have been a 10. I have actually been put off playing Oblivion for a while because 
 of what I have collected through the game. It really did ruin the Oblivion game.
  
  Ah well, time to uninstall...
  
  Mind you, awesome game... buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAHAPYHIPPO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The good: more Oblivion, adds new and fantastic looking environments. Breathes new life into your 
 50$ space taker. New enemies are much more interesting than the original ones. The new environments 
 are as unique as they are intriguing to explore. Characters are hilariously loopy, adding an almost 
 drug-like effect to the game.
  
  The bad: A lot of the ground in the Shivering Isles is unwalkable, making it very difficult to 
 manuever. The characters are insanely loopy, but there's not very many of them outside the two 
 town's and that only makes up a small portion of each realm. No new music.
  
  The Elders Scroll 4 was one of the most anticipated games in recent memory, and it's safe to say 
 it more than lived up to the enormous expectations. The world was huge, unique, and incredibly 
 interesting even for just exploring. The Shivering Isles breathes new life into a game I was plenty 
 sick of, adding interesting and completley loopy characters, much more interesting and engaging 
 enemies than the ones in the original game and a pretty large new world to explore. The scenery 
 is completely different, adding giant mushrooms, waterfalls, and generally more interesting landscaping 
 than that of the original game. Unfortunately, the new landscape is a little difficult to manuever 
 about, as it is covered in huge mountainous hills that you are unable to walk up, causing you to 
 make huge detours as you explore the Shivering Isles. Though the rest of the land you can walk 
 on seems much more adapted for humans than the original game, covered with bridges, new paths, 
 and all kinds of crazy landmarks. The most dissapointing thing about the Isles though, is that 
 it has the same sound as the original Oblivion. For those of you who left the music to the quiet 
 whisper the game's defaults set it at, you're missing out. Pumping up the music to full volume 
 adds a whole new level of epicism to the game, and makes it generally more interesitng. The music 
 is beautifully orchestrated, making you feel like you're in a giant world full of mysticism and 
 magic. So one would hope that a new twisted fantasy world would come equipped with the proper background 
 music, and sadly this isn't the case. Fortunately, the music is still good from the original game, 
 though some new music fitted for this new insane world would have been nice, especially to see 
 how the developers at 2K would have complimented such an oddly-off beat world. But overall, the 
 Shivering Isles is a great expansion, breathing new life into the world of Oblivion, and adding 
 a fantastically interesting story and landscape, only bettering the Elder Scrolls formula. gameplay: 
 same engaging battle system from the original, plays great, almost too like an action game, but 
 the simplicity quickly reminds you that you're playing an RPG.
  
  graphics: beautiful, engaging landscape can keep you stuck in it for hours, maybe almost leaving 
 you a little bit loopy as well.
  
  sound: same great orchestrated music as the original, sadly though, it's the same. it would have 
 been nice to have some new tunes to aid you on your adventure.
  
  value: for 30$, or even 18$ at circuit city, you can't go wrong.
  
  tilt: flaws and benefits 
 alike, this is still a must have for fans of Oblivion, especially those who have grown bored of 
 the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I loved Oblivion, and I was looking forward to pick up SI but it was distributed a month late in 
 my country. Thank God! Cos during the 1 month, the game killing F-bomb (Form ID) bug was discovered 
 on SI and PC modders were able to fix it. What blows me away is how the developer missed out something 
 as crucial as this. This and the stuck animation bug (the A-bomb) really should have been spotted 
 and fixed, but it wasn't.
  
  The main storyline is pretty interesting, with some twists. Sheogorath is a hoot to interact with 
 and there is some pretty interesting level design. There are also some quirky quest which I absolultely 
 love (never thought I will break into smithys just to steal calipers and tongs lol) . But the story 
 is way too short. For its price, I expected more bang for my buck. The graphics are great, as usual 
 and the score is still one of the better ones I've heard. All in all, a must have if u're a fan 
 of the original, but you may find the price a little steep for an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dungeonbuster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  You've saved Cyrodiil from destruction, your cupboards are overflowing with equipment, and only 
 mods can sate your taste for adventure. Or perhaps you've just started to explore the world of 
 Tamriel and seek a special kind of quest, that which only a Mad God can spoil you with before you 
 decide to save the world. Fortunately, Bethesda has been working on just the right fix for dungeon 
 crawlers hoping to add a few more hours to their game in Oblivion as well as inject a little insanity 
 into their characters' lives. The Shivering Isles bring plenty of quests, and just enough troubles, 
 into the lives of players that step through the gate leading into Sheogorath's playground.
  
  It's a Mad, Mad World
  
  The expansion can be started at any point in the game, allowing 
 veterans and those that have just started out in Oblivion to experience its many challenges but 
 it is probably best suited to players that have had a chance to get used to Oblivion's nuances. 
 Filled with plenty of new, and tough, monsters just waiting to sink their weapons into you, the 
 Shivering Isles are nearly a quarter of the size of Cyrodiil itself and filled with small towns, 
 dungeons, and a city with a split personality. There's a lot to do and see here as you try and 
 save Sheogorath's land from complete annihilation.
  
  It seems that the Daedra Lord has plans for you, or rather, would like to stop the destruction 
 of his home and have you do it for him. Every thousand years that marks the end of an Age, and 
 event called the Greymarch arrives to literally wipe the Shivering Isles off the face of Oblivion 
 itself leaving Sheogorath to rebuild things from scratch. This time, however, he has a plan. Oh 
 yes, it's a cunning plan. A brilliant plan. A plan that only the sharpest tongue and the finest 
 mind filleted with fantasy and foul phenomena can conjure up before breakfast. And you're going 
 to help him.
  
  The rewards are obviously going to be great. After all, the Mad God might be insane but he's also 
 generous to those that help him. Or not. Or maybe he just wants to invite you over to pluck your 
 eyes out. You'll just have to trust him and hope that you don't get killed by what he's got in 
 his head.
  
  Have Quest, Will Travel
  
  The Shivering Isles have a split personality all their own. When you pass the 'test' to gain the 
 right to enter the Shivering Isles, two doors will lead you to either side of the Isles, earning 
 a power that is keyed to whichever state of mind that you prefer. Of course, the doors only offer 
 one choice but once in the Isles, you are free to travel wherever you please despite what you may 
 have decided.
  
  Those with an artistically maniacal bent may find themselves passing through the door to the land 
 of Mania, filled with color and bloom along with inhabitants that balance their mental state between 
 artistic genius and euphoric insanity. Or you might decide that you want to receive a sadistically 
 appropriate gift that your character can use when you enter Dementia, a dark and foreboding land 
 whose people revel in paranoid delusions, twisted desires involving plenty of blood, and gruesome 
 hobbies. No matter what you choose, both sides of this personality have plenty of baggage to sort 
 through.
  
  The Shivering Isles' problems are spread across twenty to thirty hours of quests. Both lands sport 
 plenty of new scenery ranging from massive, Alice in Wonderland-like mushrooms, psychedelic skies, 
 underground, root filled passages, to depressingly dreary swamps and watery slums. New monsters 
 ranging from shambling, tree-like Gnarls to horned, frog-like Grummites will offer up new challenges. 
 Golden Saints have also returned, their deceptively radiant beauty blending into the kaleidoscope 
 of Mania as part of Sheogorath's two sided police force, with Dark Seducers taking care of his 
 business in Dementia.
  
  There are quite a few creative quests and there's plenty of new dialog to go along with them, all 
 voiced by the same voice actors for the most part so if you are already tired of hearing the same 
 people in Oblivion, you'll find no respite here. You'll be asked to do things such as help a town 
 with its own split personality, with the townspeople asking you to 'deal' with their other selves. 
 Or you might find yourself building a golem to help defend the Shivering Isles from the Greymarch. 
 One special quest will even cast the player in the role of a temporary dungeon master, asking them 
 to take part in the destruction of a group of foolish adventurers by choosing what to throw in 
 their way. Should you break their mind with traps and trickery, or permanently hobble their progress 
 by crushing them with a demented approach to bloodletting?
  
  Quests like these, though, are the exceptions. Many of the others will have you feeling like a 
 medieval UPS delivery person or armored Terminator as you retrieve lots of stuff for a lot of people 
 or be asked to kill everything at a certain spot. There's not a lot of variety to what you have 
 to do on the whole, although the writing explaining the reasons for doing so... especially coming 
 from the Mad God, Sheogorath, himself... help to tell his story well. While you won't get the feeling 
 that you're talking to a Malkavian, Sheogorath's mad facade and psychotic moments of lucid thought 
 combine together to make him one of the more unique characters of Oblivion and help to keep things 
 interesting even when the quests can seem dry. Quite a few others play their parts with just as 
 much enthusiasm and as a result, the story in the Shivering Isles is easily a match for that found 
 in the stock Oblivion setting.
  
  New items are also introduced alongside a simple crafting system with which you can ask certain 
 blacksmiths to create armor for you as long as you have the right materials. Don't expect to create 
 deeply customized pieces of protection, though, as your choices are somewhat limited in what you 
 can ask them to do, although they be easily used as a base with which Oblivion veterans may want 
 to tweak even further with their favorite enchantments. There are also a few new weapons that the 
 player can discover along with many other accessories that they'll either find or earn during their 
 quests.
  
  And when you manage to survive the Shivering Isles and save them from annihilation, there are also 
 other rewards that top off your service to the Daedric Prince, including one or two powerful relics 
 that will be added to your collection. This is reportedly the last official expansion for Oblivion 
 from Bethesda and when you make it to the end of this particular quest, it certainly feels like 
 a grand farewell to the title as your character takes part in a pivotal moment of the Elder Scrolls' 
 lore that may be every bit as important as that in the main quest of Oblivion itself.
  
  Two Faced Problems
  
  The Shivering Isles have issues, and not all of them mental. The occasional 
 scripted event failed to start or continue, prompting a reload from an earlier save to try and 
 jumpstart events. There were also issues within the capital of the Shivering Isles itself, in the 
 district of Bliss where I've seen the AI occasionally go completely berserk and start what can 
 amount to be a small civil war in the streets as citizens and Golden Saints start fighting when 
 one of the inhabitants decides to go a little too far in their pickpocketing. Unfortunately, their 
 solution was apparently to kill everyone which had happened during one session, two that died having 
 just given me a small side quest to do for them. My fix for this was to simply reload and hope 
 that the pickpocketing AI decided not to try its luck that time around.
  
  Spellcasters are also going to feel as if they're in unfriendly lands as there doesn't seem to 
 be any spellmaking altars handy in the Shivering Isles. The same goes for enchantments. If you 
 want to make spells or enchant your own pieces of armor while on the go, you'll have to step back 
 through the portal back to Cyrodiil and zip on over to where you can flex your magic before heading 
 back to the Isles. Although fast travel makes the journey easier to bear, it might be easier to 
 simply download and install a mod or mod it yourself to fix what can feel like a major inconvenience.
 
  
  The Shivering Isles boast several towns and a large city, but don't expect the towns to be any 
 larger than a few homes. Most of the towns consist of only a few buildings that act as houses for 
 the NPCs and can come off as being pretty empty experiences aside from the quest or two that someone 
 may ask you to help out with there. Don't expect them to be anything like what you may see in Cyrodiil 
 such as with the port of Anvil or the snow covered cobblestones of Bruma as two of these towns 
 are small enough to fit in Count Skingrad's castle courtyard.
  
  It's Hard to Be a God
  
  If you can't get enough of Oblivion and want to experience a quest that will add even more 
 goodies to your collection and give you the chance to carry the burden of a god while taking part 
 in an event that will leave its mark on the Elder Scrolls, you'll find what you are looking for 
 in the Shivering Isles. An entertaining tale of insanity, desperation, demented paranoia, and drug 
 induced mania celebrates what may be Bethesda's last hurrah to the latest chapter of Tamriel's 
 history and despite the generic nature of many of its quests, I had plenty of fun in keeping my 
 marbles together. Blood will be borrowed, minds will be broken, adventurers will be tortured, and 
 your character will be tested as you attempt to accomplish that which even a Daedra Lord has failed 
 to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar044
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls Shivering Isles, takes place pretty much in a world thats gone mad, well it has, 
 its the mind of a crazy king. If you can image Alice In Wonderland but crazy version of it well 
 you will understand what i mean.
  
  The expansion installs well and when you boot up the game, nothing seems to have changed, in about 
 a day a quest log will appear talking about the gate that has opened up, going to the gate you 
 find a statue like door, and of course you want to go in, inside you meet a man at a desk who well 
 tells you about how to get into the world and thats where the crazy stuff starts.
  
  The NPC and the world is just wrong, everything looks out of place, the people talk crazy talking 
 about what its like with people with no skin, to a woman in love with a monster, and giant mushrooms 
 everywhere.
  
  The artwork and graphics are great, the skies in the game are great, purple skies that just seem 
 crazy, and it really seems like you are starting to lose your mind.
  
  sounds are great and music is the same but the voice acting of the crazy people are very well done,. 
 to a very tired inkeeper, to the keeper of the gate, none of the actors seem luike they are actors 
 and you feel that you are in the world.
  
  there are alot fo new items, plants and armour and swords so on in the game, this is what I like 
 to see in games since alot of expansions add story but sometimes lack on items and quests.
  
  This game is very, very hard to explain, its one of those games that you could write 10 books 
 and not be done with it, but I say to you, its worth the price to pick up, if you love RPGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdsb
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  What a pitiful waste of time, the add on is completely unplayable. Bethesda has not come up with 
 a patch to repair the game (this is after installing 2 Beta patches) , after installing the add-on 
 game, it makes Oblivion unplayable also. I have spent more time trying yo repair the game than 
 I have actualy playing it. Be warned, if you enjoy re0configuring your ini files or like spending 
 hours on the net trying to find a fix, get the game and good luck to you. Don't get me wrong, this 
 not my first trouble with RPG'S wich I have been playing many years, but the first one I have totally 
 given up on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  I just completed this Expansion so it's all fresh in my mind. If any of you have been concerned 
 that &pound;18 was a bit of a fork out for a simple expansion, there's enough here to keep you 
 going for severl weeks. The expansion adds about a extra 40 solid hours of gameplay to the original 
 game, with it's fairly lengthy expansion and large amount of side quests. One of the best things 
 about it is, while it's very similar in style to Oblivion, it's actually very different in terms 
 of what's there. The whole land is different and split into two discrete mind sets: Dementia and 
 Mania. Both are interesting in their own way and have different creatures and vegetation and even 
 lighting.
  
  The main quest is a decent 25 hours long and gives you enough to do without boring you too much 
 with some of the fetch and retrieve tasks. Sheogorath, the Prince of Madness, is actually pretty 
 hilairous with some of the randomness he comes out with. Having Haskill, who you can summon at 
 any time for advice with the tasks given to you by the Prince, is a very good addition to the game. 
 You will also, eventually as you go up through the ranks of the game, get to summon guards as well.
 
  
  Certainly if you enjoyed Oblivion you will find this a true delight and an excellent return to 
 that fantasy holiday that is Elder Scrolls 4.
  
  Only one criticism from me here: They could have added some extra music, as well as extra lands 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Okey, let me start with the quests ... those are just like in the original Oblivion the usual boring 
 'go from A to B' kinda 'postmen' missions. Most of them are amazingly short and are actually annoying 
 because they don't bring a lot of action with them and aren't very challenging at all.
  
  Then there is a mission balance issue too, by far most missions are 'evil' orientated and mostly 
 'good' solutions are non-existent. Like missions for which you have to torture people to get information 
 ... yeah, BAD Bethesda, there should have been an option to buy the information or something ... 
 at least something that comes closer to a 'good' choice.
  
  Bethesda also didn't increase the skill levels to above 100 points, and didn't change the overall 
 difficulty so it would match higher level characters, so any reasonably strong character you've 
 previously made will really cut through the missions like butter without any mentionable problems 
 or choke points. It's wait to damn easy and it's definitely too much of a 'been there done that 
 experience'. Yes, eventhough they did make use of a interesting theme so to say. Okey, well, I'm 
 not going to spoil the story, but it's very cheap and doesn't have any plot twists or interesting 
 cliffhangers or whatever would make it more interesting. It's a bit clich&eacute; actually and 
 it's one of those stories most will completely ignore.
  
  All in all it's a pretty pricey expansion too for the amount of time it will probably take to complete 
 all quests. Approximately 10 to 15 hours will be the max actually, but as we all know this is true 
 for many expansion packs.
  
  Although graphics are as good as in the original gameplay, this expansion doesn't solve any of 
 the gameplay or graphical issues of the original game, nor does it add anything new in terms of 
 gameplay or features, except more content. Eventhough the setting is darker and a bit more 'grown-up', 
 it's really 100% the same as the original in terms of gameplay, something that really disappointed 
 me. I don't recommend buying this expansion, simply because it feels like a ripp-off and leaves 
 a big been there done that -feeling behind. They may say 'never change a winning formula', but 
 I disagree greatly in the case of Oblivion and this expansion pack. It had plenty of flaws that 
 could have been fixed in a nice expansion. In short: it's easily the most overrated game I know 
 off and this expansion once again get's hyped for no apparent good reason. People review as if 
 this game had no flaws and as if this expansion pack has no flaws, but that's far off. I'd give 
 the original game about a 7.5 or 8.0 and this expansion pack even less, since it doesn't add anything 
 substantial and doesn't 'fix issues'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewantcookie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The highly anticipated expansion for The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion does all it sets out to do, 
 and does it with style. Many hardcore fans of the series were a fair bit disappointed with Oblivion, 
 and while this does not change the core of the game, it does add much of what the original game 
 lacked. Shivering Isles is what the whole of Oblivion should have been; deeper character interactions, 
 NPC's with personality, and a much better storyline. This all leads to an expansion that can please 
 hardcore fans and newcomers to the series all the same.
  
  For those who don't know, Shivering Isles adds a whole new land to explore that totals to about 
 1/4th of the original game. The land itself is the home realm of the Daedric Prince of Madness, 
 Sheogorath, and is thusly crazy in and of itself. The highlands of Mania, which are bright and 
 colorful, are home to creatures and people of the same nature. The people are generally happy, 
 dress in colorful clothing, and many are fairly artistic. The creatures that reside in these lands 
 are colored with vibrant shades as well. The lowlands of the Shivering isles are known as Dementia, 
 and offer a stark change in scenery. The flora is very dark and dreary, and so is the mood it sets. 
 The creatures of the land are very dull in color, which is a large change from the Mania side of 
 the land. As you'd expect, the people on the Dementia side of things are depressed, paranoid, and 
 love pain. The capital city of the Isle, New Sheoth, is as split as the land it sits on, and is 
 divided into two very different cities; Bliss, and Crucible. As in Oblivion, there are guards, 
 and they are split as well. Bliss has its Golden Saints, who are a proud and haughty race of Daedra, 
 and Crucible has Dark Seducers, who are just as proud, if not more. New Sheoth is also home to 
 Sheogorath's Palace, and the governmental bodies of the Isle.
  
  On the topic of what the expansion adds as far as items, there are a few new armor sets to be had, 
 as well as a good supply of weapons to go with them. The two main sets are the armors and weapons 
 you get from the forging system implemented in the expansion. The process by which this goes down 
 is similar to the way they did it in the Tribunal expansion for Morrowind, you find the raw ingredients 
 (Madness Ore, and Amber) and bring it to the merchants that can forge it for you. You can also 
 find Matrices to further supplement the armor/weapon, and add an enchantment during the process. 
 You may find the enchantments aren't anything special however, so you will likely end up just selling 
 these pre-enchanted ones. There are a few unique items to be had as well, though as with the main 
 game, most are from quests. There are many new clothes added as well, most notably the robes of 
 the bad guys you can get, which allow you to approach them at a distance without them recognizing 
 you as an enemy. The largest amount of anything added however are the alchemy ingredients. There 
 are just over 30 new ingredients added, all of which are very useful for alchemists.
  
  The Main Quest has you defending the Isles from invading Knights of Order who wish to bring order 
 to the realm. These quests take you through the joinable (by joinable, I mean you join it when 
 you enter the isles) faction called Court of Madness. There are many fun quests to accomplish along 
 the way, and all lead up to the inevitable BBEG (big bad evil guy) fight. There is also a big twist 
 at the end that may make some people (people who know the lore) question what Bethesda was thinking. 
 Weird twist or not, I find the MQ to be much better, or at least implemented better, than the MQ 
 of Oblivion.
  
  Overall, this is an expansion that is not to be missed, if you have Oblivion, do the right thing 
 and go get it. If you don't have Oblivion, go get it, play it for a while, then go buy this expansion. 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaVonRhoman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles is a poignant use of originality through storyline, game 
 play, and graphics that poignantly augments an already larger-than-life game. Most individuals 
 that enjoyed the original Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion will find The Shivering Isles a noteworthy 
 expansion pack that is considerably hard to pass by. Along with the usual bodacious graphics, The 
 Shivering Isles' main storyline and remunerative side-quests amplify the overall enjoyability of 
 the game which begets a captivating effect that allures the player's attention. The Shivering Isles 
 posses an innate ability to inspire the player's imagination and reward the participant with comicality 
 and insight. The grandiloquent environment of Mania and Dementia discharge dexterity that enkindles 
 perceptibility in the minds of its patrons. Ingenious use of thematic tone and mood plus acute 
 characterization infatuates players to surrender more time to engage in the game. In conclusion, 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles is a hard-to-pass expansion that is worthy of an Elder Scrolls 
 fan's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles is an expansion worthy of the Elder Scrolls 4 title. The same addictive first-person 
 swords and sorcery action is still in play here, but it's the fresh change in environment that 
 makes playing SI such a treat. Once you've installed the expansion and load up Oblivion, your character 
 discovers a strange gateway that's appeared in on an island in the middle of Niben Bay. Upon entering 
 it, you're transported to a small, dark room where a thin, gaunt man invites you to sit down and 
 talk. He explains that he's a servant of his master, the one who rules the realm you've entered: 
 Sheogorath. After accepting the mysterious servant's proposition that you aid Sheogorath in defending 
 his world from destruction, the servant leaves the room, only for its cramped walls to explodes 
 into a storm of butterflies. You're now standing in the middle of the Shivering Isles.
  
  Veteran players of Oblivion will find this alien plane a delight to explore. The denizens of the 
 Isles exist in one of two planes, Mania and Dementia, and all share one trait: madness. Most of 
 the citizens you'll encounter will sprout gibberish, send you on ridiculously random quests that 
 reward you with valuable armor, weapons, spells and other assorted loot. The free roaming game-play 
 style allows you to play at your own pace and this makes the main linear storyline feel less restrictive 
 seeing as that you can complete it at your discretion. The game forces you to make choices that 
 affect the very world of the Shivering Isles and once you've made certain decisions, the world 
 and its people will respond to you accordingly.
  
  The learning curve is very quick and is identical to Oblivion. Typically 30 minutes to an hour, 
 I'd figure, for most gamers. There isn't a sense of grind and no matter how long you play, if you 
 explore long enough, you're bound to find more that previously went undiscovered.
  
  I played Oblivion for easily over a hundred hours and have played Shivering Isles for probably 
 fifty hours and there's still more to do. Simply put, for $30, it's a must-buy for adventure-lovin', 
 RPG gamers. Instead of picking up the latest MMO grindfest, pick up Oblivion and Shivering Isles. 
 You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion was the overall 2006 game of the year.. it was not unexpected for Bethesda to make an 
 expansion given the success of the downloadable content ranging from horse armor to Knights of 
 the Nine (KOTN) also with the Tribunal and Bloodmoon expansions for Morrowind also known collectively 
 as GOTY Edition or Game of The Year Edition...
  
  in 2007 players will venture through the mysterious gate that opens in the Niben bay, they stumble 
 upon Haskill the chamberlain to lord Sheogorath one of the great Daedric princes of Oblivion, it 
 is here that the players enter the fringe which is a testing point for those who wish to enter 
 the Shivering Isles, prince sheogorath's realm... In the Shivering Isles players will experience 
 both examples of madness, Sheogorath being the Prince of Madness, these forms are Mania and Dementia, 
 they are reflected in the the realm of Shivering Isles, north is mania filled with bright colorful 
 regions and many well spoken insane artists, but mania is also very deadly and mania is represented 
 by the Aureals or Golden Saints (as seen in Morrowind and other elder scrolls titles) .. their 
 capital is Bliss which is part of new sheoth... Dementia the souther half of the shivering isles 
 is dark and twisted, it is represented by the Mazken or Dark Seducers, the capital is Crucible 
 a dank and dark city part in new sheoth.
  
  the shivering isles storyline is about the greymarch, a time in every era where Jygallag the Daedric 
 prince of order returns to destroy Sheogoraths realm... you are here to become the champion of 
 Sheogorath and prevent the greymarch from happening!
  
  along the way you will become a duke or duchess of the shivering isles, you will earn the support 
 of either the Aureal's or the Mazken, wear the armor of either the Aureal's or Mazken... even forge 
 Amber or Madness armor and weapons... and wear the mantle of a God....
  
  overall the shivering isles was a really good game, the main storyline will offer 15 - 20 hours 
 for a skilled oblivion player, however that number fluxuates depending on skill and time spent 
 exploring also fast travel limitations...
  
  Shivering isles is the most worthwhile expansion ever, and if you like oblivion this expansion 
 is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  I play Morrowind, Oblivion and now Shivering Isles... All are beautiful and great and SI look amazing 
 with new graphics , creatures, caves, camp...
  Sure, gameplay is the same with missions and quest to complete in the realm of Mania and realm 
 of Dementia but something is more strange and full of mystery. Both realms look ... insane . SI 
 is a new world very strange and amazing, a world of madness with strange creatures and all things 
 look like a riddle-atmospheric.
  
  At the beginning when you go to the portal and meet Haskill (what a name) something new and strange 
 feel and this character Haskill, make me to think about infamous G-Man from Half-life, the mysterious 
 blue-suited character who appear and dissapear sometimes :)
  The quest begin and all you you have to do is to kill the Gatekeeper and take the keys from Mania 
 and Dementia. Look easy but is not...
  
  SI look amazing and graphics of this game is the best i ever seen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  After a steady stream of downloadable content from Bethesda, many were beginning to wonder if they're 
 ever going to release a real expansion. Well, here's your answer. Shivering Isles gives you a brand 
 new landmass for you to explore  and there's a lot of it. Shivering Isles doesn't touch the basic 
 blueprint laid out by Oblivion, it just gives you more of what you loved about Oblivion. If you 
 loved Oblivion and wanted more, pick up Shivering Isles and let it devour your life and time in 
 all forms.
  
  Shivering Isles doesn't expand Tamriel's borders; instead, a quest pops up indicating that a strange 
 portal has opened up around Niben Bay. Once you make your way to the portal, it's obvious that 
 whatever's on the other side isn't quite right, as indicated by the mentally troubled dark elf 
 that just exited the portal. A short time after, Sheogorath  the Daedric Prince of Madness and 
 ruler of the Isles  demands that a champion, a hero, enter his realm. And that champion is of 
 course, you.
  
  Upon entering the Shivering Isles, you'll be struck by how different and weird the landscape is. 
 Giant fungi trees tower above you and the sky is smeared with hues of turquoise and gold. As you 
 move past the initial settlement, you'll notice that the world is split in two. One side, Mania, 
 is the stuff of hippie dreams  the landscape is oversaturated with color and everything's cheery 
 and bright. The other side, Dementia, is the stuff emo's would die for  everything's dank, gloomy 
 and depressing. This stark contrast between cheerful and depressing is prevalent throughout the 
 game as you traverse this strange and unique landscape.
  
  Unfortunately, youve come at a bad time. Sheogorath explains the Greymarch  a cataclysmic event 
 that wipes out the Shivering Isles at the end of every era  and demands that you must stop it 
 from happening again. The main quest is very strong mostly because you wont be doing the same 
 thing twice. You might be spying on potential revolutionaries during one quest and in another you 
 might be defending a town in ruins. Therere a fair amount of fetch quests but because of the strong 
 narrative backing these quests, you wont mind doing these. Sheogoraths a crazy character and 
 hell rarely give you a straight answer to anything. Youre going to find this guy extremely annoying 
 or extremely endearing, no in-betweens. The side quests dont receive the same love, though. Theyre 
 blatant fetch or fed-ex quests and they simply arent much fun. The rewards you receive arent 
 much and if youre a high-level character, a 500 gold reward is rather useless.
  
  The new enemies that inhabit the Shivering Isles are much more unique and fantastical than what 
 you encountered in the Cyrodiil. They all have their unique traits that make them a lot more interesting 
 to combat. A scalon for instance, can cast invisibility on itself and grummites can heal in water. 
 And to combat these new enemies, two new armor and weapons sets are available. By finding madness 
 and amber ores scattered throughout the land, you can get a blacksmith to forge them into the new 
 armor and weapons sets. The ores give you a great incentive to explore caves and forts because 
 the sets look fantastic. The level of detail is on par with all the other sets and the designs 
 are just plain cool.
  
  Graphically, Oblivion hasnt aged a bit over the past year. Shivering Isles looks fresh and new 
 because almost everything in the Isles really is new. Every single texture and structure you gaze 
 upon is brand spanking new which gives the Isles its own character and look. However, the NPCs 
 look worse this time around because nothings been done to improve them. They still look artificial 
 and stiff which is a shame because the voice acting is still very strong. And even though the voice 
 actors pump out great performances once again, they unfortunately sound like Cyrodiils inhabitants. 
 No new soundtrack either, the fantastic score that conveyed an epic but subtle mood when traversing 
 Cyrodiils landscape just doesnt work here. The music clashes with the ominous and weird tone 
 of the Isles that it actually becomes a little grating.
  
  Shivering Isles is going to last quite a long time. The main quest takes about 15-20 hours to complete 
 but combine that with the new landmass to explore, and youve got a 30-40 hour game, which is huge 
 by expansion standards. If you wanted more Oblivion, definitely buy Shivering Isles. Shivering 
 Isles is exactly what Oblivion needed. Its weird, crazy and more importantly, a fresh departure 
 from Cyrodiils greener fields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Lancelot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  You know already know that Elder Scrolls is a good RPG serious and as soon as they released Oblivion, 
 it made a new turning point in RPGs and gaming alike. Since then there has been two expansions 
 and countles plug-in online. The Shivering Isles top all expansions that I have ever played. Instead 
 of using the existing place, Bethesda decided to make a whole new island, with new places to explore, 
 new missions, new weapons, creatures, etc. and it doesn't stop there. Once you start it you realize 
 how in-depth it really is, you go down a very windy story line that will surprise at every turn, 
 and I for one, love good story lines in my games, it seems to make it more interesting. I added 
 another 40 hours on the main quest alone, let alone actually exploring and the side quests. Though 
 you have to have a pretty beefy character to actually do this expansion, i do have to say that's 
 it's only really big downfall, and a small one at that. Upon that fact there's nothing that i really 
 hate about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaanus147
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was a great game and know comes a greats official expansion pack 
 for it called The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles. The expansions adds a all new world to explore. 
 Those gamers who have tired from the trees in Oblivion can rejoice the world looks completely different. 
 The Shivering Isle main quest is pretty interesting. You are the champion to save the Mad God Sheogorath's 
 realm from total destruction. You can choose many things what to in the realm of madness. The game 
 adds new interesting dungeons and side quests. There are many new alchemy plants to test with. 
 But there are some issues with the game. The mad god is fun but sometimes he talks so long and 
 pointless mumble that you want to continue the quest. You can't wear the armor of the Knights of 
 The Order which would have been very cool, but at least you can the priests outfits what are pretty 
 cool looking to. Anyway the game is a great new experience for already a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Yes this expansion is better than its base game. Shivering Isles offers so much that Oblivion never 
 could mostly because the environments in either Mania or Dementia resemble areas of the beloved 
 Morrowind.
  
  While there is not much wow factor left in the graphics it is still a beautiful, colorful game. 
 The Realm of Madness is a nice break from the repetitive environments of Cyrodiil and the plane 
 of Oblivion. Even the outfits of the NPCs are refreshing compared to what you see in you 40+ hours 
 in Cyrodiil.
  
  Gameplay is unchanged.
  
  Sound seems a bit weird outside of conversation for some reason as it did in Oblivion. Almost staticy. 
 I use a decent soundcard and a great 2.1 speaker set. Also, conversation timing between NPCs seems 
 a bit off. The soundtrack is still good though.
  
  The most interesting parts of this expansion though, are the land and the people who inhabit it. 
 Mania resembles the Sheogorad with a lot more color while Dementia resembles the Ashlands except 
 more twisted. The people themselves are interesting. Especially the inhabitants of New Sheoth and 
 Sheogorath's guards, the Golden Saints (Aureal) and Dark Seducers (Mazken) . Sheogorath is more 
 funny than annoying.
  
  Many missions are made more interesting since it feels like you are part of an actual battle especially 
 in quests like the Flame of Agnon and Taking the Fringe.
  
  Overall it is more than worth buying especially if you're bored of Cyrodiil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Shivering Isles is the first official expansion for TES: Oblivion. While Knights of The Nine added 
 another quest line and a few more hours of gameplay, Shivering Isles does double that with a larger 
 main quest for the special land and dozens of side quests.
  
  Nothing graphical has changed here so you can expect to see top of the line graphics that require 
 an average machine to run decently. The main point of the expansion is New content, whether it 
 be creatures, quests, items, details, or settings, Shivering Isles has it.
  
  Many new creatures such as Shambles and Scalons make their debut in SI. These are not only more 
 creatures to fight but they each have their own special abilities like Electryas poison you very 
 quickly and Scalons are stronger while near the water. This is a fun touch that adds to the surreal 
 feeling you get while playing Oblivion.
  
  The new area of Shivering Isles is a seperate land that can be accessed by a door on a tiny island 
 in the Heartlands. The mere size of the Isles is about 2 Imperial Cities. When you aren't on a 
 quest it is just plain fun to explore the new areas and see what cool lore or details you can find 
 in the landscape.
  
  The main SI quest is by far the best experience you will get from the expansion and is along the 
 fun factor or the Main quest in Oblivion. You meet Sheogorath and he asks you to help him stop 
 Juggalag and The Greymarch that destroys his realm at the turn of every era. Along the way you 
 meet lots of new characters and have a new take on the lives of NPCs in the game.
  
  The items in SI are a great add with many being better than the Original drops and just being unique 
 in attributes and look. Since Shivering Isles isn't your average place you can also expect to find 
 many odd weapons such as a dagger that heals the enemy on strike.
  
  At the end of the 20+ hours of Shivering Isles you feel as though you have a new take on Oblivion 
 as a game and it feels good. I really reccomend Shivering Isles to any person who likes Oblivion 
 and the TES series and wants to get more gameplay hours out of them.
  
  Pros+ New everything- 
  Fun look on the TES world, reminiscent 
 of Morrowind
  
  Cons- No major Gameplay changes, still need a higher end PC, could have been a few more hours longer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the first real expansion for The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion for the PC. The main story 
 in the expansion added about 20 hours of extra storyline and did a good job of breathing new life 
 into the game. Ill say it right now, this addition wont be for everyone but those who do decide 
 to pick it up should be pleased with it.
  
  Shivering Isles takes place in another Oblivion realm, this time rules by the Madgod himself, Sheogorath. 
 Ill start off by saying that I think the graphics engine has been optimized for this game. After 
 the install, the game redetected my settings and was able to boost them up a bit without any noticeable 
 issues. While the graphics stayed the same, the art style is worlds different and simply amazing 
 at times. The creatures that roam this dimension are far from the typical medieval fare and are 
 instead giant insects, wood creatures, various lizards and undead. This is the direction Oblivion 
 should have gone with in the first place the game is simply stunningly alien.
  
  The sound is a lot of the same. The voice acting for the original characters is well acted, the 
 sounds of the new beasts are good and the music is still moving. I have to admit, I did like the 
 dialogue of Sheogorath himself. It was done in such a loud and silly accent that it perfectly fit 
 what a crazy God should sound like.
  
  I would have to place the main storyline higher than Oblivions main storyline but not as high 
 as the Dark Brotherhoods plot mainly because the storyline in Shivering Isles dealt with a lot 
 of fetching. Thats not to say all of the quests were that mundane, some of them were very interesting. 
 I also believe the developers tried to remedy the complaint that there was no reason to explore 
 in Oblivion other than Nirnroots. Shivering Isles has a few quests that have you looking for items 
 for a museum, reagents for this ladys catalogue, creatures for her beastiary and matrixes for 
 new magical armor types. Being stocked with improvements and additions that add another 20-30 hours 
 to an already long game is very well worth the price of admission. This is one Oblivion gate you 
 probably wont want to close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galahaut
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  More of the same badly designed core gameplay, but with everything else improved. 
  
  Shivering Isles is certainly many times better than Oblivion in terms of environment and overall 
 presentation, and is simply much more unique. Unfortunately, it still relies on the flawed core 
 gameplay of Oblivion. Luckily, the Shivering Isles are interesting enough that you can ignore these 
 flaws long enough to enjoy the comical quests and NPCs, odd creatures, Manic and Demented choices, 
 and unique environments.
  
  Anyway, the review. Be warned, it may contain some minor spoilers, but certainly no major ones.
 
  
  Gameplay (Core) - 7/10
  
  Yes. Welcome the return of the horribly designed creature and loot scaling. This topic has beaten 
 to death far too much, so I won't get too much into it. Basically, the terrible scaling system 
 encourages backwards character design, suppression of level gaining, and can result in some annoying 
 immersion breakers. For some reason, though, the scaling seems to be somewhat less annoying in 
 the Shivering Isles, with the addition of quite a few unique items and less obvious NPC scaling 
 issues (no armies of glass armor wearing bandits to stick out) .
  
  The rest of the gameplay is exactly the same as Oblivion, for better or worse. I won't rehash any 
 of this, since it has already been covered extensively in Oblivion reviews.
  
  Gameplay (Supplemental) - 9.5/10
  This category covers quests, NPC interaction, etc.
  
  Unfortunately, 
 Bethesda once again used their horribly shallow you hear a rumor (from an invisible man, apparently) 
 introduction for the Shivering Isles that they used for most of the worthless DLC, which is definitely 
 a wasted opportunity for a interesting beginning for the expansion. This mistake is made up quickly, 
 though. The Shivering Isles far surpass Cyrodiil in terms of interesting quests and NPCs. Many 
 of the quests involve making important decisions between Manic or Demented paths. Many of the quests 
 are completely different than your typical fed-ex or kill quests, although a few of these still 
 exist. While there aren't too many dungeon types in the Shivering Isles, many of the quest-related 
 dungeons have unique and sometimes surprising features.
  
  As far as NPCs go, you will meet many more memorable, strange, and/or interesting characters in 
 the Shivering Isles than you did in Cyrodiil. There is a man afraid to sleep near walls, a woman 
 who fears the end of the world, a sick innkeeper, the Duchess of Dementia and the Duke of Mania, 
 and of course, the Daedric Prince of Madness himself, Sheogorath, as well as his chamberlain Haskill.
 
  
  There are even two merchants who can craft new and interesting weapons and armor for you using 
 two new materials from the Shivering Isles. There is a new set of light armor and a new set of 
 heavy armor on par with Glass/Daedric, respectively. Seems Bethesda is bringing back some features 
 from TES3, as Tribunal and Bloodmoon both included some armor crafting opportunities.
  
  Story - 9/10
  
  The plot of the Shivering Isles is a bit insane, as it should be. Without spoiling 
 too much, basically, Sheogorath wants a human champion to stop the Greymarch from destroying his 
 realm. As the story unfolds, a variety of plot twists occur amongst a bunch of interesting quests, 
 aided by Sheogorath's often hilarious dialog and character development.
  
  The interplay between Mania and Dementia is very well done. Sheogorath's personality includes both 
 sides, and much of the plot involves choosing either Mania or Dementia as you progress through 
 the quests. Will you ally with Mania, Thadon (Duke of Mania) , and the Golden Saints for a quest, 
 or will you choose to go along with Dementia, Syl (Duchess of Dementia) , and the Dark Seducers? 
 Will you take a Manic path or a Demented path through a certain dungeon? Every time these choices 
 come up, the results are often quite different, leading to some interesting possibilities for replay.
 
  
  Audio - 8/10
  
  The voice acting seems to be improved in the Shivering Isles. The smaller number of NPCs may have 
 allowed for more unique voice acting. Sheogorath and Haskill, for example, have very expressive 
 voices.
  
  The new creatures have good sound effects, and all the environmental/dungeon sounds fit well into 
 the Shivering Isles.
  
  Unfortunately, no new music is included, even though there was a good opportunity to add some unique 
 music.
  
  Visuals - 10/10
  
  The Shivering Isles are extremely well presented visually. The dichotomy of Mania and Dementia 
 in the environment is very well done. Mania is full of vibrant flora, giant mushrooms, large rocks, 
 and bright colors. Dementia is full of vines, dead-looking trees, swamp-like areas, and depressing 
 colors. You will never be wondering which part of the Shivering Isles you are currently in.
  
  Additionally, many of the quests feature interesting visuals. There are magical green flames, 
 explosive shockwaves, shattering shards, obelisks that jut out of the ground, vine doors that unravel 
 when appropriate, flowing gas, collapsing dungeons, and much more.
  
  The odd creatures of the Shivering Isles are equally unique. There are goblin-like creatures wielding 
 strange weaponry and shields, living trees, jumping amphibians, poisonous lizards, giant spiders, 
 strange knights and priests, fanatics, and Atronachs sewn out of flesh. Many of these creatures 
 have new animations such as leaping at you or up into the air.
  *****************
  Overall - 8.7/10
  
  Shivering Isles is definitely a good investment if you enjoy Oblivion at 
 all. While it doesn't fix any of the major gameplay issues with Oblivion, it is a definite improvement 
 over almost everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynebow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I entered the Isles with my character levelled in the low 20's, so this review is based on gameplay 
 at that level. I was (and still am) awestruck by the visuals, expecially when standing on the island's 
 ridge looking down over the marshland. I suspect these visuals might come at a price though; I 
 have had to turn the graphic settings down from what they were at in the main game. I am unsure 
 of why this is, because the system requirements for Oblivion and Isles are the same. Despite that 
 I have enjoyed the new dungeons, creatures, characters, stories and items. I have found crafting 
 particularly useful (crafting is done by smiths in both mania and dementia) ; I have a brilliant 
 dementia magic sword, which looks like someone has 'pimped my sword'. Some of the quests are quite 
 challenging - dodging buildings collapsing on your head and getting your next fix of a drug are 
 built into two of the story-lines. I found some of the quests slightly more challenging than Oblivion's 
 quests, but some were very easy by comparison - I guess the level of ease depends on the character 
 played (my character is the tank sort) . Some of the quests have themes in them that might frighten, 
 upset or influence people in adverse ways - particularly younger players (hence the 'Mature' rating 
 for the game I guess) . Aspects of the game such as the 'Hill of Suicides' might be disturbing to 
 some. You get to make decisions in this expansion that have outcomes; the story-line is not as 
 linear as Oblivion's main quest (which is one minor quibble I had with Oblivion, but which is compensated 
 for by the freedom of play) . The only bug I've noticed is sometimes when I get disarmed by the 
 Knights of Order, I cannot find my sword again - even when I turn the grass off to look for it 
 and there is nowhere the sword could have conceivably rolled to. Everything else seems to work 
 very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveosaurous
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Oblivion and Morrowind, you're going to love Shivering Isles. The graphics in TSI 
 are beautiful in Mania, and dreary and disastrous (as it should be) in Dementia. If you ever wondered 
 what Morrowind might look like rendered with the beautiful Oblivion graphics, you'll know as you 
 wander through Dementia. Made up largely of swampland, you can't help but be reminded of the man 
 outlying swamps of Morrowind.
  
  Though you'll find the storyline to be a tad bit confusing, centering around a realm ruled by the 
 Madgod, Sheogorath, it's certainly entertaining. Most of the characters in the realm have all lost 
 their minds which makes for some interesting, and often hilarious, conversations.
  
  I found that exploring the Shivering Isles was alot more fun and the enemies are alot more lively 
 with brand new AI schemes. You can spend ten hours solely exploring the many new cave systems of 
 the Shivering Isles and there are many more hours of fun to be had conversing with the strange 
 inhabitants of TSI.
  
  Perhaps the only problem with the game is that it doesn't really bring anything NEW to the game. 
 It doesn't tinker with the formula set up by Oblivion (not that it needs to) . There is alot more 
 content and new areas to explore, but the gameplay is exactly the same. So don't go into this game 
 expecting anything other than what you got from Oblivion, or you'll be sorely disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuhrerJack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was by far my most favorite RPG and possibly game for the PC. I know it is out now for 
 PS3 and XBOX360, but PC is where i like to play my RPG's. Because honestly, The lonely factor is 
 a big part of my game experience. I love 2 player games and all that, where my buddy and I just 
 sit around and play God Of War or any other game you can easily pass off. But Oblivion was meant 
 for PC, in my opinion. ANyway back to The game, this game deserves a 10/10 for not ruining the 
 already awesome story and guilds. It does what any Official expansion should do, it expands the 
 world, do you want to go on? You can decide. IT does not force you to go into this world. Now i 
 read the unfair review posted by the main reviewer here. ANd i agree the missions are a little 
 monotonious if you look at them in such a simplisitic manner as go and fetch and come back. But 
 that is just of all the other missions are in Tamriel (originial Oblivion land) . Even the main 
 quest made you go and get those damn sigil stones from Oblivion. The way this game executes its 
 missions is why i love this game oh so much. I could agree to a mission from somone, then run away 
 for 3 years and do the dark brotherhood blah blah fighters guild blah, and still come back and 
 they are still looking for their wolf hide/ancient stone/silver wear. That is how i see this game, 
 just as open ended as you can get. WIth that said, all that applies to the old oblivion applies 
 to Shivering Isles, or as a now reffer to it as SI. SI is a crazy world and seems to be a lot different 
 than Tamriel, fruity and delicious (SI) , instead of conservative and refined (tamriel) . I could 
 explain all the awesome new characters WHO ARE NOT ANNOYING, they just have their own quircks and 
 it seems to tie into the new story line rather well. O yeh all the people in SI are off their rockers, 
 every one. Even the crazy Daedra Lord (Who is not annoying) . Go hit him or try to hit him, one 
 you do he will give you a little suprise shot, and say enjoy the view .... priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysguru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  So, I figured I would re-roll a character and see what the insane isles had to offer for a lower 
 level toon. I am so far quite both disappointed and happy at the same time. I personally like a 
 challenge, and what I am getting is an easy way to get some neat new stuff. I have not tried the 
 isles with a higher level character, such as level 20 for example to see if newer armor types show 
 up for there. All in all, I was hoping for more of a challenge, even at lower levels to get some 
 really nifty new items. I like to earn what I work for. I will have to say the graphics are totally 
 awesome, and it is nice to see some color other than the now-getting-boring Oblivion dungeons. 
 I also like all the neat new plants that I can gather stuff from, I really can't wait to roll me 
 up an alchemist for that :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion : Shivering Isles is a excellent expansion of the main superhit game of 2006 Elder Scroll 
 4 : The Oblivion .Its a RPG game. The story starts from where main Oblivion story ended .A portal 
 pops out of nowhere in Cyrodill which attracts our main character's attention plus Cyrodill resident's. What 
 lies beneath the portal ? that is the question. Beneath the portal lies a entirly fascinating new 
 world ruled by a mysterious person who calls himself the prince of madness .What is his intention 
 ? Why the portal pops up in Cyrodill ? The portal leads to a place called Shivering Isles. What 
 lies there or what happens there ? Mystery , more mystery .... In the game you meet tottally new 
 breed of more deadly opponents . The graphics / visuals are spectacular .The soundquality is very 
 good .The AI is quite okay. The gameplay is lenghty if you plan to do the side quests too. Oh , 
 i started the game with my previously created character from the main game ( i had a saved backup 
 copy ) . You can create a new character or play with your previous character too. The choice is 
 yours. The most important thing i forgot to mention is that you need original Oblivion to play 
 this expansion. I highly recommend the game to everyone plus Oblivion lovers should not miss this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kappassah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Shivering Isles price tag, I seriously reconsidered buying it. However, I am here 
 to tell you today that it was worth every penny, and I have not one regret about buying it. First 
 off, you get a whole new map to explore at your own pace. One of the main things I loved about 
 Oblivion was the fact that you could stop doing a quest at any time, then travel to some town, 
 steal a horse there, and possibly go on a rampage, killing anyone and anything you see. It wasn't 
 the doing it that I liked, it was the ability to do it. Well, minus the horse, the Shivering Isles 
 deliver that same desire in a new and twisted way. The map is full of new dungeons, villages, camps, 
 caves, you name it. Second of all, there are a slew of new creatures and items. On practically 
 your first quest for Sheogorath, you get what I consider to be the best weapon in the game, Dawnfang/Duskfang. 
 This sword changes form every dawn and dusk, completely repairing and recharging the sword. So 
 if you run out of charge during the day, you can just wait for the form to change and it is practically 
 a new sword. Of course, there's a boatload of other new weapons that I enjoyed using and the new 
 armours were equally as satisfying. There are a bunch of new creatures, and though they are all 
 bent on your demise, they can be pretty frickin cool. They brought back a few from previous Elder 
 Scrolls games, namely Morrowind, like the Hunger and the Golden Saints, which actually aren't bent 
 on your demise in this game but they are still a nice addition. Thirdly, the main quest is nice 
 and long. Of course, since it is an Elder Scrolls expansion, the game doesn't end when the main 
 quest ends, but it's still nice to have a good long main quest. Though you do find yourself doing 
 a lot of the same thing over and over again (running errands and fetching items) , it still made 
 for a surprisingly satisfying storyline. Sheogorath himself added some spice to the game, and while 
 others find his dialogue annoying, I found it hilarious. His pointless mutterings in mid conversation 
 had me cracked up. After finishing the main quest, there's still a boatload of side quests to do 
 and of course you get benefits for finishing the main quest.
  
  I'm not going into anymore details, but it is well worth the money. A very nice expansion for a 
 very nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piirimehike
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  TES: Shivering Isles gives you the chance to explore a whole new island full on brand new quests, 
 items, enemies and of course - madness. If you are familiar with Oblivion, it is not hard to familiarize 
 yourself with the Isles because all the brand new stuff and even the madness is quite shallow. 
 If you would go exploring the Isles with a character with whom you have already finished almost 
 all of Oblivions quests, you will have fun walking through the main quest of the Isles and the 
 side quests too and you will leave the Isles with a really rich character with somewhat alien items. 
 The bad thing about it is that you may not be needing all the new equipment when going back to 
 Tamriel and the Isles won't be any challenge to your high-level character. The madness itself is 
 not as mad as in first impressions but in every quest you will find some entertaining mad stuff. 
 The enemies and landscape is not really mad for a fantasy game but compared to Tamriel the landscape 
 is made quite crazy. Most of the people you will meet in the game and socialize with are mad. Some 
 are paranoid and some are 'artists'. Your host the madgod is a bit mad too and he wasn't annoying 
 at all. Maybe a little but conversation skipping was the cure. All of the characters are very well 
 made and you will not encounter characters with the same characteristics (when leaving the guards 
 and other common folk out - you cannot really socialize with them anyway) .
  
  The atmosphere in the game is enjoyable - whether you are outside with a purple sky or in a root 
 tunnel, the matching touches of Oblivion and madness seem to be almost natural. The sound on the 
 other hand is very mute and colorless. Conversations are really good but atmospheric sounds are 
 a bit empty and even the sounds that creatures do seem a bit wrong like Those creatures would never 
 do a sound like that! 
  
  The quests are fun. There are many fetch quests but somehow it is still fun to fetch items like 
 bits and pieces for creating some powerful creatures. But it's fun only because you want to see 
 the powerful creature that is made. All the tunnels and dungeons look the same from inside. Some 
 fetch quests are made richer with some effects you haven't seen in Oblivion like fighting with 
 yourself but generally they are still the same fetch quest you would see in Oblivion. There are 
 tons of new items. New clothing, more than 5 types of new armor and weapons and of course new ingredients. 
 Some the new pieces of clothing and armor look really cool and some of the weapons even act good. 
 They would be really useful when going through the Oblivions main quest, because you will mainly 
 get the cool items in the end of your journey on the Isles where there is not much to do anymore. 
 There are tons of new spell effects and some of them are really fun to use but others seem a bit 
 half-baked. For instance the introduces a new ingredient produced by some bugs and the ingredient 
 is just like a drug giving you addiction. Playing a drug addict is not fun for a long time and 
 even if you WOULD use it as a poison, it wouldn't be of any use, because you would kill your enemies 
 before the withdrawal hits them. Another 'drug' used in a quest is said to be with a lethal overdose 
 but after eating two dozens of it, you will discover the fact that it has no effect on you. What 
 a shame.
  
  Throughout the game you are given some choices to make and some seem pretty important but in the 
 end, the results won't differ much. Mainly you are given a choice between two items or two spells 
 and sadly you don't even know what the items or spells are. The main quest does not take as many 
 hours to play as it is commonly said. You can easily finish it with 8 hours of gameplay when youre 
 familiar with Oblivion. The time will get even shorter when you have a high-level character.
  
  One of the best things about Shivering Isles is still the main quest script. It doesn't have 
 time to be cheesy and the mainly straightforward gameplay will assure that the final battle will 
 surprise you when you have played Oblivions long and cheesy main quest. If you have completed the 
 main quest, there is still much to do on the Isles: go item-hunting, collect rare ingredients, 
 take on all the madgod duties or just watch the dancer for hours. There are many fun places to 
 discover like a hilltop where execution orders are filled out. Usually there are many fun-to-read 
 notes everywhere and even notes that give address to some treasures back in Tamriel.
  
  I would recommend it to all gamers who haven't played Oblivion and if you have mastered Oblivion 
 before, try going through the Isles with a new character and then taking on the threats from the 
 planes of Oblivion with your new equipment consisting of mad stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Anyone who's played Oblivion will pretty much know what to expect here, it's more of the same with 
 a few very limited choices thrown in. The shivering isles themselves are less generic (i. e boring) 
 than the setting for the main game and you can see straight away the influence of Morrowind in 
 the design, this makes for a more fantasy type setting and it works well. The dialogue is also 
 much improved, there isn't the repetitive nonsense from NPCs in this expansion and not one mention 
 of a mudcrab. The designers seem keen to point out there are choices in the game, something sadly 
 lacking in Oblivion. Choices are mentioned in game by various characters but in truth what few 
 choices there are make very little difference and the game ends just the same whatever choices 
 you've made whist playing it through. Only one quest is different depending on a choice, even that 
 makes no difference at all to the game world. Both the PC and Xbox versions have issues but I'll 
 concentrate on the PC version. The installer uses Securom for protection this means a lot of people 
 simply can't install the game unless they download a cracked copy, as usual copy protection only 
 affects those that bought the game whist those who stole it have no concerns. I won't list all 
 the problems here as there are too many, a quick visit to the official forum will fill you in on 
 the rest. http://www. bethsoft. com/bgsforums/index. php? showforum=30
  
  Bethesda have failed to address other problems with the original game in this expansion. The level 
 scaling is still as bad and the game still treats the player as if they are a small child, the 
 magic arrow and pop ups are still as over used as they were in the original game. You can now summon 
 an NPC to help guide you if the arrows and pop ups ain't enough, its got to the point now where 
 the game is insulting the players intelligence. The game is still fun and a welcome addition to 
 series, just don't expect anything to be much different from the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  Rarely I was ever so split in reviewing a game than in Shivering Isles. Basically you get more 
 of the same, so if you liked Oblivion, you will like the addon too. The graphic is really breathtaking, 
 the world design is gorgeous and the theme is well presented. However, there are some serious issues 
 I found in the game:
  
  1) As in the original game, you have zero influence how any quest ends. You follow a fixed plotline 
 and the result is always the same. Even in dialogue you have no real option (only do it now or 
 do it later ) . I had hoped the addon would also expand the game system.
  
  2) Being a RPG veteran I find the main story quite short. It can easily be played in a weekend.
 
  
  3) The general idea to place the entire game in the realm of a God and center the story around 
 his whereabouts is quite... strange. All in all the entire realm and story is just a nudge too 
 weird often for me.
  
  4) Finally a thing I have never thoght I ever say in a rewview: but the moral concept of the game 
 is often highly questionable, confronting the player with quests torturing people and sentencing 
 them do death. That fits more to Jack Bower of 24 than an fanatsy game. Coupled with the lack of 
 choices I often felt quite... violated to have no options for myself. I can not recommend this 
 game for kids or for the faint of heart, sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I'm happy to say that the unconventional new enemies and new intentionally odd-looking interior 
 and exterior environments make this the first official add-on that is actually worth getting if 
 you a fan of Oblivion. There isnt a whole lot different in terms of gameplay (this is an add-on 
 after all) but it is cool that some of your enemies will have strong resistences to certain magic 
 even when they are lower level, etc.
  
  I'm happy to report that the latest BT mod (that makes the interface 1000 times better) works with 
 the add-on.
  
  Having said all of those positive things, I still have to criticize Oblivion for the broken leveling 
 system and the way too easy to make an uber-hero without trying RPG system. Sure there are user 
 mods that try to fix all of this, but these critical issues are not really fixable with just a 
 user mod or two. If you get this expansion, I urge you to start with a new character like I did. 
 If you go in with your high-level charcacter with uber-armor and weapons, you'll smoke the enemies 
 and rip thru the expansion quests. What fun is that really? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanier
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  As if anything needed to be added to last years Game of the year. Yet, Bethesda decided after the 
 Knights of the Nine pack to keep adding stuff.
  
  For those who know nothing about regular Oblivion, it's a Role-playing game where almost all decisions 
 on what to do next are ultimately limitless. You can go rob people or go buy a house in the city.
 
  
  Well with this first official expansion Cyrodil stays the same except for a door in the middle 
 of Niben Bay....... Where does the door lead? THE REALM OF MADNESS (Caps Lock!) where Sheogorath, 
 Prince of Madness, Has you run a whole bunch of fun, engaging tasks in what appear to be an Alice 
 in Wonderland type area, Mania, and a dark, gloomy, evil-looking area called Dementia.
  
  Mania- Has purple Spider monsters and teal mushrooms popping out of the ground
  Dementia- Has 
 skinned dog monsters and evil scary looking trees. complete with tons of new scary sounds.
  
  IMO, This game will be one of the best expansions of the year. And at $30 you cn't go wrong 
 with this game
  
  -Dylanier |m| (&gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the screenshots! I was amazed! And i thought? Why there is a giant mushroom or 
 whatsoever standing from the ground? It really shine when you move into the realm! but how do you 
 get there? when you install the X-pansion pack, a rumor spreads out in the original realm (Cyrodiil) 
 About a portal - follow the rumor and you ll finish of in the realm OF MADDNESS!!
  What i liked about this X is that it has it's own storyline, and it has new items, new stuff like 
 spells and wierd new characters!
  The terrain and nature are nice, but dangerous to walk around, cause of the new creatures! Yeah 
 and the Prince Of Madness (or whatever his name was) gives you stupid missions (that i leave mostly) 
 but i play most of the side quests! OBLIVION ROCKS!!!
  
  Let Me Play Somemore to add somestuff or hints 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
