-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Experiment
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/experience112/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brilliantly realized surreal setting.
 Unique control system immerses you in the strange gameworld.
 Innovative design that emphasizes natural situations instead of staged puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some pacing and translation issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 470 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Lexis Numerique
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Experiment overcomes its clichd beginnings with original gameplay. 

  Since being stuck in a strange place with no idea who you are is such an ancient gaming clich 
 that it should be drawing social security, it's tough to warm up to The Experiment (also known 
 as Experience 112) . But developer Lexis Numerique manages to put together such a unique take on 
 the "Who am I?" story gimmick that this tale feels awfully original. A secondhand control system 
 that essentially breaks the fourth wall, an innovative interface, and loads of spooky scenery and 
 sound land you in an alternate reality that is as strange as it is believable.  

  The biggest difference between The Experiment and more conventional adventure games is the perspective. 
 Instead of controlling an alter ego as in the usual point-and-click puzzler, here you pretty much 
 play as yourself. You play the role of an anonymous person locked in the operations room of a ruined 
 ship grounded on a tropical beach. Aside from the ability to control cameras mounted throughout 
 the vessel's interior, you have no ability to communicate with anyone to determine who you are, 
 how you wound up in this place, or how you can escape.  

           Having to view the dead vessel through camera lenses provides some odd fish-eye perspectives. 
 Lea probably isn't as angular in real life.      

  But you're not entirely alone. A scientist named Lea Nichols, who was working on some sort of ocean-going 
 research project before it went horribly wrong and everyone was killed, wakes up in a cabin before 
 one of your cameras at the start of the game. She has no idea who you are, though, so all you can 
 do to find answers is to help her flee the corpse-strewn corridors of the vessel. You never take 
 direct control of Lea, however, so you're stuck leading her from room to room by turning on and 
 off lights and various other devices, along with unlocking doors. The idea is to get her in the 
 right position to solve problems on her own, with you monitoring her progress on the many surveillance 
 cameras scattered in every nook and cranny of the ship and chipping in to help by providing computer 
 access codes, answering questions by nodding or shaking cameras, and occasionally operating robot 
 vehicles of one sort or another.  

  Generally, Lea provides an objective and you then lead her toward it by using lights, computer 
 screens, and the like as carrots. When she reaches a key quest location like a freezer, safe, desk, 
 or lab table, Lea completes the task at hand or prompts you to help her by providing more information 
 dredged up from the research center's computer system. Sometimes you also need to access all of 
 the cameras in a certain area and pan them around looking for clues. As the game goes on, Lea adds 
 more functions to the camera system, such as the ability to light up dark rooms or the ability 
 to zoom in on documents, but you're always detached from your surroundings and doing nearly everything 
 through Lea.  

  A great control scheme modeled on a stereotypical computer graphical user interface makes it easy 
 to guide Lea. You spend most of your time keeping an eye on a map screen where you can click on 
 the light and object icons that direct Lea forward. Camera icons on this map can be activated by 
 simply clicking on them, which brings up as many as three windows that let you see what your companion 
 is up to. There is a little fussing around with windows, but nothing here is out of the ordinary 
 for anyone who has ever multitasked in Windows.  

  As you might expect, lacking direct control over a character makes for a few frustrating moments 
 when you're starting out with The Experiment. But this distance also adds a peculiar sense of realism 
 to the game, because it feels like you're actually sitting at your PC helping a companion solve 
 a mystery. Instead of having to suspend your disbelief and buy into the concept that you're a scientist 
 trying to get off a death boat, you can turn the lights down low and slip into a daydream that 
 your PC is connected to a far-off ship's control system. This doesn't exactly create an atmosphere 
 of high adventure, so it isn't ideal for gamers who want to believe that they're some kind of Indiana 
 Jones-style superman every time they sit down at the keyboard. But this conceit works extremely 
 well on an intellectual level, affording you the ability to sleuth it up in a realistic fashion 
 without having to pretend that you're somebody else.  

  A few design problems interfere with this illusion. The biggest is an awkward translation from 
 the original French. Some of Lea's instructions are odd and can lead you in the wrong direction, 
 especially when you're trying to find the location of a particular code and aren't sure if you 
 should be looking around with cameras or reading through computer documents. Controls are generally 
 quite good, although the frustration factor can be high at times. Some puzzles have you manipulating 
 finicky robot vehicles through tight quarters, and it's a bit jarring to have to take over manually 
 when you've been directing the action from a distance all along. The pace is a little too slow. 
 Lea strolls through the ship pretty leisurely, taking a few seconds to respond to every light cue. 
 She also sometimes takes a little too long to say something after reaching a quest location. If 
 you're not extra-patient in these situations and careful to pull up a camera angle showing exactly 
 what she's doing, you might wrongly assume that there isn't anything of importance in the vicinity 
 and lead her elsewhere.  

           Some fussing around with windows is required, although the interface is still primarily 
 simple and elegant.      

  The visuals and sound effects are a little rough and ready. The graphics are dated, with blocky 
 character models and dark backdrops that are sometimes too gloomy to make out much detail. This 
 can be frustrating when you get stuck, because the murky settings, the limited turning radius of 
 each camera, and the general lack of control inherent in a game where you're directing somebody 
 else's actions all combine to make it seem like you're playing the game with one eye covered and 
 an arm in a sling. Regular hitches in the frame rate are also annoying. The sound effects are sparse 
 and of about the same old-time quality as the scenery. The voice acting is subpar to the point 
 of being irritating, since the actress voicing Lea speaks with all of the emotional gravitas of 
 an operator transferring you to customer service. The music, however, works on a lot of levels. 
 Most of the soundtrack kind of sneaks into your ears, creeping you out with something of an  X-Files 
  vibe before you fully realize the effect that the tunes are having.  

  While The Experiment isn't the sort of adventure that everyone will be able to appreciate, its 
 hands-off design gives it an understated, intellectual realism. If nothing else, it offers a great 
 change of pace from more conventional adventure games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  those features are not enough to bring excitement until the very end.
  
  The Experiment is a game with a lot of original ideas. It's very interface does not follow the 
 traditional view or menu placement of most adventure games. It was designed to make you feel behind 
 a computer screen, logging into the security system of a top secret lab, with access to some of 
 its functions such as control of electronic locks and security cameras.
  
  The security cameras are scattered throughout the facility and will be your eyes and ears through 
 the entire game. Watching one of those cameras is how you come in contact with the main character, 
 a half naked woman named Lea, apparently trapped inside the facility. Though not much is revealed 
 about the plot at first, it's pretty clear from the beginning that your objective is to help Lea 
 on her way out.
  
  Though the basic functions of the security system will be granted once Lea teaches you how to log 
 in using her profile, the control of specific systems are tie to the profiles of other base members. 
 So, to control the chemical mixer or to release the lock of a given security door, you'll have 
 to log as the head of the chemical lab and the chief security officer, respectively.
  
  To login as those characters, you'll have to find out their passwords, usually hidden into shared 
 files on the system or inside their personal files, camera video feeds and related data. So, one 
 should be prepared to read a fair amount of the e-mail exchanged by the staff, their personal documents 
 and such. Aside from reading e-mails about the love affairs of the base members and the notes of 
 their secret research, you'll be guiding Lea throughout the base. You guide her by turning on and 
 off the lights of a specific room or by turning on some noisy machine to call her attention.
  
  She'll walk around the base, explaining the details of the places and equipment she comes across. 
 Though she does not remember anything about the events that led to her imprisonment, she'll be 
 happy to tell you all about the base's personnel and research.
  
  The interface allow one to open windows for up to 3 different cameras and place them anywhere on 
 the on the screen, this contributes a lot to the feeling of actually being behind a terminal, logged 
 in the security system, hacking into the base personnel accounts. The cameras will gain different 
 functions such as zoom, infrared and thermal vision. not only those can be used for fun but they're 
 key in the game's puzzles.
  
  The interface elements and puzzle solving though mail and personal file reading is quite fresh 
 at first but the game play just not change much. Also, the fact that you do not find yourself under 
 a time constraint and the fact that Lea simply won't die or get hurt even if you fail at a given 
 puzzle multiple times, makes an already slow game almost boring after the initial hours.
  
  After the first 6 hours I felt as if I'd had enough of love letters and puzzles hidden in personal 
 files. The exploration also loses its charm because there's no reason to fear the abandoned lab 
 as it's rooms will offer no real danger to Lea.
  
  Even though I did want to find out the truth about the abandoned facility, I could not bring myself 
 to play it until the end. I was already satisfied with my run with The Experiment when I discovered 
 a whole new base, a place full of logs, cryptic texts and crammed with puzzles.
  
  The Experiment does offer some interesting ideas but it relies too much on them to keep interesting 
 a game that's too long for its own good. I would recommend it only to those who like a slow paced 
 game, with lots of exploration and file reading. It does provide an unique interface but to me 
 tit was not enough to keep me interested until the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  The Experiment is one of the most original games I have ever played and a unique gaming experience. 
 A must play for all adventure gamers or gamers interested in trying something different.
  The story revolves on Lea Nichols, a scientist who has been working on a secret project on a tumble-down 
 
  ship on a deserted island. The game starts with you seeing her through a security cameras laying 
 unconscious on a bed and she gradually wakes up and asks you to guide her throughout the ship's 
 interior.
  You have to help her find her way and gather clues to see what has happened to her and her colleagues. 
 
  She finds out that a catastrophe has happened and something or someone has killed everone. The 
 plot may sound similar to many other adventures, but the gameplay is very different from what I 
 have ever played.
  You help Lea move by clicking on nearest lights which are indicated with a red circle in the existing 
 map. You have also assess to many cameras which you can turn on to see your environments. You can 
 use up to 3 cameras so you can see your heroin in 3 different angels in 3 different windows. Lea 
 investigates many rooms finding clues or dead bodies of her Collaborators and find assess to their 
 file which gives her clues and codes which helps her find her way. At the early stages of the game, 
 you will find out about a certain colleague, 112 which Lea seems to have a romantic feeling for. 
 You also find out that this Experiments involves some synthetically made creatures called Tyriads. 
 
  The story is really interesting, thrilling and involving, sometimes you feel like a detective investigating 
 a series of homicide. The game will rarely gets flat or boring, although the only person you see 
 is Lea, you get to know about all her collaborators and their characters and their stories, which 
 gave the game variety and tilt. Athlough the plot seems to be realistic, later in game you get 
 involved with alien creatures and their fantasy world which gives a pleasant diversity to the otherwise 
 realistic plot. Although Lea spends most of her time seeking through out the ship, the game offers 
 diversity taking her to the places like the ocean bottom in a little submarine, the fantasy land 
 of Tyriades, meeting the alien creatures, so you won't get bored just scouring about the ships 
 interior. 
  About the puzzles, The Experiment is a real hard game and solving some puzzles can be really frustrating 
 
  and need a great deal of concentration and patient. At some point it was not possible for me to 
 go further 
  without a little help from a Walkthrough.
  The level design is really good and gives you the feeling of really being in a wracked down rusty 
 ship, 
  surrounded by unknown mysteries and death rotten bodies of your colleague. About the character 
 design, 
  there are very few characters other than the protagonist, although Lea is good rendered, her movements 
 and face expressions don't meet the high quality of the nex gen graphic we see in most current 
 games. 
  What I didn't like in this game, was the voice acting and the English translation. It was really 
 bad and seemed like the voice actress 
  was reading it all from a note. Dry and lifeless. The sound and the music were satisfactory though 
 not 
  overwhelming. 
  Ultimately, I recommend this game to all adventures gamers and also gamers who would like to experience 
 
  something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc924
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Yes the concept is different and interesting, if annoying at times, and yes the translation from 
 French leaves much to be desired, but all that pales against some serious dead stop bugs, at least 
 under Vista.
  
  The first time through, I progressed to a point where I was supposed to climb the ship, and I got 
 locked up (That is the protagonist wouldn't move in any direction) . When I re-started, she refused 
 (vocally) to go in that area of the ship again.
  
  I started all over. This time I got stopped, repeatedly, in an area I had passed through smoothly 
 the first time. Same deal - once stopped I could not get her to move in any direction, even when 
 reloading from an earlier save and moving to the trouble point.
  
  OK - that's enough, unload the game and into the wastebasket it goes!
  
  Too bad, I really 
 like the occasional adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlhagad
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  In 'The Experiment' you start by finding yourself trapped in what appears to be a surveillance 
 camera (zomg!1!) . Well, maybe in a surveillance control room. You have no memory of who you are 
 and what you're doing there in the first place. All that you know is that you are apparently spying 
 on a lady lying in a bed in a room with a gardening problem. And soon enough you find it your duty 
 to lead this woman through the bowels of the tanker (ship) to uncover the secrets that surround 
 her and probably even you.
  
  There are lots of good stuff packed into this game, but sadly the bad stuff seems to have found 
 it's way into the pile. The first thing you'll notice is that controls in this game are very different 
 from other games. To control the main character (her, NOT you) , you have to use the ship electronics 
 like the lights and the movable camera. So it's probably more appropriate to say that you 'communicate' 
 with her since you can't directly control her. This can be a surprisingly enjoyable task since 
 you feel like a god in the sense that electronics seem to obey your every whim. But it is the heroin's 
 job to slam you back to Earth by being incredibly slow and plain stupid at times. I really don't 
 understand why, but sometimes she can see the light signals through walls and other times she can't 
 see that flashing bulb two feet in front of her face. But we can't blame the AI, she's only trying 
 to be human.
  
  Another thing to note about this game is that since you are basically playing with the camera, 
 you get to do a lot of cool stuff with the camera. By finding upgrades scattered around the ship 
 you can unlock new features for the cam. These include but are not limited to, mobility, night 
 vision, zoom, heat vision, etc. And these modes are really well implemented. But all throughout 
 you'd just be wondering 'wth, aren't these supposed to be preinstalled!?'.
  
  Just like the basic controls, the quests/minigames can also be both fun and annoying. For the most 
 part the quests are basically puzzles that require you to find passwords and codes for practically 
 any application you can think of. The toilet would probably have a code, if it was working. And 
 since you start out clueless, for this game you'll have to think like a hacker, or at least a highschooler 
 pretending to be one. You'll have to sift through employee e-mail and private folders to find the 
 answers. At first, I really didn't care about these useless information. But later on I actually 
 found it interesting just to read about these pitiful slobs. The characters are actually pretty 
 well-madeup, each with their own personality and personal as well as professional problems in their 
 lives. You'll find yourself engrossed in the interweaved stories of these people's lives. I find 
 it much like reading a good book (or adult novel at times) . The difference being the pages are 
 jumbled up, some pages are unreadable, and you'll have to find the pages first and have the right 
 password to read them. But it's not like this all of the time. Some of these quests require you 
 to do some fun stuff with hardware or software to advance. In one of these you get to ride in a 
 submersible, which is pretty cool. The downside - you're looking through a camera attached to the 
 submersible. Now, this may not sound too bad, but believe me when you're out there dodging undersea 
 canyon walls it can be quite stressful and you'll be screaming for a third-person camera. However, 
 sight-seeing is always a fun option since the visuals are actually pretty good, and the sound tracks 
 are very nice. Sure, they don't have next-generation graphics, but that just gives poor guys like 
 me a chance to play the game.
  
  Additional annoyances are the numerous bugs in this game. Specifically while doing quests and saving 
 at inappropriate times. The programmers must have assumed you'd stick to the script, so when you 
 do something unexpected that they didn't think of, you'll wish you'd used a walkthrough. When these 
 happen, you'll find yourself stuck and the only way out is to use an older save file. And oh yeah, 
 you can only save at specific points in the game, and the autosave isn't the usual paranoid autosave. 
 And did I mention there are only 8 save slots. Sure, to finish the game I can make due with one. 
 But this can be more than just a game, in ways it's also a novel. Sometimes you'd want to jump 
 back to a point in the game just to reminisce the experience (or to see her in that bikini again) . 
 So, limiting the saves was definitely a bad idea.
  
  Wow, I've actually ended up ranting throughout this review. But I'm not done yet. Of all the annoyances, 
 what I really can't forgive is how the developers managed to ruin the ending. It's like they made 
 the age-old mistake of rushing the end and wasting the potential of the game. Reminds me of another 
 game I played called Indigo Prophecy. But this time, it's even worse. Not only do they leave most 
 of the plot hanging, they also decide to end right when you think things get better. I was expecting 
 something awesome, something climactic. But what they give you is a poor excuse for a final puzzle 
 and a minute-long cinematic of nothing interesting. They skip most of the more interesting parts 
 of your escape and leave without answering important questions like 'what happened to that guy 
 who -- ' or 'what do i really look like?'. In the end, I left this game with an empty feeling thinking, 
 'wth did she do that!?' and 'wth did I spend all that time for!?'. 
  
  To conclude, The Experiment is game that offers a different way to play games coupled with an interesting 
 plot. It's a game that requires you to be patient, read, and to use your brain a lot. So, FPS gamers 
 might one to stay away from this one. It's a game for people who either have a lot of time on their 
 hands, or just really like these types of adventure/rpg games.
  It's got some nice but not too impressive visuals and sounds, and voice-acting that leaves some 
 mixed-impressions. Translation issues are evident at times, but that's what happens when you translate 
 a French game. I found the game difficulty just right since i finished it in a day, but most people 
 might find it hard and confusing at times so I'm rating it Hard. Keep a pen and paper handy in 
 case you don't have photographic memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  The Experiment has an amazing beginning when placing you stuck inside the control room of a ship. 
 After a terrible accident you don't remember anything in the past and figure out that the whole 
 crew have perished. At this point, the game will have you get used to the high tech control devices 
 here. But the astounding part only comes later, when you realize there is another survivor trying 
 to escape her cabin: Lea, an oceanographer. Normally in adventure games, there are NPCs that play 
 the role of "tourist guide" to provide you information or give you some clue. In others, you can 
 control more than one character to cooperate in solving quests. Unlike any of these, The Experiment 
 reverse the role of players and NPCs. To be particular, you will have to make use of every modern 
 device found in the command room to help Lea escaping. Hence, the NPC is actually the one taking 
 actions but you will solve every problem through a brand new control system the game provides. 
 Of course, it sounds pretty frustrating at first but once the player get acquainted, it will prove 
 very interesting. You will have to spend lots of time looking at the electric map and using camera 
 to giving Lea commands or adjusting the camera to help her moving around more easily and avoid 
 losing the direction. Puzzles in the game are various, including coding problems that require you 
 to concentrate on the story. Unfortunately, it's a game that is translated from French and the 
 translation is not very good, making the plot look a bit vague hence, players can give out the 
 wrong commands. The adventure is pretty slow-paced, so don't worry about puzzle solving part. You 
 will also get impressed by the audio including dreadful sound tracks, which increases the stressful 
 atmosphere in particular moments of the story. Graphics is acceptable, though the abundance of 
 dark colors may cause trouble while players are trying to find smalls objects. In the end, I want 
 to say that those few drawbacks can't prevent me from enjoying The Experiment, and you too may 
 find the same interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaje
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game will be propably a father of a new genre of Games, perfect graphics, awesome story, brand 
 new point of view and interaction.
  
  The major caracter simple wakes up inside a reseacrh facility ship alone and had to discover all 
 with your help, you are the guy who controls the cameras, door, lights and other things inside 
 the ship, the comunication is off, you must guide the caracter you seen on your cameras by turn 
 on/off the lights.
  
  Immersive story about the discovering of a new race, psycologycal thriller, since you can access 
 computers under different logins and search answers. If you work with computers you will love this 
 one.
  
  Try to understand others caracters minds, undertand how theirs minds works to solve the puzzles, 
 their plans, their fellings. 
  
  Definitely a worth the price and must be played as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  It's a very innovative way of gaming, some kind of reality show cam view style. I'd never play 
 an adventure game like this never before, and thus it is very difficult to understand where to 
 go next, it gives to the player an incredible sense of reality all the time. Most of all, makes 
 you feel quite near the characters feelings and background story. It is very well done either in 
 graphics quality as in story line, finding always some way to give you information (in-game dialogs, 
 papers, interactive console or voices in off) without letting you advise that they are telling 
 very long lines of story text that in other way might be surely boring. It's quite a really good 
 game to introduce yourself in adventure games if you'd never played this genre. I personally think 
 that it's a must-play one. Industry needed to make a revival of this genre and adventure games 
 did it. Cheer for that to all the genre fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristopherPB
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Experiment, AKA 112, brings something fairly new to the gaming world in terms of basic gameplay 
 concept and is quite refreshing amongst the growing, steaming mound of over hyped FPS's that seem 
 to haunt the gaming world.
  
  I'll begin with the good side of "The Experiment", the story. Simply put, the tale woven into this 
 game (or perhaps the game is woven into it) is detailed and not as cliche as one might first come 
 to imagine. A multitude of characters are discussed each with their own attributes and pieces of 
 important information. The story is revealed through a combination of digital documents and flashbacks. 
 I won't reveal any spoilers but I must say that the more you learn, the more you want to know when 
 it comes down to this game.
  
  The bad side of "The Experiment" is pretty much everything else starting right before you even 
 install the game. Firstly, the publisher did a very poor job of marketing and distributing the 
 game. I had to order my copy of Amazon. com. The least they could have done is offer a digital download. 
 After a fairly standard installation you face several annoying, unskippable splash screens including 
 one of a very uninteresting camera which merely blinks a red light on and off for 30 seconds.
 
  
  Then you face the daunting task of actually playing the game. A meager ingame tutorial is provided 
 and several key features are skipped. The worst offender, however, is the control scheme. I'm afraid 
 pressing light switches and waiting for this 20-something year old granny to decide to follow your 
 orders is a fresh take on infuriating. There is significant lag time between when you tell her 
 to go somewhere and when she finally gets her lazy ass round to moving. She also has the decidedly 
 odd ability to see lights THROUGH WALLS, yet she lacks the perception to see a light turn on 5 
 meters in front of her face.
  
  Not enough exciting gameplay for you? Well how about a few quickly thrown in minigames to spice 
 it up? Whats that Jimmy? Are the controls hard to operate... oh don't worry, you need a password 
 to operate that anyway...
  
  ... Which brings me to my next point. Turns out that the French all fancy themselves as 1337 hackers 
 as that is clearly what a large portion of this game is about... finding or decrypting the passwords 
 of a large troop of your dead shipmates. Sadly, the experience is not as rewarding as it could 
 be. Rather than require just 1 or 2 passwords for the entire game ( which has suited various adventure 
 games for several years now) , experiment requires the collection and recording of hundreds of passwords 
 and user names. Its a bit like finding 2000 needles in a haystack, sure you are likely to find 
 a needle, doesn't mean your gonna know when or where to use it.
  
  And finally, at the latter portions of the game, the developers seem to have splashed out a bit 
 more on the special effects and lighting. Crashes and severe framerate drops plague much of the 
 end levels which is a shame since it really ruins much of the experience.
  
  Ultimately, this game could have been great as a standard first or third person adventure title 
 yet I can't blame nor scorn the developer for trying out something new. Sadly, a frustrating control 
 scheme, cheap minigames, password-searching quests and performance issues cripple and otherwise 
 interesting game.
  
  PS: there are a couple of other issues I forgot to mention such as poor and disjointed translation 
 from the French version and apathetic voice overs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  This is a good game with strong and original idea. When i started the game took me about 30min 
 to understand how move and walk the heroine and that was very provoker. It's a adventure game but 
 not like Syberia or Longest Journey or even Dreamfall... and no... not like Penumbra :) is something 
 about all. A game not for anybody... and if you like adventure game and want to play The Experiment 
 it could be a big surprise (not so big like Penumbra, still) :)
  
  Action of this game come off to a boat on the mysterious island. Revolutionary gameplay is the 
 principal good thing for this game. Control 3 cameras were you see our heroine, scientist girl 
 Lea Nichols (traped on this boat) who understand "you" are the only person at benchboard and help 
 her to survive and know one's way around with command module on the mysterious boat. "You" can 
 lead Lea across rooms of this boat and... this is the big surprise... not with simple click of mouse... must 
 on/off lights or close and open doors to make Lea understand what path must follow. The player 
 is a path-breaker, need to choose the right way for Lea to discover the truth about her, what happen 
 in the past with ship's crew and who is culpable for this. The game is not horror but is something 
 creepy in this boat and all chambers... Never know what come every time and i think someone is on 
 the island or on the boat... and maybe is or not so friendly...
  
  I think the game is very inducer and provoker with this game-play. From beginning look little annoying 
 to not control Lea directly but in time will find this a good thing because in game "you" can see 
 above, before, what happen in other rooms or other corners of this boat were Lea want to come.
 
  
  The Experiment 112 is a peculiar game with great atmosphere and this is a very important thing. I 
 play about 18 hours (with pauses) and more will come... i never boring. Graphics are good, sound and 
 music great. Every player who like adventure-games must play this, if you like new-gameplay and 
 if u have open-mind to new things... like an "experiment"... brrrrr :)
  
  STORY: 9
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 9
  MUSIC: 9
  END: between 9&10 :o
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Hy guys,
  
  This release have opened the 2008 adventure year and is simply adorable. I'm very happy that i 
 can play a good game at the beginning of this year and i hope that this year we, adventurers, will 
 benefit of memorable adventure games like this one: The Experiment.
  
  As a previous review says that is a revolution in gaming well i agree indeed, it is a new interactive 
 approach to consumers. From what i understood there was another game back in '90 where another 
 game has already approached us with the same kind of controls but i searched and i couldn't find 
 it so if The Experiment is an original idea or not i do not know, for me is very original and very 
 interesting.
  
  The game-play of this game is not by interacting directly with the protagonist but through video 
 cameras , you have the map of the area with all the rooms and doors and also the lights, points 
 of interest and the video cameras and all this you can control through a very interactive meniu. 
 And yes, you can aces all the video cameras by clicking on them and a window appears with its range 
 of view where you can see in 3D the protagonist moving through the room, and you can aces all the 
 video cameras at one, its like having several monitors watching every move. All you have to do 
 is hack into the various systems and guide the protagonist outside the labirinth, aparantly it 
 has an interesting story, I haven't finished yet but time will tell.
  
  The graphics are OK, for an Adventure Company game :) , not to good not to bad acceptable, but this 
 is all about adventures the story and its approach.
  The sounds are great not that i am very impressed by them but are OK .
  
  So, i hope all you 
 adventurers enjoy this one as much i enjoy it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedomedo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first got the game i didn't really know what to expect from it. But when i fired it 
 up it gave me a nice welcome with an untraditional menu, i could actually move all the menues around 
 the screen wich was quite cool.
  
  The gameplay is actually really cool, you controll these diffrent cameras and other electrical 
 devices, light, computers etc. I haven't really completed the game yet but the story has been very 
 cool so far. Some of the voice acting is on the lower side of the scale but that is something i 
 could look past. The game is quite challenging since you have to think logically for the most part, 
 even though you get a good idea of what your obj is.
  
  The graphics were also good actually. They weren't the next-gen graphics like crysis or GoW but 
 they were good enough to make you go "alright this is cool". The bad thing was that there weren't 
 enough graphicall options, it was "high or low" for the most part and i didn't even bother to try 
 out the lower settings.
  
  All in all i thought this game was a nice experience, and it had an innovative gameplay. I think 
 they could have made it a bit easier for us... stupid people i guess, but other than that it's 
 a must have for any adventure game fan! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
