-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thegodfather/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game makes great use of the film license.
 Plenty of challenging, multitiered missions to keep you busy.
 Fun combat and interrogation system.
 You can explore a great-looking, expansive map of 1940s New York, with no load times.
 Good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heavily recycled character and vehicle models, as well as building interiors.
 Occasionally glitchy and stupid artificial intelligence.
 Unstable frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 4,051 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Headgate
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 21, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Godfather is a great addendum to the film and a fun and lengthy game in its own right. 

 
   The Godfather  is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic 
 Arts announced that it was making a game based on the license, it made sense as a business venture, 
 but it also seemed like a risky move to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video game. 
 Luckily, that risk paid off. The Godfather is a satisfying, lengthy adventure, and more importantly, 
 it remains faithful to the classic film while managing to create a compelling story of its own. 

          Even though you play as an all new character, the game still manages to stick closely to 
 the events in the movie.     

  The Godfather puts you in the role of a peripheral character that didn't appear in the film, but 
 nevertheless played a critical role in the story. While the character is by no means an official 
 write-in from Mario Puzo or Francis Ford Coppola, he manages to mesh fairly well with the rest 
 of the story, a large part of which is taken directly from the film. When you start the game, you 
 can create a mobster using customization tools similar to those found in the EA Sports games. You 
 then begin the game and watch your father get gunned down in the streets by rival mobsters. Flash 
 forward a few years to the wedding scene from the opening of the film, and your mother is asking 
 the Don to take you under his wing and offer you work. As we learned from the film, no Sicilian 
 can refuse a request for a favor on his daughter's wedding day, so the Don sends the imposing Luca 
 Brasi to look after you and teach you how to be a mobster.  

  You start off as an unofficial enforcer for the Corleone family, which means your job is to muscle 
 merchants into paying you protection money. You do this by simply walking into a store and talking 
 to the owner. Usually the owners won't simply give in, but you can intimidate them by smashing 
 up their stores (or their faces) until they start to see things your way. Once you take over a 
 business, you get a payout each week, and there are dozens of shops you can shake down all throughout 
 the five areas of New York. Some stores are fronts for illegal rackets, such as brothels, gambling 
 dens, and illegitimate importing operations, and you can buy out these rackets to further increase 
 your weekly income.  

  Extorting businesses and taking over rackets isn't all there is to do, though. There are plenty 
 of story missions that you'll pick up as you play. Some missions are taken directly from the movie. 
 You'll have to drive the Don to the hospital after he's gunned down in the street, travel to Hollywood 
 to reenact the famous horse head scene, plant the pistol for Michael Corleone to use to off Sallazzo 
 in the diner, and more. Most of the scenes are very faithfully re-created for the game, and it's 
 great to be able to take part in some of the most memorable moments from the film, such as Sonny's 
 ambush at the toll plaza and the assassinations of the Dons intercut with scenes from the baptism 
 of Michael Corleone's niece. In fact, the best part of The Godfather is that it handles the source 
 material respectfully and manages to offer enough new content to feel like more than just a by-the-numbers 
 adaptation of the movie.  

  Helping to keep the game faithfully tied to the movie is the accurate depictions of the Corleone 
 family members. With the exception of Michael, all of the characters look and sound just like they 
 did in the movie. The voice acting is mostly excellent, with the exception being some of the stock 
 characters that populate the city beyond the Corleone compound. The music is taken directly from 
 the movie, and while you'll hear the main theme a few too many times throughout the game, the music 
 adds a nice touch of authenticity.  

          This game borrows heavily from GTA, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing.     

  In 
 addition to the characters, the city of New York has been carefully rendered in detail, and you 
 can spot specific scenes from the film as you travel the streets of Little Italy, Brooklyn, Midtown, 
 Hell's Kitchen, and New Jersey. The city might be a bit too accurate, though, because some of the 
 streets are confusing, making it a hassle to get around town. There are a lot of interiors in the 
 game as well, which you can freely enter without any load times. Unfortunately, most of the interiors 
 are heavily recycled, so you'll see the exact same bakery, hotel, flower shop, and mob-family compound 
 several times throughout the game.  

  The Godfather borrows heavily from the Grand Theft Auto series of games, so you can expect the 
 same senseless violence and absurd mayhem those games are known for. You can steal cars, run down 
 pedestrians, shoot people at random, and evade the police. As you commit crimes, your heat gauge 
 increases, and anywhere from one to five badge icons will appear on the screen to indicate how 
 badly the cops want to take you down. It's easy to avoid the police for the most part, and you 
 can bribe them if you don't feel like a chase. If you don't bribe them, they'll try to run you 
 off the road, but the cars handle so well in the game that you can deftly weave through traffic 
 to avoid being caught. If you are caught, you're simply killed, which isn't such a big deal, since 
 you get revived at the nearest hospital for a small fee.     

   

  You might as well get used to it though, because you'll die often in The Godfather. Some of the 
 missions are quite difficult, usually because you have to face dozens of mobsters all by yourself. 
 It also doesn't help that a single round from a shotgun can take you down in an instant. You can 
 find health tonics from time to time, but you'll need to take cover and plan your attack wisely 
 if you want to live.  

          You never know when a mob war will break out, so it's best to carry plenty of weapons with 
 you at all times.     

  The gunplay in The Godfather is simple but effective. You can lock on to enemies with the press 
 of a button, and you can duck or back up against a wall for cover. If you want, you can switch 
 to free aim mode, which controls a lot like your standard first-person shooter, where one stick 
 controls your movement and the other controls your aim. The guns in the game range from a .38 special 
 revolver to a tommy gun to a snub-nosed shotgun. There's also a variety of other weapons, including 
 Molotov cocktails, sticks of dynamite, and lead pipes. All of the guns can be upgraded two times 
 at back-alley arms dealers. You can carry all of these weapons at the same time, too, effectively 
 turning you into a one-mobster army. There are several scripted execution moves as well, and you're 
 rewarded for your brutality in the form of respect.  

  If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can simply beat the life out of anyone you encounter. 
 You lock on with one button, and then use the right analog stick or mouse to throw punches, slam 
 opponents into walls, or even toss them off rooftops. You can also strangle your enemies and perform 
 neck-breaking execution moves.  

  Combat is fun overall, especially because you're given a healthy set of options when it comes to 
 executing people. The artificial intelligence is fairly good for most of the enemies. They'll often 
 run for cover, team up on you, and duck behind objects. Occasionally, though, you'll run into some 
 glitchy or just plain dumb enemies. Sometimes an enemy won't be facing you, but somehow he'll be 
 pelting you with lead. Other times, enemies will simply stand around as you blast them, or they'll 
 draw weapons and then put them away for some reason. Despite the infrequent AI oddities, the combat 
 in The Godfather is a bloody good time.  

  As you indiscriminately waste people, extort businesses, and complete missions, you'll earn respect 
 points. When you earn enough respect, you level up so to speak, and you can distribute skill points 
 to learn new abilities and improve your stats. You can level up fighting, shooting, street smarts, 
 speed, and health. These bonuses, along with the upgraded weapons, help tremendously later in the 
 game as the missions become more difficult.  

          As much as we hate to say it, it seems obligatory at this point, so here goes: This is 
 an offer you can't refuse.     

  The game looks slightly better on the Xbox than the PlayStation 2, but the PC version looks the 
 best thanks to some higher resolution textures. The controls are best suited to the dual analog 
 control scheme, and using the mouse and keyboard on the PC is awkward at best. The PC version does 
 support USB gamepads, which is a big improvement over the standard control scheme. Aside from the 
 controls, the PC version has a slightly less steady frame rate than the console versions, but all 
 the versions do suffer from occasional choppiness.  

  With the sheer number of businesses to extort and missions to complete, you can easily spend 20 
 hours working your way up through the ranks and eliminating other families before finally becoming 
 the Don of New York City. You can unlock bonus clips from the movie by collecting 100 film reels 
 that are scattered throughout the city, so there's definitely plenty to do in The Godfather. If 
 you're a fan of the film, you'll appreciate the way the game pays tribute to the movie. Even if 
 you've never seen the film, the satisfying combat and challenging missions make this game worth 
 playing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (279 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hitmaner
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  Okey so The Godfather has many fine details in the game and a little bit of not that great....
 
  
  Okey so story-line, the game starts in 1936 with a cutscene that shows a death scene on the father 
 of the main character who, for the sake of reference, is called "Aldo" here, according to the default 
 set name (which you can change when putting a name in the start of the game) When you follow the 
 story (game) you will meet some very interesting characters that is from the movie called ''The 
 Godfather'' which you just have too see for your self.
  
  Game-Play. Gameplay consists of undertaking and completing eighteen story missions while in the 
 meantime performing various tasks such as taking over rival family holdings and carrying out contract 
 hits. The missions are linear and follow the storyline of the first film. So this is the bad part 
 that when you play the game you will feel that the Game's story-line will be short, so that can 
 be annoying in some cases but ofcourse you do get to do many different side missions which is a 
 very long process, so that was the game's good part and also making it ''not suck''.
  
  As for graphics, well the godfathers graphics are great very detail... One problem though is that 
 the car's in the game doesn't have normal windows, all it does have is black windows nothing special 
 at all. And in a game you want to see your character through the class, then its more realistic 
 so the glass really screws up the game-play and in the game you will be driving car's alot so that 
 really makes the car game-play little bit like annoying. So that's why im giving it a 7.0 It still 
 got very good stuff in the game so it really isn't all messed up, but as for my self i like a good 
 driving game-play and the godfather messed things up.
  
  They should also had more car modules in the game it only have ''3''
  
  But another wise the 
 game's actions is great! good shooting and good fighting which makes you want to play the game, 
 so it wont bore you. So that's why im waiting for the godfather 2 to come out. Hope it will fix 
 and make the god father game better.
  
  Thanks for reading my Review 
  
  Hitmaner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  It offers a lot of additions to the movie and some happenings in the game will lead you to appreciate 
 the movie even more. However, as the missions become more difficult (and longer) they do not fit 
 the story correctly.
  The gameplay is good, but at occasions the aiming goes a little wrong, I am talking about autolock-aiming 
 around corners or with multiple close enemies.
  Extorting businesses and finding new rackets are constant "side-quests" through the game and are 
 extremely fun at the start, but soon you realize that there are only 8-10 different type of buildings 
 to extort and they look exactly the same. It becomes very repetitive.
  Also beating up women in order to extort businesses is not something i would think a mafioso would 
 resort to, correct me if I am wrong.
  The graphics are a bit lame, but passable.
  
  On the good side, it is a mafia game, including straight out fun shooting and fighting, explosions 
 and car races. The ability to perform brutal executions with most weapons, and different fighting 
 styles and moves, creates a great, fun action experience. The voice-acting is great, many Godfather: the 
 movie actors have lend their voice. In addition the Godfather theme is played often, sending thrills 
 down my spine. You also have a complete character creation possibility at the start of the game. 
 The game it kept me entertained a while, and I finished the games missions. After that I didn't 
 bother taking over all the businesses.
  
  
  Conclusion: Play through the missions. The atmosphere is great and you will want to see the Godfather 
 movies again. However, do not expecting anything new or revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuroganeki
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Take a great movie, then a great game theme, and put it together, then you make The Godfather. 
 It has some neat things like upgrades, weapon levels, and tossing people into fire. There are, 
 however, some impressive narrative moments. Creating your own character and inserting it into the 
 game has its own special, uncanny feeling to it. If you're a white male of any sort, then the create-a-player 
 tool (which only allows for the creation of Italian-American males) , will play weird perceptual 
 tricks on you. You'll get a little chill when your character interacts with the cast of The Godfather, 
 Sonny Corleone, Clemenza, Tom Hagen, and especially Don Corleone. The carried-over Tiger Woods 
 Game Face tool, or Mobface as EA likes to call it, is whittled down from its former depth, but 
 it's still got depth, and it will work on you.
  
  Playing through The Godfather is an experience that comprises re-living the core story from the 
 movie and freely straying into side missions and plot points. Much of the story is carefully untarnished, 
 so when you see pivotal scenes, they will be left relatively untouched. You'll hear and see these 
 key scenes unfolding in front of you, and you'll be in the house, the car, the church, or the hospital 
 as a close associate, rather than a bystander. You'll feel like an insider who's part of a great 
 powerful narrative, and the feeling is eerily remarkable.
  
  Major parts of the story are left entirely untouched mostly because they didn't work into the game 
 -- such as any type of relevant female appearing in the game. We're talking one appearance of Diane 
 Keaton, no appearances of Talia Shire, and the passive appearance of Margana King, Mama Corleone. 
 True, Connie and Mama Corleone don't really have terribly big roles, but without them playing their 
 parts, the story feels emptier. For instance, the reason Sonny is shot is partly because Connie 
 is being beaten by her husband. That whole sub-plot is lost in the game. Likewise, Michael's visit 
 to Italy is completely absent, too. It's not like that section is necessary to drive the game, 
 but in a way, when you're telling the story of the Godfather, the missing parts add up quickly. 
 Eventually you begin to feel like this isn't the full Godfather story. Not the one you remember, 
 not the one you love, not the one with all the great twists, surprises, and power struggles. The 
 game doesn't capture the majesty of the movie, despite some interesting attempts.
  
  The missing role-players aren't the real issue, though. Unfortunately, while the game is packed 
 with a great supporting cast, especially Marlon Brando, who worked with EA prior to his death on 
 the voice acting for the Godfather himself, the lack of Al Pacino is a real trouble. EA was unable 
 to reach an agreement with Mr. Pacino who, it just so happens, gave his consent to appear in Vivendi 
 Universal's Scarface. Too bad he couldn't do both. Given that the character in this story neither 
 looks like Al Pacino nor sounds like him -- for legal reasons -- the role of Michael is heavily 
 compromised and it hurts the narrative.
  
  Like GTA, The Godfather is based on an open-design world with well-populated parts of towns, traffic, 
 fully jack-able cars and more. It starts out linearly, with an internal training section guiding 
 players with a kind hand. You'll learn how to use the fighting system, a simplified Fight Night 
 system based around the analog sticks. You'll grapple with the shooting system, a version of James 
 Bond Everything or Nothing's system, which sees your character targeting tagged enemies and vehicles. 
 EA has smartly tacked on a free-aim modification, enabling players to aim at anything at any time. 
 And you'll learn how to manipulate people into doing your bidding, by utilizing an extortion system 
 somewhat like the one in THQ's The Punisher.
  
  Each of these mechanics work: In some cases they work well, in others they work poorly. For instance, 
 just like in Everything or Nothing, you can wall-slide and use corners to peek around, aim and 
 shoot. This mechanic works well in medium-range fights. The longer you hold and aim at a target, 
 the more precise a shot you'll get. This beats the rough-and-tumble aiming system in GTA because 
 it gives you more control, precision and choice. You can pull off head-shots, limb-shots, knee-cap 
 blasts, you name it. In fact, you'll be rewarded for all sorts of specialty kills, like blasting 
 a thug's knees out, which EA has smartly left for you to discover on your own (don't worry, it's 
 not much of a spoiler) . Each specialty kill rewards you with respect points, so you're encouraged 
 to experiment with various styles of killing; and it's great fun. The knee-cap thing is cool; by 
 knee-capping an enemy, he drops down and the health circle indicates a drop in health. He becomes 
 totally vulnerable. You can then run up and perform all sorts of brutal execution moves, all of 
 which are violent and enormously satisfying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  so this game is "GTA / Scarface" style.. the game is really good sometimes but also got some problems
 
  lets start good and bad facts:
  
  the good: a good story, goot gameplay i mean its really fun to get honor and be the "king of the 
 city" its really fun, also its fun to stick your enemys heads to the tables or to the walls and 
 kill them after that also i love the "classic style" of the city and the old cars.. and i forgot 
 the greatest thing in this game is that you can create your charter very fun...
  
  the bad: recycled !!! to many times you can see the the saim places saim peoples saim cars and 
 its horrible also the graphic is not so good, and at someparts of the game, the game could be realy 
 boring and those are the bad thing about the GODFATHER GAME
  
  the game is nice... i didnt like the graphic and the fact that theres to many recycled thing but 
 still the game is ok and worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johntonx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  For years other companies try to make a game that can compete with GTA series, and finally the 
 achieved. The godfather is even better than the series above, because they used a more solid story, 
 and the combat system is much, much better than in GTA.
  
  The graphics, although not bad are quite simple, repetitive, but makes a very well 40s New York, 
 big and with many people in the roads. A nice factor is the clothes, very well designed and the 
 character himself, with dozen of modifications the player can make (you can even make a scar in 
 "your" face) .
  
  The fighting mechanics are very well made, adding a realistic scope to the game. You can kill a 
 enemy with dozen of different strikes. The protection system are very well made too.
  
  But the better part is to come. The story adaptation was so well made that you almost can't find 
 differences between it and the movie. Finally, it's a great and instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  the moment you start the game you feel like you are watching the movie itself until you are asked 
 to customize the character you are going to play. Though the storyline runs parallel to the orignal 
 story you don't feel leftout . your character has a role in almost all the important events in 
 the book which is good for the newbies. The gameplay is really good. The graphics are realistic 
 and the missions to the point .Once you finish it (took me 7 straight days and 4 hours daily) you 
 feel like playing once more. Also there is the feature of viewing movie clips which is also good 
 to revisit the original masterpiece. i had high excpectations as i liked the book , the movie and 
 the game turned out to be awesome. My message to you people would be to buy this game . as you 
 are missing out on something as good as crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_Banner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. It makes you feel as if you were inside the movies. The atmosphere looks 
 so real, your character observes remarkable scenes like the attempted murder of Don Corleone, and 
 has to take him to the hospital. I really felt responsible for the Don's life while I was playing 
 this part. The majority of the original leading actors has voiced their characters, what only helps 
 increase the realism. The only bad point is Al Pacino refused to voice and "lend" his face to Michael 
 Corleone, which is pretty bad.
  Another good thing is the customization level of your character. You can decide even the distance 
 between his lips and his nose. Also, you really feel inside a mafia-like atmosphere, as you have 
 to bribe and extort salesmen and shop owners to increase the power of the Corleone family and take 
 control of the city by eliminating the rival families.
  This game is essential for all fans of the Godfather saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fima1fim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  this game has all what it need to be a great game! i know ppl say the graphics are bad but the 
 game play is 1 of the best! i love the thing that you can take shops, restorunts, hotels, clubs etc. 
 i really liked the game story as all the messions have a challenge and fun! 
  
  as you can dress your self in this game it makes it awsome as its like a GTA game but with bit 
 more options i love it! the game really was made awsome, take my congrats EA you really maked it 
 this time!
  
  the game has the cool futers like the fighting way you can use the mouse to fight and the Q&E buttens 
 to fight you can throw ppl out of the window or from a roof top or throw some 1 in the fire! the 
 game has the cool thing about the promotens! as you start from noob to the DON OF NYC!
  
  i by my self still diden't get promoted to the don of NYC right now im just a don. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeekendWarrior9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not too big a fan of the GTA series, Saint's Row and similar games, but they are fun to play 
 and whenever I do play them I end up going through the story and sidequests as if it was the Godfather, 
 so I decided to give this game a try.
  
  My investment was rewarded by one of the most addictive games I've played outside of Civilization. 
 There are very few loading screens (only one when you load your game or start a new one, and one 
 before and after the story cutscenes. But the latter group is only 5-10 seconds on my modest laptop 
 so it really doesn't affect the experiance much) and that helps tremendously with the addictive 
 quality. The first time I played the game I found myself looking at the clock wondering where the 
 past four hours had gone, and that happened again every other time I've played it.
  
  The combat is very good, the cover I especially like because I *hate* dancing back and forth between 
 cover. While the lock-on makes the game much easier than it would be normally it gives a much more 
 cinematic feel, and because of the level of realism given the guns damage (no matter how high your 
 rank or how much health you have, if someone shoots you in the head you will die) that difficulty 
 reduction is more of a boon than a bane.
  
  I only had three big technical problems, one was the fact that I couldn't get out of a car once 
 I got into it (I had to use a cracked .exe to fix that problem) , the left-right axis of the mouse 
 was mirrored (edited the .ini file to fix that) , and the game got very choppy when driving at night 
 (as of yet unresolved) .
  
  The Godfather looks very good as well as playing very good. My little laptop can play the game 
 with an excellent framerate at near the top settings, and the loading screen time is minimal. The 
 one beef I have with the graphics is that your character has much less texturing than the other 
 characters in the game, but I guess the customization of your character means they can't spend 
 as much time with the texture.
  
  All in all, The Godfather is a well-rounded game. For anyone who ever played GTA or Saints Row 
 as a classy mobster, this game is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Godfather, I knew sooner or later I would have to pick up the game just 
 to say I had it. I found the game to be entertaining and contained plenty of atmosphere related 
 to a 1940's NYC. This is not to say however that everything was perfect. Most of the original Godfather 
 soundtrack is represented in the game, and often times it is overused. Game objects are often times 
 overused as well, and the types of cars you can drive can be counted on one hand. The great thing 
 though is that you will not have to worry about loading in and out of buildings, as the game provides 
 a solid transition between areas without even a hiccup. 
  
  The gameplay is a mix between hand-to-hand combat, gunplay, and negotiations with NYC inhabitants. 
 The hand-to-hand portion is well done and provides plenty of different ways to beat-up your target. 
 The player is able to toss NPCs out of store windows, over ledges and even into traffic. I played 
 through the game with a Logitech dual action gamepad, and highly recommend it just for the hand-to-hand 
 game. The shooting portion is a mixed bag, as it provides plenty of weapons to choose from but 
 has some of the worst targeting I have seen in a action/adventure game. Logic says that if you 
 auto-target a group of enemies, it should always target the enemy closest to the player. This is 
 not the case, as sometimes you will find yourself targeting innocent civilians, even when there 
 are a group of enemies around.
  
  The A/I is not all that great. There have been plenty of times when I have been in shootouts and 
 the enemy just stands there. You are encouraged to find cover behind boxes and other objects, but 
 the enemy tends to care less about being flanked. This makes taking over heavily infested enemy 
 compounds and warehouses a breeze once you learn the simple A/I.
  
  There are plenty of things to do in Godfather. There's the main storyline, which is quite short 
 but stays true to the movie in most cases. You will get to fill in the roles of popular scenes 
 throughout the game, making for some much rewarded moments of nostalgia. Besides the main story, 
 you will be able to extort and racket your way across NYC with the ultimate goal of becoming a 
 Don. EA also placed some traditional collections to pursue, such as collecting film reels and bombing 
 safes. While all of this is fun, it does get repetitious. Plenty of the NPC dialog is repeated 
 along with the short selection of shops and warehouses that you must grind out to become Don. 
 
  
  Even with the game's problems it still is a decent open-ended GTA clone. With the aid of original 
 cast members James Caan and Robert Duvall, it makes the content feel close to the movie. If you 
 are looking for another action/adventure game that actually makes a decent use of a movie license, 
 you may find plenty to enjoy in Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  I think that i spent the most time on this game ever. And I played LOTS of games. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty amazing, and when you get used to the controls, which are the most complex 
 aspect in the game, and the fighting simulation, when you move your mouse around to move the character's 
 arm, it gets really fun. 
  I only saw the movie one, a long time ago, and really just knew the basics, but it had all revived 
 with this game. Same cars, extremely detailed main characters (the spawning people in the city are 
 the same everywhere) , and really clever character controls. You have the normal and fighting controls. 
 Basicly, when you press the right mouse button, you enter the fight control. Then you can grab 
 a character with your left button, or shoot, if you have a pistol or rifle. The most exciting thing 
 of that is, that in free-arm mode, you can control the fighting. You move your mouse forward, you 
 punch the enemy. You move your mouse forward quickly, and you punch your enemy in its stomach. 
 Really a lot of fun. And the main difference from gta and mafia.....
  
  I like the GTA and Mafia styled games, and am a big fan, and if you're too, you'll definetly love 
 Godfather too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johan444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Once again I know that I only choose the best of the best but after I've seen the movie, I just 
 knew that if a game about this came, then I would be the first to buy it. 
  
  It's a really good game that does follow the movie good even though there's new characters. It's 
 very fun to play, and the graphics isn't so bad either. All the buildings looks the same but you 
 don't really notice it that much. A bad thing that you's probably notice is the bad frame rate 
 which shakes a lot when you, for example, hit a car.
  
  The sound is ok and the game reminds a bit on the GTA series but that isn't a bad thing. The missions 
 is fun to play, but it sometimes can be pretty hard. I really recommend this game and I don't play 
 it anymore but still I remember all the good times I've had with this game.
  
  Some information about the game: You play with the Corleone's and you get mission that come from 
 the movie but also some made up missions that are very fun to play as I've mentioned earlier. The 
 place is New York, at about the 30's. You have many things to follow, heat, which is how much wanted 
 you're around an neighborhood. Vendetta, which is how much an family wants to pay back for the 
 killings at their family you have done or taken over their businesses. When you get too much vendetta 
 from one family, you start an mob war which you can end with 3 alternatives, find and bribe an 
 FBI agent, take over their compound or blow up one of their businesses. Respect, which you get 
 when you do things for the family and you can use respect to upgrade for example, your health or 
 aim at shooting. Money is also very important in the game. Businesses, warehouses, compounds and 
 so on, is very important too and in order to complete the game, you have to take over much of it 
 from the other families.
  
  So my final words is, if you want an game with awesome gameplay, very fun to play and a game that 
 can keep you busy for an long time, this is the game for you. If you want really good graphics, 
 sound and so on, and keep the good gameplay, then keep searching! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  The moie may have been sucessful, but the game is a bit disappointing. The game itself is not a 
 failure whatsoever, instead it is a great attempt at revising the glory that mark puzzo created 
 in his book The Godfather. It is a GTA type game and i will explain why.
  
  Like GTA: San Andreas your character is customizable, though in a slightly different way. After 
 the initial cutscene, the game allows you to alter the appearance of your character in many ways: 
 Height, weight, an extensive array of facial features and hair, various types of clothing to buy, 
 etc... This is a nice feature, and can be fun to experiment with. It can be interesting to change 
 the appearance of your character as the story unfolds, and compare his appearance at the end to 
 the beginning, adding a nice little self-induced cinematic flair to the proceedings.
  
  The visuals in The Godfather are fairly well done, in that they are atmospheric and the character's 
 facial textures in particular are very true to their real-life cohorts (with the exception of Michael, 
 of course) . There are some areas of the game that look a little underdone, as I mentioned before 
 with the vehicles in particular. In general, though, the city looks great, and most of the characters 
 look good despite the lack of variety in enemy/pedestrian models. The game scales decently well 
 on lower end PCs, so you shouldn't have to worry too much about if you can run it or not.
  
  Audio for the most part is good. There are nice combat sound-effects which correspond well 
 with your actions, and all the guns sound appropriate. There is a decent amount of variety in the 
 conversations of pedestrians, but needless to say they are no-where near as quirky as those in 
 the GTA games. The music in the game is dynamic, dramatic, generally well composed, but often inappropriately 
 applied. There are strange moments when you'll be hearing very intense music in a relatively peaceful 
 period of gameplay, and visa-versa. 
  
  
  
  The Godfather is a decent and enjoyable package from EA and was certainly a welcomed idea to the 
 gaming community. Unfortunately, the game is the victim of many flaws, and also the victim of comparison. 
 When someone has a product and slaps the name of a franchise as synonymous with greatness as The 
 Godfather, there is an inherent expectation from consumers that the product be at least somewhat 
 as great as its title. Alas, this is not the case here. When the big picture is looked at, and 
 the movie license is stripped away, The Godfather is a merely decent game which relies far too 
 heavily on its title for value. I would certainly recommend it to fans of the series, as it does 
 capture some of the Coppola magic from the films and it does have many intriguing gameplay features 
 which add to its overall value. There are, though, similar games on the market, most notably the 
 Grand Theft Auto series, which offer the same basic gameplay in a much more enjoyable and thorough 
 package. I would give this game a rental if you're interested in it.
  
  P. S: for PC players... don't be surprised if the game doesn't support your gamepad... EA's marvelous 
 track record for glitches is in full force in this game, too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, one of my favorite movies of all time, comes to a video gaming world where you get 
 to put yourself in a position of power; a position where you get to be apart of the time period 
 that was marked as the Corleone era. But is the game really worth your time? Is it innovative enough 
 to make you buy it over the other related games out, such as Mafia? Does it offer more than your 
 general games that are based on movies? All I can say is... this game does not sleep with the fishes.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is very similar to the Grand Theft Auto series, where you're seeing everything 
 in third-person and you are running around fighting people, stealing and driving cars that do not 
 belong to you. I know what you're thinking; "Oh god, a Grand Theft Auto rip-off." Well, this game 
 offers more than that. You are able to run around freely and extort businesses, and force them 
 to pay you on a weekly basis (in game time) , and whenever you return to their shop they see you 
 and start getting scared. Unfortunately for you as a player, though, most of your weekly income 
 is contributed to the Corleone family until you rise to a higher position. Also, as you become 
 more involved with the Corleone family, people on the streets will start respecting you and following 
 your "commands". By this I mean, if you are driving in a car and honk your horn, the cars in front 
 of you will pull off to the side of the road, giving you a free passage down the road. However, 
 some of the fighting sequences can be very annoying, as you have to lock on before you can fight, 
 which usually puts you in a position where you lose half your health for being shot before you 
 even take out one enemy. This is primarily the worst in wars against other families.
  
  The cut-scene graphics look spectacular, and they are very well rendered. However, those are really 
 the only graphics that actually look good. Every thing in the towns looks repetitive, and there's 
 only so many different character models, so the chances of you seeing one shop owner who looks 
 exactly like another shop owner are very likely. And the weapon animation looks very pixelated 
 and laggy. The hand-to-hand combat animation looks alright for what it is, but it could have been 
 better. The other character models of main characters (Sonny, Vito, Tom, etc.) all look realistic 
 to their character persona's in the film, except for Michael Corleone. Michael Corleone looks like 
 Edward Norton with black hair.
  
  The music is well done, and the classic songs from the film have been remastered and sound more 
 clear. The voice acting is well done, and the character's voices really fit their persona, including 
 the real characters. The sound effects in the cut-scenes are great, but the sound effects in the 
 game are poor, and sound like they were done on a technotron. Nonetheless, the voice acting and 
 the music make up for it.
  
  Overall, the game is still very fun to play, and can be addicting. You can tell that this game 
 was heavily influenced by Grand Theft Auto games and also the Mafia game, while bringing it's own 
 elements to the table. It's recommended to any Godfather fan, whether you're a fan of the movie, 
 book, or both. There are enough missions, including story and side missions, that will keep you 
 playing for several hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Insane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  EA are known for a lot of things. They are known for buying out companies. They are known for releasing 
 the same game on as many platforms as possible just to get more money. They are also known for 
 releasing at least six thousand games per year, half of which are titles such as FIFA and NHL, 
 that are identical to last years efforts only with an updated year number. They are also known 
 for releasing either very good games, or very bad games. This is one of the former.
  
  Story 9/10
  
  In Little Italy during the 1940's, the Mafia rule the streets. Wiseguys from 
 the five major families  Tattaglia, Stracci, Barzini, Cuneo and, of course, Corleone  hold New 
 York in a tight grip. Murder, extortion, gambling and violence are rife. The Corleone Family are 
 in a slump. The other families are growing stronger and threatening their territory. You are a 
 petty thief who's landed in a bit of trouble. Your mother has went to Vito Corleone, Don of the 
 Corleone Family, and asked him to intervene. By working with and for the Corleone Family, you finally 
 have a chance to be a fully fledged wiseguy  a Made Man  and work your way through the echelons 
 of organised crime to make a name for yourself, avenge your father's death and, hopefully, to become 
 Don of New York City.
  
  The story of The Godfather: The Game takes place over the events of The Godfather Part I and The 
 Godfather novel. Your character is involved in, or somehow connected to, most of the main events 
 of the first movie including the death of Luca Brasi, the attempted assassination on the Don and 
 others.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  The gameplay is reminiscent of Grand Theft Auto because of its free-form nature. You are free, 
 from the start, to hijack any cars and drive the whole way around New York City. Apart from the 
 main story missions, which we'll get to in a minute, you have a wide selection of sub-missions 
 and extra things to do such as mob hits, extorting businesses, holding up banks, buying new weapons, 
 robbing rival families delivery trucks, bombing compounds, burning businesses, taking over rackets, 
 discovering hubs and warehouses and just plain old killing.
  
  The main story missions build you through the stages of being a mobster, starting as an outsider, 
 building your way up to becoming an associate, soldier, capo and underboss. They're great fun, 
 ranging from simple executions to stealth missions, races and time trials. The story missions, 
 although interesting, are very easy and can be completed within a few hours. The bulk of your gameplay 
 will be spent making money with which to buy new weapons, safehouses, ammo and buy out businesses. 
 You do this by extorting businesses.
  
  Extorting businesses is done by threatening the owner round to your way of thinking, either by 
 beating him up, destroying his shop, killing customers or getting his respect by buying clothes 
 that gain you respect, like suits. When you extort a business, you get a percentage of their money 
 per week. Most businesses are legitimate, but some might have rackets upstairs, such as brothels 
 or gambling rings. By buying these out, you can work your way up to the warehouse or hub that supplies 
 the rackets. Taking over these will gain you more and more money and help you raise the ranks easier.
 
  
  As you work your way through the game, you will be given missions by different members of the Corleone 
 family and eventually become connected. Completing the missions nets you cash and unlocks more 
 missions to complete. It also gets you Respect. Respect is like Experience Points. When you level 
 up, you get to upgrade one of your attributes, including health, strength, reload speed and driving 
 ability.
  
  The gameplay, although varied, is limited in that the game is quite short story-wise and that if 
 you want to upgrade your weapons to complete some of the later missions, you'll end up completing 
 a good portion of the extra missions (such as taking over business, rackets and warehouses or cracking 
 safes) along the way, so by the time you complete the story, you'll have completed most of the 
 extras as well. Still, great game.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially during the cut-scenes where you can see the characters up 
 close and personal. During the game, however, the colours are quite bland. It being post-war New 
 York, it's full of browns and greys. All the characters wear dull suits, the cars are all black 
 and the buildings are very simple affairs, the only noticeable colours are the neon signs of the 
 shops.
  
  Speaking of, all the locales are quite similar. All the compounds are exactly the same, the only 
 differences being the driveway. All bakeries will look the same, all pubs, clubs, restaurants etc 
 use the same interiors, with only a few alterations. This does get quite boring sometimes and smacks 
 of dj vu as you enter an establishment.
  
  This doesn't really affect the game much, but it's always nice to have pretty graphics, even when 
 commiting several federal offences. Other than that, the graphics are great. The blood is very 
 red and the explosions are very fiery. Jolly good.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  The sound is great, most actors from the movie reprise their roles (Al Pachino declined the use 
 of his voice and likeness in the movie. Marlon Brando died before the game could be completed, 
 but did record his voice for it. Unfortunately, most of this could not be used, so the Don you 
 hear is an impersonator.)
  
  The gunshots and car noises are pitch perfect, as are the voice actors. I didn't once cringe at 
 any bad acting, and loved every second of it. The Godfather music plays throughout the game and 
 it changes depending on the scene, whether it be a chase, a hostile takeover of a compound or just 
 cruising through NY. Great!
  
  Presentation 8/10
  
  Finally, a movie tie-in that doesn't play the movie in the background during menus! The menus are 
 very well made, featuring pictures of 1950s New York. The menu will give you all the info you need, 
 including a map showing all the rackets, warehouses and such as well as who owns them, the usual 
 report telling you how many people you've killed, cars hijacked, times died etc. and a menu showing 
 how powerful your mobster is in the family. All this plus a meter to inform you of how much each 
 rival family and the cops hate you. Very well-made and concise.
  
  Control 10/10
  
  As it's a PC game, it can be customised to the Nth degree. All the normal controls are decent enough, 
 you using the keys to move, attack etc, and the mouse to look and aim as well as navigate windows. 
 Anything you don't like can be changed and you can use a joypad if you so wish.
  
  Extra features 6/10
  
  By completing missions and certain objectives within the game, you can 
 unlock clips from the movie itself. Collecting the in-game film tokens unlocks even more of these. 
 This, plus the extra missions within the game, buying clothes, taking over the whole of New York 
 and the weapon upgrades mean that even after completing the story missions, the game can keep on 
 going for a good while longer.
  
  Play Time 6/10
  
  About fifteen hours, give or take a few, depending on how much money you ran around earning to 
 get weapon upgrades. That's fifteen hours to complete the story missions, however, about three 
 or four more to get all the upgrades, rackets etc. But fifteen hours well spent!
  
  Replayability 6/10
  
  The missions are very easy and well done, so completing them again would 
 not only be good fun, but also allow the game to be picked up and played for short or long hauls. 
 I replayed many of the missions just to see the cinematics again, which are amazing.
  
  Buy or rent? 5/10
  
  Rent. You could probably complete the story missions in a night, and the 
 only reason you would do anything else is just to get all the weapons or to complete the game 100%.
 
  
  An excellent game, full of interesting features, even if it is a bit much like the GTA series.
 
  
  Percentage: (The separate scores added together) 76%
  
  Gamespot score: (Not an average) 9.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkdc5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has the most indepth gameplay of its time... its intelligent, fun, challenging and the 
 value and tilt is impressive...... this game packs some serious fun... and since the movie was more 
 than impressive, witty and captivating, this game doesnt deliver anything less...
  
  
  you can push people to their limits and endanger shop owners and beat them up when they dont give 
 in to you.... its really awesome.... maps load fast and there is vast area to explore...
  
  this game is much better than anything in its category right now, and grand theft auto 4 has alot 
 to accomplish if it expects to exceed this game...
  
  wh ever thought that EA would be able to put out this kind of game... and this good,.... well i didnt 
 but they did.. so go out somewhere and find this game so that you can enjoy it as i have for over 
 a year and i still mess around with it all the time...
  
  simply astonishing... two thumbs up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soren008
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  2002 showed us that Mafia games could be done to dazzling effect with the masterpiece "City of 
 Lost Heaven". 
  2 years later this arrived ..............
  
  The Godfather just like is most of the games trying to make a buck off films,
  there really seems 
 to be no effort from EA to create something special here. As within the first minute you'll know 
 exactly what this game has in store. Bad cars, weapons, acting, graphics etc........
  Don't get me wrong games dont need acting but this game takes itself verrry seriously. 
  Desire 
 to explore this city willl cause your selve feeling very cheated, as the only thing different between 
 the mobs from city to city is the colour of the suit. Yes thats right red, blue, black & green.
 
  Think GTA without gameplay or humour, very depressing stuff. 
  Get MAFIA!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geewiner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a really nice historic action adventure game. The graphics of the game is nice, 
 although there are a lot of glitches and bugs from time to time. The gameplay is fun, the controls 
 are nice and comfortable, the fighting is unique and awesome, the shooting is ok, like in any other 
 third person game. The sound is very good, a lot better then in other games for the PC, it's very 
 realistic, especially the gun shots and the car sounds. The difficulty is really easy when you 
 getting the hang of the game. The little problem of the game is that he is really short, it cant 
 take more then 11 hours for a regular player, although it has much side things to do like take 
 over other families compounds and businesses.
  
  Pros: Nice graphics. Really nice control and gameplay. The sound is great.
  
  Cons: A lot of 
 glitches and bugs in the game. Not a lot of variety of people, cars and buisnesses. The game is 
 short.
  
  Geewiner, GameSpot user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Its like GTA setup even some of the controls setup it is like GTA but this is not GTA any way its 
 looks so good and fun while you playing and the first place you been play and highly addictive 
 cause some of mission are quiet fun and also even extortion or taking racket one by one from the 
 other rival family................
  But there is one problem you're main mission is quiet short but also as they said you need to conquer 
 New York City so you need to get all business and racket out there, but that's a lot of work for 
 you to do.....
  taking businessby extortion and getting new racket also by extortion of buy them out is quiet sleepy 
 when you doing these, its a requirement for the completion you have no choice even you're street 
 smart is fully upgraded or even you're a Don but not yet Don of all Don of New York City and how 
 respectfully you...
  that's more give you a bit of sleepy and boring and the end of game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infernocow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  A lot of us weren't born when The Godfather and The Godfather Part II were first released. Nevertheless, 
 they have had a resounding effect on popular culture, and are broadly considered two of the greatest 
 films ever made. They are chock full of some of the most memorable moments, characters and lines 
 in film history. Even without the film's hefty reputation backing it, The Godfather the Game is 
 a decent game in its own right, and has many very strong elements which make for an overall gratifying 
 experience. There are, however, many glaring weaknesses which detract immensely from what was a 
 very promising application of a fantastic license.
  
  
  
  In the game, you assume the identity of a good-boy-going-bad everyman character whose family was 
 cared for by Don Vito Corleone after their father was killed in a mob altercation. The first playable 
 portion dips you nicely into the basic gameplay and melee combat mechanics of the game. The larger-than-life 
 enforcer Luca Brasi saves you from a group of lowlife smalltime gangsters trying to muscle you 
 out of your share of heist loot. Brasi makes quick work of your leader, then rather humorously 
 he forces the other two members of your group to allow you to wail on them while learning the basic 
 fighting controls in the game. These controls are generally well done, and give you a wide array 
 of options when considering how you want to beat and eventually kill, if you deem it necessary, 
 your opponent. Attacks range from knees to the face, various degrees of punch potency, and even 
 flat out tosses to the ground, among many other things of course. The gun controls aren't introduced 
 here, but they are easily picked up as it consists of a lock-on system with an option for free-aim (more 
 on this later) . After this, your new friend Luca introduces you to some of the basic objectives 
 of the game, including the methods to activate storyline missions, which normally means talking 
 to a Corleone family member sporting a special symbol above their head. The game is free roaming, 
 and has many features which closely resemble the Grand Theft Auto series, which works both for 
 and against your overall experience, and the aspects which work against you are usually due to 
 comparison to a generally superior product. Basically, though, you have all the time in the world 
 to wander around and do whatever you want, though it is certainly noteworthy that psychotic rampages 
 are not quite as practical and ergo not as satisfying in The Godfather as they are in GTA, though 
 sometimes one can't resist the temptation to shoot a few people in the leg, or needlessly grab 
 onto someone and throw them in front of a car. Other than the series of storyline missions, the 
 main objective in the game is the extortion of local businesses, which are controlled by rival 
 families. The extortion of these businesses is not only a necessary task for completion of the 
 game, but it also provides a significant portion of your revenue, which you need to purchase weapon 
 upgrades and safehouses (where you save your progress) , among other things such as clothing (more 
 on character customization later) along your journey. The extortion process involves applying "pressure" 
 on the storekeeper, which is represented by a bar on your screen. Pressure is applied by physically 
 harming the storekeeper, damaging the shop, threatening with weapons and/or combinations of these. 
 The more you pressure the storekeeper, the more money you get from them after each "week", but 
 if you push them too far they will push back, and you either have to kill them, or run away. Running 
 away, as humiliating as it may be, is likely your best option as it allows you to return relatively 
 soon afterward and pick up where you left off. Otherwise, you'll get a sign on the entrance saying 
 that the store has closed up due to a death in the family, which forces you to wait much longer 
 in order to proceed with the extortion. In addition to the initial extortion, many stores serve 
 as fronts for illegal rackets which must be taken over in a similar fashion to the stores themselves. 
 They give you additional funds, but are often guarded more vigilantly by the controlling family, 
 and can be riskier to overtake. It would therefor be wise to always have your ammo reserves topped 
 up by buying new safehouses which usually contain weapons, or by visiting black market venders. 
 It can take you a long time to extort all the businesses and rackets, but with the exception of 
 the repetitive interiors of the buildings, it is generally enjoyable and it can be fun to experiment 
 with different ways of applying pressure on shop-owners. Along with shop and racket extortions, 
 each rival family controls a number of warehouses which serve as hubs for the smuggling activity 
 in a given neighborhood. After having cleared the warehouse of the slew of rival family members 
 which guard it, you get a rather hefty weekly reward for your trouble. The other main "business" 
 from which you are meant to take money is the bank of which there are several branches across the 
 city, and they can all be robbed for a disappointingly small amount of money. Nevertheless, it's 
 something you want to do at least once simply for the sake of knowing you did it.
  
  There is another set of objectives in the game which operate separately from the main missions, 
 and they are a group of "hits" which you may execute (pun intended) at your own pace. Each assassination 
 has a set of optional circumstances that, if met, provide extra rewards in the form of "respect" 
 and money. The respect system allows you to upgrade your abilities, such as you total HP, fighting 
 skills, shooting skills, etc. Respect can also be gained by finding the various hidden "film reels" 
 around the city, similar to the hidden packages and Wang Cars in GTA. Be sure not to forget about 
 these respect upgrades, as they can be handy in the later and tougher missions in the campaign, 
 and can prove important in handling the special circumstances in the "hits" missions. An example 
 of these special circumstances: killing someone by throwing them into an oven as opposed to simply 
 shooting them in the face. These assassinations are generally fun, but can occasionally be frustrating. 
 One hit calls for you to run over the target in a car, but your target almost instantly hides in 
 a train-car when you come near him. That, combined with the half-baked car controls, can make it 
 unnecessarily tricky to kill him.
  
  The main mission campaign is placed for the most part on the same timeline as the plot of the first 
 movie. It runs you through many of the main portions of the movie including Luca's assassination, 
 the "horse-head scene", Don Vito's shooting, the attempted assassination at the Hospital, Sonny's 
 death, etc... Seeing each scene in the fresh perspective of the main character of the game can 
 be neat at times, and it is interesting how they fit you into the scenes; giving a face to some 
 of the unnamed characters in the films and adding an interesting new dynamic to the context. The 
 scenes are acted out by many, though regrettably not all, of the living original actors. The most 
 glaring and devastatingly disappointing absence is that of Al Pacino, who was working on the Scarface 
 game at the time of production. His likeness was not used in the game, and we are forced to be 
 re-introduced to a different Michael Corleone. This character is one of the most important characters 
 in film history, and it is unfortunate that he had to be transformed for the game, though they 
 did an adequate job of recreating him. Other than this, the voice acting is pretty good. James 
 Caan and Robert Duvall's voices are notably more gruff and aged than they were 30 years ago, but 
 their characters do not suffer when they're on their own. The effect isn't quite the same when 
 the characters are conversing with each other, as they are often citing lines from the movie in 
 a much more distant, lame fashion which sort of makes you shake your head. Regardless, it is definitely 
 a treat to see (or at least hear) these fine actors return to their respective career-launching 
 roles. 
  
  Once you've worked your way through the story, you'll have probably spent about 10 hours in the 
 game. It culminates with your promotion to Don of the Corleone family, which feels incredibly out 
 of place and is not set up well whatsoever. It provides no tie-in with the events of the film, 
 and it just simply feels lame and tacked on. In order to become Don of the Corleones, however, 
 you must first eliminate the other families by taking over the rival families' compounds in all 
 the 5 neighborhoods in New York, with the exception of Little Italy, since that is the Corleone 
 compound and is already in your control. All of the compounds are pretty much exactly the same 
 and involve shooting past sentries and planting bombs in the basements of the two buildings on 
 the premises. The game is not over there, however, because your ultimate goal is to become Don 
 of NYC. This involves extorting all the businesses in the city. There are also the hidden film 
 reels to discover, and the weapon upgrades to buy, which can get pricey and might take a bit of 
 saving up. Along with the unlockable film scenes, the game delivers a pretty decent bang for you 
 buck, and the entire process will likely take you 15 to 20 hours and possibly more depending on 
 how thorough you are. Despite the brevity of the storyline when compared to the total time you 
 spend in the game, the missions are still pretty well done. Most of them are fun, and they introduce 
 you do some of the characters you didn't get to know very well in the movies as well as introducing 
 a memorable assortment of new ones, which I won't disclose here. The combat mechanics are applied 
 very well in the missions, and except for the occasionally dumb AI and lock-on system you'll probably 
 be finding yourself fiending for more of the delightfully bloody action between each mission.
 
  
  
  
  The basic gameplay engine in The Godfather can be described as a watered-down Grand Theft Auto. 
 The idea of a free-roaming Godfather game is tantalizing, to say the least, and it can certainly 
 be satisfying to explore the nicely rendered '40s version of New York City, with its several neighborhoods 
 including Little Italy, Midtown, Hell's Kitchen, Brooklyn and New Jersey. Each locale has a different 
 combo of cars, pedestrians and architecture appropriate to the real-life areas in NYC. Getting 
 from place to place, however, is a pain. There are only a handful of different cars in the game, 
 and they all control the same way... badly. The cars, in every sense, feel incredibly underdeveloped. 
 They look rough, sound rough, the physics are poor and the control is inconsistent and frustrating. 
 The traffic AI is also very simplistic and annoying. The cars are essentially only useful as a 
 way of getting places quickly, which on the surface doesn't seem too bad, but when you are forced 
 to spend so much time in a car they should at least be fun to drive. That is, after all, the point 
 of playing the game to begin with... to have fun. The gunplay in the game is generally satisfying, 
 and there are a decent amount of period weapons to choose from, though there could be more. They 
 include pistols/revolvers, a Tommy gun, shotgun, various melee weapons such as pipes or baseball 
 bats, and my favorite... the explosives which take the form of sticks of dynamite, molotovs and 
 bombs, which can be used to crack safes or destroy shops and/or buildings and cars. The weapons 
 are fun to use, and there is a decent amount of control variety to keep things convenient and interesting. 
 The ability to automatically conform to available cover at the press of a button is certainly a 
 lovely addition when used in conjunction with the sometimes-stupid lock-on system. Unfortunately 
 the system hasn't got a brain, as you occasionally are stuck struggling to acquire a target who 
 is having at it right next to you. Nevertheless, the weapons and the combat system in general is 
 fun to use. While you're using these toys, though, you're sure to garner some attention from the 
 police. The "wanted" system is similar to GTA; you commit a crime and your wanted level (referred 
 to here as "Heat") rises. Once it gets high enough, the police will start coming at you full force. 
 Before that, however, you'll hardly notice them, which is a little strange. You can decrease the 
 amount of pressure put on you by the police by offering bribes to beat officers who are scattered 
 across the map. Similarly, there is a Vendetta meter which increases when you commit a crime against 
 another mob family, usually it means killing a member of that family. If you make them mad enough, 
 it will start a mob war. If you're caught in enemy territory during these wars, they will start 
 shooting at you. These wars are not well explained, and only if you're lucky you'll discover that 
 the easiest way to "win" the war is to bribe FBI agents who are found in the basement of most of 
 the churches in the city. Otherwise, after the time which appears on-screen elapses, you'll get 
 a notice saying that you've "lost" the war, and that several of your businesses have been bombed. 
 Also similar to GTA, when you die you are revived in a medical clinic, though there is little or 
 no penalty for this, and it will probably happen to you a lot. There are times when there are quite 
 a few baddies coming for you, and you just will not be able to fend them all off. Either that, 
 or the idiotic AI will have you trapped between two vehicles on the verge of exploding. Either 
 way, the hospital shouldn't be feared. It makes you no less of a (wo) man if you spend a few nights 
 there.
  
  
  
  Like GTA: San Andreas your character is customizable, though in a slightly different way. After 
 the initial cutscene, the game allows you to alter the appearance of your character in many ways: 
 Height, weight, an extensive array of facial features and hair, various types of clothing to buy, 
 etc... This is a nice feature, and can be fun to experiment with. It can be interesting to change 
 the appearance of your character as the story unfolds, and compare his appearance at the end to 
 the beginning, adding a nice little self-induced cinematic flair to the proceedings.
  
  The visuals in The Godfather are fairly well done, in that they are atmospheric and the character's 
 facial textures in particular are very true to their real-life cohorts (with the exception of Michael, 
 of course) . There are some areas of the game that look a little underdone, as I mentioned before 
 with the vehicles in particular. In general, though, the city looks great, and most of the characters 
 look good despite the lack of variety in enemy/pedestrian models. The game scales decently well 
 on lower end PCs, so you shouldn't have to worry too much about if you can run it or not.
  
  Audio for the most part is good. There are nice combat sound-effects which correspond well 
 with your actions, and all the guns sound appropriate. There is a decent amount of variety in the 
 conversations of pedestrians, but needless to say they are no-where near as quirky as those in 
 the GTA games. The music in the game is dynamic, dramatic, generally well composed, but often inappropriately 
 applied. There are strange moments when you'll be hearing very intense music in a relatively peaceful 
 period of gameplay, and visa-versa. 
  
  
  
  The Godfather is a decent and enjoyable package from EA and was certainly a welcomed idea to the 
 gaming community. Unfortunately, the game is the victim of many flaws, and also the victim of comparison. 
 When someone has a product and slaps the name of a franchise as synonymous with greatness as The 
 Godfather, there is an inherent expectation from consumers that the product be at least somewhat 
 as great as its title. Alas, this is not the case here. When the big picture is looked at, and 
 the movie license is stripped away, The Godfather is a merely decent game which relies far too 
 heavily on its title for value. I would certainly recommend it to fans of the series, as it does 
 capture some of the Coppola magic from the films and it does have many intriguing gameplay features 
 which add to its overall value. There are, though, similar games on the market, most notably the 
 Grand Theft Auto series, which offer the same basic gameplay in a much more enjoyable and thorough 
 package. I would give this game a rental if you're interested in it.
  
  P. S: for PC players... don't be surprised if the game doesn't support your gamepad... EA's marvelous 
 track record for glitches is in full force in this game, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  game play [9] : exellent and nice. control is easy and its even easier in the car.
  hand to hand combats is great .i didnt saw this hand to hand combats in other shooters. covering 
 and shooting is great too. and rpg elements are nice too. the gameplay is even better than gta series 
 in some parts.
  
  
  graphic: [7] i cant say very good things about graphic. the city is very cold and dead. there is no 
 many colors in the game and animation of the characters are not good. especially walking the main 
 character. but face designing is great part of the game.
  
  music and sounds: [7] there is only movie musics. nothing than that i think. sounds are good not more. but 
 voice actings are great.
  
  
  value [9] : this is a masterpeice game. when I was playing this game i didnt touch any other games. destroying 
 the enemy base, massing with police, killing the people in the city and other things make the game 
 real good. even if you diont see the godfathers movie play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  When I heard of this game, I instantly thought of Mafia and was very much looking forward to playing 
 it. However, after you have played Mafia, the bar is set so high that it is unlikely future games 
 will match it let alone beat it and so Godfather has failed to replicate Mafia's success. 
  
  Having said that, Godfather is still a brilliant game. It contains a few innovations that the 
 GTA franchise could benefit from and that Mafia could have benefited from.
  
  Godafather will not match Mafia but is almost just as good as any GTA game. Therefore, you shouold 
 definetely experience it. I cannot give it 9 because the score of 9 is the begininng of the legendary 
 games habitat. I cannot give it 8 either since I marked overlord 8, so Godfather would deserve 
 8.8 meaning it almost reached the Must Be Played area but not quite.
  As I cannot rate it 8.8 I have to rate it 8.5.
  
  Bearing in mind what I said above, this is 
 a brilliant game that should be played, but it had unfortunate circumstances that Mafia and GTA 
 set their bars very high as they are legendary games and Godafather only fell every so short of 
 entering their domain. Still, it is very fun and you will spend hours playing it, loving every 
 minute of it. 
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldinatti
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't too short. If you do all the missions and the side missions, you will probably 
 put in at least 80+ hours of game time. If you were a fan of the Godfather movies, then this game 
 is for you. Take all the GTA games, but without the boring stuff in it, and you have this game. 
 Hands down the best game I have played in 2006, well worth the 19.99 price tag it has for it. I 
 really believe that if your into these kinds of games, then the Godfather will not let you down. 
 Or is it do not let the Don down?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrestonCCCCCCCC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Like i said it good GAme It good Game get it ok I may be over the top but it is a fun game HA HA 
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So i will try comenting more games but this is the only 
 one so fare but I like the mafia so its a fun game for me :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) but sens 
 u have to have 100 word text i sorta stalling... ha so don't read this k gest trying to post that 
 other acsowal comments so sorry ha ha ha ha ha ha h.................... a ha .... ha ha ha ah ha 
 ha ha ha h ah .yah need to stop but can't sorry ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . .ha ha ha ha ah 
 ha ahaha fdnkdsn fjsd 
  
  THE GODFATHER GODFATHER THE GODFATHER HA !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainPervert
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  A a gangstermovie fan and an addict to the game Mafia back in 2002, I had to play this title. Of 
 course I enjoyed hearing familiar voices and good looking character models, but other than that, 
 Mafia is, even now, by far a better game than The Godfather .
  
  The city of NY is very bland, and most streets look the same. You have to stick to the roads, and 
 there is very little sense of freedom. For instance, in Mafia of GTA you can use shortcuts over 
 hills, grass, jump off a bridge, but The Godfather is a lot like Driver : you cannot go but where 
 the game allows you to go. There are too few car models, which don't handle or look particularly 
 realistic. You can't even see through the windows. The character of Michael Corleone doesn't look 
 nearly as realistic as Vito, Sonny or Tom Hagen. It is also one of the few characters which are 
 not voiced by the original actor (Pacino didn't want to do it because his voice has altered due 
 to heavy smoking) . But why his appearance is so far off, is beyond me. Also, the story doesn't 
 make a whole lot of sense to people who haven't seen the movie. I don't think those are the target 
 audience of the game, but nevertheless, the game should provide a coherent story on it's own. And 
 lastly: while the game follows the movie's plotline pretty closely, it makes no sense that the 
 player becomes the don himself in the end.
  
  On the plus side, and in contrary to Mafia , the city feels more alive because there is more to 
 do (extorting shops) if you're not on a mission. Also, the combat is pretty fun. Other than that, 
 this game looks and feels outdated, and reminds me of Driver, which was made almost 10 years ago. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Rarely can it be said that a film has defined a genre, but never is that more true than in the 
 case of The Godfather. Since the release of the 1972 epic (which garnered ten Academy Award nominations 
 and was named Best Picture) , all gangster movies have been judged by the standards of this one 
 (unfair as the comparison may be) . If a film is about Jewish mobsters, it's a Jewish Godfather 
 ; if it's about the Chinese underworld, it's an Oriental Godfather ; if it takes place in contemporary 
 times, it's a modern day Godfather. 
  
  If The Godfather was only about gun-toting Mafia types, it would never have garnered as many accolades. 
 The characteristic that sets this film apart from so many of its predecessors and successors is 
 its ability to weave the often-disparate layers of story into a cohesive whole. Any of the individual 
 issues explored by The Godfather are strong enough to form the foundation of a movie. Here, however, 
 bolstered by so many complimentary themes, each is given added resonance. The picture is a series 
 of mini-climaxes, all building to the devastating, definitive conclusion.
  
  Rarely does a film tell as many diverse-yet-interconnected stories. Strong performances, solid 
 directing, and a tightly-plotted script all contribute to The Godfather's success. This motion 
 picture was not slapped together to satiate the appetite of the masses; it was carefully and painstakingly 
 crafted. Every major character - and more than a few minor ones - is molded into a distinct, complex 
 individual. Stereotypes did not influence Coppola's film, although certain ones were formed as 
 a result of it.
  
  The film opens in the study of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) , the Godfather, who is holding 
 court. It is the wedding of his daughter Connie (Talia Shire) , and no Sicilian can refuse a request 
 on that day. So the supplicants come, each wanting something different - revenge, a husband for 
 their daughter, a part in a movie.
  
  The family has gathered for the event. Michael (Al Pacino) , Don Vito's youngest son and a second 
 world war hero, is back home in the company of a new girlfriend (Diane Keaton) . The two older boys, 
 Sonny (James Caan) and Fredo (John Cazale) , are there as well, along with their adopted brother, 
 Tom Hagen (Robert Duvall) , the don's right-hand man.
  
  With the end of the war, the times are changing, and as much as Don Vito seems in control at the 
 wedding, his power is beginning to erode. By the standards of some, his views on the importance 
 of family, loyalty, and respect are antiquated. Even his heir apparent, Sonny, disagrees with his 
 refusal to get into the drug business. Gambling and alcohol are forces of the past and present; 
 narcotics are the future. But Don Vito will not compromise, even when a powerful drug supplier 
 named Sollozzo (Al Lettieri) arrives with promises of high profits for those who back him.
  
  Don Vito's refusal to do business with Sollozzo strikes the first sparks of a war that will 
 last for years and cost many lives. Each of the five major mob families in New York will be gouged 
 by the bloodshed, and a new order will emerge. Betrayals will take place, and the Corleone family 
 will be shaken to its roots by treachery from both within and without.
  
  The Corleone with the most screen time is Michael (it's therefore odd that Al Pacino received a 
 Best Supporting Actor nomination) , and his tale, because of its scope and breadth, is marginally 
 dominant. His transformation from innocent bystander to central manipulator is the stuff of a Shakespearean 
 tragedy. By the end, this man who claimed to be different from the rest of his family has become 
 more ruthless than Don Vito ever was.
  
  Despite the likes of Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon, Scarface, ... And Justice for All, and Scent of 
 a Woman on his resume, Pacino is best remembered for the role he created in The Godfather (and 
 subsequently reprised in two sequels) . While this is not his most demonstrative performance - indeed, 
 he is exceptionally restrained - the quality of the script makes Michael Corleone notable.
  
  Next to Humphrey Bogart's Rick from Casablanca, Oscar winner Marlon Brando's Don Vito may be 
 the most imitated character in screen history. The line I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse 
 has attained legendary status, as has the entire performance. With his raspy voice, deliberate 
 movements, and penetrating stare, Brando has created a personae that will be recalled for as long 
 as motion pictures exist.
  
  Don Vito is a most complicated gangster. In his own words, he is not a killer, and he never mixes 
 business with personal matters. He puts family first ( A man who doesn't spend time with his family 
 can never be a real man ) and despises displays of weakness. He understands the burden of power, 
 and his wordless sympathy for Michael when he is forced to assume the throne , is one of The Godfather's 
 most revealing moments (about both father and son) .
  
  The Godfather had three Best Supporting Actor nominees, all well-deserved. The first was Pacino 
 (who probably should have been nominated alongside Brando in the Best Actor category) . The other 
 two were James Caan and Robert Duvall. In a way, it's surprising that Duvall wasn't passed over. 
 His presence in The Godfather isn't flashy or attention-arresting. Like his character of Tom Hagen, 
 he is steady, reliable, and stays in the background. Not so for Caan's Sonny, whose demonstrative 
 and volatile personality can't be overlooked.
  
  Family responsibility. A father's legacy. The need to earn respect. The corrupting influence of 
 power. These are some of the ingredients combined in Francis Ford Coppola's cinematic blender. 
 They are themes which have intrigued the greatest authors of every medium through the centuries.
 
  
  Although the issues presented in The Godfather are universal in scope, the characters and setting 
 are decidedly ethnic. Even to this day, there is an odd romanticism associated with New York's 
 Italian crime families. The word Mafia conjures up images of the sinister and mysterious - scenes 
 of the sort where Luca Brasi meets his fate. Francis Ford Coppola has tapped into this fascination 
 and woven it as yet another element of the many that make his motion picture a compelling experience.
 
  
  We come to The Godfather like Kay Adams - outsiders uncertain in our expectations - but it doesn't 
 take long for us to be captivated by this intricate, violent world. The film can be viewed on many 
 levels, with equal satisfaction awaiting those who just want a good story, and those who demand 
 much more. The Godfather is long, yes - but it is one-hundred seventy minutes well-spent. When 
 the closing credits roll, only a portion of the story has been told. Yet that last haunting image 
 (Kay's shock of recognition) , coupled with Nino Rota's mournful score, leaves a crater-like impression 
 that The Godfather Part II only deepens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  The Godfather in my opinion is one of the greatest movies of all time. The Godfather is what made 
 Al Pacino, James Caan, and Robert DuVall so famous. The movie was filmed in 1972, and it had two 
 sequels that weren't quite as good, mostly because most of the cast did not return for them. Marlon 
 Brando gave one of his most incredible performances in the first movie, and his part in the movie 
 has been parodied hundreds of times. In 2006, 34 years later, EA made a new chapter in The Godfather, 
 this time the story is about a young man who's father was slaughtered at the hands of the Barzini 
 family, and his rise to be one of the leading names in the Corleone family. The tie-ins to the 
 movie are flawless, everything is detailed perfectly.
  
  After you watch the boy's father get turned into swiss cheese, you get to customize your character 
 from the size of his nose to the length of his hair and to the clothes that he wears. All through 
 the game you are gaining money and respect from the people around you and the Corleone family. 
 As you rise in ranks, you become a better fighter, a better negotiator, a better shooter, and you 
 can get more health. There are 50 levels, each level is harder to gain than the last.
  
  You gain money by extorting businesses and buying out rackets. With every business that you extort, 
 the higher your weekly payout is. The higher your rank is, the higher percentage of that payout 
 is yours.
  
  A few people will tell you that this game is like a mix of Grand Theft Auto and Mafia. Well, they're 
 right. The main difference is that the storyline in this game is spectacular and also plays a much 
 bigger role than the cars. There is only a choice of four or five cars, but that's no big deal, 
 the idea of the game is not to steal cars and drive around, it's to take out the rival families; 
 each family having their strong points and their weak points.
  
  The voice acting was another incredible addition to this game. With the exception of Al Pacino, 
 EA got all of the original actors to come back and do the voices for this game, Marlon Brando unfortunately 
 died before his recordings were all finished, so some parts of the game seem as if they are cut 
 short, and some pieces are even taken straight from the movie. Other than that, the voice acting 
 was absolutely amazing. The authenticity of everything was great and leaves you with satisfaction.
 
  
  The graphics, sadly, leave you disappointed. There are virtually no lighting effects at all and 
 a lot of the textures seem extremely blurry. There is not a very big variety for faces on the people 
 or the mobsters from each family. There are only two faces for the mobsters, the only difference 
 between them is the color of their clothes. EA did do a very good job with the population, there 
 is always at least fifty plus people walking around unless your at a warehouse or family owned 
 turf (such as a compound) ,
  
  Overall, I would definitely suggest that you buy this game. The good outweighs the bad, and the 
 story is very well done. I had a great time with it, and I'm sure that you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Well..... I mentioned all but one of the bad characteristics..... the storyline. The one used is 
 great in itself, really, it's good enough to make a top seller and 3 excellent movies based on 
 it, it's just that.... I don't know... adding a character supposed to be the main one and trying 
 at all costs to stick him in that storyline, it's not natural.... Usually the story is build around 
 the main character.
  But apart that, this game is fantastic!!!! Starting with the whole taking-over-the-city system. 
 The interrogation/excoriation features are the most innovative things about the game, and even 
 if the game fails making a nice GTA styled free-roaming (because the city, truly doesn't consist 
 on lots of cool vehicle/character/buildings styles) The Godfather makes an excellent 3-rd person 
 shooting game, with the lock-on feature and the possible weapon upgrades. Anyway all of the problems 
 I mentioned won't be considered after emerging yourself in this game for a while.... But the real 
 problem is the ending. After you've taken over the city they just make you don. Period. No cool 
 cutscenes, it's really weird.
  
  As a former Mafia player I might have put myself in the critics spot, but honestly I love this 
 game. It gives you the sensation you're part of the 40-es, part of the family, the man behind the 
 curtains, but at the same time, the man in the front line, the made-man who does all the work. 
 If you're thinking of playing it, go ahead, but I also recommend playing MAFIA, and MAFIA 2 when 
 it's out. They'll put you in a new dimension of 50-es Mafia wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrodinger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Anything for the Don. Subtext there is Just don't make me play this game! 
  
  Now, don't me wrong, I was ecstatic when I found this game brand new, sealed and all for $5.96. 
 What a deal, I thought. In truth it is... but only for $5.96. I can't imagine anyone buying this 
 game when it first came out for $40+. You have probably heard by now that this game is a blatant 
 ripoff of the Grand Theft Auto series. Well, that sentiment may or may not be right (I have never 
 played the GTA games) , but to be fair, I think that that particular sentiment is due to the fact 
 that the player character in both games can hijack cars, extort businesses, and perform hits. There, 
 it would appear, the similarities cease.
  
  The Godfather the game is spawned off some of the greatest source material ever, and it definitely 
 shows. The atmosphere accurately depicts that of both Copolla's Holy holy and Puzo's original novel; 
 the family, the don, political undertones are all there, only this time, you are right in the thick 
 of it.
  
  You play as a [insert your characters' name here] who is taken under the Corleone family's wing 
 at the request of your mother on the Don's daughter's wedding. ( No Sicilian can refuse a request 
 on his daughter's wedding day. ) This is interaction is viewed via cutscene. The scene then shifts, 
 and we see Luca Brasi coming to your avatar's aide in a gang fight. This is when your Corleone 
 family initiation begins.
  
  To get your start in the family you are tasked with extorting businesses to earn some starter cash. 
 After the first few, things heat up, and you are contacted by family members and the main story 
 kicks into action.
  
  Just about everyone has seen the Godfather movies. The iconic scenes (the horse's head, Sonny's 
 murder, Michael's baptism) are all here; this time however, you play an integral part in their 
 execution. YOU deliver the horse's head; YOU are there at Sonny's demise (powerless to prevent 
 it) ; YOU need to whack all the other dons during the beginning of Michaels reign as Don. It's all 
 you, and therefore, it's pretty cool.
  
  The end of the story missions are definitely the brakes for this franchise, however, as, after 
 their completion, there is no reason to return to the gritty city streets. No incentives like GTA's 
 famous stunt jumps, no minigames, no races, no easter eggs. Now, obviously an easter egg is out 
 of place in this somber and dark game representation of the Godfather trilogy, but come on! Throw 
 us a bone, EA! The city of New York stretches before us. The rival families have felt our wrath. 
 Give us something to do!
  
  Nothing.
  
  Unless you count the hidden film reels that unlock 15 second clips from the first movie, there 
 is no reason to revisit this game after completing the very scripted story missions.
  
  The graphics are definitely aging. As should be expected, the textures are not the best, since 
 it is the whole of New York being rendered, but what were the developers thinking when they used 
 textures that make Half Life 1 look as good as the sequel compared to this? I understand that the 
 game is now 2 (3?) years old, but Just Cause came out shortly after and sports some astounding 
 visuals while rendering 30x more than this game did, environmentally. Then, of course, there is 
 the monotony of the interior textures and layout. If you've seen one racket, you've seen 'em all. 
 The vehicle models look like boxes on wheels, the lighting is way off, and the object distance 
 makes me look farsighted! (I have worn glasses for 10 years now. I am myopic.) It's pretty bad 
 when you are driving along a Brooklyn that looks just like the Little Italy you just passed through, 
 but when, on top of that, a car pops up in front of you?! *swerve* Phew! AW CRAP! PEDESTRIAN! @#$* 
 Then your cop heat is at max, and you didn't even mean to hit the guy. He just materialized in 
 front of your car. That won't fly in court, let me tell you that. Part of the fun in these games 
 is intentionally running over the occasional pedestrian, but when they practically drop in out 
 of nowhere? That's just wrong. The poor guy never had a chance.
  
  All told and truths disclosed, this game kept me entertained for the duration of the main story. 
 The combat is exciting and well varied. Muscling shopkeepers only got old after the 30th time (that's 
 29 times that it was fun!) , and the execution moves were entertaining and easy to pull off. In 
 the end it was approximately 5 hours and one sitting worth of shats and giggles. $5.96 is roughly 
 = to 5 hours of gameplay and enjoyment. However, my heart goes out to the unlucky people who bought 
 their copy when it was first released. Now, even though this is a fair and unbiased review of one 
 game only, I would like to recommend that anyone who wanted this game to be so much more than it 
 was check out Scarface: The World is Yours, Just Cause, and True Crime: New York City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  well the game has really bad graphics, short storyline, and boring sideline missions...
  
  not worth buying but renting for xbox or something.
  
  the game has only like 4 cars that you 
 can drive and the weapons suck. the real missions are good but short and the sideline missions 
 are SOO repeatitive and get so boring after the first couple of them.. the sound effects are pretty 
 good. gameplay is alright but gets annoying at times with the shooting.
  
  what else can i say, not much to explore, the enviormental graphics suck and look like theyre made 
 for the N64 or something. the graphics of the people dont match the other graphics, the car driving 
 is unrealistic and annoying at times. not a great first person shooter at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  when i heard about this game i really couldnt bring myself to thinking it was good, thought it 
 was going to be another gta rip off. this game wasnt, in fact for me it was better then the old 
 gta games. this game had amazing facial detail and voice acting. the city could have done a little 
 better with textures. even at 1600X1200 the games city didnt look too flashy. i liked the detail 
 put into the city itself. the stores look nice even if they are just low res pictures. overall 
 the game does follow the story and hopefully we can see a second one come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewishhh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: the graphics are surprisingly impressive, and it captures the old 1930's new York perfectly. 
 its all also extremely fun taking over rackets and businesses which increase your monthly income 
 by a small fee, however there are around 150 of them so if you take all of them you'll get a colossal 
 amount of money straight to your pocket, speaking of money, it is almost essential to have some 
 money in your pocket ,as you need it to buy safe houses, avoiding gang wars, hospital fees, and 
 bribing cops. it is good to have decent weapons before going into a fire fight aswell, as you will 
 quickly find out that going into a warehouse with a pistol is not the smartest of things you can 
 do, it adds a sense of tactics to the game ,as you'll need the right weapon for the job, also the 
 use of cover is essential for survival, as you can back up against just about object in the game. 
 you can also (if you have about $500,000) buy some of the best weapons in the game, there are 3 
 levels of each type of gun (eg. handgun) level 3 is the most powerful, but costs an arm and a leg, 
 even if a person drops a level 1 gun you will get the level 3 gun you paid for, this is a welcome 
 feature in the game ,but doesn't play a huge part.
  
  THE BAD: the cars feel to arcadey, and dont handle as you would expect them too, the game is very 
 original but there isn't really much to do, once the main story is over there isn't much else to 
 do. it doesn't quite match the GTA series, as they have tons of side missions mini games, and country 
 side.
  
  OVERALL: lots of corruption, death , and blood, but theres not really that much to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepitko
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  I'd like to avoid repetition in reviews so I will stick to the most important stuff. I love the 
 way your character is implemented into the original storyline. And the story itself, voice acting 
 is just exceptional. EA used as much Godfather esence as it possibly could.
  In the PC version the controls are bad. In shootings, I died too many times, just because the auto-aim 
 aimed at a different person and free-aim does not really work because it is hopelessly slow.
  The car handle more like boats not like cars, a tiny adjustment to the direction of travel and 
 the car often turns violently with you ending up on the sidewalk hitting several pedestrians.
 
  The map is all weird and hard to navigate around, although I liked the idea of having names on 
 the streets displayed under the mini-map.
  Graphics are great, although the cars could be more detailed and on my PC version there is a glitch 
 that the wheels of the cars seem to be beneath the road surface. And it is too dark in the game!
 
  Overall, I wanted this game to be really great but it really isn't. But still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  From there the game does an excellent job of immersing the player in the world of The Godfather. 
 You participate in many of the important happenings found in both the book and the movie, which 
 is great for fans of the series. The main characters (including the Don Marlon Brando did most 
 of his voiceovers before passing away) sound just like in the movie and the musical score really 
 brings the player back in time to the 1940s. Certain parts of the game world are distinctly recognizable 
 from the movie and your participation in events such as the famous horse-head scene fills in some 
 gaps left by the theatrical production. The player is given the opportunity to interact with many 
 members of the Corleone family and the other powerful families holding sway over NYC while trying 
 to climb the ranks to Don-hood. The quest line, which roughly follows the storyline of the movie, 
 does a good job of working the player into the Corleone family, if a bit too quickly to be believable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Very good game with surprisingly good graphics and very good sound and soundtrack, EA's The Godfather 
 is one of the best games I've ever played. Of course the idea is taken from GTA in most part, but 
 it's obviously more differnt from GTA. The gamesply is kind of mad but it's nothing you can't get 
 used to. The most fun part from Godfather is that you can make your character look how you want 
 and all the characters in the game look and sound exactly like their real life actors (except Michael 
 Corleone) . So this is a game that you shouldn't miss even if you are not a fan of The Godfather 
 movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAzmodan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about that game since I saw the trailer, I'm a big fan of The Godfather, the 
 trailer was exciting enough, and then when it came out, i played the 1st 40 mins in great enjoyment.
 
  Then it started to be boring, typical 3D shooting game, it's always the same, after about 90 mins 
 of playing, it's a very usual game, too much like GTA.
  If i put it on comparison to Mafia, which was released a few years back, i still can tell Mafia 
 is much better, even if we neglect the time difference.
  Now to the story, the story starts very good, finds a way to put you in the family, but then it 
 gets boring, it's the same job everytime, and then there was the EA touch that i don't like, the 
 challenges, you have to do several killing styles, steal all the stores, you'll find the same in 
 every EA game, FIFA, NFS.. etc, someone sure told them that it's a great idea to put challanges 
 everywhere.
  The cars are pretty bad, very bad control, sure if we compare it to other games. Too many upgrades 
 for the weapons (still reminds me with NFS) , and also the Safe houses.
  I'm not being too hard on the game, it's just it could have been much better, than to be THIS boring. 
 I mean even the gameplay is always the same. take a car go hit someone, get in the car, go somewhere 
 else, typical GTA.
  I really expected much more, though I couldn't get enough till i finished it, but i don't think 
 I'll play it again in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolterror
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  i think its a good game. not what was said about it .i heard lots of discussion about it that it 
 is not a good game but i think it was worth a while to play it. Godfather is set in the 1950's New 
 York street scene where there are several different gangs fighting for businesses and rackets in 
 several different territories . The gang whom you represent is the Corleone family, hence the name 
 of the game. it has many things like execution styles which was quite a fun. than the extortions 
 and the mob wars taking out the safe houses and compounds of the rival families, doing hit missions 
 with bonus conditions for more and more respect. overall it was a good game and a worth a while 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather represents an excellent third person shooter. As you may know, the game mostly follow 
 the movie. Of course, all the characters from the movie are here except Al Pacino a. k. a. Michael 
 Corleone.
  
  At the start of the game you meet Luca Brasi, and he brings you to the family. After thefts and 
 small jobs, you are starting to work for Corleone family. In this game it's all about the family 
 and loyalty. The story is in New York city, just like in the movie. You will do everything for 
 the family, from extortion, contract hits to wiping out the whole rival family. If you manage to 
 do all that, you will become the most powerful .. Don Corleone.
  
  As for the graphic, The Godfather looks excellent. Characters are very well made, New York is impressive 
 and animations are good too. Cars are made to the every detail.
  
  The Godfather is the game that deserve to be played. Even if Al Pacino did not give the voice and 
 character for the game, you will find this game very interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBusta
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game let's you live the Godfather movie out! The story is slightly modified to fit your character 
 in it, but it's almost as watching the movie! Here you can design your own character and dress 
 him the way you want. Then, you if you want to be respected by other people on the street... you 
 gotta earn it! If someone are being cocky, use your Garrot Wire and kill the fool! (And don't pity 
 the fool!) This won't work in the long run, as the police might not be so happy about it, so if 
 you're really going to be respected you gotta act like a real mobster. Do missions for your family, 
 take over businesses and rackets, storehouses and safe houses. At the end it all pays of, when 
 you finally become The Don of New York City!
  The graphics is good, but the cars handling was a bit overrated. But the shooting controls are 
 fantastic and easy to learn. This game is recommended for people who likes good stories, and those 
 who just like to have power over everybody else and being worshiped every time they pass someone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  God Father is an excellent game with a good story line, which has a good start and a good ending 
 with a meaning. You start as a new member to the mafia your called as an outsider and you have 
 to make your way to become don and then DON OF New York.
  
  Killing rival family members and eliminating there families, robbing banks taking over rackets 
 and businesses by force or by diplomacy. The game is totally rap around the player which will decide 
 how much protection money you get every week.
  
  Graphics are ok well not that well any ways : there are around 7-10 cars in the whole game with 
 as or less of colours and people are the same
  
  Sounds are Ok: Not Much But Its OK:
  
  But other wise this is an excellent game, Its Really addictive I finished it twice and become 
 the DON OF NYC PS:. Remember to Bust all the safes in the game&gt; If you get in to a racket or 
 a Business try to find the safe and destroy it and then leave otherwise you wont get that 100% 
 in the game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas0n3x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite game because, it represents me :D .... also I'm disappointed about the car 
 control and the graphics ... The Car CONTROL is so **** up, many of my missions were lost because 
 of this ... But it's a great game, superb and a hard one to describe ... I'm in love .... The game 
 play creates you a world, a world of mob wars ... I'm addict to this game because it creates you 
 e world with many possibilities, and all you have to do is to stand up and fight your enemy and 
 the most you win mob wars you get more and more respect ... and people start sending their regards 
 to you ... wonderful ... perfect pancake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gemi_hk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  I posted a topic in the forum few month before the game was realesed, I was asking if there are 
 or there will be a crime management game, which will combine games like GTA with the Sting and 
 other managing games, Something like A gangs of new york story, U start as a gang memeber or a 
 gang leader then take ur gang to the top of crime, rule the city and so on,
  
  Recruit more memebers. upgrade ur team, pay them money, pay money to the cops to get off ur back, 
 buy weapons, AND ORGANIZE Crimes, in Godfather u do an already planned mission, I am looking for 
 a game that gives u the tools to plan ur crimes,
  
  Godfather touched lots of this imagination but not all, yet its idea of taking over the city, climb 
 the way up to the top of the Gang came close. I dont think I need to talk about the graphics and 
 sound and stuff, they are all good,
  
  and the Game play was wonderful !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidfull
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Godfather is one of best Action-Adventure games after Mafia
  Goods : I can say it have a lot of goods! you are very free for playing like GTA and have many 
 option to earn money and more
  
  Bads : Driving dont have excitement like Mafia , medium graphic quality , sounds could be better 
 , people faces is reduplicative
  
  about graphic I should say when I set all graphic option to high plus Level 5 of Antialiasing and 
 16AF @ 1280x1024 my XFX 7900GS 480M Extreme (480/1400) can run it vey smoothly Min FPS is 25 Max 
 FSB is 30
  
  Important notes : Godfather like other EA games is very cool game for your hardware! my Core 2 
 duo E6300 temps whilst playing dont go over 47C (with CoreTemp) at all my E6300 cooled with BigTyphoon 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonCheech
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  its a good game until you whipe out the rival families then there is not much to do. Its not my 
 favorite gangster game, But Mafia (pc) is still the best. but the godfathers graphix and gamplay 
 are expentionaly good its has mixed opinions on the game it took me about 3 days to beat it 3-5 
 hours a day but it is hard to compare to the grate original gangster game (mafia) made by the Chez 
 Republic in 2002. Godfather definatly is a rent it before you buy it .i havent played it latley 
 but my friend on the other hand loves the game. it has great voice acting and graphix but the game 
 is nit very life-like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillka87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I dont kno why did this game not hold its value or maybe it was a plan by EA. but i deffently got 
 alot of enjoyment out of my 12 bucks. If u have played alot of shoot and run and drive games like 
 GTA any of them ull see that this game isnt much different and in many cases is a worest game then 
 any of the GTA games. It starts with the map and graphics where San Andreas has a HUGE map this 
 map and graphics were rather weak, For buildings or alndmarks like the emipre state building to 
 the chrisler building both u cant enter. There isnt an over view of the city or planes, the game 
 is really limeted to driving , shooting and story line nothing more u like the story u might be 
 thrilled with this game but for me i would like to see a better map and a better done NYC which 
 not yet been done in any game very well. Im enjoying this game but not as much as san andreas or 
 vice city or mafia which beats this game easily. Fans of the movie this game is for U fans of GTA 
 this might be a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotonio_204
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  can this game be more like Obilivion!!!, come on, more quests, option to own your own business 
 in the city of new york, not by still working for the godfather and get pay by the same mob, and 
 the option of breaking from the mob and start your very OWN mob family, rule the whole city by 
 going to mob wars,.. more extra quests after the main quests, option to able to add mods, give 
 more MORE MORE MORE!!!! make it funner, can you Electronic Arts, beat those Bethesda softworks, 
 i bet your just a bunch of wimp,...
  if coming up with the next mafia game for role playing, please make it a more wider game experience 
 in game play, and give the gamer, an more extra options in game play than just a single story line.,,,, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reitz34
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game isnt too short. If you do all the missions and the side missions, you will probley put 
 in atleast 80+ hours of gametime. If you were a fan of the Godfather movies, then this game is 
 for you. Take all the GTA games, but without the boring stuff in it, and you have this game. Hands 
 down the best game I have played in 2006, well worth the 19.99 price tag it has for it. I really 
 believe that if your into these kinds of games, then the Godfather will not let you down. Or is 
 it do not let the Don down?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bran20022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The graphics aren't bad, but they aren't eye stunning to put. This game has a fairly good storyline 
 and there's enough to do to keep you occupied for quite some time. Starting out small, you work 
 your way up to the top in the Corleone Family by doing hit contracts and taking out rival families. 
 On the side you'll be extorting businesses for turf and money. While playing the game you'll encounter 
 rival families and also the law will be on your back, but then again money talks right? 
  
  The game could be a little bit more to do. I was disappointed that the PC version didn't get a 
 patch to give the expansions and extras like the PS3 version has. Perhaps someday there might be 
 a third party mod that will deliver that. Until then we wait and hope that maybe it'll come. Any 
 Godfather fan should pick this game up and give it a go, it'll keep you busy for a while.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvercat7599
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  At first I thought that I wasn't going to like it, but I couldn't stop playing it. The game is 
 great! The voice-overs, the cinematics, and the music makes you feel as if you are actually playing 
 the movie. This game will be a classic and should be in everyones gaming library. Its true that 
 many games that are baste off of movies don't turn out so good, but they did a very good job with 
 this game. It wasn't very hard to learn the controls and the action is quick too. If you're a fan 
 of GTA, you're going to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlatkoZ
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  What can be said for The Godfather the game you say?
  
  Well not a whole lot of good, that's for sure..
  
  Overlooking some of the raw and fundamental 
 flaws of the game such as the notchy gameplay, the repetitive story or even the flat-line excitement 
 of the main character, this would still be a pretty boring and generally unamusing game.
  
  If i wanted to play a Grand theft auto + 40s and 50s feel old school gangster type of game, then 
 i would have simply re-installed Mafia , which was a game made several years before the godfather, 
 but stll had managed to have much impressive graphics and overall quality of build.
  
  This is not the first type of game to ruin it's movie counterpart's reputation, there have been 
 numerous ones that have tried to capture the feel of the movie, all failing miserably (notables 
 include Matrix, Gods &amp; Generals, Scarface and tons of others) .
  
  The game basically followes a young man who vows to get vengance on a gangster named Barzini after 
 seeing his father die at his hands. The young man starts off with the Corleone family and slowly 
 helps them turn the tide of the mob war to the Corleone side.
  
  The problems in the game are far too many to ignore, the in-game fighting with certain characters 
 is, although interesting, it is very unusual in that it uses a mouse to activate attacks. This 
 perhaps wouldnt be so bad, if it was changeable, and the player could set these attacks to keys 
 that he or she wishes to use.
  
  Unlike the movies, this game was not authorized by Francis Ford Coppola who directed the trilogy 
 did not approve of the game, and Al Pacino (who plays Michael Corleone in the films) was also replaced 
 by some different character who looks/sounds completely different but still bares the name Michael 
 Corleone .
  
  When the player gets onto the road and starts playing the game, it does not take long to realize 
 that the physics behind the vehicles are very flawed and the game almost feels amateurish with 
 this, steering and acceleration are all very unrealistic.
  
  Missions include such witty combinations as:
  -Retreive the money.
  -Kill the enemy.
  -Kill 
 everyone.
  -Kill the enemy, retreive the money.
  -Kill everyone, retreive the money.
  
  The locations are basically retexured buildings which keep getting used over and over again, there 
 are approximately 4 different locations, with the same predictable combat in every establishment.
 
  
  Realism is also a big problem in this game just in terms of how much things cost, how much you 
 get paid, and how many people you kill.
  
  By the end of the game, i had murdered over 3000 people, earned well over 1 000 000 dollars and 
 was making approximately 70 000$ per job.
  
  The game does have it's up sides too however, the character voices are the same as they were in 
 1972, but it makes you wonder if any of the actors would have done this work if they werent in 
 desperate need of money.
  
  The game is pretty notchy, the story although it shadows and parallels the original movies, it's 
 bas graphics and simplistic game engine more than overshadow these pros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackpot1021
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is no San Andreas. It is fun, but in no way does it reach the perfection and enjoyability 
 that Grand Theft Auto brought. That aside, The Godfather brings immersive gameplay while bringing 
 nostalgia from the classic movie. The graphics are nice considering this wasn't made for pc, but 
 it feels like you're driving through the same areas from time to time. The map is kind of a pain 
 in the ass. Icons for safehouses don't show up until you are very close to them. The cars are decent 
 for a 40s setting, but they all look the same, and they all have drab colors. The missions are 
 fun, but of course not GTA-worthy. What I like most about this game are the loading times in the 
 world. Whenever I opened a door, it opened up quickly. Loading times for missions was a different 
 story. In a mission there were several and it got annoying. Sound was decent, as sound effects 
 weren't bad. One thing, however was odd. There was no radio at all. Just the same theme song over 
 and over again. There are some long driving parts in the game, and all you hear is the same instrumental.
 
  In the end, the game is very good and lengthly, and it'll help waiting for the next Rockstar classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is a very good game but perhaps I hope more. As a fan of the godfather films I was 
 waiting for a fantastic game, not a very good game.
  
  The game is funny and intensive, the control is good, the graphics are decent and the mob face 
 is excellent. I cant say The Godfather is a poor game but I miss more different cars, enemy characters, 
 and localizations. The missions of the history are interesting, easier then in Mafia, also the 
 game has got some interesting secondary objectives (murders, banks,) but the dynamic of extortion 
 is very repetitive.
  
  Anyway I hope to the godfather a long life and I want more, more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalwilliam
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with your father's murder scene and Don Corleone holding you so that you would'nt 
 see him dead. A couple of years later you get in the Corleone family by request of your mother. 
 The game has a unique Rank system that allows you to go up in the family. You start as Outsider 
 , the lowest rank. As you complete the tasks the family gives you, you go up ranks until you become 
 Don of New York , the highest rank there is.
  
  You also have skills you can upgrade. These are Fighting , Shooting , Health , Speed and Street 
 Smarts . Each one makes you better in a certain area. Fighting allows you to do more damage with 
 your hands and extort faster; Shooting makes you aim more precisely and faster; Health increases 
 your HP and resistance; Speed makes you sprint longer, move and attack faster and conceal/reaload 
 your weapon faste and Street Smarts gives you a series of things such as heat and vendetta reduction.
 
  
  The game's experience point is the respect . You can gain respect by completing missions, taking 
 over businesses, getting unique execution styles - this is one nice thing in the game; you can 
 kill people in 22 different ways -, etc. Respect is what makes you go up levels. Each level you 
 go up gives you one point to spend on the upgrade of one of your skills (maximum of 10 per skill) . 
 The higher level you are the easier it is to extort bussines owners.
  
  Extortion is the way you take over other familie's bussinesses. You must extort a bussiness owner 
 in order to take over his bussiness. Sometimes he might not want to cooperate so you have to either 
 hit him or his shop . There are four kinds of bussiness: Front bussiness (such as bakeries, hotels, 
 etc) , Rackets (brodels, gambling places, etc) , Wharehouses and Transportation Hubs. Each one these 
 gives you a weekly contribution in cash which you will use to bribe cops, pay doctors to heal you, 
 buy safehouses and weapons.
  
  This is basicaly the gameplay style that makes the game what it is. As you can't interact the way 
 you want with everything it's not perfect but its pretty good.
  
  About the system aspects Graphics and Sound aren't really good. The game appereance is as good 
 as a modern game has to be but not any thing better than that. Enviroments are pretty repetitive, 
 buildings inside aren't unique at all, not even the families houses. They're all the same according 
 to their type. Speaking of repetitive things, NPCs are basically all clone war styles with some 
 variations - same about cars, there are few types of them and they only change in color - the unique 
 ones are the main charcters (Sonny, Don Coreleone, Clemenza, other familes bossess...) and your 
 character. This is one very cool thing: you can change your character in evey single detail - from 
 rinkles and scars to eyebrows, mouths, hair eyes color and etc. You can also change his cloth at 
 any time and there are lots of variations of them. Besides these exceptions, developers could have 
 given more attention to the variation of NPCs and building interiors.
  
  One problem the game has is that you might get a bored with it after playing for a couple of times 
 as things you have to do will be always the same. Think about this before buying this game, it 
 is very important so you don't think it was a bad idea after you bought.
  
  Considering all that, I think the game is really good and it manages to get quite close to the 
 film story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Most of the time when I hear about a game that is based on a Movie I just don't bother about it, 
 however when I played The Godfather I understood that EA created a new game with it's own rights.
 
  That Game has a lot of Missions. Story Missions, Hit man Style Missions, Money making Missions, 
 Area takeover Missions and so on.
  Cars seem to be very limited, but I Guess in the 40s there was not much variation of cars anyway.
 
  
  There is an arsenal of weapons, and each gun has a level 2 and a level 3 version, the streets are 
 full of people and the building are blazing, giving it a realistic look and feel.
  
  The Performance:
  The game is new, and as you would expect there are a lot of glitches and bugs, 
 the game can occasionally quiet in the most dire of situations, which can be very frustrating, 
 so far EA has not released any patches yet. Going from an area to an area has no loading times, 
 which is a good thing.
  
  The game play:
  Addictive! For the first 5 hours of the game I was too Immersed that I didn't notice, it does borrow 
 from other games, but does it in it's own style.
  Going into a mob war is a bad thing, and requires a lot of experience of the game; the payoff is 
 good however, because money is important for a lot of things. You have got safe houses to buy, 
 weapon upgrading and bribing to do. Respect, which translates to Experience in the game, levels 
 you up, you have got different skills to upgrade and each of them makes life much easier.
  The game can be Difficult at times, but once you make use of cover, crouching and sneaking it will 
 be all about skill.
  
  Sound:
  The music is good, not bad and not great. Voice acting is good and it made me laugh a couple of 
 times. Covering a lot of slang and Accents makes it quite realistic and fun.
  
  Value:
  There's so much to do, and it's not an easy job to become the Don of NYC. Theres a lot to collect, 
 unlock and replay. There are some things you can do now than later, and vice versa.
  
  Bottom line:
  If you enjoyed Grand theft Auto, Driver or just loved the Movie. You'll appreciate 
 what The Godfather has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrock4207
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I WAS having fun with this game at first, until I realized that there is a spot in the game where 
 I fall through the floor and I can't even shut the game down (my computer completely freezes, and 
 I'm forced to manually shut it down) . There are no patches for this game, either (which clearly 
 means that EA doesn't care about this game) . Another problem I have is with all of the movie clips 
 in the game. They always constantly flicker and it's ONLY THIS GAME. Beyond that, the graphics 
 are bad and some of the characters have voices that don't fit them (and there's not enough music) . 
 There are no radio stations, like in Grand Theft Auto or anything to listen to besides the Godfather 
 theme. If you like this crappy game, there is plenty to do in it. It's too bad that EA games usually 
 doesn't even try to make their games playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Mafia u'll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ok,
  Being one not really into Movie scenario games... I would have to say that this game would be the 
 reason why. Nothing NEW from any other game in the Movie Genre. I was completely disappointed with 
 this release. If you must have this game, wait until you can find it in the bargain bin. The physics 
 are terrible. The only really cool thing is that you can create a character that actually resembels 
 You . Many other games have a limitation on faces, skin tones, body structure, and accesories. 
 This game uses a terrific character generator.
  
  As for gameplay, nothing to miss if you are still trying to decide whether or not you actually 
 want to waste $50.
  
  If you must have a Prohibition Gangster game, I would definatelt recommend Mafia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_dave
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Now first of all, let me get one thing off my chest: The Godfather is one of my favourite films 
 of all time through a combination of sublime acting, superb story and stunning atmosphere. Therefore, 
 I am very likely to be biased against this game, as any fanboy is biased against something which 
 takes his or her object of admiration and ham fistedly funnels it into gaming form. As hard as 
 I try to remove myself from comparisons to the film, said comparisions are of course inevitable, 
 so forgive me father.
  
  My major beef with The Godfather game is that it could have been done so much better. Another obvious 
 comparison to this game is Illusion Softwork's legendary classic, Mafia, for the reasons that both 
 games involve driving around cities in period cars while shooting the heck out of all that you 
 meet with drum fed thompsons. However, these games are different fundamentally to eachother in 
 a number of ways:
  
  Mafia is a linear game, modestly using its incredibly detailed city as a mere backdrop to the riveting 
 (but clich&eacute; d) storyline. In The Godfather, the city is a diet version of New York, divided 
 into five tiny districts that take yonks to travel to and from.
  
  Mafia's gunplay was subtle and realistc, using motion captured death animations to great effect. 
 The low key use of blood and solid feeling weapons really made you feel as though you were playing 
 in a film. The Godfather successfully takes these conventions, auto locks on to them and drills 
 them full of bizarrely weak bullets. Yes, you guessed it, The Godfather is criminally unbalanced. 
 With the base magnum, it takes THREE SHOTS TO THE CHEST to take the fat gangsters down. THREE SHOTS! 
 That's vapourise and elephant! And to make matters worse, in earlier levels, enemies can effectively 
 dispatch you with one or two shots. Utterly frustrating, and not much fun. To try and balance this 
 out, EA have decided to make gunplay easy enough for a drunk four year old to master in a few boring 
 minutes. Auto aim? Oh come on, this is the PC! WE HAVE THE MOUSE!
  
  Mafia oozes class from every orifice. The Godfather struggles to get a trickle of it out of it's 
 pecker. Think of the pure grittiness of Coppola's masterpiece. And then imagine Ed Wood has taken 
 over mid development. The game takes place at the time of the main story, and all too frequently 
 merges into the film. For example, YOU plant the horse's head in Woltz's bed, YOU strap the gun 
 to the back of the tiolet in Louis' restaurant, and YOU witness the death of Luca Brasi (which 
 is commited totally chronologically wrong by the way) . However, the overall feel is of The Godfather: 
 The Pantomime. The script is dire, the character graphics are dire, the settings are dire, and 
 don't get me started on Michael Corleone...
  
  If you think mafia's story was hackneyed and clich&eacute; d (which it was) , you're going to love 
 Mafia. The story, for want of a better word, is bollocks. father killed blah blah saved from the 
 streets blah blah blah meet some people from the film blah blah blah some side story about some 
 guy who oh god blah blah blah your gal dies with no real repurcussions on the story blah blah blah 
 you get revenge blah blah blah blah ad tedium. The story isn't so much bad as boring, old and terminally 
 clich&eacute; d. the story of the film just about keep's it's head above water.
  
  Where They didn't have Brando's dialogue recorded (he popped his clogs before development started) , 
 Don Corleone starts to speak like a bad Marlon brando impersonator... likely because most of Don 
 Corleone's dialogue is performed by a bad Marlon Brando impersonator (or as like to refer to him: 
 some guy with a husky voice with two bits of kleenex in his mouth) .
  
  Michael Corleone looks totally wrong, sounds totally wrong and acts totally wrong. Granted, this 
 is because Al Pacino didn't licence his likeness (although he did for the terrible Scarface cash 
 in) , but seriously, without Mike, why bother making the game in the first place???
  
  back on to original thread: Mafia's cars were the paragon of physical car handling in games. They 
 skidded when they should have, crumpled up where they should have crumpled up, and blew up from 
 gas leaks.
  
  To put it plainly, The Godfather's cars are some of the worst cars EVER in a video game. I **** 
 you not, there are 4 KINDS, all ugly, low poly and atrociously textured. They turn on a sixpence 
 and can effectively come to a halt from toip speed in about 3 seconds. Three shots from a magnum 
 to the door should see them off, and what terrible doors they are. The character can only get out 
 on one side, meaning that if the exit is blocked then the screen goes black and the character is 
 beamed ten metres away from his car as if by magic. The windows are opaque and silver, the car 
 interiors (a glimpse can be caught as the character gets in) are abysmal, and as for the policeman 
 shooting out of the windows of a car without a driver, well...
  
  On the subject of the police cars, they seem to have infinite speed. Even when you are in a (read 
 'the') sports car travelling at full speed, they can still somehow catch up and overtake you. This 
 is all well and good, providing the police cars are just fast cars. But when one is hijacked, lo 
 and behold, it is merely a reskinned version of the second slowest car (the one up from the pick 
 up truck and down from the coupe) . Things like this made me want to eliminate my computer.
  
  Oh God, there are so many more things wrong with this game, i don't even want to take time 
 writing about them in detail, so here's a list: Cars as weak as large petrol tanks on wheels, the 
 player character's unfeasibly girly voice (doesn't suit a seven foot tall wall of muscle) , the 
 laughably small collection of changeable clothes, the fact that the most valuable clothes are the 
 ugliest while the cheapo ones look the best, the fact that the player can run faster than every 
 car in the game, The inclusion of the empire state building but non inclusion opf a way to look 
 up at it,
  The laborious buisness aquiring gta style game aspect,
  the suspended rail tracks that have no trains,
  The annoying dead end roads,
  the fact that 
 some models have all five digits, while others have some sort of skin coloured spatula,
  The poor, vomit like face textures on the populace,
  The absolute raping of the Don Corleone 
 assasination attempt Fredo's voice,
  Rober Duvall's voice is an old man's voice, same goes for James Caan's
  No sex : (
  
  AND 
 THERE ARE SO MANY MORE I advise you to buy this game just for ****s and giggles.
  
  And now, the good points:
  
  Excellent melee combat system, with excellently connecting punches 
 and rather brutal exectution moves.
  Draw distances are good with LOD landmarks,
  Will run on any computer built by humans in the last 3 years,
  Generally superb acting from the 
 likes of Robert Duvall and some lesser knowns,
  Great facial expression system (let down by despicable textures) ,
  The character creation is 
 good and lets you change the face at any time by loading up your game again,
  Explosions are sexy,
  Lots of blood,
  On higher levels your character feels satisfactorally 
 invincible,
  Pedestrians make comments about your actions which adds to immersion,
  Is actually a passable GTA clone.
  
  THE VERDICT:
  
  All in all, the Godfather is a below 
 average game in its own right, but frankly it takes it's source material and pisses it up the wall. 
 To be honest, the main shortcoming of the game is that it's just cripplingly BORING.
  this is the biggest shame, as I feel that EA have wasted the Godfather licence and the film's gripping 
 narrative and artistic flare. The game is hilarious for it's foul ups, and there are many of them, 
 but if you happen to seer it in a bargain bin, buy it - it'll keep you entertained for about a 
 day, then leave you to grow bitter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baldurgatefr
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to love this game. I really did. In truth, it does have some fun moments and has 
 a great premise. It gets bogged down, however, and I mean REALLY bogged down, in the execution.
 
  
  For starters, when I change my options for a game, it would really be nice if the game remembered 
 my options somewhere so that when I loaded it up the next time I didn't have to re-enter all of 
 my options. I would also love if the game remembered that I had it installed and didn't force me 
 to reinstall when I wished to play it.
  
  Secondly, Godfather has a very deep and complex system wherein you take control of businesses by 
 extortion, which, given enough time, will eventually lead to taking over the warehouse of the area 
 of the city and getting a lot of cash. Great premise, HORRIBLE execution. There is absolutely, 
 positively no reason for a normal player to partake in any of this whatsoever. You ALWAYS have 
 enough money to heal yourself and get weapons and not a single mission you go on tells you to take 
 down a warehouse. Not One. Thirdly, while the missions are fun, they are over WAY to quick and 
 the game has no re-playability factor which means that you never have to play the game again.
 
  
  Fourth, why does a PC game require a control pad? The game is almost impossible to beat given the 
 standard keyboard and mouse option. With all the money and power that EA has, would it kill them 
 to make a PC game that is actually designed with a PC in mind. Ports are great and all, but you 
 can't put a console game on a PC DVD and not expect problems with something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  It is indeed a masterpiece... So many missions, upgrades, weapons, even violence is not an excepcion! 
 It kinda reminds me of Grand Theft Auto by it's style, but to me, it is far better... It is based 
 on the movie and it intends to stick to it.... Electronic Arts have done a great job on this one! 
 Fight is done pretty good. All the options... You can grab a man, punch him, kick him, throw him 
 around even burn him in an oven!!! (probably too much violence for someone, but I don't give a 
 **** The graphics is suprisingly good! I was expecting it to be worst!!! As you complete missions, 
 you get promoted. I have completed the game and became the Don of New York city!!! When you acomplish 
 this, you get to wonder around the city and scare the living hell out of people!!! (literally) 
 It is really fun while you still have missions to do! When you complete the game, beating up people 
 becomes boring... Pitty... Anyway, the game is great and you should try it yourself... You won't 
 be dissapointed... Or at least I hope so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leredab
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is so much fun that it is an absolute must-have. I love this game so very much. The 
 Game IS highly addivtive. What I mean by that is when you start playing, it is quiet hard to stop. 
 Specially when you love GTA-LIKE game. Actually, The Godfather is not 100% like Grand Theft Auto, 
 what I mean is, there are no boats, no planes, no bicycles, no motocycles, you cannot swim ect... 
 On the other hand, the addictive thing is buisness. Yes you can do buisness, you can go in any 
 shop that is controlled by anther family and make the manager pay you. You can do that by doing 
 anything: Point a gun at him, strangle him, punch him, destroy his shop, kill some unlucky customers... 
 ect... Anyway, That s not the only thing you can do, there ara also the missions. In other words, 
 the game is long, it would take you more then 45 hours to finishall the missions, get control of 
 every shop, exterminate the other families and that will make you become the Don Of New York.
 
  Graphically, its a pleasure to the eyes. The people are nicely modelled and so is New-York, although 
 the city is not complete. New-York in Mafia is better.
  The sounds are just amazing. The music from the great movie.
  The godfather is a game that you 
 have to play. You will love it as much as the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  It seems that godfather is a mixed game. the company try to mixed gta n mafia both in godfather 
 game. i think they did well. the time is mafia ages. when they are the boss of their era. the gameplay 
 is good though i think it can be better. original godfather movie have a strong impact on this game. the 
 storyline is almost same. u can walk, run, use vehicale, go to house, bank, shop, bar as u want. like its 
 a free world. and the police is vary good. as u can bribe them, it seems that ut have no problem to 
 do whatever u want. here u have to deal with every shop, bar, racket house, bank to achive ur target. become 
 a godfather! wow things right? the graphysics is good. for ur kind information, the game does'nt need 
 high end hardware to run it. u can run it with a 1.7 ghz,256 mb ram n 64 mb gpu to run it well in 
 1-24 * 768 resolution. bt the sound is not good as i though. all the thing is right. n i think it 
 might not bore u though its a mixed game...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Well everyone of my friends told me to buy the game and when I did so, I felt a little let down 
 by the fact that it just reminded me too much of GTA 3 in a different nvironment. The story is 
 ok though I started to get bored by just blaickmaling every store and running from A to B, talking 
 to a guy, accepting the mission and running from A to B again. The graphics are really the downside 
 of the game, they are comparable with Deus Ex from 1999. The characters faces and movements are 
 ok but if you take a look at the clothes and especially the hands it just isn't what I expect from 
 a game in 2006. Also there are ybout 5 different cars and each one with 5 different colour styles, 
 I don't know it just doesn't convince me. And just like in GTA you have all the hotels which are 
 identical, all the clubs, restaurants and even the ennemies bosses houses. A little more variety 
 wouldn't have done any harm guys.
  
  The music and atmosphere on the other hand is quite amusing and well done. With the gentle music 
 of the 1920's the game gets a more The godfather Ingame touch.
  
  The controls are obviously optimised for controllers and were not optimised for the keyboard which 
 is especially noticable when you are in a gunfight or need to do something special as pulling a 
 guy and throwing him off the rooftop. I just feels a little dodgy.
  
  Another good thing is that the game will keep you busy for a while ( I admit I haven't finished 
 it yet but untill now I spent around 14 hours on it) . There are a lot of sidequests and additional 
 things you can do and if you get bored you can still try to find all the video tapes hidden in 
 the game.
  
  To conclude I would like to say that for me this is once again a game based upon good ideas but 
 resulting as an average because the controls are not good enough and the graphics are just terrible 
 compared to current standards. I recommend buying this game on console rather than on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Greedo
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I guess I bought this game thinking it would be really great, the next Mafia . Perhaps I had too 
 high hopes for this, having just finished Mafia and putting that game on my top 5. To be frank, 
 this game is a huge dissapointment.
  
  The gameplay would've been great, lots of shootouts, and you can choose to drive any car you see. 
 But, the shooting is made simplistic with the lock-on abiltiy that a 6 year old could master in 
 seconds. Right click, then left click, then dead. Cover is employed well since if you don't use 
 it, you'll go down pretty quickly. But all you need to do is kill a few enemies, and eventually 
 they'll drop a bottle you can run over and heal instantly. The gun selection is alright, but after 
 you gain money, you can quickly upgrade the guns so that they can take out most enemies in one 
 shot. The sound on the guns is also extremely bad. Most sound like a guy hitting random objects 
 with a wooden spoon.
  
  The missions in the game are practically all the same. This game even tries and fails at creating 
 a stealth mission where you must plant a horse head in a director's house. This brings up another 
 point: Story. Having not seen The Godfather (never get around to it) this game makes absolutely 
 no sense. You never know what is going on because the story is made so that you have to have watched 
 the movie to enjoy it.
  
  The cars are extremely unrealistic. You accelerate to 100 km/s in mere seconds, and turning is 
 too easy. There are also only about 6 varients of cars, with... wait for it... different color 
 schemes! They all look bland, and the windshields are made of black-painted steel so you can't 
 get shot out. But if you shoot the tires too much on the car, it will explode.
  
  I can't believe I paid $36.99 for this. Atleast I had a $30.00 gift card to use on it, but this 
 is unacceptable. If there were mods, maybe this game would've been worth it, but EA still hasn't 
 released anything to help modders.
  
  Overall, this is a corny, lame, easy, graphically challenged, horrible game. It's made worse by 
 the fact that a game made in 2002 beats it by far in all aspects, even in the graphics deparment 
 (Mafia) . I didn't realize I hated this game so much before I wrote this review and used Gamespot's 
 system of rating graphics, sound, etc. on a 1 to 10 scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When I looked for The Godfather at my local retailer, I couldnt find it under RPGs. I stumbled 
 upon it in the Action games section and thought that was odd. I had researched the game a bit, 
 being leery because Im not a huge fan of the movies, and thought I knew everything there was about 
 it. After playing the game, Action/Adventure is probably the best genre description. The game is, 
 obviously, based strictly off the 1972 feature film The Godfather. You follow the tale of a young 
 tough adopted by the Corleone family and you run mob missions and hits that parallel the movie 
 storyline. Some missions are straight out of the movie (you learn exactly how that horses head 
 got in the bed) and others stray from the plot but make sense to the game. Between those story 
 missions, you can take over your own businesses for income, run rackets and fronts, and, eventually, 
 run entire sections of town. You can also pick up Hitman-style side missions that, thank goodness, 
 are fairly straight forward and much easier than anything 47 ever had to run. This keeps you busy 
 and with less than 1/3 of the storyline completed I had logged in an easy 13-15 hours of gameplay.
 
  
  The Godfather is, disappointingly, a game with a strictly linear story with few to no options along 
 the way. There are RPG elements as you upgrade your character, clothing, and weapons, and can choose 
 in what order you do so, but none of those choices bear impact on the main storyline or any side 
 activities. The problem is, you cant stray from the main story. You cant leave the Corleones 
 to go work for one of the four rival factions. You kill their men to take their business and warehouses, 
 but you cant negotiate with them, play one off the other, or do anything outside of work for the 
 Corleones. The Godfather is frequently compared to the latter Grand Theft Auto games, but unlike 
 GTA you cant hijack a cab and run taxi missions, take a police car and run 911 calls, or take 
 part in any kind of fun mini-games. The game, therefore, is not open-ended, but so long as you 
 understand that going into it, youll find it hard to be disappointed.
  
  The Godfather is beautiful to look at. The city streets are gorgeously packed with detailed buildings 
 and people and the game area flows seamlessly from one burg to the next. There is no teleporting 
 in this game so you have to get used to driving around. The longest trip is getting to New Jersey 
 and back, but the wonderfully rendered tunnel is a cinch to zip through. The cars are modeled quite 
 well, with about four or five different vehicle types that handle differently. The maneuverability 
 is surprisingly simple with a keyboard and the high level of detail in the city allows you to navigate 
 by landmarks and familiar vistas. You may actually learn a bit about navigating in New York if 
 you play this game enough as, as far as I can tell, its almost as detailed for that era as Midtown 
 Madness would be for New York today. The car chases can be nerve-wracking as you try to shake badguys 
 who are not only ramming you, but also shooting at you. Too many impacts on your auto, and the 
 engine bursts into flames, leaving you seconds to bail out while youre still being fired upon.
 
  
  Peoples faces are highly detailed and, if you look closely, you can see their eyes focus on you 
 as you bribe a cop or pull your gun out. Peoples clothing, as well as their cars, change smoothly 
 with the different parts of town, where upper-class areas will have you spotting high-class guys 
 and dames next to nicer cars. The cutscenes are enjoyable to watch with the facial details and 
 shining eyes becoming clearer. Some of the actors loaned their voices to the game, including the 
 late Marlon Brando for a limited number of clips, but the real thrill was listening to Robert Duvall 
 on some of the missions. This is a wonderful way to draw the player into the game as you honestly 
 feel as if Robert Duvall is talking to you with some wonderful voice-acting.
  
  As others have complained, the constant recycling of floorplans for each business type does get 
 very repetitive, but you dont spend much time in any of these businesses unless your fighting. 
 When that happens, and it will, youre glad you know your way around even if youve never been 
 inside that particular building before. Taking over these businesses can get repetitive but Ive 
 noticed changes in the number of thugs I have to take out as well as how much cover I have approaching 
 the building. Once inside, you harass the owner for a cut of their business by slapping them around, 
 breaking stuff in their shop, or just holding a gun to their head. Fun stuff if you have some aggression 
 you need to get out.
  
  The best action, by far, is the street fighting, whether its part of a mission, an initial approach 
 to taking over a business, or you accidentally run over a rival gang member while driving somewhere 
 else (oops) . Then, all Hell breaks loose. Pedestrians will run through the crossfire, badguys dive 
 under cars, and a pickup truck with too many holes in the gas tank suddenly explodes, setting off 
 a chain reaction on the two cars next to it. Straight out of the movies. The five firearms types, 
 three pistols, a shotgun, and a Tommy-gun, have different strengths and rates of fire, and each 
 have their separate uses for range and damage. Aiming can be done the RPG way by selecting a target 
 with auto-aim, or you can move the crosshairs freely on your own. When you get close enough, execution 
 moves like kicking them to the floor then blasting them to the face (or throwing them off a roof, 
 or throwing them in a furnace orohsorry) , remind you that this is a game based on a brutal chapter 
 of American history.
  
  Im running it on an AMD Athalon 3200+ 2.4ghz with 2gig RAM on a GeForce 6600 card and it runs 
 smooth as silk with medium graphics. When there is a lot of smoke or flame, there will be a frame 
 rate drop but it only lasts a second or two and I have yet to have it interfere with gameplay. 
 I ran my graphics options to the max and did experience a little bit of a frame rate drop just 
 driving around, but my rig is over a year old so thats to be expected. Whats funny is I couldnt 
 tell the difference between medium and high graphics other than a lower amount of jaggies on 
 some of the surfaces, so keeping the graphics on medium is hardly a penalty.
  
  Intense gunfights, nail-biting pursuits through crowded streets, pulse-pounding missions, and, 
 by far, some of the best graphics Ive seen for an adventure game in a long time made my trip to 
 the store worth it. I keep wanting to take over just one more shop or run one more mission before 
 bed; the mark of a solid, engrossing, game. The Godfather is a great buy, especially since the 
 price has dropped almost $20 after it came out six months ago, and its a lot of game for the money. 
 I recommend it, but with the caution that its called The Godfather because of the movie, and in 
 the movie plot is where youll stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ietam_Revan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  So this game shows a very detailed graphic .The graphics are really cool . You start the game as 
 the son of an mafioso but your fatther is killed when you are a boy . So one of Corleone's guy 
 comes to you (because your mom is worried about you and asks Don Corleone to help you) and helps 
 you with some thugs . Then you have an offer to work for the mafia. So in this game you start as 
 a recruit (what's new is that you can gain experience improving your abilities) and you can end 
 up Don of New york city wic is very cool . So the gameplay is cool you get to have almost all
 
  weapons , there are very special weapons that you must pay lots of cash , so the graphics of the 
 game are really cool .The storyline is great and the sound is pretty nice .So the game is worth 
 it yeah yeah baby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  GamePlay: 9 - GTA-style free-form gameplay (godfather make it even you can do another mission after 
 you accept a new mission, this is impossible in GTA: SA) Intense Violence, you can even drop someone 
 from the rooftop. (this is fun...) Get protection money, promotion, just like a real Mafia member.
 
  
  Graphics: 9 - Superior graphics. This is unexplainable, you just see something like fires, shadows 
 or even people.... then you will notice...
  
  Sound: 8 - Good. Got a Mafia feel while listening music. But the Mafia (game) is better.
  
 
  Value: 9 - Acceptable price.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt : 9 - I recommend this game to anyone who likes violence.
  
  Conclusion: GTA+Mafia=Godfather 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather moves the very popular movie series to the realm of the PC. It takes the familiar 
 story and merges it with a unique character to allow the player to immerse themselves in the tale 
 presented before them. It is a gritty and sometimes violent story that gives you much to do and 
 a vibrant city to perform these actions. Godfather puts you in the shoes of a side character that 
 is not directly releated to the film in any way. This way, you can see all the memorable scenes 
 from the movie played out before you without having to change anything. You start out as a lowly 
 unofficial enforcer who is sent out to expand the business empire by shaking down local businesses 
 and illegal rackets to grow the Corleone empire. As you become more successful, you move up the 
 ladder until you become the Don of New York.
  
  You start the game by creating a character. This is the first thing you notice that allows you 
 to have an individual identity in the game. You choose from hair styles to the shape of your face 
 down to the type of shoes you wear. It is a nice touch to give the player a way to envision themselves 
 in the game. Everything is customizable and you can choose to upgrade your looks later with the 
 addition of more clothing and grooming options as the game moves on and you become a major player 
 in the city.
  
  Variety is the key to The Godfather. Like a Grand Theft Auto game, you are given the opportunity 
 to perform many activities. You have the story missions when follow the movie plot and pick up 
 on most of the critical events that happen. You have the extortion rackets where you go into businesses 
 and get them to pay protection money. You get to go through contract hits where you are asked to 
 kill someone in a particular way. You can even destroy rival family compounds by infiltrating and 
 bombing the locations. You are never at a loss to have something to do. The main story does follow 
 the events of the movie fairly closely. You are not featured in the main story, but assist critical 
 events in happening. You chase down the killers that assassinate Sonny at the toll plaza in one 
 sequence. Another involves you assisting with the removal of one horse head that can be put in 
 a bed for a wake up surprise. All of the major likenesses are in the game with the exception of 
 Michael Corleone, played by Al Pacino. James Caan, Robert Duvall and Abe Vigoda are among the many 
 characters that were in the film that play themselves. They even managed to get a performace from 
 Marlin Brando by piecing together dialoge from the movie into sentences. It is a feat to behold.
 
  
  The game does have a significant amount of driving and you can drive any car you find in the game. 
 While this sounds good at first, the game does not have a good driving mechanism. Cars tend to 
 have floating physics and handle like a current race car over a car from the 40s. If you are going 
 to drive a jalopy of a truck, you figure it should handle sloppy and sluggish. But it actually 
 will perform sharp handbrake turns and accelerates to a top speed most trucks would envy. The performance 
 issue with the cars tends to take you right out of the game. The game would have been wise to take 
 a page from Mafia and create car physics that were a little more realistic.
  
  Visually, the game is a feast for the eyes. All the main characters in the game with the exception 
 of Michael Corleone are dead ringers for their real life counterparts. When you first get a glimpse 
 at the computer generated Marlon Brando, you will be floored by the details. The moles, wrinkles, 
 it is just a stunning attention to detail that brings you into the game. The backgrounds are full 
 of detail. It feels like a faithful recreation of the era that the movie is set in. Explosions 
 are also vivid in detail and have a visceral feeling that makes you grin with sweet satisfaction. 
 The only real problem is that the interiors of the buildings that you enter are repeated over and 
 over. As the old saying goes, Youve been in one flower shop, youve been in them all. With the 
 stunning city and character models, you would think they could of come up with more interior visuals.
 
  
  The sounds that you hear in the game are a mixed bag. James Caan, Robert Duvall and the rest of 
 the cast are here and they sound fantastic. The only missing component as has been stated before 
 was Al Pacino. It is unfortunate, because he could have rounded out one of the best voice casts 
 in a video game ever. The fact that they were able to put together the voice work of Marlon Brando 
 to get a credible voiceover says volumes about the creators of the game. The same attention to 
 detail goes into the weapon sounds. When you let off a blast from a shotgun, you almost feel the 
 recoil in your arms. Same with a Tommy Gun. It is a satisfying sound to the ears when you hear 
 weapons that sound realistic. It took awhile, but you start to notice there is a real absence of 
 ambient music. During certain sequences, you get a short musical score, like the assassination 
 attempt on the Don or the baptism of Michael Corleone, but beyond that, it is a quiet ambience 
 that is pierced by the occasional crowd noice or honking horn. Eerie silences about and it just 
 seems out of place in this game.
  
  The Godfather gives the player an experience that will pull them into an epic family struggle to 
 control a town while dealing with the day to day operations that keep the family going. Side missions 
 like assassinations and compound takeovers flesh out the story and add to the experience. With 
 so many options, you will be hard pressed to not enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather
  
  
  :  
 ( 
 
   : EA Games
  : EA Games
   : 
 Mar 21, 2006    
 : Game Spot: 8.1
  IGN: 7.9
  Game Rankings: 71.8
   : 
 7.8
  
    : 
    
      
     
     
     
   .  
      
     
     
     
   40    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    .
 
      
     
    
  .   
     
     
    
    
     
      
     
      
       
  (   
    ) 
    ...  
     
   
     
      
     
   .
 
      
    2004   
 .    
    
    EA   
     
      
     
 .
      
     
      
     
   (   
     ) 
 .    
       
      
     
      
   ( ) 
  .   
     
     
      
  .  
   EA   
    
      
      
 :
     
     
  
       
     
    .  
  EA    
      
    . 
    
     
     
     
  .   
     
     
     
     . 
     
     
     
     
    
     
   .  
      
     
  .   
     
   21   
  2006  (1  
 1385)     
     .
 
  
   :  
    
      
 .    
       
      
      
   .
 
      
     
     
   .  
     
      
      
     . 
      
    . 
      
      
     
    . 
     
  .   
     
       
    . 
     
     Don Corleone  
  .    
     
     
    . 
      
     
      
     
      
     
  .
  
   :   
     
     
     
     
     
 .   
     
      
      
     
     
      
  .  
     
   .  
     
     
   .   
     
      
    
     
      
    . 
     
     
      
      
      
    . 
     
  .   
     
      
      
      
     
      
    
      
  ....   
     
      
     
       
   .  
     
     
  )    
   . 
    
     
   GTA  . 
     
     ( 
  )   
 .    
      
    
       
  GTA  . 
      
     
     
     
     ....  
 .
      
      
     
  .   
     
      
     . 
     
      
       
    . 
    
     
      
  .   
      
   .  
     
      
  .  
     
     
       
     
    
     
    . 
     . 
    
       
  .   
    
      
       
     
     
     .
 
  
  :   
     
 .   
      
      
    . 
     
      
      
     
   .
     
     
      
  .
      
     
      
     
    
   .  
     
     . 
     
     
 ( )    
 (     ) 
     
 .     
      
      
      
   .  
     
     
     
   .
 
  
    : 
     
       
    . 
     
     EA  
      
    
   
      
     . 
     
     
      
     
      
     
 .
     
      
     
 .     
     
      
   .  
     
     
     .
 
  
  :   
    
   . 
    
  (   
 EA)       
     
   .  
     
      
     
     
  .   
     
      
      
     
     
      
 .   
     
     
    
  .
  
   :   
      
   . 
     
      
 .    
     
     
   . 
     
      
      
      
     
     .
 
      
    . 
      
     
     
     
      
     
 (    
   )  
       
     
       
    
  .   
     
    . 
      
      
     GTA  
      
    .  
     
   .  
     
   !!  
    :
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
 :    
    
      
   - 
  (  
 )   
 .    
      
     
  EA .  
      
   EA    
       
      
     
     
  .   
 .     
  4      
     
     
     
 EA   .  
       
     
   ....   
     
    
      
   .
  
      
    
     
      
 .    
      
     
  (   
      
  )    
     
     
      
     
     GTA   
      
   .  
     
     
     . 
     
     True Crime  
 
  
  : wwww. darinoos. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Many of you would think that the Godfather the game would just be a cheesy impression of the movie. 
 Well it's not. It also isn't a cheesy GTA look alike. No, it's something much better.
  
  It starts off as a great game. Giving you a choice to play the prelude or not. While not playing 
 the prelude may give you a hard time to understand the game it can be lived without. After that's 
 over with, the main story starts. You see all the great characters from the movies. Luca Brasi, 
 Tom Hagen, Sonny, Fredo, and Michael Corleone, Virgil Sollozzo, and of course Vito Corleone a. k. a. 
 The Godfather. After you play for about 20 minutes you start to get a curve for the game. You know 
 when to crouch and when to reload. You know when the A. I. is going to come rushing at you and when 
 they are going to just stand there and take a bullet to the head. You start to get into the game 
 which is hard to do with some, like Half-Life 2 where you're always edgy that something's going 
 to come out of the ground.
  
  Now the graphics are a different story. Some people complain about them and mark that they "suck". 
 I strongly disagree, not because I'm writing a review on the game but because I believe that a 
 video game should be judged fully by the content as a whole and not separate parts. One minor tweak 
 that gets kind of annoying is when you hand the money to an FBI agent, Luca, or a cop it disappears 
 for a second then reappears in your partners hand.
  
  The sound is perfect. Sometimes there's a lapse but other than that it goes perfectly with the 
 game. It changes to a low pitched bass when someone sees you and when they're "taken care of" it 
 switches to a more calm type of sound.
  
  The value is excellent. It is totally worth $30-$40 dollars. Trust me.
  
  Rent or Buy
  I 
 suggest rent then buy if you don't think that it's just another GTA wanna-be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackctu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  In Godfather you can create your own player and take him around in a Grand Theft Auto world.
  
  If you have seen Gameplay Movie 11 here on gamespot then this will not give much away. DO NOT 
 read the next paragraph if you dont want anything given away.
  
  (SPOILERS BELOW)
  
  Well it start where your father and mother are talk about a night together at a night club when 
 the bakery your in explodes, your father runs in to save you, but its a trap. The rival gang capture 
 your father and take him in the ally for a betting, your father wins but the rival gang boss is 
 dirty and orders his men to kill him with tommy guns (Lots Of Blood NOT seen In The Gameplay Movie) . The 
 Rival boss walk right past you, the Don come up to you and supports you over your dead father. 
 9 years later and its the Don's Daughters wedding and his religion is not to refuse an offer at 
 his Daughters wedding. Your mother asks the Don to help you because you falling in with bad people. 
 Your getting bullyed in a ally by well..... bullys. The Don's assistent smashed one of the bullys 
 over the head with a metal pipe (more blood) . Now You learn how to play.
  
  (SPOILDERS END)
  
  After you learn how to play the game you are taken into a GTA world doing 
 wantever you want working for Don Corleone.
  
  My Ratings, And Why.
  
  Gameplay = 10
  Graphices = 10
  Sound = 10
  Value = 10 Gameplay Why?
  
  Best Free-Roam I Played better 
 that GTA: SA, Extort Shops, Warehouses, Rackets And use em to earn money. upgrade your weapons, 
 destroy rival gangs, Mob Wars, Create Own Player And Change Clothes, Entry Most Building Because 
 Of Shop Take Over.
  
  Graphics Why?
  
  Very Good Graphices, Fires Are Amazing, Details On Players Amazing, Everything Is Amazing.
  
 
  Sound Why?
  
  Very Good Sound, Fire Sound Effects Are Amazing, Bombing Rival Shops And Watching Em Blows Up It 
 Sounds So Real When It Blows.
  
  Values Why?
  
  Cheap and well, well worth buying.
  
  Thanks Guys
  Hope You Like my Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Or-G
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  The Godfather is the official game from the very famous movies, the Godfather (Wouldnt guess that 
 without me would ya?) . It is very similar to the GTA series, but with a few twists, imho theyre 
 good twists. :)
  Just like the movie, it takes place in the 1930s in New York; the city looks great and immerses 
 you inside it. The large city is divided up into Brooklyn, New Jersey, Hells Kitchen and Midtown. 
 If I were to guess Id say the game area would be a bit smaller than that of San Andreas. Each 
 area, or parts of areas are controlled by a different criminal organization. Just like from the 
 movies there are, the Corleones (Your family) , Barzini, Cuneos, and Tatalgia.
  You start off by making your own character, customizing his own features and such, once you get 
 money later on in the game you can choose to purchase new clothes. After that there is a cut scene 
 of you as a small child and you witness the murder of your father, the Don takes you in and you 
 begin to work for him. Then it goes into the future and just like in the beginning of the movie, 
 the wedding is happening. There you see your mother pleading to the Don to help fix you up, apparently 
 you fell into a rough patch.
  Anyhoo, the Don sends good ol (and still fat) Luca Brazsi. He finds you being beat up by a bunch 
 of guys. He picks up a wrench and whacks the shaizer out of one of the guys and grabs the other 
 two. This is where you learn the basic mechanics of the game, such as the new Blackhand Control 
 System, Ill describe this later in the Gameplay section of this review.
  After you beat the crap out of the guys Luca tells you to go meet the Don, and thats where the 
 game really begins, with the hijacking of the cars and the beating of the innocents.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  As I said before, there is a new control system in this game, known as the Blackhand 
 Control System. There are many new elements to this system. When you are fighting somebody you 
 first have to lock on to them, then you have a selection of options for you to choose. You can 
 choose to just punch them using buttons E and Q, you can grab them, you can execute them (cool 
 little animation where you grab the person and break their neck or shoot them in the head) , or 
 strangle them.
  If you decide to grab the person you can either use the punching buttons to beat them or you can 
 control how hard you punch them, or throw them, etc, using the movement of you mouse. For instance, 
 if you were to jerk your mouse hard then your character will give a good hard punch. Also, if you 
 are near an object you can smash the person into it, or if youre standing close to a ledge or 
 window or oven you can throw the person into oblivion, always fun.
  There is also a lock on button where you lock on to a person and shoot them, a lot like in the 
 console versions of GTA. One of my favourite options is the damage system. For instance, you can 
 shoot someone in the leg and they will crumple to the ground and try to crawl away or something 
 of that sort, or you can disarm them by shooting them in the arm, and etc Its all very interesting 
 and extremely fun, although you may need some getting used to for these mechanics.
  Another interesting aspect of this game is extorting businesses. The point of this is to get money 
 and take over the business. Basically what you do is you walk into a store of some sort and you 
 talk to the manager. You can start off by talking to them, and if theyre nice or scared of you 
 they will automatically give up. Others wont go down so easily, so you may have to break some 
 stuff in their shop, or beat them a bit to come out. There is a handy little bar in the top right 
 part of the corner which tells you how close they are to giving up the money. If you go too far 
 you will anger them and they will fight back, eventually leading to their death and you losing 
 out on some money, but if you do get them to pay you will get a weekly payment from them, a small 
 part of this payment goes to you, the rest to the family. As you gain a higher rank in the Corleone 
 family your pay raise will rise.
  You can also bribe the police not to come after you, and they will even help you out when youre 
 in trouble. Your fellow Corleones will also help you out if theyre in the area. One of my best 
 moments in the game was when I just emerged from a Corleone controlled hotel and I was about to 
 steal a car. I jerked open the door and a guy came out, wanting to fight. He was just about to 
 punch me when I heard a gunshot and the man dropped dead. I turned back to find my fellow Mafioso 
 and saw him clutching his gun towards the direction of the fallen victim. I was laughing so hard 
 at that moment.
  The only semi-bad part about the controls is the car handling, in my opinion anyway. It just feels 
 rather unnatural, and definitely not how a car from the 1930s would move. They just handle too 
 well, they turn too well, drive too well, etc They seem to maneuver better than you would expect 
 a NASCAR car to. But, if you dont mind unrealisticness then you will love how the cars react, 
 like a dream as quoted by some of the game reviewers.
  The weapons in this game are quite fantastic, ranging from your very first tiny pistol to the sweet 
 Tommy gun, my personal favorite gun. There is also the garrote wire, which is used for sneaking 
 up behind people and choking them, EXTREMLEY FUN.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  The city environment looks great, the buildings, the roads, the burning garbage cans, etc. I especially 
 like the fires and the car exploding animations, they look a few hundred times better than that 
 of GTAs. Unfortunately the cars dont look too great, but theyre still fine, but can be much 
 better. See for yourself (Screenshots below.) Some of the textures can be quite bad. Some of the 
 cut scenes look absolutely horrific, the in game graphics are much better. To be more exact, the 
 cut scene graphics look like theyre from GTA Vice City, except the character models are slightly 
 more detailed.
  There are A LOT of flickering objects, and it gets extremely frustrating. When youre driving down 
 a major road soaking up the scenery you spot a building flickering like mad from normal to grey 
 you cant help but feel pissed off.
  Another thing is how the cars and people spawn. They practically appear out of nowhere. Sometimes 
 youre just driving and you see a rectangular shadow in front of you and as you get closer it turns 
 out to be a truck, and this also gets super frustrating, especially when youre trying to get somewhere 
 fast and these objects appear out of nowhere. Another thing that can be worked on are the objects 
 fading out. For instance, if you knock a lamp post down itll fall, sparks will come out, it all 
 looks nice but then it just fades out, and really quickly too, it doesnt look good at all. This 
 happens with car remnants, people, and any other things you may destroy. What is nice though, is 
 how the things are destroyed and the many destructible things, such as crates, barrels, carts, 
 etc When you shoot them, hit them, whack people into them, splinters will break out of them and 
 you will see each phase of deterioration, although sometimes it can happen too roughly, especially 
 with cars. For example, someone shoots the car and it automatically becomes dented.
  The game is also extremely repetitive, location wise. Nearly every warehouse is the same, hotel 
 is the same, all the stores are the same, etc Even many of the character models are the same. 
 It can be quite disappointing when youre having a shootout against fifteen people that look exactly 
 the same. The car models also dont vary too much, there are about six or seven different models 
 and even less different colours, but you dont really notice these things in the game as you are 
 so enthralled in it.
  The characters from the movies all look just like themselves, except for Michael Corleone, which 
 is a shame, since he is my favorite character, but other than that they all look just like their 
 movie counterparts.
  
  Sound 10/10
  The sound in this game is absolutely magnificent. The voice acting is so believable youd think 
 youre watching the actual movie. EA games actually got professional actors to make them, and they 
 actually got some of the characters from the movie to do the voices.
  I think its safe to say that this game has one of the best soundtracks ever made in a game. They 
 took all of the songs from the movies and shoved it into here, and they all sound marvelous and 
 all come out at the perfect moments.
  Sound effects are also very good, from the roar of the engine to the gunfire of a pistol, they 
 all sound genuine and just the way you would expect them to.
  
  Artificial Intelligence-AI 7/10
  The AI isnt quite miraculous in this game. In fact, most of 
 the time they seem to just run out and get shot. Sometimes the enemies will just turn around and 
 pretend that nothing is happening. Other times they will take cover behind objects and peak around 
 corners though. The lack of good AI isnt quite noticeable though, seeing the fact that there are 
 usually so many people shooting at you at one time that you dont quite notice.
  
  Pros
  Blackhand Control System is really fun
  Extortions can be really fun
  Captures the movie really 
 well
  Great graphics in most areas
  Garrote Wire is super wicked
  
  Cons
  Not the greatest AI
  Damn those flickering objects
  Not too many variations in car models and 
 locations
  Graphics in cut scenes suck most of the time
  
  Conclusion
  In conclusion, despite some of the cons of this game, it is still a great game, one of my favorites 
 in fact. I portrays the movies quite well and is a great joy to play. And if you like your games 
 to be realistic, then this game probably isn't for you, or any game for that matter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is my favorite game so far. It is fun and also is a great action adventure, one of 
 the best I've ever played. All the characters are good expect for Michael Corleone, Its not even 
 him from the movie. Be sided by that the cars and graphics are excellent. It all starts in Little 
 Italy where as a child your father was killed and you set out to be The Don and take your revenge. At 
 the begginning there are basic objectives that you have to complete like taking over business, 
 miner fights, and other things.
  The games sound is really good. All the characters sound exactly the same as the actors in the 
 movie. The vehicles and cop cars looked pretty nice back then. Going into many buildings in the 
 city is cool too. There is a lot to learn in the game. Bribing cops is pretty cool. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  The game is not real bad at all and does include some real got new ideas. Like taking over the 
 business in town and also the character interface is grate. But that's also about all, the rest 
 is just a real bad copy of Mafia. 
  What the heck is going on here? Is it really necessary to do so for the biggest game label in the 
 world? I mean to steal ideas from a much smaller label. Now I'm only able to say it's a real ugly 
 behaviour. 
  But Its nice to see whit witch honesty EA games and Sony made this game. I mean by showing how 
 they're really working them self. Okay, of cause whit the one major exception that they don't really 
 do liquidate people only there firms and creativity.
  
  YES! I know that Sony didn't really have anything to do whit the game as such, if you forget the 
 fact WHY the cars, birds and Houdini effects are looking like some thing from a Pc-game made anno1999 
 but it just shows us that we PC-gamers still have to suffer be cough of the Ps 2
  
  So some how The Godfather is like Gta St. AndreAss and vice city. there manly made for the Ps 2 
 so for the Pc gamers there quid disappointing games, but for the Ps 2 gamers it's real grate games. 
 and Godfather has some real grate and funny new features. like the main characters raw and tough 
 way to convince people to support hes mafia family, yes he sure is a tough son of a bitc-bi bi 
 lol but I just hate the much too dominant music that we can't turn off ! ! the melody is okay 
 
  
  HAIL THE DAY when Sony do relies there new THING (and let's hope it's not like there last relies) 
 you know so that NO Pc-gamer ever again must suffer be cause the games absolutely MUST support 
 the disastrous Ps 2 engine.
  I'm happy I'm feeling glad I gut sunshine in a bag ----but not for long the future is coming on 
 --"-- I'm sure you do know the sung even better that me. 
  Ps. Houdini effects are when things disappear ore appears out of the blue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmanwah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i`ve just played "the godfather-the game" on the pc and it was very very good, but a bit too easy 
 u can say. u belong to the corleone family while there are four other rival families controlling 
 new york city namely the barzinis, the tattaglias, the stracci and the cuneos. the barzinis are the 
 strongest and are the hardest to kill. 
  
  the graphics are excellent, so are the character faces ,the guns, the ability to fire, getting payment 
 from different shop keepers is also amazing.
  
  the other good thing is persuading the shop keepers in giving us money by destroying some part 
 of their shop or even if u aim ur gun on them they go kinda soft. u can even throw them through 
 their own windows to persuade them in giving u money. the more u apply pressure, the more money u 
 get out of them.
  
  the problem here is the strory e. g when u compare it with mafia-the game, the story is good but 
 u can`t get into the middle of what`s happening around u to a certain extent ,not that u do`n tknow 
 what`s happening but the stroy line is a bit weak i would say.
  
  whereas in mafia u were part of the whole story and u got to know everything that`s happening.
 
  
  another weak spot in godfather is the driving. it is pretty artificial and u can`t expect a 40`s 
 50`s model of car to turn sharply can u? but in the godfather it turns so sharply around corners 
 which even todays cars can`t.
  
  the gameplay is amazing, u can crouch behind bins and boxes while shooting but the gangster can 
 shoot it out and so can u if some gangster is behind one.
  
  u also get to buy guns from black market merchants, if u have enough money u can buy dynamites and 
 even molotovs from people standing in alley ways.
  
  all in all a game worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappywhite2001
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I had no real expectations for this game when I first came into it. Immediately, I was drawn into 
 the mood and environment, which are amazing tributes to the original motion picture. The original 
 voice actors and character profiles add a wonderful depth to the game, and succeed in drawing you 
 into the gameplay. The city design is well laid-out, with only a few glitches in travel that occur 
 when you are driving fast. The weapons system is fun and effective, with the free-aim allowing 
 you to shoot out kneecaps or make headshots. The storyline is true to the movie, which is sadly 
 the limiting factor of the game. My one complaint is that it is far too short. There are many other 
 aspects (taking over businesses, making hits) but they are easily completed for the main part. 
 There are challenges in taking over rival family complexes, however, and those prove to be the 
 most intense portions of the game. Overall, the visuals draw you into the game and the gameplay 
 keeps you there, but not for a long enough time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  When The Godfather was announced, lots of people were waiting it launch.
  I was expecting more about the game about the graphics.
  The story is realy realy great, voices 
 are real, characters motion movements never seen before. The Corleone's family is abou to control 
 New York. But game's gameplay let us thinking Why it is so poor...
  
  Gameplay
  
  I got realy bored when I played The Godfather in relation to gameplay. The controls are very difficult, 
 You must stay right on the front of the door to open it, this is booring, driving the cars is about 
 to get you furious. The only good about gameplay is catching people and give what the deserve "pain" 
 with heavy knockouts.
  
  Graphics
  
  Characters graphics aren't good, but when you see Don Corleone, you change your opinion, It seems 
 like EA waste all time modelling Don Corleone and let the other characters on bad appearance. Facial 
 movements are incredible.
  
  Sound
  
  Good dialogue sound, great dialogues, but the car's sound aren't good, they are really bad. Seeing 
 people talking let you feel like you are there.
  EA used original voices from the MOVIE and that was great!
  
  If you watched the movie, please 
 play this game, even with all that issues it's a good game, that must be played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Descarte
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I did not wait a very long time for this game to be released since I only found it was being made 
 about 7-8 months before but that was enough time to get sucked into the hype. When it did come 
 out it was a total let down.
  
  The game starts nicely letting you create your own mobster which has a great amount of customization 
 from the colors and items of his wardrobe to the size of his cheekbones and scares on his face. 
 The game seems like it is all they made it out to be for the next hour or so where you get your 
 first few tutorial type missions to get you familiar with the game-play. 
  
  Like a true gangster you get to rough up some store owners or try to talk them into paying you 
 tribute, though the latter will only work later on in the game after building up a reputation for 
 yourself.
  
  After this introduction to the game you will soon discover with great disappointment that this 
 is all there is to it. There is a thin line through the game giving you some direction and lets 
 you play some of the events we did not get to see in the movies. For example you are the guy who 
 plants the gun for Michael in the restaurant before his meeting with Sollozzo and the chief of 
 police but these storyline missions are the minority of the game.
  
  So what are you doing then? Well its mostly a repetition of the introductory tutorial and when 
 I say repetition I really mean repetition in every sense possible.
  
  You are running around collecting tribute from shops and rackets which all look alike. There are 
 about 3 or 4 floor-plans for all the buildings in the game and about 2 or 3 sets of textures so 
 they all look alike. The character models, except for the Corleone family, look all similar too, 
 and so do the streets and the cars. This gives the game a very rushed and unfinished feel which 
 is a total let down.
  
  The build-up of reputation and rank could have been a bit more worked out as well. It is completely 
 meaningless and does not give you any benefits or sense of accomplishment as gaining a new rank, 
 other then having to pay less tribute to the Godfather, does not really give you anything. You 
 also don't really have to work for it, just go on collecting tribute in the same cars at the same 
 places from the same people.
  
  Sure the gunfights are fun the roughing is brutal and they really give you a look at the cool and 
 cruel aspects of the mobster lifestyle from the safety of your home but its lack of diversity in 
 both graphics and game-play will turn it from a cool to a boring experience really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyBogdan
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  The Game is very good.... my first impression. But:
  
  Weapons: the good is you can upgrade your weapons, in a sort of way.
  
  Cars: TERRIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Graphic of the car is lame, not to many cars 5 or 8 and when you use the car... MAN... i cant even 
 explain how worse it is.
  
  Environment & Sound: 
  Environment ... BLAH... the cool thing is you can enter a store and beat a guy up until he gives 
 up his business. The sound i dunno quite well what to tell, instead the MUSIC is lame, 2 or 3 streams.
 
  
  Graphic: Good, I think..........
  
  THE BEST THING ABOUT THIS GAME I SAY 
  
  CHARACTER CUSTOMIZATION
  
  All of this was told by a player who kinda loved..... to much said... 
 liked this game and that player is ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskeren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  It's the second best mafia game made, that might not say much, cuz der haven't been made that many 
 mafia games, but The Godfather really takes you ingame to the enviroment. It is a mix of free play 
 and missions, so it's hard to feel bored when playing, there is always to options, if u dont wanna 
 run missions then go around the town, shoot someone, steel some cars, find some weapons, as i said 
 great mix between free play and missions.
  Electronic Arts have been very good at capturing the motion from the movie and drive it into the 
 game, so for a hardcore Godfather fan, this would be the best game ever made. So all in all this 
 is an excellent game, i would have given it more, if the graphics had been better, but the not 
 so good graphics have been made up for in this game by making an amazing gameplay. 
  so If you like the genre, then get to the nearest store and buy this game, cuz it wont disapoint 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is started a new age of the third person shooter games. Brilliant storyline, completing 
 with high level of graphic and sound effects.
  
  Superb personage creating, really feels like they are alive persons. Environment of 40-50's NEw 
 York just made perfect, everything is that time stuff, cars, wearings, streets, houses, and etc. 
 
  
  Storyline as for mafia team player is usual as it was in movie and now it is in game.... exclude 
 money from trader of different kind of stuff, giving them protection from name of Corleone family. 
 
  
  Feats..
  
  Respect points is just superbly thought and developed in this game, as much as you gain excluding 
 process becom more convinience and easy. Everything is comes under your cotrol, feels good, and 
 here you go in final you become a top man.
  
  Graphics in game is definitely good. Well developed features of personages and other stuf in game. 
 During crash of two cars or more really coming out blazing pieces giving a game more real look. 
 
  
  Physics of the game is good as well. 
  Everything stick to one in whole picture and complete overall look of the game. 
  
  Sound is 
 as well I would say one of the best in game history. Italian accent feels right away. Specially 
 Done Corleone speech and etc.
  
  Effects,
  
  Well so far I have noticed one effect in game. That is, when you turn a car in sharp angle corners 
 and same time push break, car comes close and it is impress like movie effect. Reeally good effort.
 
  
  Of course one of the main thing which made this game more exciting and well-play is the fight scences 
 in game. First time in TPS history you now can fight really good street fight, by using both of 
 your hands, blocking enemy hiting him with you knee, knee him down and knock off etc.
  
  Other coloruful thing is in this game is the spontaneus acting of axis personages (family members) ... 
 During fight with other member of family hand by hand, other dude can get out his pistol and shoot 
 you with out any blink. or They can actually atack you wiith different sort f weapons while you 
 are going to them with bloody baseball beat. :)
  
  Well I guess, other thing you should see wih you own eyes. Go for this game and you will enjoy 
 it as much as I do.
  
  Enjoy your gaming!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhanuke12345678
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  WOW........... This game is the best.......... NOT..... Godfather is repetitive and boring after 
 the first 10 mins of playing. The environment is not great either. The vehicles in use are really 
 bad. just a couple of cars and a truck or so.... really really really really really really really 
 bad graphics..... Story line is ok... but again completly boring after 10 mins of game play.
  
  I advise to get Mafia and play that rather than godfather. I managed to play mafia more than 
 15 times since it came out. Godfather I could play for only 10 mins. 
  
  All the hype that was built for this game was a crash and burn when u actually play the game. The 
 movie trilogy is put to shame with a game like this..... EA did the worst job ever with godfather.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay isn't to far from grand theft auto except it has way better fighting mechanics and 
 a better shooting mode that lets you shoot certain parts of the body. The taking over shops lets 
 you make money over time to buy blackmarket weapons and bribes the cops and rackets to earn even 
 more money and have the police looking the other way. It works and is pretty cool system, for the 
 first few hours, then it seems like thats the main point and it starts to get old.
  
  The style isn't that far from the era it's mimicking but some things look to plain. What it does 
 have is great facial resembalence to its original characters and the textures seem pretty top notch 
 but the details and effects are abit behind the times but are exceptable for such a large open 
 area.
  
  The sound in the Godfather is exactly how it should be, very close to the film in both the soundtrack 
 and most importantly the voices. It's such a treat to hear the don in his original voice, i don't 
 see how it could work otherwise. Everyone talks in top quality and th sound effects are spot on 
 so that's one of The Godfathers top values.
  
  The Story isn't that much of a story beside the regular take over other mobs and become the new 
 Don. The process is what gets boring, you can only enjoying pursading stores to buy out ur protection 
 so many times and killing to many people in blue red or green coats.
  
  The game is very cool but isn't anything to special but worth an addition if ur a fan of GTA or 
 The Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is the excellent game that involves Mafia, drug traffic, and a lot of murders. I 
 think that the lovers of GTA will need this game right now because it ROCKS. You make your character 
 at the beginning of the game; you change the appearance and also its outfit. You will have many 
 weapons such as: pistols, magnums, shotguns, dynamites, and molotovs (which are some bottles of 
 gasoline in fire) . The storyline is the best of all (based on the movie) that starts at NY city 
 were some Italian families got a problem between them and you have to do something for that to 
 stop and be a truthful man to everyone. There are many things that you will like about it. Which 
 is it? Well you may do things like robbing a bank, obliging shop owners to pay you a percent of 
 the earnings, and hijacking cars. I sincerely say that this game is better, but much better than 
 the Grand Theft Auto games. I want to thank EA games for making such a good game. 
  
  Thanks...
  
  It is just perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  
  
  I don't understand why this superb game has such low ratings. I mean, it's almost the best game ever, damn 
 it!
  Yeah, u say graphich are bad. Well, just compare it to GTA San Andreas or Marc Ecko's Getting up & 
 u'll c it's much better. OK, u got me, the cars don't look too nice, but in rest... it's great.
  The sound, even though it ain't better than the one in Mafia, it's very good,& the music is absolutelly 
 the best in a game ever!!!
  You say: s**ty control, but it's very good, when u get used to it.
  The storyline is superb,& the 
 movie clips after missions are a bright ideea.
  The exploring  take-over & mob wars make on of the best gameplays 
 ever.
  If u finished Mafia, u'll understand this: "The world isn't run by reviews written on sites. It's 
 run by people; some true gamers, others not. It's about each individual how his game will be, how he 
 plays it..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  
  The God Father :-
  
  By,
  $rpi_g@mr a. k. a Neerajkumar_4 
  
  About The Game IN SHORT :- 
  
  The GooD : Sticks To the Movie's Story-line -- GTA type Game-play 
 (Free-Roam or open-ended type) -- Amazing Fighting Moves -- Unloackables from the movie -- Custom 
 Character Design at the Start of the game is interesting.
  
  The BaD : NOT too Great AI -- Poor Graphics from a 2006 game, MAFIA released in 2002 had better 
 graphics than this game -- Highly Recycled Textures -- Gloomy atmosphere -- Not too ADDICTIVE -- 
 Borrowed heavily from GTA: SA (not necessary a bad thing but lacks originality) .
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Its a game made of a Super-Hit Gangster Movie. EA has done a pretty good 
 job. The game starts with character design but before that you'll see your father shot dead. You 
 join the Corelones Gang and will get promotions and level-ups Depending on how many people you 
 kill and extortion and Missions.
  
  Game-play:-
  
  The extortion part is fun and gives you a handful of money ! The car driving is a bit of fun. You 
 can bribe cops and steal cars, kill people jus as in GTA. the combat part is lot of fun as you 
 can perform punches, slams , throwing them and can do a neck breaking execution moves. Interesting 
 Story-line.
  
  Graphics:-
  Graphics are decent. This game was released this year (2006) , a lot better graphics were expected. 
 MAFIA (Another Gangster Game) had better graphics than this one. Gloomy atmosphere most of the 
 time, gives the game a boring and odd apperance! 
  
  Sound:-
  
  Sound is fine, the game's music is great and nothing much to be told about the sound. its just 
 fine. The voice acting is nice. Thats all about sound.
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  This game has borrowed heavily from GTA: SA (not necessary a bad thing but lacks Originality) .The 
 game is best with a Game-Pad. Well i didnt watch the movie but i feel the game is definitely "Worth 
 Playing".
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  
  Sound- 7/10
  
  Gameplay-8/10
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Overall- 8/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather - I was waiting for this game for almost one year and now when I got this game and 
 started to play I realized that it's not game that can win the heart of a gamer. But don't think 
 that this game is not worth of playing. I am going to write some good aspects of this game and 
 also some areas where the developer could improve. 
  
  Main missions of the game are totally amazing and fun to play and the sound tracks and voice acting 
 are the main attraction of The Godfather. Though Music tracks are repetitive and there are not 
 many dialogue lines in the game. Beside the main missions I like the hit missions too. But these 
 are too short if you consider the main missions number and it's too easy to finish the game. 
 
  
  It's a game where you will find the taste of GTA and Mafia - Graphics & environments are very much 
 similar to Mafia and open style game play is like GTA. But graphics is not smashing and little 
 bit dated too. I got good frame rate all the time but driving sometimes caused little bit slow 
 down. Character customization is a nice thing to have in this kind of game. And there are also 
 some hidden film rolls like GTA's hidden package. You can unlock cut scenes from the movies by 
 collecting these but it's not something appealing, because they are very hard to find and movie 
 clips as a reward is not something you will like. You also have to take over all the warehouse 
 and business and almost all the business buildings are similar looking! 
  
  You can also upgrade your stats by collecting reward points and you gain maximum 50 levels when 
 you gain enough points. You will gain points for missions, by performing different killing styles, 
 busting the safe and for other activities too. Also there is weapon upgrades upto level 3 and those 
 level three weapons are just great and make the game easier.
  
  Now something about New York City  the game location. When I first time started playing this game 
 I was confused about the direction and how to go to a particular place but as the game progress 
 it became very easy. There is no key for viewing the in game map and you have to pause every time 
 to see that map. And one last thing about the control especially the auto targeting that makes 
 the gun fighting really frustrating. Overall it is a good game but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  The PC version of the Godfather really wasn't worth the 40 bucks. Electronic arts really dropped 
 the ball on this game, because they tried too hard to make the hard unpirateable (something that 
 will never happen) . In the process of doing this, they really killed the game.
  
  The graphics of the game are nothing new, and are far from impressive. Blocky models and unrealistic 
 animations caused the game to look like something from 1995 or earlier. EA didn't even try to enforce 
 some sort of a ragdoll affect. 
  
  The gameplay is also extremely repetitive, and gets boring quickly. Overall, its a pathetic excuse 
 for a game, and not worth the hassle or the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Songulator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  A perfect game for those who loved the Godfather movies. Realistic events straight from the movie 
 combined with nice gameplay make a magnificent game. Amazing graphics and some good music that 
 plays at the appropriate times. A very very short learning curve and a game that actually lasts 
 because you're never really done until you . The characters were realistic and felt like they jumped 
 right out of the movie, especially they way they talked and moved. This is one of the best games 
 EA has ever made and is worth every single penny you spend to get it. A great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  EA is trying to make a city like Libery CIty in all the GTA series, and named it Little Italian. 
 Most of the Godfather are veeeeeeeeeeery like GTA, might make the gamers thought it's a copy cat 
 from EA.
  
  But its graphic is much better than GTA, for instant I'm playing both GTA SA and The Godfather. 
 The Roadstar always doesn't work hard on the graphic.
  And EA done the best thing in this game, the runing cars, and driving, it's much more easier to 
 drive than GTA.
  
  It's voices of all the npc and player himself is sooooooooooooooooo classy, just like you're still 
 in the movie of Godfater. And it's earning money doesn't call for killing, but blackmails. Cool 
 this is what a wisdom guy do, and as the film!!!!!!
  
  But the city is too gloom, and the walkers are soooo nice, maybe too nice. All the streets you 
 can't find where's the cops.
  
  The first try of EA, and as its words: challenge everythings!!!
  
  It's not a bad game, in 
 fact. Try it you would find the difference which GTA can't give you!!!!!!
  If GTA is the game for gangster, then this is the game for gangster Man! Its acts much like a man 
 but a boy do, like bribey and blackmail, not just keep killing and earn the money, you can just 
 wander around the city and recevie the money per week by your blackmailed stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_saulari
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  The godfather the game is maybe not the best mafia game, and the graphics maybe are not the best, 
 but I really had fun playing it, because I love the godfather the movie (all parts) , and while 
 I was playing I felt I am a real corleone, and for me, to feel the game is the most important for 
 a player.
  
  But to tell the truth if I didnt like the movie  I won't play this game ever!
  
  The game 
 is just like a movie, and u play 2 fill the missing parts in the movie, like planting the gun for 
 Michel corleone and to follow the killers of Sonny corleone to know who did it and killing Salvatore 
 and stuff like that, they arent in the movie but the result still there.
  
  The story is nice and reasonable, its about a kid who saw don barzini killing his father, so he 
 join the corleones looking for revenge, and the revenge he got, he killed him in the end of the 
 game's story.
  
  The best thing in the game is the hit missions, u r free to do them or leave them, they are all 
 about killing people from another family, the fun part is u can do it straight and kill them any 
 how, or u do it in the way they wanted and get a bounce money and respect, some times its hard 
 to kill someone with tour hands or a bat or throw them in the oven or from the roof, but its fun 
 trying.
  
  The interesting thing in the game when u do something in the streets ( bribe a policeman or hitting 
 a women ) then u go talk to people, they'll be all like ( where did the cops go ) or ( how could 
 you hit a woman ! ) . And when they you get much respect they be afraid of you. 
  
  I think mafia game got it the right on the street and cars things, the cars details are so low 
 and there are only like 7 or less cars types, the good thing the driving in the game is easy and 
 smooth.
  
  The thing that would make it takes longer to finish it is taking over the rackets, there is a lot 
 of different rackets on the map which u must take them one by one, for the first time you'll find 
 it so fun and something new, but after taking over 10 or maybe 20, you'll get bored of it.
  
  Those who played mafia or GTA, I am so sure they wont like this game much, after all its more 
 movie than a game, but for me, I finished the game twice, and I still play, but I dont play it 
 because it's nice, I play it for the family!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  For those that have never seen "Godfather", the movie, there are some minor spoliers in here.
 
  
  There are a few ways to review this game. If you're a big fan of the movie, you can evaluate it 
 on the basis of how closely it sticks to the movie, and whether or not EA was able to pull off 
 the trick of adding gameplay without totally altering the plotline of the movie (which would feel 
 like a cheat to most fans) .
  
  You can also judge this game by comparing it to the standard by which all other mob-related games 
 must be judged, and that is "Mafia", the incredible game by Illusion Software and the Gathering 
 of Developers from a few years ago. There is a certain irony in comparing "Godfather" the game, 
 to "Mafia". When "Mafia" came out, everyone logically drew comparisons to "Godfather" (the movie) , 
 and now when "Godfather" (the game) comes out, we're comparing it to "Mafia". Everything comes 
 around full circle I suppose.
  
  First off, to save you the suspense, while I really enjoyed "Godfather", I think "Mafia" is still 
 the better game. Imitation is the most sincere form of flattery, and "Godfather" took a lot of 
 cues from "Mafia", but I think "Mafia" still did a lot of it better.
  
  That isn't to say "Godfather" isn't a fun game. Like "Mafia" you are given a sprawling city complex 
 to explore, in this case, five areas around New York City (Little Italy, Brooklyn, Midtown, Hell's 
 Kitchen, and New Jersey) . Each of the five areas is controlled by a different family (The Five 
 Families from the movie) .
  
  "Godfather" has a single play mode, but it combines different elements. There are story-driven 
 missions you can activate by following the directions of different characters in the game
  
  The missions in the game follow the basic plot of the original Godfather movie. It employs 
 a very clever mechanic in that your character is one of the nameless foot soldiers / assassins 
 from the movie that did a lot of the dirty work you heard about, but never saw. This is a good 
 way to follow the story of the movie for Godfather purists, but introduce action sequences that 
 you didn't see in the movie. For example, early on, you accompany Luca Brazi to the Tattaglia bar 
 where he "gets his". You witness it while peeking in a window. When the Tattaglia's spot you, they 
 come after you. You need to beat them and get the news of Luca's death to the Corleone family. 
 Obviously, in order to build in some action, the game takes a few creative liberties with the plot, 
 but not enough so that it changes the story from the movie.
  
  The other game mechanic is an open-ended quest to take over NYC, and eventually become "Don of 
 NYC" (I guess this is GTA-like, although I have yet to play that game) . You need to take over all 
 the local shops, stores, clubs, etc (legal businesses) and rackets (illegal businesses) . Doing 
 so will force the owners to pay tribute to the Corleone's, and you get a cut. Money will allow 
 you to buy weapons and ammo throughout the game. Most owners require a bit or "persuading" before 
 they agree to pay tributes. When locked on to an owner, a meter will be displayed (which varies 
 from owner to owner) . You need to push the meter to the green line for an owner to give in. You 
 can do this by beating them up, trashing their stores, or beating up customers. If you push them 
 into the "red", they will fight back, and you'll likely have to kill them. You will then have to 
 wait a while to try to take over that location (when it gets new ownership) . This mechanic can 
 be a little tricky, especially early in the game. The green and red portions of the meter only 
 display briefly, so it's easy to push too far. Adding skill points to your "street smarts" allows 
 you to display the owner limits for longer periods (see below) .
  
  To really put the squeeze on the enemy families, you need to take out their warehouses, hubs (usually 
 docks near the water) , and compounds (home of the family) . These are tougher sequences guarded 
 by dozens of thugs. You need to build yourself up before attacking those.
  
  In the course of taking over businesses, rackets, etc. you gain "respect", measured by a blue meter. 
 When your respect meter fills, you can level up. Leveling up allows you to increase your proficiency 
 in one of five areas : melee fighting, shooting, health, speed, and street smarts. Your new level 
 will also carry through to the mission-based levels, so progressing in the free-form part of the 
 game will improve your chances in the mission levels.
  
  A third mini-form of gameplay is contract hits. Various characters will assign you to perform hits 
 on prominent members of other families. These are optional, but are a good way to build up bonus 
 respect, particularly if you perform the hit exactly as instructed (e. g., make it look like an 
 accident by throwing the target off a bridge instead of just shooting him) .
  
  Most of the time spent in the game will be on slowly defeating the rival families. In theory, you 
 can probably run through the mission levels fairly quickly. At the end of the day, there aren't 
 that many of them. Also, during the missions, if you die (get "iced") , there are a lot of checkpoints.
 
  
  The overall gameplay is not unlike "Mafia", however, "Mafia", wisely in my opinion, broke up this 
 gameplay into two separate modes. There was a long mission-based storyline (with 20 or so odd missions) 
 that did have a few optional quests thrown in, and then, separately there was a "Free Ride" mode 
 where you could cruise around town and fight rivals. 
  
  If you are the type that likes patiently taking over a map and watching all the symbols change 
 to the insignia of your family, you will enjoy this game. If you find that tedious, you probably 
 won't. This part does get a little cumbersome, in part because of repetitious use of buildings 
 / environments. The Cuneo's warehouse is amazingly exactly the same as the Barzini's warehouse. 
 A barber shop in Little Italy is exactly the same as a barber shop in Jersey. This is good and 
 bad. It's good because you get to learn the layouts, and you know where most of the bad guys will 
 be hiding. It's bad because it can get old.
  
  It can also get old because, unlike the mission-based levels, the free-form game has no checkpoints 
 or quick save options. If you get iced, you get rejuvenated in a local hospital. However, in terms 
 of progress, you are back where you started before you died. So if you were attacking a warehouse, 
 and had taken down 24 of 25 bad guys, but the 25th guy gets you, when you go back, there will be 
 25 guys waiting for you again. This did tend to get very frustrating, particularly early in the 
 game when your character is not very powerful. 
  
  In order to save the game, you need to go to one of your available safehouses. At the beginning 
 of the game you only have one. You need to take over the rest. So it can also get a little annoying 
 to have to drive across town just to save your game.
  
  Bottom line - get used to dying. A lot. You will learn early on to make good use of cover. There 
 are buttons to crouch, as well as sticking close to walls and peeking around corners. Even so, 
 you are often very outnumbered and outgunned. The gameplay is unbalanced in that the game is much 
 harder in the beginning. But as you improve, the game gets easier. You run into a wide mix of enemies 
 all throughout the game, but they don't get harder as you progress in the game. Some sequences 
 will be harder than others, but it's just dependent on what mix of thugs you run into. Enemies 
 will be rated from a 1 to 4, with 4 being the most difficult. By late in the game, after you've 
 leveled up enough and bought some upgraded weapons, you are nearly unstoppable. Big turning point 
 in game for me was when I bought the level 3 assassins pistol. It's a hand gun with a high rate 
 of fire that took down guys in 1 or 2 shots. There are no "boss" characters in the game (although, 
 realistically, that's probably appropriate. Being a mob boss doesn't make you any less vulnerable 
 to bullets than a foot solider) .
  
  The game runs very smoothly, and there are no loading times, except for the mission levels. You 
 can drive freely between the five areas of NYC. One major complaint is the way the map was employed. 
 You will need to consult the map quite often to see where you're going, but to do this you actually 
 have to pause the game. If there are a lot of twists and turns, you'll find yourself driving a 
 few feet, pausing, looking at the map, driving a few more feet, and pausing again. They would have 
 done well to emulate "Mafia's" use of mapping which displayed a semi-transparent overlay of a map 
 while you were driving. This allowed you to keep the action moving without the pauses.
  
  The controls were a little awkward at times. I would suggest having a gamepad with dual sticks. 
 I couldn't imagine trying to do the melee fighting with the various mouse movements the manual 
 suggests. For either melee or gun fights you lock onto an enemy with one button (which tells you 
 his name and rating) . For gun fights you can then shoot with another button. For melee fights, 
 however, you throw your punches with the right analog stick. This took some getting used to. It 
 never felt absolutely natural to me. It often felt like I wasn't getting off punches as quickly 
 as I intended. It would have been better if you didn't have to lock on an enemy for melee fights 
 (something along the lines of the great melee combat in Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb) . 
 There were times I was close to finishing a guy off and he would break my lock. When I tried to 
 reacquire, it would lock on another target and I would end up taking damage from the original attacker. 
 If you could just run up to a guy and start swinging, it would allow for better control.
  
  There are a lot of fun options with the melee combat. Quick punches, power punches, head butts, 
 kicks while guys are on the ground. You can throw guys through windows or over ledges (or my favorite 
 - into an oven) . There are also about 2 dozen "execution" moves. When you have a guy down to about 
 half health, you can hit the execution button while you're locked on and your character will perform 
 a special move. The move will vary with what weapon your character has in his hands at the time. 
 Some of these animations are pretty cool, but with all the enemies you will be facing over the 
 course of the game, they get a bit old after a while.
  
  There's also a free aiming option for shooting that allows you to guide your crosshairs where you 
 want. This can be useful for shooting guys in specific areas of their bodies (like in their knees 
 if they're using a human shield) . This also allows you to shoot certain items like explosive barrels. 
 Much of the environment can be destroyed. One good way to take out enemies is to shoot up a parked 
 car from a distance to set it on fire. The explosion will often take out nearby enemies.
  
  Graphics in the game were solid but unspectacular. Everything animated very smoothly. I had no 
 framerate slowdowns running it at 1280 X 1024 with all the detail cranked up (although my system 
 is well beyond recommended specs) . The city is fun to look at for a while (with nice touches like 
 seeing the Statue of Liberty from a distance as you're driving near the harbor) . As mentioned before, 
 the environments were very repetitious, as were many of the character models. 
  
  Sound in the game is fine. You'll hear the "Godfather" theme a lot, but that's OK. Guns have a 
 good sounding feel to them. Dialogue in game with npcs can get repetitious but it's not distracting.
 
  
  One risk of a movie-based game is how realistic the characters are to their movie counterparts. 
 Some movie tie-in games avoid this by making the game only lightly related to the movie so that 
 they can create an independent plot from the movie that doesn't deal much with the well-known characters 
 (see the "Matrix" game) . But in "The Godfather" game, they're all there. The Don, Luca Brazi, Sonny, 
 Fredo, Tom, Tessio, Clemenza, etc. are all in the game. And for the most part the likenesses and 
 voices are spot on. Some of the dialogue is not from the movie (unless it was from edited portions) , 
 so they found some good voice alikes (as I don't think any of the actors reprised their roles for 
 the game, with many of them now sleeping with the fishes) . The one notable, and unfortunate, exception 
 is Michael, as GS said in its review. Obviously, Michael is a centerpiece of the story. He looks 
 and sounds nothing like Al Pacino (who apparently would not give his likeness to the game) . It 
 stands as such a stark difference to all the other characters in the game that it's a bit jarring. 
 The sequences with the Michael character almost feel like a different game. Usually this isn't 
 a big deal for me, but it stands out here.
  
  At the end of the day, unless I'm playing an RTS game, I prefer story-based games with creative 
 mission levels, as opposed to "cover the map" gameplay. For that reason, I prefer "Mafia" over 
 "The Godfather". Although "The Godfather" was a great movie, the game plot had to be padded to 
 add action sequences, and it's still kind of thin at the end of the day (although it was still 
 cool to take an active role in some of the memorable movie scenes) . "Mafia" had a great original 
 (and long) story, but was still open-ended enough that it didn't feel linear.
  
  But "The Godfather" is still a fun game. I liked it enough that even after beating all the mission 
 levels, I kept playing until I had conquered every family, and taken over every business, racket, 
 warehouse, hub, and compound. If it keeps your interest that long, you will get your money's worth 
 (and be "Don of NYC") .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caps86
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Great concept here very close to the movie but there something missing or the fact that it seems 
 like im playing GTA all over again... The graphics are pretty good, the value is sorta there because 
 at first i really liked playing the game... When I started playing i liked the driving around and 
 having freedom of the whole map but shaking down bussiness' all the time became just routine to 
 me and after a few weeks i lost total interest in the game... i play it here and there but it seems 
 like im playing the 40's version of Grand Theft Auto. That series has already hit its peak and 
 has started to decline. Overall for the time played the game it was interesting but after a length 
 of time it all became routine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto138
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Whenever I hear that a video game is being based off a film, my natural reaction is to avoid it 
 at all costs. Lets face it, movie licensed games arent usually of the highest quality. Even with 
 the big budget production values, the games generally are shallow and barely even satisfy fans 
 of the movie that they are taking the content from. I am even more leery when the game is based 
 off a very popular and successful film. Therefore, when EA announced a while back that they were 
 developing a Godfather title, all I could do was hope for the best, but expect the worst. If you 
 are like me and feel the same way about this beloved series, fear no more. The Godfather video 
 game is not only very faithful and respectful to the film series, it is every bit worth your hard 
 earned cash. 
  
  It is a story about family, respect, and loyalty. After a life of small time jobs and petty thefts, 
 you have been accepted into the most famous criminal organization in America. It is up to you to 
 carry out orders, earn respect, rise through the ranks, and make NYC your own. If you play your 
 cards right, you could be running everything as the next, and most powerful, Don. 
  
  Visually, the Godfather is brilliant. While heavily borrowing from games like Grand Theft Auto, 
 it still offers its own style and flavor, while bringing life in 1940-50s to reality. The recreation 
 of New York City is impressive in size and scale, with plenty of buildings to explore, streets 
 to walk and drive down, and tons of obstacles and debris strewn about. The character models and 
 animations range from the very good when it comes to lead characters, to the repetitive and ordinary 
 when referring to thugs and nobodies. With a game of this size, it is expected, so no real fault 
 of the developer here. The models that represent your character and the main cast are excellent, 
 with perfect mannerisms, detail, and textures. This is really apparent in the games cut scenes 
 that are mostly reenactments of the films most classic moments. The recreation of the original 
 actors like Marlon Brando, James Cann, and Robert Duvall are incredible, but noticeably missing 
 is the likeness of Al Pacino, which is sad as obviously Michael is a HUGE character and is sorely 
 missed in this adaptation. The frame rate is fine, and load times are minimal, which provides a 
 very enjoyable experience overall. 
  
  From the opening scene, as you hear the classic Godfather theme song, you know that the audio is 
 going to be a key element to the games presentation. Not only is the games score vital, which 
 is done by Academy Award winner Bill Conti, but EA went as far as incorporating voice over sessions 
 with many of the cast such as James Cann, Robert Duvall, Abe Vigoda, and even the late Marlon Brando 
 before passing away. These reprisals are key to the feel of the game and really immerse the gamer 
 in the Godfather universe. Sound effects are also very authentic ranging from old style car engines, 
 Tommy guns, and fantastic explosions. 
  Game play is where the Godfather really separates it from the other titles that may be compared 
 to Rockstars franchise. Sure the game is open ended and non-linear, sure you can mercilessly pummel 
 citizens, and sure you can hijack cars when you need to get somewhere. The controls take on a new 
 way to perform most of these familiar elements and expand on the experience, which puts the Godfather 
 into a class all in itself. Here is a quick list of what you can expect from the game play; Quick 
 attacks, power attacks, combo attacks, grab attacks and movements, throws, wall slams, tossing 
 from window ledges, strangling, melee weapon attacks, and of course a barrage of weaponry that 
 range from bats to Tommy guns. The most intuitive aspect of the gameplay controls is the fact that 
 when you want to grapple or throw someone, you grab on to both shoulder buttons, and while holding 
 them down you can maneuver your victim by using the R stick or various button attacks. It is a 
 strange feeling of satisfaction when you can strangle a CPU character while you are gripping your 
 controller intensely. 
  
  The depth of The Godfather while you rise through the ranks is incredible. You have the option 
 to extort, racketeer, put on heat, perform a contract hit, and hijack trucks, crack safes, heist 
 banks, and many other elements that will take you from enforcer to Don if successful enough in 
 your tasks. What EA did well is incorporating the Godfather story line along with yours, versus 
 having you control one of the main characters. This opens up the gameplay immensely and allows 
 you to unfold the Godfather story at your own pace. Not only that, but depending on how you earn 
 your respect dictates on what kind of mob boss you turn out to be. 
  
  In the end, The Godfather is a worthy purchase for fans of this style of game, and a must purchase 
 for fans of the film series. Even with Michael portrayed by another likeness, that shouldnt deter 
 you from joining this family. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkanda
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This game did not satisfy me because the camera views and the game-play is really bad. I did not 
 like that people have lights on their heads. Every time the lights warn you. There has to be another 
 way to warn because this is a mafia game not a comic game. Also the map is a problem. 
  
  The good things are the real graphics of the people that we know from the film. However, this game 
 has all the same type of cars all over the city. This really bores the player. 
  
  The scenario does not take you in the game like the "Mafia" game. If you liked tha game "Mafia" 
 you might not like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpacoishere
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  athrough the movie clips are superb and nice story of the mafia in us, it becomes a bit boring 
 as 70% of the game is driving 1 of the six cars there are in the game which for the time you have 
 to pass driving i would have pretend a larger choice of cars with more ditail in them. so what i 
 mean the first 5 hours of the game are very nice but when you began getting that feeling of repeating 
 the same things it getts pretty annoying. especially when it comes to drive those poor detail 6 
 cars that you only have and the map in the game is not that much game friendly and you have to 
 stop the game every time to check it up so you do not go in the wrong street as when you are driving 
 its very difficult to understand where you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunain_Hunny
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  If you've seen the movie, the chances are that you would love the game, its truly faithful to the 
 movie and the characters involved, only MIchael Corleone does not look like himself but somewhat 
 sounds right, the graphics do look somewhat ugly at the lower setting but if you notch up the anistropic 
 filtering and anti-aliasing options the game starts to look considerably better...
  
  The gameplay is very adictive, you can extort shops, take over business, bomb rival families off 
 the face of earth! I personaly found the side options or side games in god father much better than 
 GTA SA, the extortion and taking over is much more interesting in just plain dumb theift and killing, 
 plus the game features a lot of different, classy execution styles so you can wach in marvel as 
 your character breaks a neck or performs a hats off execution! Blah! Boom Boom! :P 
  
  Over all the game runs very good on low end PCs aswell, the lowest settings can be handled by low 
 end PCs quite okay. The key configuration is a little complex, but trust me its better the way it 
 is, changing it will be even harder to use, if you can use a controller with the game thats well 
 and good, but once you get used to the key configuration ( Thanks to the short tutorial snippets 
 ) you will feel much more comfortable with it and actually start to appreciate it.
  
  Well if you have been waiting for a game similar to GTA but in some ways better, this is the game, 
 its an offer you cant refuse, or atleast you shouldnt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry_plotter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The map is bad and complicated. To destroy the families is quite easy, the difficult thing is to 
 take the warehouses (at the beginning) , but then it is very easy, you take a good weapon, a lot 
 of ammunition and good luck.
  In this game the difficult thing is to find all the movie rolls, and it is also difficult to put 
 the bombs in the residence of the enemy families. Him but amusing they are the execution styles.
 
  The family that but he costs to enter in their residence it is, for my, that of the Barzini. The 
 Cuneo is also quite heavy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  The Mafia have always been romanticized, be it in movies, games, books or TV. There have been countless 
 movies based on them, Mafia as the baddies, Mafia as the heroes, even Mafia as comediansStill, 
 I reckon the one movie that define what being part of La Cosa Nostra was probably the Godfather 
 Trilogy. Taking the Mafioso in a serious light, the movie didnt flinch on at least trying to portray 
 a bit of what goes on in the Family, like the game.
  
  The Godfather follows the movie of the same name reverently. Instead of treating the source material 
 as just fodder (take a look at the Alien Vs Predator movie) , EA has actually managed to add on 
 to the famous story of the movie, flesh out bits there were only hinted at and make the whole story 
 (both the game and the movie) part and parcel of one another.
  
  Youll play a lowly Mafioso in the employ of Don Corleone himself, the big cheese. As an enforcer 
 in the family, youll be tasked with mundane tasks at first. Collecting protection money (in which 
 you have to personally visit the shops and persuade the owners to part with a bit of their hard 
 earned money) and other easy jobs. As you play and level up, youll get the more dangerous and 
 interesting missions. With enough money and influence, you can even buy and run your own illicit 
 business to help fill your pockets.
  
  Playing The Godfather is like playing a more realistic version of GTA. Comparisons will undoubtedly 
 be made so I figured to compare them and give you my take. GTA though is more cartoony and doesnt 
 really delve into the inner workings of the Mafia like The Godfather. The Mafias concept of honor, 
 its code of conduct is totally lost in Take Twos seminal game. This is where the Godfather really 
 shines. Its focus is on the Mafia, plain and simple, allowing you to really see what the organization 
 is about. Its not just about the crimes you can do, its about the underlying honor and respect 
 that binds the crime families and those under their wings together to achieve the worlds most 
 infamous organized crime syndicate.
  
  Playing in an accurately (dont ask me how accurate, never been to New York) rendered virtual New 
 York City, youll be overwhelmed at first at the scale of the game. At firstafter a few missions, 
 youll the feeling of being lost still doesnt go away. Thats in part due to the similarity of 
 the surroundings. The graphics are good, but the buildings and streets all look to similar to be 
 able to tell at a quick glance. If youre in the midst of being chased by the cops, good luck trying 
 to get your bearings. One small downside to me is that the cars all handle well. Yeah, they all 
 handle like race cars, responding to the slightest nudge. Not goodwell, I mean its good they 
 handle well, but the strange thing is all of the cars in the game handle the same. Theres no difference 
 at allStill, at least they handle well instead of handling poorly, eh?
  
  Like GTA, you can steal cars, shoot down random people, get chased by the cops and all that. Here 
 though, you can bribe cops if you want them to look the other way. Still, like GTA if you die, 
 youll pop back out in a hospital with just teeny bit of your cash gone. Cash, again like GTA, 
 is also received from completing missions, as are skill points. Most of the major actions in the 
 game you can do net you points when you level up, which in turn allows you to upgrade your skills. 
 This gives you a sense of progression both in rank AND in the character you control, like youre 
 really making something of yourself in the games world.
  
  The games good, no doubts there but some of the mechanics totally suck. The AI is dumb as nails 
 at times and crack marksmen the next. Ive had baddies shoot be down (with a shotgun no less) from 
 down the street and kill me. Ive been shot at by thugs who were standing beside me and hit the 
 wall instead. Ive also met baddies who draw their guns and then turn their tails and try to fleewhen 
 they outnumber me 5 to 1. Whats the deal with that? There are moments when the AI functions well 
 though. Theyll hide behind cover, popping out at random to plink you. Theyll regroup if theyre 
 being decimatednice touches, if only it worked more often.
  
  Playing the game on the PC though is a pain. The mouse and keyboard default configuration really 
 sucks. This game was meant to be played with two analog sticks and even the addition of a mouse 
 doesnt do **** to the whacked controls. If you have a decent joypad, I suggest you use it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks astounding. The character models are awesome, the textures sharp 
 and detailed. The only thing that sucks is the frame rate. Constantly dropping, the game doesnt 
 run stable more than 50% of the damn time, even with a PC thats well above the recommended specs 
 for playing the game.
  
  If youre looking for a fun game thats based on a movie, get The Godfather. Its not original, 
 but at least its fun to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zskullhead
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  As this is my first review, I'm not really sure if it's a good one, but I'll try my best anyway. 
 The game doesn't have good graphics, but they aren't too bad either. I've got the ATi X1600 Pro, 
 and he displayed the game at the highest graphics rate, but the gameplay really is superb. There's 
 a lot of thing you can do. You can compare it with a game as Mafia. Mafia it at some fronts better, 
 but the Godfather is overall better. The game is about the first movie of The Godfather, with Marlon 
 Brando as "The Godafther". The characters in the game are really good copied into the game. You 
 can slowly work yourself up, eventually becoming the don of NYC. I had really fun playing the game, 
 altough I finished it really fast (2 days) . I think that's a bit too fast for a long expected game... 
 I am looking forward to play "Scarface", I think it's gonna be a great game as well.
  
  Peace out, zskullhead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caotico69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The best thing ever made with the game play like GTA that is social decadent, just a crappy LA 
 low life becoming even worst, But in the Godfather is honor on been a bad boy. My classification 
 on Too short is just that I like it so much that is a shame the fun ends so fast.
  
  The Game is very cool, the way you help to ends the brutal war of mob familys making all 1 familly, 
 yours! I love it.
  
  Very good way to make honor to the Books and movies, the thing of havin highlights of the movie 
 in the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  amm this game "the godfather"is realy nice game
  with all the stuff you can do like bomb safes and throw people on the floor LOL
  and all kinds 
 of killing options like break there neck and such things
  are realy makes the game more fun to play
  allso when you go to a shop and make the manager to 
 pay you every month 
  its allso fun cus like that you getting money very quick without do any thing 
  allso the way 
 to buy weapons from dillers in very cheap prices
  so this game is realy good and fun you have to gett it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malikn
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm severely disappointed with this game, mostly because just a little bit of creativity and polish 
 could have made it stellar. Here's the rundown of the highs and lows.
  
  The sorta highs: 
  
  -The voice acting is superb
  -The highways and bridges are very realistic
 
  -It's fun to reenact scenes from the godfather occassionally
  -There are some pretty fun and novel ways to dispatch your enemies when you're up close and personal, 
 such as beating their head on the nearest solid object until they die.
  
  The profound lows:
  
  -It's maddening to reenact a scene from the godfather every 15 minutes, 
 without any option to bypass the lengthy cut scenes. The game is extremely linear. Whose idea was 
 it to force the player to slavishly follow the movie plotline in order to progress? Probably the 
 lazy game designer. Who needs to come up with a design when you've got a movie script?
  -The result of the linearity is that you're essentially a homocidal gopher that carries out tedious 
 and repetitive assassination missions.
  -Did I mention that this game is tedious and repetitive? Smacking around a shopkeeper and blowing 
 away baddies at point blank range is only fun the first 20 times. And unfortunately, there's not 
 a whole lot else to do in this game.
  -For a game that insists on constantly making you drive all over the five boroughs PLUS jersey, 
 the driving physics are beyond awful. The cars handle like a radio flyer wagon. Except radio flyer 
 wagons were fun.
  -The result of the poor handling of the cars is that even if you try, you can't avoid running over 
 hapless civilians, who for some inexplicable reason frequently prefer to move out of the way of 
 a speeding car by diving in front of it. This brings heat from the police, which makes the already 
 tedious missions exasperating, because now you have bad guys and cops shooting at you, but you're 
 not supposed to shoot the cops, even if they're ventilating your torso.
  -Whoever created the character animations and movement mechanics for the player character should 
 be whacked. The player has two speeds, run and sprint, and neither of those actions bear much of 
 a resemblance to their real world counterparts.
  -There may as well not be structures in this game, for all the clipping that occurs during firefights. 
 And that's just the first of the multitude of problems that occur during the activity that you'll 
 be engaged in most, namely shooting at badguys. The auto aim feature sometimes becomes inexplicably 
 inoperable when you take cover against a wall. And when you take cover against a wall, you can 
 see around the corner, but you can't see, or point your gun, directly in front of you. If you have 
 a sufficiently powerful weapon, killing enemies is so trivial it's pointless. I could go on here, 
 but there's neither time nor room.
  
  Rather than continue this sorry recitation, I'll sum it up by saying that all in all, this is at 
 best a mediocre and mildly amusing game, at worst it is an uninspired, unpolished, and generic 
 farce. I truly think that after they finished paying the voice actors and the studio their millions, 
 they didn't have money left over for designing an actual game, and merely slapped together a bunch 
 of generic FPS and action elements and tried to pawn it off as a creative work. Typical hollywood. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellogamebot
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  This is not the best of the games, but worth playong in its own right. The gameplay gets boring and 
 plain as ther is very less variety. My gamepad does'nt work and laying with the mouse is chore. The 
 graphics are good, but the charcters lack feel. After roaming in the city and taking buisnesses, better 
 stick to the storyline as extorting businesses is boring and capturing warehouses is a pain in 
 the ass. OK for a fan of the film, but the are no plots or the thrill of the movies, so dont expect 
 too much. There is only lots of violence in the game but stabbing other people and kicking their 
 ass via a mouse is a pain in the butt. The buisness owners act as gods, and you have to beat them 
 to hell before they pay a decent amount of money. Most of the time I got so frustrated with failures 
 that i did not touch tje game for days. But give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdadi2000
Rating: 1
Date: May 27, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  I hardly waited to come out this game. I like mob based games so I tought this one will be very 
 good... I was so wrong. From the begining I saw the importance given in player editing... most 
 games that do that is to cover up some poor graphics and here is no exception. The graphics are 
 really, really bad for an EA game. Next I realise that the A. I. from the other characters in the 
 game is missing completly. Mabe it was implemented only in one or two mobsters that you fight with, 
 because most of them are plain stupid but you find one or two that kick you're but in an amazing 
 way. The story before you became Soldier is pretty nice but from that on I became Underboss and 
 Don in (I'm not kidding) 1 hour gameplay. Why so easy? Very bad finish story and stupid too. I 
 guess that they where very bored in the end to make some decent missions. OK then I became Don 
 so what's next? Don of NY "LOL" They want me to become some kind of president. In that point is 
 not worth to play this game further, if you even reach that point before uninstalling the game. 
 In conclusion guys do you're self a favor and focus on other games that will not waste you valuable 
 life time. Play "Mafia" again if you really want mob action with a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark9158
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 20, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  First I saw the game I got too exited. At last a GTA: SA taste in old New York streets. Actually 
 game delivers the feeling of that times pretty well. You can examine the New York at 40s. There 
 is so little car types on the streets, 4-5 type of car, 2 type of lorry and thats it mostly. What 
 I really disapointed about is the game play. I mean when you have a good example of that type of 
 game (yes, I'm talking about GTA: SA) you have to "at least" doit in the same way or better. You 
 cannot get in the car unless you are right in front of the car's door for example. Even moving 
 the character is a tiring process especially during combat. Auto aiming is good and I can say well 
 done. Car dynamics is no accurate, driving in the streets isn't fun like in GTA: SA. City traffic 
 is very slow. In some missions you have to follow a car but hey the other car is almost flying, 
 reverse of that when you were chased they catch you in no time. As these examples show I like the 
 story of the game, marvelous music tracks from the original movie, graphics engine except the dramatic 
 frame rate drop in some situations. Lastly if Rockstar guys developed the very same game, then 
 this game should be the Best Game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmanr26
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 17, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  If you love the godfather films... this is the game for you..... It plays out the same story as 
 the first movie (not necessarily in the same order as the movie) , and some added content.... It 
 is a fun weekend.... the gameplay however is where everything falls flat on its @@@ ..... If you 
 want the good version fo this kind of gameplay you should be looking in your video game store for 
 one of the installments of Grand Theft Auto.... the driving is very laggy (or at least it was on 
 my machine) esp. when you come to a sudden stop ( like if you hit something) , 
  
  The game overall is fun.... but to tell the truth after the first 3 hrs of playing the game I only 
 finished it because I loved the godfather story.... I think I'm gonna go and sell my copy back 
 the store I got it from.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donwoogie
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 17, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Most games based on movies turn out to be awful games that are purely relying on the success of 
 their movie counter-parts, and it's hard to believe at first how this cannot be the case with a 
 movie as popular as the Godfather. As a rule of thumb, I do tend to stay away from games based 
 on popular movies, however, in this case, I feel i must bow my head in shame and admit defeat.
 
  
  To cut to the chase, this is not someone's attempt to simply use the Grand Theft Auto series' recipe 
 for madness as a sure fire way to success. The game itself is very unique in its own way.
  
  First off, the question that begs answering, how can a player adopt a role in a movie that 
 has already got set plotlines. Simple, to start with, as the game follows the movie's plotline, 
 you are, what i shall refer to, as the "Extras" man, the grunts that you see in the movie but never 
 really think about, as in the guy who puts the gun in the toilet for michael to find, the guy who 
 holds the flowers with Michael Corleone at the hospital or the man who shoots paulie in the car 
 scene. Surprisingly enough, at the start of the game, while the movie storyline is still playing 
 out, this pans out very well, your role in the game is quite intricate and involving and will keep 
 your hooked to game. Later on, the story will develop how you like it. You can eventually become 
 The Don of New York! mwuahahahaha!
  
  Now for the section all your gamers have been waiting for, how is the mayhem, the order of the 
 day, conducted in the game. The map of new York is divided into neighbourhoods, each neighbourhood 
 is pretty much a zone with roads between them. Each zone seems to operate different police systems. 
 Causing too much trouble in one zone will raise your "Heat" rating in that zone meaning the police 
 will begin to attack you in the street, or, with even higher heat levels, police cars will always 
 be chasing you. The good news is, in true Godfather style, you can bribe police to remove your 
 heat, or simply stay in another zone until the heat wears down. Next, to the gang system. There 
 are five crime families of varying strengths, each one owns business that can be extorted using 
 a cool extotion system. The aim of this is that having more businesses playing protection money 
 to you means more cash for guns, clothes, safehouses, etc.... This extortion system is incredibly 
 gratifying. Different stores will respond to different methods of extortion. When you begin extorting 
 a worker, a bar appears in the corner of your screen. The bar has a red section at the end and 
 a breen line near the center, filling the bar closer and closer to the green line will earn you 
 more money, going over too much near the red will cause the shopkeeper to fight back. As i said, 
 different methods will cause the shopkeeper to fold, for example, some will respond to your beating 
 up customers, others, to physical pain and others to destroying their property. However, hitting 
 too many of one gang's bussiness will cause your heat with a gang to build up and they will begin 
 to get more and mroe aggressive possibly resulting in an all out gang war.
  
  The on foot system is very intuitive. The hand to hand combat is quite good once you get the hang 
 of it. The grab key allows you to throw opponents to the floor or into other objects or even interact 
 with them, for example, throwing a person in the direction of a furnace will cause him to fall 
 into it. The shooting controls are very simple and easy to use. Simply use the autotargetter to 
 lock onto a person and press the shoot key, or, activate manual aiming. This allows you to headshot 
 enemies for quick kills, or shoot out body parts for fun! Using a gun at close range or melleing 
 also allows you to perform an execution which is a special sequence such as, smacking an opponent 
 down and then breaking his neck with your feet, or making an opponent double up, then firing a 
 shotgun point blank to the back of his head.
  
  Unfortunately, weapon choice in the game is fairly limited. The weapons you get are, a small stubbed 
 gun for silent attacks, a revolver for a pistol with a punch, a regular pistol for accuracy, range 
 and rate of fire, a shotgun for power at short range though there is the problem of constant reloading, 
 and the tommy-gun for good ol' fasioned mob family takedowns! Later on in the game, single upgrades 
 to these weapons can be bought for a very steep price, for example, the shotgun can be traded in 
 for a more powerful one with a barrel allowing barrages of shells to be rained upon your enemy 
 before the need to reload kicks in. This somewhat reduced list of weapons is one of the let downs 
 in the game.
  
  Unfortunately, the driving system in the game is probably the biggest let down in the game (and 
 it is a major one at that) . The driving is heavily arcadey with driving being extremely simplistic. 
 Unfortunately this has a knock on effect as driving between missions or during them becomes extremely 
 cumbersome.
  
  The missions in the game are varied and fun to play, from sneaking missions to all out war, and 
 from get-aways to races against time, you'll find yourself right at home in this game.
  
  Graphically, this game is good but at times, grainy textures will have you trying to play checkers 
 on the pixels.
  
  Overall, this game make a very good attempt and almost pulls off a stunner, had it not been for 
 the awful driving system and lack of choice of weapons. However, having said that, I do recommend 
 this game for all, even those who are not into gangster movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Join_XtremePC
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty then, Im nearly completely finished this game, but I have already seen most of the game 
 so Im sure I can conjure up a quite decent review with all of the proper facts. So far Ive been 
 playing for around fifteen hours, mostly doing the story missions, Im a few tens of hours away 
 from 100% completion. ;)
  
  So, heres the review:
  
  Contents:
  
  Introduction
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Artificial Intelligence- AI
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  
 Introduction
  The Godfather is the official game from the very famous movies, the Godfather (Wouldnt guess that 
 without me would ya?) . It is very similar to the GTA series, but with a few twists, imho theyre 
 good twists. :) 
  Just like the movie, it takes place in the 1930s in New York; the city looks great and immerses 
 you inside it. The large city is divided up into Brooklyn, New Jersey, Hells Kitchen and Midtown. 
 If I were to guess Id say the game area would be a bit smaller than that of San Andreas. Each 
 area, or parts of areas are controlled by a different criminal organization. Just like from the 
 movies there are, the Corleones (Your family) , Barzini, Cuneos, and Tatalgia. 
  You start off by making your own character, customizing his own features and such, once you get 
 money later on in the game you can choose to purchase new clothes. After that there is a cut scene 
 of you as a small child and you witness the murder of your father, the Don takes you in and you 
 begin to work for him. Then it goes into the future and just like in the beginning of the movie, 
 the wedding is happening. There you see your mother pleading to the Don to help fix you up, apparently 
 you fell into a rough patch. 
  Anyhoo, the Don sends good ol (and still fat) Luca Brazsi. He finds you being beat up by a bunch 
 of guys. He picks up a wrench and whacks the shaizer out of one of the guys and grabs the other 
 two. This is where you learn the basic mechanics of the game, such as the new Blackhand Control 
 System, Ill describe this later in the Gameplay section of this review. 
  After you beat the crap out of the guys Luca tells you to go meet the Don, and thats where the 
 game really begins, with the hijacking of the cars and the beating of the innocents. :p
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  As I said before, there is a new control system in this game, known as the Blackhand 
 Control System. There are many new elements to this system. When you are fighting somebody you 
 first have to lock on to them, then you have a selection of options for you to choose. You can 
 choose to just punch them using buttons E and Q, you can grab them, you can execute them (cool 
 little animation where you grab the person and break their neck or shoot them in the head) , or 
 strangle them. 
  If you decide to grab the person you can either use the punching buttons to beat them or you can 
 control how hard you punch them, or throw them, etc, using the movement of you mouse. For instance, 
 if you were to jerk your mouse hard then your character will give a good hard punch. Also, if you 
 are near an object you can smash the person into it, or if youre standing close to a ledge or 
 window or oven you can throw the person into oblivion, always fun. 
  There is also a lock on button where you lock on to a person and shoot them, a lot like in the 
 console versions of GTA. One of my favourite options is the damage system. For instance, you can 
 shoot someone in the leg and they will crumple to the ground and try to crawl away or something 
 of that sort, or you can disarm them by shooting them in the arm, and etc Its all very interesting 
 and extremely fun, although you may need some getting used to for these mechanics.
  Another interesting aspect of this game is extorting businesses. The point of this is to get money 
 and take over the business. Basically what you do is you walk into a store of some sort and you 
 talk to the manager. You can start off by talking to them, and if theyre nice or scared of you 
 they will automatically give up. Others wont go down so easily, so you may have to break some 
 stuff in their shop, or beat them a bit to come out. There is a handy little bar in the top right 
 part of the corner which tells you how close they are to giving up the money. If you go too far 
 you will anger them and they will fight back, eventually leading to their death and you losing 
 out on some money, but if you do get them to pay you will get a weekly payment from them, a small 
 part of this payment goes to you, the rest to the family. As you gain a higher rank in the Corleone 
 family your pay raise will rise. 
  You can also bribe the police not to come after you, and they will even help you out when youre 
 in trouble. Your fellow Corleones will also help you out if theyre in the area. One of my best 
 moments in the game was when I just emerged from a Corleone controlled hotel and I was about to 
 steal a car. I jerked open the door and a guy came out, wanting to fight. He was just about to 
 punch me when I heard a gunshot and the man dropped dead. I turned back to find my fellow Mafioso 
 and saw him clutching his gun towards the direction of the fallen victim. I was laughing so hard 
 at that moment.
  The only semi-bad part about the controls is the car handling, in my opinion anyway. It just feels 
 rather unnatural, and definitely not how a car from the 1930s would move. They just handle too 
 well, they turn too well, drive too well, etc They seem to maneuver better than you would expect 
 a NASCAR car to. But, if you dont mind unrealisticness then you will love how the cars react, 
 like a dream as quoted by some of the game reviewers. 
  The weapons in this game are quite fantastic, ranging from your very first tiny pistol to the sweet 
 Tommy gun, my personal favorite gun. There is also the garrote wire, which is used for sneaking 
 up behind people and choking them, EXTREMLEY FUN. 
  
  Graphics 7/10
  The city environment looks great, the buildings, the roads, the burning garbage cans, etc. I especially 
 like the fires and the car exploding animations, they look a few hundred times better than that 
 of GTAs. Unfortunately the cars dont look too great, but theyre still fine, but can be much 
 better. See for yourself (Screenshots below.) Some of the textures can be quite bad. Some of the 
 cut scenes look absolutely horrific, the in game graphics are much better. To be more exact, the 
 cut scene graphics look like theyre from GTA Vice City, except the character models are slightly 
 more detailed.
  There are A LOT of flickering objects, and it gets extremely frustrating. When youre driving down 
 a major road soaking up the scenery you spot a building flickering like mad from normal to grey 
 you cant help but feel pissed off.
  Another thing is how the cars and people spawn. They practically appear out of nowhere. Sometimes 
 youre just driving and you see a rectangular shadow in front of you and as you get closer it turns 
 out to be a truck, and this also gets super frustrating, especially when youre trying to get somewhere 
 fast and these objects appear out of nowhere. Another thing that can be worked on are the objects 
 fading out. For instance, if you knock a lamp post down itll fall, sparks will come out, it all 
 looks nice but then it just fades out, and really quickly too, it doesnt look good at all. This 
 happens with car remnants, people, and any other things you may destroy. What is nice though, is 
 how the things are destroyed and the many destructible things, such as crates, barrels, carts, 
 etc When you shoot them, hit them, whack people into them, splinters will break out of them and 
 you will see each phase of deterioration, although sometimes it can happen too roughly, especially 
 with cars. For example, someone shoots the car and it automatically becomes dented.
  The game is also extremely repetitive, location wise. Nearly every warehouse is the same, hotel 
 is the same, all the stores are the same, etc Even many of the character models are the same. 
 It can be quite disappointing when youre having a shootout against fifteen people that look exactly 
 the same. The car models also dont vary too much, there are about six or seven different models 
 and even less different colours, but you dont really notice these things in the game as you are 
 so enthralled in the game.
  The characters from the movies all look just like themselves, except for Michael Corleone, which 
 is a shame, since he is my favorite character, but other than that they all look just like their 
 movie counterparts.
  
  Sound 10/10
  The sound in this game is absolutely magnificent. The voice acting is so believable youd think 
 youre watching the actual movie. EA games actually got professional actors to make them, and they 
 actually got some of the characters from the movie to do the movies. 
  I think its safe to say that this game has one of the best soundtracks ever made in a game. They 
 took all of the songs from the movies and shoved it into here, and they all sound marvelous and 
 all come out at the perfect moments.
  Sound effects are also very good, from the roar of the engine to the gunfire of a pistol, they 
 all sound genuine and just the way you would expect them to.
  
  Artificial Intelligence-AI
  The AI isnt quite miraculous in this game. In fact, most of the 
 time they seem to just run out and get shot. Sometimes the enemies will just turn around and pretend 
 that nothing is happening. They will take cover behind objects and peak around corners though. 
 The lack of good AI isnt quite noticeable though, seeing the fact that there are usually so many 
 people shooting at you at one time that you dont quite notice.
  
  Pros
  Blackhand Control System is really fun
  Extortions can be really fun
  Captures the movie really 
 well
  Great graphics in most areas
  Garrote Wire is super wicked
  
  Cons
  Not the greatest AI
  Damn those flickering objects
  Not too many variations in car models and 
 locations
  Graphics in cut scenes suck most of the time
  
  Conclusion
  In conclusion, despite some of the cons of this game, it is still a great game, one of my favorites 
 in fact. I portrays the movies quite well and is a great joy to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_1NF1D3L
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 15, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I love The Godfather movies. They are great and epic and the characters (for the most part) are 
 likable. But this game is a bastardization of all things The Godfather. 
  
  Ok, so it follows the plot, sort of. Ok, so they got the original voices to voice it. Ok, its EA... eh. 
 But, the game itself is what happens when GTA cross breeds with a movie. Its not good for either 
 of the genres. Its a good solid game, doesn't hardly crash (had a problem with changing clothes) , 
 voice-acting is top-notch, and the physics are ok.
  
  But... If I had wanted to play GTA, I would have bought San Andreas. This game is a complete rip 
 off. The only things different are the lack of different cars, places to run to and different buildings. 
 Oh, ya, that is another thing, all the city buildings are THE SAME SKIN!!! 
  
  Last word: Gets old real fast, craptastic clone, only for the hardcore Godfather addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 13, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  the godfather is a great game with great detail and lots of different stuff to do. creat ur caracter 
 and own the shops. how u get out of trouble with the cops by bribing them and stuff like that. 
 i only have a few suggestion for the next few. the cas. trhere are only like 4 different cars. 
 i understand at that time period they had not alot of different genres of cars but it is still 
 a good game. i love how they combined all the grandtheft auto games with a bit of style from the 
 punisher. like all the moves u can do to people eg smash there head on there own cash register. 
 this game is worth the money and is now coming out for the psp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 12, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I would say it totally deserves a lower scores than Mafia.
  It was quite fun for the first 2 hours, but all go down hill after that.
  All the extortions 
 are pretty much the same layout. (I should say 100%)
  Pros
  Cool fighting control.
  Cool execution moves.
  Good cut scenes.
  Realistic street environment (people are all over 
 the places)
  Have actual movie clips to view.
  
  Consssss
  The cars looks way fake.
  The handling sucks.
  There is no dash board (seriously, you never know how fast you are going)
 
  Repetitive interior designs (that's a big turn off) .
  Too many car chases when the handling sucks.
  No quick MAP key for crying out loud (prepare to 
 pause the game every 20 secs.)
  The map is way too big and too complicated (shorten the distance between families, would you?) 
 That's cheating player playing hours!
  The on screen map never shows an accurate picture
  Oh, no jump too. Kind of dump to see your character can only walk, run, and dash.
  
  I stopped 
 playing after Sonny's death. I believe I wouldn't miss a thing.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrUnOdeFeNiX
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Esse  o tipo de jogo que  realmente bom.
  Porque bom??!
  1- Porque ele tem uma histria (e o melhor real) .
  2- Porque  um jogo do tipo em que voc 
 se inclui no jogo, de que modo? Criando o seu prprio personagem ao seu gosto, estilo e modo claro 
 sempre pensando nisso na poca em que se passa.
  3- Porque  tipo Grand Theft Auto, voc pode ir para onde quiser, fazer o que quiser e roubar, bater, 
 "matar" e fazer as misses que bem entender.
  4- Porque o "soundtrack" ou seja. a trilha sonora  realmente muito boa e viciante, um toque a 
 parte no jogo.
  5- Porque voc vai aprender mais sobre uma histria real de um gangster que foi atualmente preso 
 e solto por falta de provas.
  6- Tem alguns pontos negativos mais nada e nem ningum  perfeito a no ser Deus.
  7- Porque 
 vio!! --   O PODEROSO CHEFO!!
  Um excelente jogo, digno de perder vrias horas jogando. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 11, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Why is violence the only way to solve problems in todays games?
  
  I have been wondering why all games released today espacielly by EA try to avoid logical thinking. 
 They really don't want you to use your brain in combination with a pc game anymore. I hope more 
 people realise that what's missing in today's games is the ingredients from the adventure games 
 released in the 90's. Those were games that made you think while playing them.
  
  So how is the atmosphere?
  I played Mafia a few years ago and if you want to feel that you are 
 in an American city during the days of "The Godfather" you should try that game instead because 
 Godfather don't really come close to that standard.
  
  I'm afraid I have to say that EA is like some kind of decease pestering the gameingworld with mediocre 
 games that could have been so cool but only has good graphic and no depth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I was really worried when I first heard that a game based on the Godfather was to be released. 
 As most of us know games based on films are nearly always rubbish and they have the hype of the 
 newly released film behind them. But the Godfather is certainly not one of these games that relys 
 on the film to reach its audience.
  This is a good game that can get pretty addictive for a while, I loved roughing up the local butcher 
 for my protection money and buying my first italian suit. And the fact that you fully decide how 
 your character looks to the finest detail is really great. The graphics look pretty good most of 
 the time (mainly when you're inside a building) and the storyline follows closely to the film. 
 However, the character you play in the game isn't from the film and you find that a lot of the 
 events of the film just happen around you and you're not really involved. Thats not to say you 
 don't play scenes from the movie but when you do you're character isn't written in very well.
 
  The other problem the game suffers from is the fact that altough there are loads of shops and 
 hotels around the city, its a matter of the same interior and characters being put inside these 
 places. As a result that part of the game gets really old really fast. Whilst you are driving you 
 will notice what has to be the worst popup in a game ever.
  Overall the Godfather is a dissapointment in that it could of been so good if it weren't for these 
 little things that ruin the experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbishash
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 11, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  THE GODFATHER
  this game is based on the movie series the godfather "don corleone"
  it the perfect game for gangwar lovers, not much facinating for car lovers 
  b'caz gta has got 
 many cars, bikes, etc.
  it has got the classic look which can turn some people off, story foced it.
  the game has each 
 and every character from the movie. if u hav seen the movie u can easily make ouit the faces in 
 the game.
  the game has got extort thing which is new apart from gta n mafia.
  u will find back door at each n evry business which is a racket. u can destroy the racket or u 
 can take over. take over will give u points= respect.
  the game has got movies from the film. which gets open after every main mission or if ur level is 
 up or if get pramotion.
  In the game u have 4 competing families, which at end u hav 2 take over.
  u hav five levels in 
 th game which are 
  (1) outsider level {training} 
  (2) associate
  (3) soldier
  (4) capo
  (5) under boss
  (6) nyc don
  there are also other families warehouses 2 take over. but will be 
 difficult at the start.
  always do side missions n always try to score bonus, to get much out of it.
  as like mafia n gta 
 it has got heat level, if it rises u will hav police in the party but don't worry u hav the safehouses 
 atleast buy 1 safehouse in 1 city.
  u will score points from which u can buy skills for ur character.
  u can also buy cloths glasses 
 hats shoes tops etc. for ur character.
  
  LETS TALK ABOUT TECHNICAL.
  it not much imperasive in graphics but its there.
  the story line is great.
  old classic sound 
 quality sound effects impressive.
  good fps short loading time, makes happy.
  moral of the story is over all its good.
  worth playing if u hav lover the film.
  enjoy have 
 fun with don corleone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jccyber
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with you learning the ways of the mobster and then you are thrown into the world 
 of guns and violence that could only be truly representive of the Godfather universe.
  
  The city is big and has enough shops to extort if that is what you want to do but the story is 
 rather short however does follow the movie well even though you don't play a main character.
  
  Good for the gangster in us all but not as good for just pure violence as the GTA games.
 
  
  A good pick up but i dont know if the sequels will make it stale. So buy it before they ruin it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeysmall
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game, and there are some great elements to it. The open / non linear game 
 play, the 1940's New York backdrop, the integration with the film plot and the fantastic reproduction 
 of some of the characters are all to be applauded. 
  
  It's nice to have such an atmospheric backdrop to a game, and when it is associated with such a 
 classic film this adds to the enjoyment of the game.
  
  However, I buy a game to play the game, and if the game play isn't engaging then I feel a little 
 let down. Too many of the interiors are repeated, it is too easy to escape police 'heat' and there 
 are too few cars to keep the driving entertaining. In the end, taking down yet another warehouse 
 becomes a bit of a chore.
  
  That said, some of the main plot missions are great and I would recommend this game to fans of 
 the film. If you don't like the film, don't buy it, there are other games that do this sort of 
 thing better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Doing the story missions it's pretty ok. You cand see the nice "movie things". To bad that this 
 game was made by EA. We can see how poorly it was made. Few cars, iteriors ho all look the same, 
 poor soundtrack... i mean the Godfather main theme it's ok, but the soundtrack only contain few 
 tracks. Also the game get's very anoying when you want to shot a "bad" guy and the auto-aim... aim's 
 at a bad placed enemy. I mean i have an enemy standing in fron of me, ready to be shot, I auto-aim 
 and the cursor selects an enemy that's behind a wall. Also I found some bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLarcen
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Upon first popping this game in the old Computer, I was throughly impressed with the music, and 
 graphics of the game. The story of the game quickly gets you involved with the family. You help 
 set up the events of some of the major moments in the godfather movie. 
  
  Hours flew by as I first started playing this game, running around moving up the ranks of the family, 
 extorting money from businesses, running away from the cops, performing contracted hits on certain 
 people for the family. If you are a mafia movie lover, I suggest you grab this game, its great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apisonline
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 6, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Its a game only to be played by the fans of godfather, iam saying these because iam living in a 
 continent that didnt know what godfather is.. well the gameplay is boring cause the recycled scene 
 and people, they try to make it like GTA ( God Bless GTA! ) but the scenes are keep on repeating 
 and people around also looks familiar on every occasion. Love the vendetta thinger, something that 
 make player rush to find the location of FBI to bribe and settle things. The plot of the story 
 is good makes player like being part of the family. Ive finish the game, THE DON but to get the 
 DON OF NYC, id rather baging on RE4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhil_sharma
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay was a fantastic game where you can make your own player
  ,you can take over buisniuses, you can take over rackets, you might have probelms because there are 
 other gangs (families) for e. g. Tattalia's,
  Cuneo's, etc...
  They also want protection money so they will shoot you.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics were very 
 realistic so the charecter model looked as if they
  have taken from the movie. 
  
  SOUND
  If you have a nice sound card and speakers you will have fun to play.
  
  CHEATS
 
  go to pause menu by pressing "esc" while playing the game 
  CHEAT EFFECT
  corleone max health
  stracci max ammo
  cuneo get $5,000 
  
  they only work one time
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrThomsen
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 4, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  At first i thought it was a great game and it really give you a great Godfather experience imho, 
 but after some time of playing the game the great lack of graphic experience really started to 
 annoy me and it is a really short game and the missions are to easy and doesn't have enough variations 
 after my taste. So you will quickly get tired of it. But if you are a fan of the Godfather universe 
 you will proberly find this entertaining, but i wouldn't recommed it other wise. But as i see myself 
 as kind of a fan of the Godfather movie and kinda liked it as long as it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos890
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  When i heard of the godfather i thought it was going to be one of "that" game with a movie licence, 
 So i didn't look forward to the game at all. But eventually after a couple of movies and revieuws 
 i was interested in the game. So i dicided to buy the pc version, I installed the game and start 
 the story mode. And it starts good it brings the whole godfather experience in the game from right 
 the start. The missions have variations although somethimes missions are boring an way to easy. 
 And then i come to the biggest minus of the game is that it is way too short about 13/14 hours 
 i need to completed it and after that you want more but there isn't any replay value at all. Besides 
 that the godfather is fun to play and it brings the whole godfather experience to your pc or console 
 
  the music is good, graphics are a bit overage so if you are a big fan of the movie you can buy 
 this game blind, but for people who don't like the movie they shall think twice buying this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  GODFATHER RULES!!! I love the way it fills plot holes in the movie and places your character into 
 the movie itself. The game is basically the movie. You get to see and do things that you can't 
 see in the movie. For example when that guy finds the horse's head in his bed, in the movie u don't 
 know who put it there, but in the game you and another guy are the ones who do it. This is a great 
 game and I recommend it to anyone who loves the Godfather movies or just random shoot 'em up gangster 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynkcoely
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  My friend bought this game last week and invited me over to play it I played it for an hour and 
 got so pissed and decided to write this reveiw about. I guess the only reason I care is because 
 I am GTA's biggest fan and it makes me so mad that someone would rip it off with such an annoying 
 game, not to mention how bad the controls are i'd have to say this game is a real disappointment 
 viewed to me as a rent only game whatever you do don't buy. Some advice for some of the people 
 if you're thinking about buying this game you must also be thinking about buying teletubbies the 
 meltdown on happiesville 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Good game, sorta... I am VERY disappointed at the fact that these graphics are on par with or LESSER 
 than Farcry that's 2 years old... I mean jesus, this game isn't even up to the GTA: SA standards... 
 Anyone else feel this way??
  
  When playing Splinter cell (again almost a year old) on my rig and then switiching to this title, 
 WOW what a shocker... The cars are actually SUNK into the road surface, the textures are crap, 
 the LOD distance modeling sucks, the models are 03' standards at best, whatelse... no quick way 
 to bring up a map, change clothes and many more issues... 
  
  Look at the damn coffee cups in the first hide-out room... THERE FREAKING CUBES!! no where near 
 a 6-8-100 sided cylander... done ranting, but while the gameplay is enticing, these graphics, menu 
 load times and overall experince are horrible... Pick it up if you can find it for 29.99 or much, 
 much less.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhaj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  All reviews aside... this game is a kick ass... the fighting and the shooting parts are awesome... 
 I like it a lot because it much reflects on the movie, and it much addictive.
  But on the down side which is not so bad, the car windows are black and you can't see through them, 
 But it's not so bad... and the driving is good but the cars doesn't act like they are old, unlike 
 in the mafia game... but the game doesn't focus only on the driving.... But it's still a great 
 game.
  
  If you one of many fans of The Godfather's Movie's... This is defiantly the game for you... highly 
 recommended for all gamers!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  The Godfather I consider in general to be a great GTA-tipe game. Mostly I like the story-line because 
 it's very very close to the movie and realy gave me a high genaeral impresion. It's clear for who 
 played GTA San Andreas that it's RPG part is clearly inspired from there. I mean you can upgrade 
 your character you can buy smarter clothes better guns and there are a lot other similaryties exept 
 the moving up in the family deal, that's clearly godfather. Of cource there is the very anoing 
 misions at the end when you have to take over every racket and extort all buisnesses. 
  Something that I realy didn't like were the grahichs they could have been better. I mean your character 
 is realy well maid but the ones oround you suck. 
  So The Godfather is in my best games list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapidspeed
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Good things:
  
  - The cars and cities look great for the era it's meant to be set in 
  - It's really indebted to the movie fans 
  - Theres more than just missions to do like taking 
 over a shop , factory etc.
  - Two of the real actor's voices are in the game
  - The late role of Don Carleone is a great cover up
  - Making a character is fun
  
  Bad Things:
 
  
  - Michael Corleone's voice and looks i. e. Al Pacino, did not lend his looks and voice and so the 
 one in the game is a really bad alternative
  - There are very few missions
  - It is a-bit too repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fooltheroyalbos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I didn't plan on getting this at all. Never seen the movies, wasn't going to buy the game, sort 
 of thing. But, i decided to look it up and check it out.
  
  So next thing you know i'm sitting down playing it. The game would appeal to those that like the 
 Godfather series, or an action game where you have to kill and drive and kill somemore.
  
  You assume the role of someone who just got into the Corleone racket. As you rise through the ranks 
 you get further into the movies. But they always set it up so your never actually in all the movie 
 shots.
  
  The game is also good for someone that doesn't have a so up-to-date graphics card. I was running 
 a Radeon 9000 Integrated and the visuals were amazing. There was some clipping on certain parts 
 around the collar of his shirt in cinematics at some points, but that wouldn't affect anyone that 
 has a better graphics card or on a console version.
  
  The only flaw i had was the controling for the PC, but i learned it shortly after. Then later on 
 i set up my controller to it and been using that since.
  
  All in all, i believe this game is great, worth paying $57-ish dollars, and it will not let you 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  considering that there was a previous game about this: Mafia, released Aug 28 - 2002, which was 
 very very good, I expected that this one to be at least at the same level.
  
  Unfortunatelly 4 years later they managed to do a 4 times worse game. In fact these 2 doesn't stand 
 comparation from the quality point of view, even that the game resemblances are enough.
  
  The shooting system it's pretty awkward, the side missions are repetitive and becomes boring.
 
  The music it's good, but hearing the same thing, every time it's annoying sometime.
  The story it's good, nothing spectacular but not bad.
  
  This is a game to play if you are 
 bored and have nothing better to do, I think you'll gain more by playing Mafia again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Based on one of the greatest movies of all time, the game already had a brilliant storyline to 
 it, pushed to even greater heights with the inclusion of the original actors as voice over actors. 
 However, the game does suffer from one significant drawback...
  
  You can finish the main storyline within a few hours, meaning that there is very little fun to 
 be had, and even the extortion and warehouse takeovers (which extend the life of the game) are 
 finished all too soon. The problem is that the game really starts to grow on you, but just as it 
 is about to make itself one of the best games you have played, you have run out of things to do, 
 which is a shame considering the effort taken by EA to make the game.
  
  The graphics can also be a bit annoying with horrible textures on ordinary citizens and buildings, 
 and the flickering sky when day turns to night. But these problems are trivial as the atmosphere 
 of the movies really are brought to life.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, possibly better the second time you play, if you choose to do 
 so. You can breeze through the main story in a few hours, but taking over New York is so much more 
 fun, and takes a lot longer, but even so, the game is far too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VsT_Delta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a very fun Shooting game with poor driving and Role playing features. 
  
  The Good: Gun play is fun and addicting for a few hours. Graphics are nice, great effects and explosions. 
 Great voice acting and characters, and an addictive story for those who enjoyed the movie. Runs 
 extremely smooth also.
  
  The Bad: The major issues I had were the lack of Cars and building variety. There are about 6 cars 
 and 5 different building types, All the building types are identical in paint color and size. Also, 
 the game is missing the true Pacino Michael Corleone, this was a very big dissapointment. During 
 gun play and other interactions the controls can become frustrating while opening doors, hugging 
 walls, reloading Etc. Through out the game you continue to feel alienated from the family, Bad 
 role playing elements dont give you quite a feel of a Cicilian mobster.
  
  Another large problem I had was the driving. All cars handle perfectly, and travel at speeds of 
 modern day sports cars. Also, bullet damage and crash damage is really badly animated compared 
 to other games.
  
  Overall: Fun game to kill time with for a day or so, Quick to get in and out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horockee_basic
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  why can't they made it normal, why is it when i move the mouse to the left, and the camera goes 
 to the other direction? why why why???
  i can't play it like this... and the fighting sucks... just made it simple... i dun want to think 
 while i am punching people. 
  THIS GAME SUCKS, eventhough i never played mafia before.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazam_lp
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Well, when you start playing this game, you're like "Cool, nice streets, characters and actions, 
 definitely the thing I'm looking for.." And then after a couple of missions from the corleone officers, 
 and some racket and business takeouts, you actually find that the whole game is repetitive, nothing 
 new, just different textures and the same old structure of buildings wherever you go, makes it 
 boring.
  
  The story is short, and from my gamming experience I think that most of the movie-based games suck, 
 so comparing this one to others, it is ok for that bit of the action it contains.
  
  After a while you get bored of the 6 weapons that only a few are upgradble, the 4 types of cars 
 that are roaming in the streets and the very similar wanted levels which make no difference if 
 you are a 1 star or a 6 star except for stupid cop cars chasin' you and blowing up each minute.
 
  
  The wheel machine was a big dissapointment for a company like EA Games, makers of Need For Speed 
 could at least come with a better driving engine.
  
  Let me not just state the cons, the game has a few pros, like the good game story based on the 
 old movie, I dont see any "Alpacino" character in it but its ok, even though the story's short 
 and took me 3 days to complete the game, its worth playing if you're bored.
  
  My recommendation, Get this game if you like the old GTA 3 and have a terrible graphics card, otherwise, 
 dont even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I start from the bad things in this game and i put it in 3 Main Points
  
  1- VERY bad AI you will show in the streets 
  2- UNKNOWN types Of Vehicles & unnamed Vehicles
 
  3- The time passes & the vechiles did not Changes: In game I played nearly half of its Missions 
 as its meter indicates and the Vehicles stays in the same models no Any New Vechiles appeared 
 
  
  & the good things :
  1- Superb 3D animations in the game 
  2- Very good events in the game In accordance with the original story
  3- good weapons included 
 in the game in accordance with the historic period that Events had happened
  
  ***In conclusion*** Good game which u can spend time only while playing it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game which starts with a mandatory tutorial I thought "This is 
 going to be fun" - The violence is so gruesome. 
  
  However after you get into the game and the novelty of head butting people to death wears off, 
 it is obviously nothing more than a Grand Theft Auto mod.
  
  I have never been a fan of the GTA concept although at least GTA is playable ! The controls in 
 Godfather suck - it is a straight port over from the playstation and no thought has been given 
 to playing this game with mouse and keyboard - It's virtually impossible. For example dependent 
 upon which way your mouse is pointing you end up having to press the move left key in order to 
 move right, or press back in order to move forward - this can be very frustrating and confusing 
 at times and is very annoying when in a fight.
  
  Following on from the GTA style it has an annoying checkpoint system where you have to run back 
 to a safe house in order to save your progress - this is such an outdated method particularly if 
 you get called away from the game and can't simply press save.
  
  On the plus side, graphics are reasonable but nothing spectacular. I run a high end rig with a 
 Geforce 7800 GTX - the best the game can do is a Bloom effect - don't expect any Shader Model 3 
 or HDR rendering here. That said, the character animations and facial expressions are some of the 
 best I've seen.
  
  The sound is also excellent, with great sound effects and music.
  
  My overall advice is to steer clear of the Godfather mostly due to the poor control system and 
 unplayability, unless of course you want to play it on a console which it was designed for. 
  
  Games by Electronic Arts are usually good, but if you get this on the PC you will be so frustrated 
 it will leave you wanting to put a horse's head in the bed of the EA chief Executive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsan
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Very disappointing.
  When i started to play Godfather i thought that it would be like "Grand theft auto"
  but it wasn't 
 .
  why not....?
  Because , in GTA you had freedom, NO freedom here just roads , you can't go anywhere from the roads.
 
  Well, you can get in to buildings but they all look the same inside.
  Cars- you maybe have 10 cars in the game and you can't even see the inside of them and cant' shoot 
 the tires, can't roll over your car.
  Weapons- small amount.
  The missions are so boring, it's always the same, drive, talk, kill nothing more.
  I can't believe 
 the installation of the game is 4.6 gigs! the map is so small compared to GTA: SA (and Godfather 
 doesn't even has music, three tracks doesn't count!) .
  Save your money , your time and hd space, don't buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurusigma
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 22, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Too bad... I was really looking forwards to this game as I loved the movies. Even though the storyline 
 and theme are much like the movies, a crappy gameplay completely ruined the fun.
  
  Not only the game is extremely repetitive, but it looks and feels just like a letdown version of 
 GTA in the 30's. Sad, sad, sad. That, and the graphics... I was really expecting much more from 
 EA! 
  
  The in-game characters all behave in the same exact way (except for the NPCs) , there is no variety. 
 Plus, they bug on my system! They will run for no reason even if my heat and vendetta levels are 
 low... or they will suddenly all gather round me and look stupid. The game still has tons of glitches 
 from a crappy programming...
  
  All in all, I'm giving it a so/so rating only because I love the theme song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  A while back ago, Electronic Arts announced that they would be developing a game based off of the 
 award winning movie The Godfather. While some were extremely skeptical, most gamers were completely 
 overjoyed that they would get to fight for Don Vito Corleone. As the road to publishing The Godfather 
 pushed on, the original director, Francis Ford Coppola was never asked to lend a hand in the development 
 and was downright angry for this. Did this stop the game or slow it down? Nope, it pushed on, and 
 now we have the game on shelves for everyone to enjoy.
  
  You will not play as any of the known characters from the movie, instead you will play as a new 
 character that you create, and work your way up the organized crime ladder. You will choose how 
 your character looks with quite a few options for customization. The Godfathers presentation is 
 a very striking one, you will actually feel that you are in the 1940s having to work with the 
 mob. If you are worried about a nameless character tarnishing the movie you know and love, no worries. 
 The game will stick very close to the movies original story, your character will actually lend 
 his hand in helping it along a little. A nice addition to your custom character is the fact that 
 as you progress and fight, you will actually go up in levels, and be able to increase skills such 
 as fighting, health, gunplay, speed, and even street smarts. Besides all of the previous, if you 
 have ever played any of the Grand Theft Auto games, then you will feel right at home here. The 
 Godfather actually feels a lot like a total knock off of GTA. Fortunately the game will throw some 
 nice little features at you to keep it fresh and keep the mob mentality going. During gun fights 
 you will be able to push your back against the wall and target a foe around the corner, then peak 
 around and take a shot or 2 with the greatest of ease. Manual control of your character and not 
 using the lock on will result in some pleasing little tidbits like kneecapping someone of an enemy 
 mob, or even being able to run up to a winded enemy and pulling off a nasty execution death. 
 
  
  Another difference to the GTA formula is the hand to hand combat. With the keyboard and mouse, 
 this can take some getting used to, but once you have it down, it is actually somewhat deep. You 
 will be able to run up on an enemy and grab them using both mouse buttons and beating the tar out 
 of them by simply pushing the Q or E buttons. While that is just a fraction of what the combat 
 is, it already shows you that there is much more to it than the  
 technique that GTA uses. 
  
  During the game you will have the opportunity to make some money for yourself and the Corleone 
 family by ways of the occasional business. How do you ask? One word Extortion! Thats right! Small 
 businesses need your protection. You will be able to walk into highlighted stores on your map and 
 casually walk in, and demand that the owner pay up, if they refuse, you get to knock them around 
 a little until they change their minds. How persuasive you are is displayed by a meter on the screen 
 that shows a line where their breaking point is. As you progressively beat them to a bloody pulp, 
 the meter will fill up until you meet the line and you have their money. If you go too far over 
 the line they will once again refuse and you will not gain their business. Another neat little 
 part about gaining stores to protect is a majority of them have illegal rackets running in the 
 back of the store. Things like illegal gambling to illegal shipping can be yours for the taking 
 either by force or by means of cash. If you choose to pay the owner of the racket, you will simply 
 gain it, but if you choose force, you will have to fight for it because the places are usually 
 guarded.
  
  AI in the game is a hit or miss. During fights, enemies will run for cover, rush you, and choose 
 their shots accordingly. This is nice because it really keeps you guessing. On the other hand, 
 civilians on sidewalks and so on are extremely stupid. If you are racing around in a car and you 
 happen to get too close to a sidewalk, people will try to jump out of your way, instead of jumping 
 out of your way, they will throw themselves in front of your car making it impossible for you to 
 miss them, and help you rack up the heat! 
  
  The graphics in the game are very sharp and very precise. There are some great animations in the 
 game and will run at a very fluid frame rate. Occasionally while you are driving mainly, you will 
 run into a drop in frames, but its nothing to be too upset over. Aside from the animations, there 
 is quite a bit too see, unfortunately once you have seen it all, you will see it over and over 
 again. Most everything in the game from people outside, to the insides of buildings are very cookie 
 cutter, and will be very familiar. You will never walk into different building layouts, so if you 
 go into a cake shop, once, youve seen them all. Also a lot of New York looks exactly the same, 
 so you will rely on your map and radar a lot in this game. 
  
  While the gunshots are loud, and the explosions are blaring, one part of the sound that makes this 
 game so great is the talented voice acting. A few people from the movie have reprised their roles 
 in this game including, James Caan, Robert Duvall, Abe Vigoda, and the Don himself, Marlon Brando. 
 While it adds so much to this game to hear original voices, Al Pachino refrained from it, so if 
 Michael Corleone sounds different, thats why.
  
  The Godfather has well over 20 hours of gameplay, thats including all of the side missions. With 
 how well the game plays and with how it looks, its a great game. Adding to that mix is some extremely 
 fast loading times, and no loading times when you enter or leave a building! If you are a fan of 
 The Godfather, this is a great game that doesnt lose any continuity, if you are a fan of GTA games, 
 this is adding to an already great formula! Simply put, this game is an offer you cant refuse.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VW2k
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  An excelent game. It gets in front of any other game with the story. An amazing story that made 
 my nights shorter. I played this game for a lot of hours and all I can say is : AMAZING SUPER VERYY 
 GOOD EXCELENT INCREDIBLE. I recomend this game to all fans of the godfather the movie but not only 
 them all action/adventure players. You can play this game for days and days and you will never 
 get bored. And I think that is the most important thing. I enjoyed every single moment of this 
 game and I hope all of you enjoyed playing this amazing game. There is a "But" and with this I 
 want to say that Mafia is still the best game of the mob-games ever made. As a conclusion I have 
 to say that The godfather is one of the best games of thIs year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Since "Mafia" came out a few years back, no other game has managed to surclass it in feeling, atmosphere 
 ,gameplay and originality up to this day.
  "The Godfather", although still not able to surclass the classic in my opinion, is a worthy contender.
 
  "The Godfather" manages to recreate with grate success the atmosphere from the movie with the 
 same name .This is a very good thing, since you will feel like you are living in the 1930's, in a 
 gangster-controlled city of NY.
  This game borrows a lot of things from the GTA series .The overall day-to-day system of the game 
 and "free-roaming" of the streets (also the management of buildings and rackets) powerfully resembles 
 GTA: SA .
  One thing this game misses however is diversity. There are only 8 types of car in the whole game 
 (plus the Corleone Sedan, but this is only given in certain missions) and the scenery and interiors 
 get highly repetitive. The family compounds look the same ,the warehouses look the same ,the businesses 
 look the same and so on...
  Storyline:
  While most of the events in the game (along with characters) are exactly like in the movie, you, the 
 player, are not. However, this doesnt mean you will not have an important role. While not part 
 of the main storyline, you will leave a big impression on it. You are the one that is sent to make 
 the kills, you are the one that saves the Don and so on.
  But then, who are you before entering the Mafia?
  You are the son of another made man, who is just 
 getting ready to take his wife to a restaurant when he is attacked by the Tattaglia family. Vito 
 Corleone (the head of the Corleones) makes a promise to your mother that when the time comes ,he 
 will accept you in the family. After a few years, he respects this promise, and you become "close" 
 to the family. Later you become a made man yourself, and finally you become the Don!
  Also, at the start of the game, you can customize your character ,by choosing clothes (more can be 
 bought later on ) and changing your face (by using the same system used in "The Sims 2", another 
 EA game)
  Gameplay:
  If you are used to GTA: SA and games alike, you will have no problem learning how to play "The Godfather". Go 
 here-get your mission-go there-solve the objective-get the reward. While between missions, you can 
 go and extort businesses and rackets in town, in order to gain money.
  Businesses are sorted into categories ,depending on the money they give per week. There are small 
 time businesses and rackets, then there are casino's and restaurants, then warehouses and transport 
 hubs (which give a lot of money) and then there are the enemy compounds (there are 4 enemy compounds, the 
 city being disputed by 5 families :the Tattaglias, the Barzinis ,the Straccis ,the Cuneos and the 
 Corleones) .
  The combat system may confuse some players. It is based on a "lock-on" type of fighting. You hold 
 a button to lock-on to someone, and you can shoot different parts of his body, or use multiple moves 
 without worrying that your target might go on someone else.
  The weapons in the game are few (your fists, baseball  revolver, a 
 pistol ,a magnum, the tommy-gun ,the shotgun and the garrote wire) but some of them can be upgraded 
 by going to blackmarket sales-men. The bombs can also be used to destroy whole buildings. The garrote 
 wire is pretty weird in a game like this-it is a fine string which can be used to strangle people 
 from behind.
  Saving is made like in GTA-you go to the safe-house and save from there. There are 24 warehouses 
 in the city which can be bought or are awarded.
  The game also borrows some RPG elements-you gain respect as "experience" and then level up-you 
 gain points which you can put into a number of 
  Graphics:
  The graphics fit well in the atmosphere of the game, but lacks diversity. As i said 
 before, interiors get repetitive ,car damage is not very realistic (in fact cars behave like they 
 would in NFS ,not in the 1930's) and clipping errors occur quite often.
  The character faces however, are very well made. Convincing expressions and diverse actions add a 
 very big plus to the graphics grade here, which would have been much lower if the faces were not 
 so well made.
  Sound:
  The sound also fits quite well with the atmosphere (original music and voices from the movie make 
 you feel like you are really there) and sometimes I would turn effects to low just to listen to 
 that music.
  Overall impression:
  I was very enthusiastic when i first heard about the game and bought it. I liked the game, but not 
 as much as I thought I would. A little more originality and a little less "borrowing" things from 
 other games would have made a much better game.
  With all that, the game is worth it ,and i encourage you to buy it if you liked "Mafia" and are 
 a fan of "gangster" style games ,like me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemmo_ays
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, the movies was, is, the best movies ever made.
  The idea of the producer and the good plaing of the great actors bring up to us the cruel world 
 of the Mafia.
  The Godfather The Game, the same story, the same stars, the same good music, but some thing that could 
 be done better.
  The story it's realy cool, i have always wanted to be the man behing the action, the man that has 
 done everything and that briliant idea, the execution styles are cool, the city it's big enough but 
 it could be much distinct things in this world, same shops, same casinos, same wherehouses, same compaunds, same 
 replays, this thing are not Good at all, the driveing could be more realistic and the cops should 
 give you tickets for passing red lights and more infractions [i know this features are in Mafia, but 
 there are real world things that happont so no one will acuse you for not been authentic] anyway 
 on the other way the game it's superb done and with a pach you can fix some bug [see the Godfather 
 forum on EA GAMES] 
  I know that The Godfather 2 will come and that's great news, untill then work hard and be the best 
 like always.
  THE GODFATHER fans are hopeing a game as good as the movie so we wanna see 9.0 ---10 for the next 
 Godfather and we know you can do that, i'm sure that gamespot will keep us in touch with the hot 
 news about that
  
  NemmO LOVE EA and GAMESPOT
  i'm visiting 20-30 times a day the webpages
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky1451
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The godfather.... well lets say this game bears a rather striking resemblance to the gta franchise 
 and another game released not too long ago called..... Mafia...... this and that seem rather closesly 
 related... well anyway this game had alot to live up to by portraying the #1 movie in america as 
 accounted to by imdb. com. this ame does to a fair job in it though. The game is fun i will give 
 it that anyone who loves gta will love this, and any fan of the movie will definatly wanna try 
 it. just forwarning u u will hear the godfather theme atleast 68 times before the end of the game.... 
 other then that it sounds great and the looks arent half bad the characters actually look like 
 what they are supposed to. if you want another gta type game and can get passed the continuous 
 godfather theme song, pick it up its great. you could spend hours and hours on it i just think 
 its an absolutly great game very cinimatic well done and very very gangster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  The Godfather came as a very good news to fans of rpg crime games, like me, and although it is 
 not as grand as the film its still a good game. Clearly copying stuff from gta, the godfather passes 
 the test of a good game but there it stands. You'll like the missions the side missions, the way 
 you can beat and kill people, and the fact of being a member of an ethnic mafia group. Still the 
 map is not big, the game was about 5 gigabyte in my pc and the map is quite small ( comparing to 
 gta sa which was something over 4 giga) and there is a very limited number of varied cars. 
  Still enjoyable and I would consider buying a Godfather 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigzago
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  this game is the best graphics i ever seen, the sound tracks is the same of the movie, the wepons 
 is sutable 4 the time of the game and car model too, the game is mediem diffculty till u reach 
 level 30 (under boss) it got much hader. the characters are the same looking in the movire, there 
 is movies locked after every mision, i think the price of the game is suitable ,but cheats don't 
 made more than one time, i rate the game as 9.5 out of 10 ,so try the game and send me ur rating, finally 
 hope too enjoy the game as i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakriya87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  this one of the best mafia games. you should check it out. everything is great. i spent hours on this 
 game. Don't waste your money on the 360 vesion though!!!!!!!!!!! you will regret it. The gameplay 
 is awesome, the characters are good looking and the sound is ear blowing!!!!! it's great. I have always 
 been a mario puzo fan and this is the game for me and other fans. if you want hardcore action and 
 classic mafia story this is the game for you. So don't sit on your a**es and pick a copy. hurry!!!!!
 
  p. s - don't shoot people with ya shotgun after you play it. Atleast i 
 
  this game is great great great great great great great  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rljthesim
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the plans for making a Godfather game I was thrilled. Now I see pong like 
 graphics, and very repetitive strain missions. In my eyes this game is just like Gangsters 2 but 
 then in third person instead of overhead view. it is badly finished and only the hand to hand is 
 worth anything. It is alright but not what I had expected. EA games has screwed up once again! 
 It has been finished way too soon and wit just half a year more intensive work they would have 
 had one heck of an RPG. I have had enough of this game now so i'm going to stop and get back to 
 playing Oblivion :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YASERSEFFO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I think that the power in this game is in its story which has made it popular like that , but for 
 the graphics its not powerful as the games these days its graphics like games two years ago but 
 i think the next one (if there is ) would be more better in this side
  about the sounds it must be as equal as the film but its fair 
  but for the movie lovers its 
 great and i am one of them 
  i've finished it in 30 hrs so its good and and i think that the EA company had made a good job 
 to make such a game on this movie but if there is another one for the 2nd part of the movie i hope 
 it will be better in the graphics and michel face was not so good as the other ( tom , sonny , 
 Don Vito, Luca) 
  wish to EA good job if there is another part and sure i will be the first who but it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkim223
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the godfather got me excited because if you know the movie, it was great! Meaning 
 at this time maybe they would make a great movie based game since all the resources are available. 
 But like most of the other movie based games. This one is right in the middle... just between bad 
 and good.
  
  Like others who would agree with me, i expected more out of it. Its storyline was great, they did 
 a good job on the voice acting and all that. The controls..... the controls..... i'll say it again, 
 the controls destroyed the game. I couldn't play it on my pc controller... i had to use the keyboard. 
 
  
  Anyway, It was good to play (on the keyboard) in the first missions and all that but it got very 
 repetitive and boring. I wish they had added more content to it like better objectives rather just 
 taking over businesses and killing mobsters. Personally i thought it was going to be better than 
 gt but nooo! i was wrong.
  
  If purchased the godfather and you like it, finish it soon and trade it in for mafia. You will 
 not regret it. Or buy some book... read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is an uneven mishmash of fighting, driving, and shooting. Call it Grand Theft Goodfellas; 
 if someone took Rockstar Games' popular Grand Theft Auto series, moved its setting to New York, 
 and then sent it via the Wayback machine to post-World War II New York, the result would be The 
 Godfather. As an up-and-comer in the Corleone family, players can shake down businesses, rob banks, 
 steal cars, engage in gunfights, perform assassinations, buy out illegal rackets, and perform specific 
 tasks for La Famiglia. 
  
  Extortion bits are extremely well done. Players must muscle a series of shopkeepers into paying 
 protection monies; recalcitrant merchants must be "persuaded." Here, it's necessary to find a compromise 
 between naked force and intimidation to get the job done. A meter tracks how close a person is 
 to giving up the loot, and certain tactics (beatings, the destruction of property) are more effective 
 in certain circumstances. It's tremendous fun to find a target's Achilles' Heel -- say, threatening 
 a baker with stuffing him in his own ovens, thus collecting a weak spot bonus which results in 
 both an increase in respect earned and dollars won. Force excessively applied will backfire, and 
 a target will refuse to pay regardless of the threat. Finding that happy medium becomes one of 
 the game's great challenges. 
  
  Godfather also does fairly well in slowly opening new avenues for exploration. Once an owner has 
 agreed to pony up the funds for protection, the game allows access to a businesses' back room, 
 where it's possible to repeat the intimidation process and take control of an illegal racket. Missions, 
 some of which advance the game's story, are doled out after meetings with the Corleone heads, and 
 the protagonist's skills can be improved with experience. There's always something to do and a 
 sense of progression here, be it in terms of promotion up the food chain (the goal is to become 
 Don of New York City) ; a character's fighting skills, shooting ability, stamina, health, or street 
 smarts; or the plot. 
  
  Sadly, much of the game revolves around its combat, which proves to be oftentimes clumsy and sometimes 
 unworkable. The protagonist can fight hand-to-hand, use a melee weapon such as a baseball bat, 
 or shoot guns. Trying to employ a combination of these techniques during any one fight proves a 
 death sentence; players must tap on the Xbox or PlayStation 2 controller's D-pad to cycle through 
 weapons and then press up on the pad to draw the weapon out. It's an unwieldy process and while 
 it's being performed, enemies can be shooting and pummeling to their black hearts' content. When 
 a gun is pulled, players need to quickly pull an analog trigger or tap a button twice to cycle 
 through potential targets; in a room partially filled with civilians, trying to lock on a bad guy 
 proves frustrating. 
  
  Hand-to-hand combat fares somewhat better, but this is meaningless when the protagonist must fend 
 off multiple foes. There are moments when the artificial intelligence powering the enemies exhibits 
 virtual stupidity and it's possible to hammer on one bad guy while the others look on passively, 
 but these instances are few and far between. Most times, players will face multiple creeps with 
 bats, guns, and fists. Not even Supergoodfella could handle those odds. To its credit, Godfather 
 allows for lots of gruesome and creative executions wherein necks are snapped, enemies are tossed 
 off of roofs, and clobbered with multiple hits from bats, but this is icing on a cake made by an 
 absentminded baker. 
  
  There's a huge world to explore and conquer; Manhattan, Brooklyn, and parts of New Jersey are available 
 to players. It's a meaty adventure, too, with perhaps in excess of 40 hours needed to complete 
 the entirety of the story and the extra missions. Those hours will be spent balancing fun and frustration, 
 so ultimately, The Godfather doesn't offer the smoothest ride to the top of the mafia mountain.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacd112
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Excellent gameplay. Unloading on someone with a tommy gun never really gets old. The driving is 
 a little tricky but manageable. Especially when you are getting chased. Creating your character 
 is just as fun as the game. Lots of missions... but the game can be fairly short if you just blow 
 right through it. Lots of side hits and stuff to keep you occupied. If you loved the movies you 
 will definately get a kick out of this game. This hundred word stuff is stupid. blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Hey leave the gun... take 
 the cannoli. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  
  a few weeks ago finaly godfather released and we take hands on it but before that when i played 
 the mafia i really enjoyed it and its driving system.
  and now i am playing the godfather and i see a big problem on it 
  
  let see my opinion
  
 
  graphic: yes we talking about a godfathers graphic and i think its very good and its enough for 
 this kind if game. objects designed good and with high details.
  the games map is good too and it have lot of variety so you never tired of the scenes.
  
  one 
 big problem is driving system and models of cars :first thing first lets talk about cars they are 
 good but there are only five cars in the game two trucks and three
  autos and it says we have no variety in choosing a cars.
  
  next is the driving system: when 
 you drive a car you even cant control it you push the left and car orbits a 180 degres and its 
 really a trouble in game because the
  half of the game spends on traveling with cars in city and you hit any cars on your way
  
  
 at the end imust say the godfather is a good game but it could be better . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EQl33t
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok Ok i think i give a objective viewpoint to the table. and i was kinda pissed at some if these 
 weak reviews, giving the game 5,6,4s everyone has a opinion but some of these reviews dont give 
 a a good picture of the game as a whole any review with only bad points must be rejected.
  
  Now i have played Mafia , good game. I have played GTA all of them great games. GodFAther is 
 a good game in its own right. From the start i was impressed with the create a character screen 
 and spent some time making my mobster the clothing couldve been more varied but no big deal your 
 a mobster and should be in suits or sports jackets anyways.
  
  Now i want to start with some bad points first. The driving and cars couldve been much better you 
 cant even shoot out of your cars i was disappionted about that. and only a couple of car models. And 
 you have no garage to speak of and you cant buy cars only steal them or take the one from your 
 original safehouse. So in this point Mafia is better with vehicles much better.
  
  you will have alot of money but with nothing to do with it after you buy the safehouses there is 
 no real need for money. maybe a minigame in some of the rackets wouldve been nice, gambling, horse 
 track ,whateva. Or even like sitting down and getting a bite to eat in the restaurant you just 
 extorted.
  
  Getting around can be kinda tedious the map screen shouldve been able to see without pausing the 
 game or even a Need For Speed GPS type of thing.
  
  The interiors of biulding couldve been more varied and the NPCs also.
  
  Now the good The face 
 animations are excellent best faces i have seen since Mafia...... even better.
  
  The gun play is awesome way better than mafia ( with the exceptions of car) destructable objects 
 that the ai hides behind can be cut down with gunfire to expose them this is a first for me in 
 this type of game usually you cant do that ,it is very very satisfying .you can disarm, kneecap 
 poeple. I like that fact when im behind cover my guy automatically will peek up when i fire no 
 extra buttons the wall cover is used nice also.
  
  The executions ohh boy i must be sadistic but you have 22 different ways of finishing someone maybe 
 more if you get creative. I really love the hardhead and traffic accidents ones.
  
  The random violence esp when a mob war is going on. there was on time i had a war with the tags 
 andi was buying some merchandise from theblack market guy. all of a sudden a car hit me from behind 
 almost killing me the tags AMBUSHED ME! they turned around one of them hanging out the car to finish 
 me off with his tommy luckily i was near my apartment and my boys helped me out or i was toast, 
 another time i was ambushed at a park they moved in behind the cover of bushes i must may the ai 
 is pretty good. there are some quirks like sometimes they will pull a gun but if you dont pull 
 yours and duke it out they usually wont shoot .
  
  The story is good i think some of the cut scenes of the movies couldve been done more artistic. 
 I think the story suffers alittle because you feel more like a renegade mobster than one of the 
 fam. its kinda wierd even tough you work for the corleones more couldve been done to make you feel 
 a part of it like taking mobsters with you to extort or take down warehouses and hub or even recruiting 
 them and driving with them esp when you have alot of respect like GTA SA.
  
  The sound is very good esp the characters from the movie. THe sound track is ok the tracks from 
 the movie are great of course it the godfather but tracks that are not from the movies area mix 
 lot.
  
  The game is pretty lenghty this could be a good or bad thing all how you feel about taking over 
 all NYC and becoming don. I have alot of fun taking over warehouses and hubs so i liked it , have 
 not completed the game but i know i not going to get bored of killing :) .
  
  Graphics on a whole are good not great. The most notables being the faces and the explosions esp 
 when glass is flying everywhere. Just plant a bomb in the first floor of a rival gangs little store 
 front and watch the carnage. Hell explosions will knock you down if your too close shocking you.
 
  
  replay value not high at all unless you want to look for all fo those hidden reels of films the 
 map is just too damn big for to worry about that i have found some but i saw the movie and have 
 it on dvd so noo big deal for me to find the reels
  
  all in all a very good game couldve used some more polish in a few key areas and you cant but help 
 to say this gamecouldve been way better with this or that. but as is its still good and that is 
 saying something. Alot of game can learn from the combat system used in godfather
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aqeela
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  pure quality game should get if you like the mafia. This game has got everything you can want to 
 be a mafiosa. It is like a masterpiece just like the films
  hopingly they would be a sequeal, i'll tell you why because this has great blackhand.
  Mob face 
 great to dress your gangster up. Persuasion of extorting businesses is fine.
  Great storyline it makes you not want to move off your seat if you like grand theft auto you would 
 well like this.
  here are some tips for reading this:
  to crack open all safes go take over every bussiness thn wants u have done tht go to evey doctors 
 and safehouses twice thn u should find. remember every warehouse, hubs and compounds (except corleones) has 
 so make sure you check everywhere
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc1222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Sadly, not the entire gameplay is original. Sometimes you just think : "where did I see that mission?". 
 And the answer comes: "GTA". That's not cool, but when you think deeper you can find that the game 
 storyline is similar so how can the mission differ. The graphics are good, but nothing special 
 and a things that I miss are cars. There are about 10 models of them and I personally would like 
 more. The game sounds really nice, but it's nothing special knowing that the creators had the entire 
 soundtrack of all the movies.
  So the game is fun and worth playing. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HITMAN15382
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  it copy from the movie but its very very good to play and its hard to be the don of NYC but it 
 have thing that is not good like car their are five kinds of cars but i think that if the people 
 who made the game they can create much more in the game , instead of paues the game to see the 
 map they can make a shortcut key to see it and they can make other kinds of cars not just five 
 cars only .
  the difficulty of the game is hard but its very good , i like the apperens opion it can let you 
 make this person looks like you or like the don himself 
  its very nice and very good to thats all i can say about it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seba1984
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I will compare this game to MAFIA (2002) and GTA SA (2004/2005) because it has a little bit of both.
 
  
  OK first the graphics.
  Faces look great. Cars look horrible (MAFIA cars looked much better) oh and there is less than 
 10 models of cars, looks to me like someone was in a hurry. The scenery is repetitive and because 
 of that it's just booring. The characters are also repetative. So apart from the faces well nothing 
 great. When you compare it to MAFIA (more serious, movie-like graphincs) and GTA (rather cartoon 
 than realistic graphics) it's something in between. Cut scenes are nice but the MAFIA ones were 
 much better.
  
  The audio.
  Well there really isn't enough music in that one. The Godfather theme from the movie and some faster 
 music when you are in danger, don't recolect anything more (surely less than 10 tracks which are 
 not memorable) . Whereas in MAFIA I still recall some of the music though I played it about 2 years 
 ago. The music in GTA, well we all know there is no other game to compare to that. I won't write 
 anything else about the sounds, they are just OK.
  
  The gameplay.
  Well the missions are OK though compared to MAFIA, well there is nothing to compare. In MAFIA you 
 hade some coll misions like the car race, assasinating the politician, the one on the ferry, stealing 
 the documents from the mansion, and a lot more. They don't vary that much though they are based 
 on the movie. Another thing is that there is too little missions in the godfather compared to mafia 
 and GTA. Extortion and rackets get quite boring, i think that the assasination ones are OK when 
 you go for the bonus conditions ( for example you have to through a guy from a bridge or drive 
 him over etc.) . I own every safehouse, racket, and bussines in the game. So I can tell you that 
 it get's repetitive. It's much better in GTA the bonus missions really varied. 
  
  I personaly prefer something linear like MAFIA with a great story than something that tries not 
 to be linear but to be honest is ( because the main story is linear) . If you wan't a non linear 
 game buy GTA SA.
  
  The shooting and combat , I didn't have problem with that and I think they were ok. The collectible 
 guns are a nice touch too. The physics of the driving - really crappy. I think the most realistic 
 were in MAFIA and the most enjoyable ( though not realistic) in GTA SA. (remember less than 10 
 types of vehicles :D ) . Oh and where is the speed meter?!
  
  The upgrade/RPG system that's a really nice touch ( it's really simple ) though i prefferd the 
 one from GTA, it was more realistic.
  
  The MAFIA storyline was much better than the one in this game. They could do it really better you 
 don't feel the strong connection with the movie (a few cutscenes isn't enough) .
  
  If you haven't played Mafia and the Godfather. Surely choose Mafia. It's 4 years older but it's 
 really more enjoyable. I'm disapointed that a cult movie was brought to the PC (and other platforms) 
 as a mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Firstly let me admit that I was completely taken in by the hype. When I first heard about this 
 game around 6 months ago I was excited, and totally disregarded the usual rule that most games 
 follow: The game of a film is almost always terrible. But no, I decided that this would not be 
 the case with the Godfather, the early screenshots looked good and hey! This was the Godfather, 
 what could possibly go wrong?!
  
  Well actually a lot. Firstly the game would look impressive if it came out five years ago, but 
 today it would could not seriously be considered anything other than poor. The scenery is boring, 
 bland and repetitive. Characters look passable as human beings but ultimately are nothing special 
 at all. The faces are admittedly the exception to this rule, but they really aren't good enough 
 to make any difference to how the game looks overall. 
  
  Despite poor visuals, the sound on the game is very good. With excellent voice acting and realistic 
 dialogue which helps to create a sense of realism. However gunshots and car engine sounds are the 
 usual generic 'noise'.
  
  However the real kicker of this game which completely ruins any chances it had of being anything 
 close to enjoyable is the control system. It is quite honestly the WORST control system I have 
 ever used in ten years of gaming. As a default when I start any new game I usually remap the controls 
 depending on game to suit my own style before starting. It is usually a relatively straightforward 
 affair and my own kep map seems to work very well of most games. As soon as you enter the Godfather 
 control mapping screen you know you are in trouble, a list not much shorter than the Bible greets 
 you! The controls for shooting aren't too dreadful, the usual crosshair and mouse affair, but hand 
 to hand combat is absolutely ruined by the controls.
  
  However shooting is ruined by the second worst aspect of the Godfather, the combination of movement 
 and camera. It is not suitable for anything other than walking in a field. Trying to hide, duck 
 and shoot whilst avoiding civilians inside a cramped building is terribly frustrating, as either 
 your character doesn't face the right way or the camera swings around wildly so you can't see anything 
 anyway. This makes the Godfather a difficult game, but not due to some challenging gameplay, but 
 because actually doing what you want to do is so difficult.
  
  That said there are a few strong points to the Godfather. The story is very strong and the cutscenes, 
 although graphically nothing amazing are reasonably entertaining. 
  
  The free roaming, GTA style gameplay to extort nearby businesses has it's moments to, although 
 it is usually let down by having to use the awful hand to hand controls to extort the owner or 
 the controlling gang starting to shoot you and desperately trying to get your character to aim 
 at them.
  
  In order to review the Godfather you have to ask yourself what you wanted out of it. As a stand 
 alone game competing against everything else it's not that bad perhaps 6/10, but compared to what 
 it was hyped to be and what it should have been there really is no excuse. Mafia which came out 
 4 years ago looked better, played better and had an equally strong story line without having to 
 rely on the success of a film. Uninstalled after less than 5 hours play which works out at an extremely 
 steep 6 an hour of play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  I don't really have time to tell you why you should buy this game cause it's really BAD!!!! I'm 
 writing this review cause I don't want anybody else to spend their money on something like this, 
 a mistake which I made. All of you who are looking to see some better game over maifa (A superb 
 game) please don't try this stick with mafia till some other game developer comes out with a better 
 one. This game is really bad from controls to graphics (non-sense scenery with dull textures) . 
 I don't know what has happened to EA what's wrong with them? They've done nothing but release stupid 
 games one after the other I was really disappointed with LORT Battle for middle earth 2 & now this 
 crap. Anyways don't buy this game you'll regret it. EA SUCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakraf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  it could have been better if they had made more store types. on every block there are at least 
 2 stores that look the same. also there are few cars and weapons. the game was pretty good too 
 exept for that stupid safe house thing. i wan't to save when i want to save. also, it's a really 
 hard city to drive in i't so complicated to find your way around. the mobface is really cool and 
 you can pimp your guy's clothes. you can't mod cars or swim. if you blow up a bank you can neverrob 
 it again. i was dissapointed, but still liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: officer_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Well after a long time waiting for this game, it isnt that good that it supposed to be. Maybe a 
 lot of gamers waiting for a good game like Mafia, which i think is the best game in this genre. 
 In my idea the only thing that is - we can call - better than Mafia is the Adventure of game, which 
 is longer & with more details.
  
  I dont like graphic... it could have been much better. Very simple textures & poor vehicles - both 
 graphic & variety-.
  * the controls for PC is bad... REALLY BAD.. i dont know why the controls & camera is like this!!!!
 
  
  Anyway its good & joy to play it but not as much as Mafia....
  
  Thats my idea maybe others like
  
  U can try it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddealer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Real good grafics and a cool game 
  The godfather has super good grafics and a great story. Gameplay is different from other games 
 and is realy good. Really I have never seen that great grafics. I am running it at 1600x1200. The 
 sound is good too. Gameplay has a 9 because the cars are not realistic to drive. The guy you just 
 control is good but walking is not perfect but good. I don't know what to say more. It is just 
 a revolutionary game. My opinion is that it is something like GTA SA. The missions a very cool 
 to do because they are realistic. The persons are perfectly designed and very relistic. The whole 
 game is really realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have ever played. The controls make the game practically unplayable and 
 unless an expert PC gamepad user you will not survive this game after the first 5 minutes. 
  
  The scores given by magazines and websites I can understand. Not many EA games get really bad 
 reviews how ever bad they are. Also reviewers probably ARE expert gamepad users on PC. In some 
 cases I think the game has actually been played on a console even though it says on the page "PC 
 review"!
  
  Don't buy this game! We don't want to give EA any reason for doing this again with another title! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  The Godfather series is one the must awesome mafia flicks, it had great acting, it had great music, 
 and a lot of great action. Too bad none of that made it to the game. This game is boring, to say 
 the less, nut much here other then drive around and wonder what to do. When you do find action 
 its pretty well done, the graphics are tight, but some a little outdated, the sounds are well 
 done, but very receptive. 
  The worst part of this game is the funky controls, at lease on the PC side, they are horrid, and 
 take what little fun you can find in the game away. There are only about 7 game pads that are support, 
 and if you dont have one, then you are driving with keyboard through the game, and I can tell 
 you, its not much fun. The other part of the game I really hated was the lock on to fight, man 
 I tell you, its very confusing to use, and if you have multiple enemies to fight, for get about 
 it. You will die often in this game, but since the game have so many other weaknesses that just 
 dont seem to even matter. If you want a good mafia game, then get Mafia, that was an awesome game, 
 and a classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a prime reason as to why most console style games do not cross over well into 
 the PC. Mark Eckos: Getting Up was another example. The GTA series (although not perfect) is probably 
 the only game to do this well. GTA (and Getting up) are an absolute pleasure to play as opposed 
 to this game.
  
  For starters there's the akward PC keyboard controls. Although the fighting engine is a simple 
 and effective one, I often found myself trying to hold down too many keys in the heat of battle 
 which only led to frustration and me dying. Instead of the simple GTA style control layout which 
 is very easy to master, The Godfather insists on making things difficult to master. In the end 
 you try to rebind keys, but you'll find that not all of them work and it actually gives you very 
 limited options on configuring your own contol layout.
  
  Then there's the whole mouse view issue. Unlike GTA the mouse view swings the other way, and even 
 inverting it does not fix it, in fact it makes it even more difficult. This makes running around 
 almost impossible as you have to always remember that turing your mouse right actually means the 
 camera will swing left. It's very frustrating. I found the game just too frustrating to play, and 
 although the missions do get effectivly harder, the gameplay is quite standard. But it's the bad 
 control layout that makes the game so difficult to play.
  
  You can add a console pad the the PC version, which I never tried and probably would make it a 
 lot easier?
  
  Then there's the graphics. The sky constantly looks like a drab grey color and the buildings are 
 basically all the same models, just re-hashed. The entire gameworld looks sterile and too computer 
 generated for my liking. However I must comment that the character models faces is were all the 
 effort went when making this game. They look very good. As well as the animation.
  
  I was very dissapointed as I'm a big fan of this film and the trailer looked great, but I cannot 
 recommend this game. The wonderful GTA series still holds the crown for this type of gameplay.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  beside the fact that this game comes to point a spot of light on some events were obvious enough 
 in the movie which by the way i find very entertaining this game is simply not that good.
  
  the game lacks a lot of gameplay essence, car driving is just a hassle you fell as if you were 
 playing some crazy taxi arcade game not a great lincesed game.
  
  The game graphics are good, yes they could have worked on it to make it much better but still its 
 acceptable.
  
  The most disappointment is the disappearance of Al Pacino as Michele Corleon, instead they generated 
 a character that looks like him in a way.
  
  the games difficulty is the one good thing that impressed me, for a GTA-MAFIA like game, which 
 a difficulty set to hard is pushing the fun to even higher levels.
  
  in the end this game is worth the money if your a God Father freak, or your just a collector like 
 me or if your just so bored of the lack of PC games coming out these days or even you cant get 
 a copy of Oblivion or worse you hate RPGs.
  
  well its good and i am enjoying it ...
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blegend01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Most of the reviewers complain about Godfather not living to the standards of Mafia. These two 
 are different games. There are many things Godffather lacks compared to Mafia but it also has many 
 new features. The open access is more like in GTA where your weapons and cloths continue through 
 each level. Godfather has a good storyline and nice gameplay. The fight sequences are worth checking 
 out and the many sub-missions lets you take your time finishing the game, not like Mafia where 
 you had a linear gameplay. The environments and character models are great though the vehicles 
 are a bit recycled. Overall this game is for anyone who wants to be the Don of NYC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marilyn_slimson
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I liked this game, it's fun to play no doubt but it killed my expectations. With such a legendary 
 name attached to it, I knew that Godfather would not be sub-par because the actors refused to do 
 voice for this game, as they would've seen the script of this plot and knew it would not cut it. 
 I think Scarface made by VUG games is a must-buy, unlike this game. Although there is no disappointment 
 in this game, it's neither god-like. If your a regular gamer and have nothing to do, this will 
 go in your played games list with a "good" rating =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Well what to say,
  
  I have just finished the game Hundred % ( 7 April 2006) .
  I must say that I am really satisfied with the game in general. 
  The storyline is simular to 
 the movies, and that is a good thing. You also have a sort of free roaming. The total time to complete 
 it, was 38 hours for me. And I was not bored, so that is really nice. The graphics could be allot 
 better though, thats a bit of disappointment. But the game in average is really near. 
  
  I recommend this game to people which love the movie.
  
  btw: When you complete the game and 
 get to be a DON OF NYC, you will get 1.000.000 and Infinite ammo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather definitely is a great game to play. The story is totally involving and you really 
 get a feel for life in the Mafia. I am addicted to the GTA engine now! I love that I can aimlessly 
 wander inside a video game world. 
  Can we be that far from the coveted Holy Grail of VR, "THE HOLODECK"?
  The game play is fun and 
 exciting. The handling isn't bad even with a keyboard. 
  The only weakness I find is that the game graphics Arent really that great. You would think with 
 all of the other games out there with phenomenal graphics, that any company making games would 
 try to use the hottest graphics engine they could.
  Not so for EA I'm afraid. The graphics are unrealistic and the vehicles drive like clunkers. even 
 though crashes and such are pretty good, you can roll the cars over at all. they flop right side 
 up every time 
  
  I DO recommend that you buy this game, it is addicting and exciting to play. you Will get a feel 
 for life in the old days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden-grave
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  On first sight you would think, oh great another Mafia clone. But this game is in no way a clone 
 of Mafia. It more resembles Grand Theft Auto : San Andreas, but with the mafia scene and feel. 
 Customizable characters, new clothes to be bought, :P hell u can even make yourself look like scarface 
 if u got a little time on your hands. 
  
  Their are loads of properties to be bought (known ingame as safe houses) and even more buisnesses 
 and rackets to extort, extortion is a big part of this game contributing greatly to your income. 
 Another good point of this game is the weapons, their are loads of classic Mafia style weapons 
 ranging from the Shotgun to a Steel pipe. Not only does this game offer great Shooting action but 
 also has a great fighting system! with another little bonus, the more reputation you get the more 
 you level up and can improve attributes like : Speed, Shooting, Fighting, Health, Streetsmarts. 
 On top of all this their are many ingame secrets and collectables to be found, as well as boasting 
 a brilliant storyline, however i feel the storyline is a little too short. 
  
  If your a fan of either the GTA series or Mafia, give this game a try! 
  Brilliant value for 
 your money and alot of game time to be gotten out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  When i first readed about a game based in the Godfather movies, the idea was reaaallly impressive... 
 I not remember too well the movies, but since i readed the book, it seemed to me like an excellent 
 idea.
  
  When i started to see the first screenshots showing the models of Don Corleone and other main characters 
 i was amazed by the likely of the models and the great work of the textures.
  
  When i started to play the game it was a lot of fun, very violent gun fights and an nice interactive 
 fight system in which you can crush your enemies.
  
  When i spent a week playing it from time to time after work (more less about right now) i am dissapointed... 
 The game uses the argument of the original story like an excuse to make a game, because it only 
 centers in some "main" events during the game with the main missions, which are some between 12 
 or 20 missions, but no more than that because the game tries to make you bussy doing "secondary 
 missions", which all are to kill someone with an especific "bonus condition" for the kill that 
 grants you more respect and money.
  
  So, in the game you achieve to do 3 thing... the main missions (very few) , the secondary missions 
 (all the same) and extor bussines (all the same again) , making it a very repetitive game. Plus, 
 when you finish the few main missions all you have to do its bomb the others families compounds 
 and thats it... very unoriginal and plain.
  
  I expected that the car driving would be something like GTA, but there are only 4 or 5 models of 
 cars with 2 or 3 different textures, and the cars are faster and more easy to control that even 
 in GTA, they really dont behave like vehicles from the 40s (like in Mafia) .
  
  Overall, its a game that will impress you with its graphics and a lot of pretty easy gun fights 
 (thanx to the lock on targeting system) , but will become pretty repetitive and with almost no incentive 
 to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been a very big Godfather fan ever since I was a child. I have seen the film more times 
 than I can count, and Ive also recently read the novel by Mario Puzo. Ive always been very fascinated 
 with the mysterious and brutal world of the mafia (My all time favourite game is, as you may guess, 
 Mafia) . When I first heard that Electronic Arts was going to launch The Godfather The Game 
 about a year ago, I was very enthusiastic, but really didnt expect anything that would pass an 
 8, maybe 8.5 out of 10. As history has shown us, computer games with major licenses generally tend 
 to do poorly. However, I was still very eager to try it, especially after learning that the gameplay 
 would be much like that in the Grand Theft Auto series (another personal favourite) .
  
  The result is nothing more, or nothing less than I expected. The Godfather is a game that can 
 be criticized for many things, but it certainly cannot be called a disappointment.
  
  The first thing that you will notice when playing the game is the unexpectedly superficial graphics. 
 While the explosions and the streets of New York dont look all that bad, the faces and clothing 
 of the main characters seem a bit ugly and poorly made. Some characters dont even resemble those 
 in the movie, Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) in particular.
  
  The gameplay, although very similar to that of the GTA series, does have a few problems. One might 
 notice that moving your character around may not be very simple sometimes, and that the camera 
 angle when using a gun is a bit different than that of other third person shooters. In spite of 
 these few flaws, the gameplay will seem satisfactory to most gamers, and will not be one of the 
 primary reasons for not playing the game.
  
  It is very probable that the best aspect of The Godfather is the way in which the story of the 
 main character in the game is incorporated into the plot of the movie. As you may already know, 
 The Godfather does not allow you to play with the major characters in the film/book, but it rather 
 gives you the opportunity to experience the mob world as an employee of the Corleone family. 
 As you play the game, your character will be witness to many of the major events in the plot of 
 the movie, and will often, in one way or the other, take part in them, but without necessarily 
 being in the spotlight, so to say. For example, when Don Corleone is shot, you are the one to 
 drive him to the hospital. It is very interesting how the producers managed to make these connections, 
 an accomplishment which increases the value of the game considerably.
  
  The Godfather can neither be called an excellent game, nor can it be called mediocre or disappointing. 
 Anyone who has ever liked the movie or the book should certainly try it, since, and I am glad to 
 say this, it does not do injustice to Francis Ford Coppolas masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamsterLV
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather. It is a third person free roaming adventure game, simply put-GTA style game, and 
 so far it is the best GTA-like game if you ask me.
  When I first started playing it, I was a bit disappointed with the looks of the cars, they all 
 are very similar and cheesy looking with black windows and left me wanting something better since 
 the city itself is looking very good. There are just about 10 different cars in The Godfather which 
 is lame after the variety of cars offered in San Andreas and even much older Mafia, but I got used 
 to that quickly and that didn't bother me after that.
  It took me 30 or 40 minutes to completely get how things work and I could really get into the game 
 and work my way up the mafia ranks to ultimately become The Don of New York and trust me, it takes 
 a lot of doing.
  This game offers many possibilities to waste your time doing stuff that is not going to make any 
 difference in your life, but that's why we love video games, right? I spent most of my time taking 
 over different kinds of businesses which might sound boring, but it ain't. I had to threaten or 
 bribe people to take over their stores, rackets or warehouses.
  Then there are the storyline missions and hit missions, where you have to whack "bad" people in 
 a some certain way to get bonus reward and other ways to get some cash. The cash can be spent on 
 guns, clothing, bribes, safehouses and ammo.
  Storyline is interesting and solid, but the ending is kinda dull. You become an underboss of Corleone 
 family and then you can become Don yourself. It left me wondering where did Michael and others 
 go.
  To conclude, The Godfather has good graphics, solid storyline, and what is most important a fun 
 gameplay, if you are interested, go for it, I think you will be satisfied as am I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  When i got Mafia around 3 years back it was my intention to enjoy the feel of the Crime World of 
 the Mafia's. So Naturally when i bought THE GODFATHER i had a feeling that this game would satisfy 
 my craving to be a part of the world of the Godfather.
  So much Hype so much speculation about The Godfather made me wanna buy the game as soon as it hit 
 the stores. So i finally did Buy the game.
  And after completing the game i am writing the review which you'll read in the lines below.
  
 
  STORY - We are a soldier of the Corleone family. And just do the missions given to us by some caporegimes 
 of the Corleone family. The story of the game does manage to stick to the actual events of the Movie 
 and and is quite well handled.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Well people say that this game is a total rip-off of the GTA - series, but i wouldnt 
 say it cause GTA is far better than Godfather. The environment is quite big enough to explore, but 
 with only 5 types of vehicles and no public transport it becomes quite frustrating. The game has 
 around 15 hours of gameplay out of which you'll travel 12 hours in search for the next mission. I 
 must also admit that Driving in Godfather simply sucks.
  You have no speedometer ,no streetlamps, Crappy handling , Confusing Map and the list goes on and 
 on. Also the environments are repetative
  ( I never knew all Hotels have same infrastructures, and same goes for barber shop, bakery , warehouses 
 , compounds ) .
  The game introduces a new kind of interrogation system which is quite fun in the beginning but 
 gets annoying later on.
  The only thing which is good are the Shoot-outs and executions which make the game somewhat playable.
 
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics of the Godfather are good, but considering the game came out in 2006 it looks 
 quite dull. The graphics of Mafia was much better and quite realistic too. The corleone family seems 
 too hire only those people who look the same. All human beings look like a clone of one another. The 
 cars look dull and have no physique at all. But cutscenes are quite good.
  
  SOUND - The sound in Godfather is the only thing EA worked on.
  It is brilliant. The Theme of 
 the Godfather is just too good.
  The Voice acting is top-notch and gives you a feel of the Godfather.
  
  PROS - Sound, Voice 
 acting , Cutscenes , Bonus Clips from the Movie , New Interrogation system.
  
  CONS - Short game , Bad A. I , Driving , Repetative Environments and People
  I would have been 
 happy if the game was like MAFIA , but to say that is an insult to MAFIA
  The Godfather is a game which is below my expectations.
  The only thing that kept me playing 
 this game was the interest in the story which thankfully does not seem to bore you.
  All in all The Godfather is satisfying in its own way but if you're looking for too much fun look 
 somewhere else. This game is nowhere compared to the classic Mafia.
  
  Another word of advice : "If you havent played Mafia you better play it instead of Buying The Godfather".
 
  
  DEAD RISING is the game u r lookin for
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  well this game is kinda have this gta-style that you rob stuff steal cars and so on but this game 
 actually is really, really good cause you know first off you create a character (thug) and you 
 have a lot of options and then you play with him in a pretty interested and great story with great 
 gameplay mechanincs as well. first you lock on a guy then shot that's it and then you can also 
 drive cars as well. i like this game cause it's sets out with a great story and great gameplay 
 as well as great graphics for example the character models, the vehicles, the weapons, the enivorements 
 and so on, it all looks not amazing but great and if you gonna play it then i recommend to play 
 it on actually every system cause it's good on every system i review this game now on pc and........ whatever 
 if i review it on pc right now i said that it was good on all consoles you should buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 it's great!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyPants
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a GTA clone. Only the movement and driving is lousy at best. Your character moves 
 like a truck and vehicles drive almost as if they're on ice. The only time vehicle dynamics feel 
 right is when you're cruising along at top speed, and even then if too much input is given you're 
 going to spin out and crash. Is this supposed to be an attempt at realism? Probably not, considering 
 the cars can go from top speed to a dead stop in all of 20 feet. Oh, and there are less than 10 
 types of cars in the entire game. I hope you like driving Long Phallic Car, Sporty Coupe, Moderate 
 Wagon, Taxi, Police Car, Pickup and Truck because that's all there is.
  
  The redeeming factor is that the combat is interesting. Well, at least it seems to be up until 
 the point that you realize that fighting a zillion clone mobsters to take over yet another quaint 
 store for the umpteenth time isn't exactly variety. It seems EA added this trash merely to put 
 "20 hours of gameplay!" on the box. But it hardly counts as such when it's the same damn thing 
 for 10 of those hours.
  
  I beat the entire game proper (I'm not doing conquering all the crap) in about 10 hours. It starts 
 out pretty good but as you realize that it's the same damn thing over and over the novelty starts 
 to wear off.
  
  Yes, it follows the plot of the movie. And the voice acting is excellent. So much so that the lack 
 of Al Pacino actually ends up hurting the game. The guy they have standing in for him is terrible 
 and takes you out of an otherwise immersive experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralphieboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i played the last time.... only elder scrolls oblivion and BFME2 were better. 
 The story mixed with the movie is just BRILIANT!!!
  You start as ur father and then u make an lightjump to 9 years later, u can join the family as 
 an mob enforcer and Luca Brasi is teaching you how to... well... u know... KICK SOMEONE'S ASS!!! 
 the gameplay is very good and very satisfying if u kick some butcher's ass and get his money. The 
 weapons r also very good: tommy gun, revolver, snub nove, pistol, street sweeper (my favorite, 
 it shoot very quick shotgun shells) , shotgun, baseball bat and much more.... All put this together 
 and u have a briliant game based on one of my favorite's movie!!!! AMEN
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  When I brought "Mafia: City of Lost Angles" ( Gamespot Score 9.3) , I did so to enjoy the crime 
 world made so famously by movies such as The Godfather. So naturally when "The Godfather" game 
 came out, I had high hope that it will deliver quality game playing like "Mafia" but with nostalgic 
 atmosphere. The game play is good- if you like GTA style of play, and the fact that you are part 
 of "The Godfather" world is very cool. However, is it a surprise that it didnt deliver the feeling 
 of the 50's New York as well as "Mafia". The graphic is rather bad (surprising "Mafia" has better 
 graphic" ) and the repetitive movie sound track really makes it a rather dissapointing game. The 
 control is just terrible! It is clearly a port from console game.
  
  If you never played "Mafia" go buy it. If you have done so, and has money to spare, you may give 
 it a go. Just. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong people, but this game should have been released a long time ago i mean you can 
 see that it has been in development since Mafia. The first letdown are the graphics the engine is 
 very snd I mean VERY similar to Mafia only the cars look worse! The caracters are really, REALLY 
 ugly and it all looks dull and lifeless. Ok, the some effects are there but Jesus Christ man we're 
 in the 21st century!! Some dinamic lighting, HDR, bloom at least some fog man!!!! If you get over 
 the graphics you will be stunned by the horrible controls. These people haven't heard of attacking 
 with the left mouse button??!!! You have to press Q, E or S to attack not to say that you must first 
 aim then fire which is a tedious manoeuver. Fortunately, if you get angry (and you will!!) you may 
 change the controls at your desire. Next up, the gameplay. Nothing spectacular, you have a GTA style 
 map and you do errands for ol' Corleone  sound may please 
 fans with the old themes and the voices are intact but there's nothing more man!!! Nothing! You'll 
 end up hating it the second you see Marlon Brando's
  face!! EA have disappointed me and I serously think that they should just leave EA Sports alive 
 because that's the only division that still makes good games. Don't under any circumstances buy 
 this game. You'd be MUCH better off with Mafia or GTA: San Andreas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When The Godfather was announced, lots of people were waiting it launch.
  I was expecting more about the game about the graphics.
  The story is realy realy great, voices 
 are real, characters motion movements never seen before. The Corleone's family is abou to control 
 New York. But game's gameplay let us thinking Why it is so poor...
  
  Gameplay
  
  I got realy bored when I played The Godfather in relation to gameplay. The controls are very difficult, 
 You must stay right on the front of the door to open it, this is booring, driving the cars is about 
 to get you furious. The only good about gameplay is catching people and give what the deserve "pain" 
 with heavy knockouts.
  
  Graphics
  
  Characters graphics aren't good, but when you see Don Corleone, you change your opinion, It seems 
 like EA waste all time modelling Don Corleone and let the other characters on bad appearance. Facial 
 movements are incredible.
  
  Sound
  
  Good dialogue sound, great dialogues, but the car's sound aren't good, they are really bad. Seeing 
 people talking let you feel like you are there.
  EA used original voices from the MOVIE and that was great!
  
  If you watched the movie, please 
 play this game, even with all that issues it's a good game, that must be played.
  
  Thanks from Brazil.
  
  Fbio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jompadoddle
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I had a idea of what kind of game this would be before I installed it and I was not completly way 
 off. 
  I expected a GTA rip off and some great voiceovers with wonderfull graphics and sounds, loads of 
 cars, people and buildings and stuff to do. Yes it is a GTA ripoff, of the worst kind, in fact 
 one has to strain in order to find something that was not more or less stolen from the GTA series. 
 Now in my opinion the GTA series is the best series ever made and some of the games that are in 
 the series are my all time favourites. The Godfather attempts to copy this concept and does a tolerable 
 job, but nothing more, the fun gameplay that is GTA's trademark is not quite gone, but defenitaly 
 not the most important thing in The Godfather and that shows. Half the time I spend riding around 
 NY in Godfather I'm bored to tears, just waiting to find the next mission, in GTA I ride around 
 with a smile on my face, listening to music and stealing cars and doing the occassional drive-by. 
 Which leads me to cars. The designer that made the cars for The Godfather most have had the day 
 off when they made these, there are in total about 5 cars in the game and they look complete rubbish, 
 driving them is abit like driving an icebox and about as fun. Adding to the negative parts of the 
 game are the in-door graphics, you can enter countless houses and shops, the only downside is that 
 they look identical. However, leaving the negative the ups of The Godfather is that there is some 
 kind of feeling in it, I can't quite describe it but it's something in the back of your head that 
 makes you want to get abit further into the story, which by the way is really good. You feel imersed 
 into the story and the voiceover is perfect in almost every sense. The Godfather is a good game, 
 but not a great game, it delivers some nicely copied themes from the GTA series but it doesn't 
 contribute to the genre at all. 
  So, if you haven't played GTA at all, then go out and buy one of those instead and get one of the 
 best series ever produced. If you have played GTA and love it like I do, and can't wait for the 
 release of the next installment in the series, this game will satisfy some of the hunger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When The Godfather: the Game was initially announced by EA, fans of the films, myself included, 
 were instantly filled with intense feelings of dread and doom. While certainly violent, none of 
 the three films is an action picture or even a thriller; in fact, the Francis Ford Coppola classics 
 are far closer to Shakespearean tragedy than anything like action exploitation. Combine that with 
 the fact that the vast majority of film license-based games are awful (24: the Game UGH) , and 
 it just wasnt looking pretty.
  
  Fortunately, those fears turned out unrealized. This game does nothing to besmirch the Godfathers 
 impressive legacy  in fact, its use of the license is arguably its greatest strength. Its a very 
 good game, and, while its not going to win any Game of the Year awards, every gamer who is a serious 
 Godfather fan should probably own it.
  
  When The Godfather: the Game starts, the player is immediately demonstrated just how Godfathery 
 this game really is. Within minutes, you will witness a bombing followed by a merciless Tommy gun 
 execution. It looks like some New York Mafia big shot has gunned down a little boys father over 
 some business interests. Don Vito Corleone, who witnesses the murder, consoles the kid, Let 
 go of your anger; with time, you will have your revenge. The little boy is the player; fast forward 
 20 years or so, and the mission is clear: settle the vendetta against the backdrop of the events 
 in the original film, and rise within the ranks of the Corleone crime family.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The player character is nameless for obvious reasons but has a fairly well-defined 
 personality and many voiced speaking lines, both scripted and not. Youll get to create your character 
 using an impressive appearance editor, which features a huge number of options to make the character 
 look the way you want, while still constrained to the Italian ethnicity.
  
  Quickly, the Don sends Luca Brasi to find the player character, who is apparently a small-time 
 crook and has no association with the Corleones, and teach him the ways of the mob. This is basically 
 a tutorial of the games mechanics, which consist of melee combat, firearm use, and making business 
 owners offers they cant refuse (i. e., extorting businesses and rackets, either with the threat 
 of violence or a monetary investment) .
  
  Of these, the hand-to-hand combat is probably the freshest. The games interesting melee control 
 scheme allows to beat up your target in a number of ways that feel very authentic. Having grabbed 
 the opponent by clicking both the right and left mouse buttons, you can choke, punch, and drag 
 using key presses and mouse movements. You can slam him into walls and objects, knock him to the 
 ground, lift him up again, and hold him out a 2nd-story window. You can even threaten the guy (or 
 girl, I suppose) with a punch by winding up the mouse laterally without bringing it back  this 
 can help during interrogations where youd like your target to break instead of dying. Everything 
 feels quite intuitive, at least when using keyboard/mouse instead of a gamepad. About the only 
 bad thing that can be said about hand-to-hand combat is that not many opponents can really do much 
 against a melee sequence; basically, once youve grabbed the guy, hes more or less toast.
  
  This brings us to interrogations/extortions, which are your chance to use melee techniques 
 to non-lethal ends. Basically, New York City is rife with businesses (some with shady backroom 
 rackets like gambling or brothels) which you can force into paying weekly tributes to the Corleones. 
 The shop/racket owner has a certain pressure point at which hes willing to give up the business 
 for protection, and a certain pressure point at which he gets really angry and will basically just 
 fight you to the death. As you threaten him / his property, you want to force the pressure meter 
 into a sweet spot between those two points, maximizing the weekly profit. This is a cool little 
 mini-game, but theres not much to it, and it gets quite repetitive when one considers the number 
 of businesses and rackets in this New York.
  
  While youll be doing a sizable amount of melee combat in The Godfather, most of the punishment 
 youll deal will be with guns and explosives. The control scheme for firearms is more convoluted 
 than it should be. For example, the wield key is the same as the reload key, but different 
 from the holster key, which is just weird and can be a big inconvenience in case you make a mistake 
 in a mission. The shooting itself, however, is well done, offering the option to auto-target (with 
 the right mouse button) or manually target (by default) at will. There is also the extremely well 
 executed ability to take cover behind anything and take jump-out corner shots a-la Metal Gear Solid 
 2. Even cooler is the mechanic which allows to slightly change the target area having locked onto 
 a person: one can take out kneecaps, make the bad guy drop his gun, etc. Unfortunately, the game 
 is not hard enough to force one to make frequent use of such tricks, which is actually quite disappointing, 
 especially for action game veterans. This is exacerbated by the fact that, of the non-upgraded 
 firearms, the Tommy gun is clearly by far the best in 95% of situations, which makes pistols, revolvers, 
 and shotguns largely useless, since ammo is abundant for all weapons.
  
  All in all, the gun combat system feels very authentic (there are even brutal custom execution 
 styles for all of the weapons and melee techniques) but is a little too advanced for the amount 
 of resistance the game actually throws at the player. I would have loved this level of combat depth 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series, where it would have felt right at home given those games impressive 
 difficulty level, yet relatively clunky on-foot combat.
  
  Speaking of Grand Theft Auto, this game follows a very similar open-ended structure (so similar, 
 in fact, that pretty much all of the world mechanics are lifted directly from those excellent games) . 
 While The Godfather loses points for originality, I frankly dont see anything wrong with stealing 
 from the best, especially given how no non-GTA game had done it successfully thus far. Its all 
 here: highjack cars, shoot random people, evade cops until your heat level goes down, hide out 
 and save in your safehouse (s) , etc. That said, this games New York is nowhere near close to San 
 Andreass depth. For one, it is far, far, far smaller. Secondly, its basically flat and areas 
 look and feel very similar to each other, with almost no cool landmarks or terrain features. The 
 cars lack personality (though they can go quite fast and do handle very nicely) . Finally, and most 
 importantly, The Godfather simply lacks the mission variety of the Grand Theft Auto games. Not 
 only is it a much shorter game, the missions  which are quite fun  are also fairly repetitive. 
 Basically, there are four types of mission objectives: kill, stealthily kill, drive from A to B 
 while under pursuit, interrogate. Of course, this can describe lots of games, but The Godfather 
 just doesnt make each mission feel very different from another. Any kind of non-mission free-roaming 
 to do here is just not entertaining  if you decide to go on a GTA-like rampage, the chase the 
 cops will give you is a far cry from the FBI/army/police onslaught you might expect if you are 
 a GTA fan. Thus, while the game might appear like a free-form experience, in reality its quite 
 objective-based, if non-linear  quite unlike Grand Theft Auto, which is much more of a virtual 
 sandbox if you want it to be. Gameplay: an above-average 8.
  
  STORY AND REPLAY VALUE
  
  While the games New York City is sizable, it is, of course, really about the size of maybe 
 one Manhattan neighborhood, and this includes the games Little Italy, Brooklyn, Midtown, 
 and New Jersey. The main story mission sequence will take most about 10 hours to complete, resulting 
 in the rank of Underboss. Thats not long, but the mission variety here doesnt warrant a longer 
 story. Whats cool, though, is how cleverly integrated into the films storyline the missions are. 
 Even wonder who roughed up those punks that beat the undertakers daughter in the film? How about 
 the guy that planted the gun for Michael to use in the murder of Solozzo? What about the fate of 
 Bruno Tattaglia who was responsible for Lucas death? The player takes a most active role in all 
 of these engagements and many more. In fact, the game recreates many of the films memorable conversations 
 and scenes, such as the Don Corleone assassination (oranges and all) , in-engine. Its really quite 
 ingenious and holds up well to the Godfather legacy. Unfortunately, towards the end of the story 
 missions, this accuracy peters off a bit, eventually just narrating certain key events with a simple 
 text prompt instead of using them for dramatic impact. Some missions also differ from the film 
 in ways that are less than convincing but done for the sake of gameplay (Michael hanging out of 
 the passenger-side window and perforating the pursuing cars with gunfire? I dont think so!) . Its 
 nothing major, but it is unfortunate that the entirety of the story missions couldnt be as well 
 integrated into the film as the first ten or so. I also wish the revenge plotline was resolved 
 with as much dramatic impact with which it was initiated in the opening cutscene.
  
  Finishing the games story missions is roughly equivalent to only 25% of the completion score. 
 There is much more to do, and its facilitated by the games surprisingly involved stats system; 
 as you gain experience points (respect) by killing/extorting/etc., you can pay skill points into 
 abilities such as shooting, fighting, and interrogating. Developing these stats makes post-Underboss 
 activities much easier. You will be able to become Don Corleone by bombing all 4 rival families 
 compounds, which isnt too hard to do after upgrading the Tommy gun on the black market (the Dillinger 
 will cost you $500,000, but its worth every penny) . Doing that, taking over all the rival hubs/warehouses, 
 and extorting all the businesses/rackets will make you Don of New York, but the stultifying repetitiveness 
 of this is strictly for completists, and Im not one of them. There are other fun things to do, 
 such as embarking on a series of assassination missions (e. g., bomb this guy, garrote that guy, 
 fry this guy in a crematorium, etc.) , robbing banks, holding up trucks  in short, all the things 
 a real mobster is likely to do on a daily basis. There are some throwaway bonuses, such as collecting 
 film clips from the DVD, as well. All told Id say the average player will spend 15 or so hours 
 on this thing and put it on the shelf, but if desired, the game can last maybe double that. Replay 
 value: an average 7.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  
  In terms of visuals, I will use Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas as a reference point, since its 
 the closest thing to this game in terms of open-ended graphics. I gave SA an 8/10 a year ago, with 
 its strengths being the art design and sheer scope of the world, brought down by a very dated look 
 technically speaking. The Godfather is far better technologically; it has very nice fire and particle 
 effects, great facial animations, and far better textures and polygon counts for everything. In 
 the art department, however, it is quite weak. This New York is somewhat realistic style-wise, 
 I suppose, but it is very ugly and flat and none of the neighborhoods has any personality, with 
 emotionless and samey-looking gangsters and civilians, which contrast strongly with New Yorks 
 vivid depiction in The Godfather Part II. Other than a generic day-and-night cycle, there are no 
 beautiful sky/sun/fog/weather effects, and there is no sense of context for this New York, which 
 feels closed in and limiting, with few back-alley secrets or fascinating denizens beyond the stereotypes 
 of corrupt cop and skimpy-clothed prostitute. The enemy models and building interiors are maddeningly 
 repetitive (for example, all four rival family compounds layouts are exactly the same as the Corleones 
 own) . In addition, the draw distance is really, really terrible to the point that it seriously 
 affects driving gameplay. These flaws are somewhat offset by a solid locked 30-fps frame rate on 
 our test machine (6800GT, Athlon 64 3400+, 1GB RAM) , but, generally speaking, the game looks just 
 average. Graphics: 7.
  
  On the other hand, the sound here is well handled. James Caan (Sonny Corleone) , Robert Duvall (Tom 
 Hagen) , and frighteningly effective impersonators of Vito Corleone and Pete Clemenza do a fine 
 job with the story dialogue; theyre joined by various key supporting actors from the film, including 
 Abe Vigoda and John Martino. Al Pacino refused to lend his voice or likeness to the film, probably 
 out of respect for Francis Ford Coppola who disapproved of the project, but this is probably just 
 as well, since he sounds nothing like the Al Pacino of the early 70s, anyway, and it would have 
 been very difficult to properly imitate his stunning performance in the film. That aside, not only 
 is the acting top-notch, the dialogue, even when not lifted from the film, strikes just the right 
 notes. The music doesnt disappoint, as both the films unforgettable theme and a few original 
 compositions set the atmosphere perfectly. Unfortunately, the sounds of the city leave something 
 to be desired  they are quite repetitive, and the theme song is used far too often  causing me 
 to give the sound a 9 rather than a 10.
  
  FINAL SCORE
  
  This is a complex game, and it has the added onus of having to live up to the legacy of the greatest 
 film of all time (dont argue with me; it is the greatest film of all time, period!) . While it 
 does the latter mostly with great aplomb, its attempt to imitate the open-ended greatness of Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas just hasnt gone quite as smoothly. This game is certainly far above average, 
 and it is definitely the only game in the non-fantasy virtual sandbox genre thats anywhere close 
 to GTAs level of excellence, but EA will have to pour a bit more money and talent into the sequel 
 to score a true megahit the next time around. I, for one, am awaiting that next game with great 
 anticipation, as I thoroughly enjoyed this one. Now, if youll excuse me, Ill go watch The Godfather 
 and its sequel for the 1,223rd time. Tilt = 9, overall 8.1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwailo2470
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The good: Familiar setting. Quick load times. Customizable appearance. Decent graphics.
  
  The bad: Repetitive graphics. Repetitive missions. 
  
  The ugly: horrible control system which 
 completely fails to utilize the time tested mouse and keyboard duo of the PC.
  
  With all the time invested in producing this game, I had high hopes for it. A GTA clone set in 
 the 1940s Godfather universe sounded like a can't miss setup. But boy was I wrong, this is an airball...
 
  
  The game loads very quickly. Even with tons of pedestrians wandering the streets, I've never had 
 a slowdown on my system (P4 2.5, 1 GB RAM, 6800 512MB video card) . The characters are very well 
 rendered, and the signature characters, including yourself, look very good indeed.
  
  But then I started playing. The first fight scene right away started my alarm bells ringing. Lock 
 on? Uh-oh. I was entering console territory. Moving the mouse around to execute moves, or using 
 keys to punch didn't sound too good, but then I figured I'd be mostly shooting the bad guys, so 
 I can let this pass.
  
  But then when the first shooting tutorial came in, my disappointment was complete. More lock on. 
 Guys are running towards you shooting Tommy Guns, you have to lock onto them. God forbid you move 
 your mouse too rapidly and lock onto one of the ever present pedestrians. You'd think the game 
 at least has enough intelligence to forgo locking onto pedestrians when there are actively hostile 
 individuals in the area. Nah. It doesn't. 
  
  Now I'll admit. I don't play first person shooters on consoles. My friend loaned me Halo back in 
 the day, but I just didn't care for the console controls. From Wolfenstein, through Doom, Quake 
 and all its heirs, I love the mouse and keyboard setup for shooters. Point and click. As I replay 
 GTA San Andreas to take advantage of the new video card I bought for this game and Oblivion, it 
 just reinforces how bad the control system in this game is. 
  
  Why couldn't the developers sit down and create a normal mouse and keyboard control system for 
 the PC, the kind you can find on a freeware FPS developed in a basement in Albania is beyond me. 
 This game was clearly designed for a console, and it took away the one advantage that a PC has 
 in FPS games, and that is use of the mouse and keyboard for control. EA dropped the ball on this 
 one big time. If it had a decent control system, I'd give it an 8 or 9. 
  
  But I must admit, this game is not for me, but it could be for you. If you like FPS games on consoles, 
 and find the control system easy to use, then this game is probably for you, because it had good 
 potential. But I sincerely hope this is not a trend of things to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Raynor4
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I had higher expectations for this game. I was thinking it would be a Mafia 2, however I was 
 deeply mistaken. This game features poor graphics and frustrating game play. A great character 
 editor was given to us, but nothing to follow it up on. The annoying thing is, they try to make 
 a modern game and forget the transparent windows and the physics that should be applied to a car. 
 I feel like I have gone back 5 years and am playing a game on the playstation one. After getting 
 this game, I played only for 2 hours before packing it up and moving onto a better game, such as 
 Battlefield 2 and Oblivion. Your money can be spent in better ways than this. I say no to this 
 poor game and do not recommend it to anyone.
  Thank You
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtddog
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Obviously EA rushed this game out the door it plays like a beta version complete with retarded 
 AI (honk your horn and every car on the street will pull over!) , sloppy handling of the cars (which 
 look like lego) , and low res graphics that make 2002's Mafia look state of the art. 
  
  EA clearly spent the entire budget securing Godfather film actors such as Brando, Robert Duvalle 
 and James Cann which left little cash for game development. This isn't even Grand Theft Auto style 
 here, its more like a poorly made mod by a fan than a big budget game.
  
  Don't buy it even if it's Bargain bin
  Don't play it even if it's given to you for free
  
 
  Go play Mafia instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_gazzola
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  I was, like so many others, looking forward to see the game to come out. At first, when i got it, 
 it was nice to see Little Italy and all the nice guys of the movie... but when i went through the 
 story i realized it's really not worth to spend the time playing.
  If you're a huge fan of the Corleone's story, probably you'll not going to like this. The beginning 
 is ok. You are a son of a guy who was loyal to Vito and die for that... later on he helps you, 
 getting you inside the family. So you start doing some dirty work which needs to be done, and it's 
 fun when you realize you're doing some missions related to the movie, like killing Paulie, planting 
 Mike's gun at the restaurant... but as you progress, the story gets bad. For example, when you're 
 an underboss almost to become the don, Mike simply disappear from the story and you become the 
 don, in his place!
  Anyway... if you like the movies, you should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say that I knew it this game won't go far. I was sure it will be a sucky console port. 
 But although it is a sucky console port, it's awesome! The story line and the missions are just 
 awesome. The execution styles, extortion, bribery, and all parts of this game rocks. I must say 
 that the controls of this game suck, and it's quite hard to control the player. The graphics are 
 not that good but when maxed out, looks better than GTA: SA. The weapons are cool and the gameplay 
 is awesome. Overall, I think it's worth playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivam_juscool
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  The best way to describe The Godfather is to imagine a Gun play style in a limited Grand Theft 
 Auto environment with a Mafia theme and several other elements from games currently out. What can 
 I say the game is fun, you run around New York beating and killing members of rival mobs to a Godfather 
 storyline that follows the movie plot lines rather well. It is worth the money if you a. have some 
 extra cash and time b. is a fan of the movies and c. enjoy a game theme that isnt beaten to death. 
 
  
  While the game was fun it does stop at fun. When I opened the box and saw the map I knew it wasnt 
 going to be anything special. Compared to the games that The Godfather borrows most of aspects 
 from it has a small and linear map that doesn't allow for much out of the way travel, you seem 
 to just go from area to area on with nothing in between. On a positive note there are no loading 
 screens between the different areas. 
  
  The graphics in The Godfather are not what I expected them to be. I thought they would have been 
 better, frequently I saw the tires of my car and my characters feet below the floor. Also the lack 
 of diversity in the cars and the shabby job they did with the models takes away from the game. 
 The character models were much better then the cars, for unique characters. There are like in many 
 other games hordes of baddies that all look a like and charge at you. The character models on the 
 plot characters had such realistic features that I thought my created character looked stupid next 
 to them. The faces were not perfectly clean they were warn, dirty, and natural. My created character 
 looked pale and fake next to the plot characters. 
  
  The Godfather is plagued by the same things most games suffer from. The buildings you dont use 
 look the same and flat. Also the rooms, buildings, and stores all start to look exactly the same. 
 Although the reason that The Godfather and Gun still get a boosted rating from be is because they 
 dont contain any: Zombies, aliens, Nazis, special forces, terrorists, army men, tanks, dragons, 
 Jedi, etc... 
  
  Another complaint is that the controls for the PC version are horrible. Having an efficient keycap 
 that allows you do execute the combos is near impossible. Like Gun I think it would be much better 
 on a PS2 or Xbox. This does however dismay me even further in thinking game developers believe 
 that the needs of console gamers are any where near the needs of PC gamers. I have nothing against 
 console gamers I have most of them myself but this idea of standardization that will bring down 
 the quality of PC games if they have to be created to work on consoles as well. Face it F. E. A. R. 
 isnt coming out on consoles anytime soon and being anywhere near as good as it is on PC. 
  
  Anyway the interface is not so great and you end up just doing the same thing over and over 
 again instead of being able to try many different types of combos. I also thought the weapon selection 
 was limited as was the ability to upgrade both your weapons and your stats. It was basically Gun's 
 system of stats and upgrades for the guns. The fighting was lots of fun but I still felt that it 
 was borrowed from other games with nearly the same moves. There was a game that came out maybe 
 3 or more years ago called Mafia that looked a lot like The Godfather. Also the game play was limited 
 in The Godfather. While it did a good job of following the movie if they wanted to get more non 
 fans to buy it they should have included more mafia stuff that you could do. 
  
  The Godfather is a fun game but it is limited in what you can do. It is worth the time to play 
 it maybe not the full $40 for me but it is a nice break from Counter Strike. Even though I felt 
 like I was playing elements from like 5 different games EA did a good job combining the parts. 
 It is fun while it last but I am thinking eBay because I dont think ill really want to play it 
 again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebbe1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, i was looking foward to this game alot and when it came out the first thing i did 
 was to buy it.
  and the first 2 or 3 hours its a really cool game, and its fun to take over bussines and other 
 stuff,
  but after a while i kinda got tired of it because all the missions were almost the same, same objectives, 
 etc etc,.
  
  and the graphics are great in some parts, but i was wery disappointed in the cars because the is 
 absolutely no feeling in them at all, u cant see thru the windovs and the drivng experience is 
 totally worthless.
  if i could choose i would buy mafia instead because i kinda get the feeling that it feels more 
 1930 's than the godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  The best way to describe The Godfather is to imagine a Gun play style in a limited Grand Theft 
 Auto environment with a Mafia theme and several other elements from games currently out. What can 
 I say the game is fun, you run around New York beating and killing members of rival mobs to a Godfather 
 storyline that follows the movie plot lines rather well. It is worth the money if you a. have some 
 extra cash and time b. is a fan of the movies and c. enjoy a game theme that isnt beaten to death. 
 
  
  While the game was fun it does stop at fun. When I opened the box and saw the map I knew it wasnt 
 going to be anything special. Compared to the games that The Godfather borrows most of aspects 
 from it has a small and linear map that doesn't allow for much out of the way travel, you seem 
 to just go from area to area on with nothing in between. On a positive note there are no loading 
 screens between the different areas. 
  
  The graphics in The Godfather are not what I expected them to be. I thought they would have been 
 better, frequently I saw the tires of my car and my characters feet below the floor. Also the lack 
 of diversity in the cars and the shabby job they did with the models takes away from the game. 
 The character models were much better then the cars, for unique characters. There are like in many 
 other games hordes of baddies that all look a like and charge at you. The character models on the 
 plot characters had such realistic features that I thought my created character looked stupid next 
 to them. The faces were not perfectly clean they were warn, dirty, and natural. My created character 
 looked pale and fake next to the plot characters. 
  
  The Godfather is plagued by the same things most games suffer from. The buildings you dont use 
 look the same and flat. Also the rooms, buildings, and stores all start to look exactly the same. 
 Although the reason that The Godfather and Gun still get a boosted rating from be is because they 
 dont contain any: Zombies, aliens, Nazis, special forces, terrorists, army men, tanks, dragons, 
 Jedi, etc... 
  
  Another complaint is that the controls for the PC version are horrible. Having an efficient keycap 
 that allows you do execute the combos is near impossible. Like Gun I think it would be much better 
 on a PS2 or Xbox. This does however dismay me even further in thinking game developers believe 
 that the needs of console gamers are any where near the needs of PC gamers. I have nothing against 
 console gamers I have most of them myself but this idea of standardization that will bring down 
 the quality of PC games if they have to be created to work on consoles as well. Face it F. E. A. R. 
 isnt coming out on consoles anytime soon and being anywhere near as good as it is on PC. 
  
  Anyway the interface is not so great and you end up just doing the same thing over and over 
 again instead of being able to try many different types of combos. I also thought the weapon selection 
 was limited as was the ability to upgrade both your weapons and your stats. It was basically Gun's 
 system of stats and upgrades for the guns. The fighting was lots of fun but I still felt that it 
 was borrowed from other games with nearly the same moves. There was a game that came out maybe 
 3 or more years ago called Mafia that looked a lot like The Godfather. Also the game play was limited 
 in The Godfather. While it did a good job of following the movie if they wanted to get more non 
 fans to buy it they should have included more mafia stuff that you could do. 
  
  The Godfather is a fun game but it is limited in what you can do. It is worth the time to play 
 it maybe not the full $40 for me but it is a nice break from Counter Strike. Even though I felt 
 like I was playing elements from like 5 different games EA did a good job combining the parts. 
 It is fun while it last but I am thinking eBay because I dont think ill really want to play it 
 again.
  
  Props to EA for making it available on DVD, 1 disc hell yeah.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drxym
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 17, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Any reviewer who gave this game over 7/10 clearly hasn't played it enough. Why? Because half way 
 through the game, all of the missions end. This game is a disaster with so little content that 
 you'll be yearning for GTA.
  
  The Godfather game itself is a half baked GTA clone. It looks pretty with some detailed models, 
 and has some interesting features such as the fighting but the game world is the most tedious, 
 unimaginative waste of space going. Don't be fooled by claims that it is the whole of NYC. This 
 is a horribly simplified NYC where everything and I mean everything is fenced off. Your character 
 can't jump, climb walls / fences, or do anything except walk or drive along the roads set out for 
 you. There isn't even a subway system in this New York!!! To break the monotony of the world, there 
 are various rackets and stores to extort, but they're all employ the same boiler plate graphics, 
 i. e. all the florists look the same, all the hotels look the same etc. The vehicle selection is 
 also horrendously poor, featuring a handful of generic vehicle types. It means driving around is 
 as boring as the world itself. 
  
  The biggest sin of this game are the missions. Once you've played half way through, there is little 
 reason to go any further. At that point all the Corleone missions end and all there is left to 
 do is bomb five compounds and take over every store, racket and warehouse in the city. Sounds exciting? 
 It isn't.
  
  Aside from a couple of textures, every compound is also the same boiler plate model right down 
 to where the mobsters come out from. So after you've beaten the compound once you still have to 
 repeat 4 more times. Then repeat for every boiler plate shop type, racket and warehouse. By this 
 point you will be utterly sick of the game. You'll even figure how to kill most of the mobsters 
 from a distance without their dumb AI even realising you're shooting at them.
  
  A final note on the voice acting. Generally it's very good but the Marlon Brando impersonator is 
 not convincing. As far as I could tell, the real Brando voice is only used in a few clips ripped 
 from the movie. The rest of the time you get a mealy mouthed impersonator. And Al Pacino's voice 
 and likeness are completely absent. The plot itself is an absurd backstory to the movie where your 
 character is more like Rambo than anyone who would inhabit the movie universe. The body count runs 
 into hundreds by the end of the game and for that you must endure a cornball story involving love 
 and betrayal.
  
  Again, this game looks attractive initially, but it is half a game. To think this game was delayed 
 6 months... Perhaps they should have delayed it another 6 to actually finish it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dametrognome
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Obviously the same engine as GTA, which in turn is very upsetting because I hate that engine. Just 
 Like GTA, it's extremely difficult to navigate controls, for they always feel the need for a 3rd 
 person over the shoulder view that the camera doesnt follow appropriately. When you turn around 
 quickly, you can't see what was once in your view not even 3 feet away. Will get you killed every 
 damn time. Other than that..... good game. Graphics are equivelent to GTA San Andreas. This game 
 does have very addictive quality, way more so than GTA just because of the great storyline and 
 challenging missions. You will leave your PC feeling like a true mobster. Other than the very and 
 always annoying GTA engine, I guess I can call it a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Been playing this for the past week, and got to say im pretty impressed. It kinda looks a bit like 
 GTA, but its not at all really. Less empthasis on the cars, more empthasis on extortion and taking 
 over rackets... wait a sec... that reminds me of a game... lol
  
  The exection styles are cool, bribing police and fbi, taking over warehouses, "interupting" business 
 deals, and everything is pretty cool. Missions follow the plot of the 3 films, tho near the end 
 it kinda goes a bit odd.... cant say as dont want to give off spoilers!
  
  Heres the downside.... after all those missions, the last objective is to take over EVERY business 
 and racket, do EVERY execution (kinda hard if your like me and did point 1 first, and realise you 
 got no one left to execute!!! but just interupt business deals in the tunnels etc..) oh and finish 
 the assinations... but wait theres more!!! 
  THIS IS SO TEDIOUS!! you have to find ALL the collectibles that are hidden in the city!! like, 
 omfg! I just got to this stage, and im wonderin... if i cant find a guide that tells me where they 
 are, im givin up! but i want to see the end!!!
  
  Either way, its a good game, the gameplay itself is nothing new, but i like the story, so its all 
 good :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamburke
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  You might see some other reviews saying "Oh, play GTA: SA!" or "Play Mafia!". Well I played them 
 (and loved them) . But I don't want to play them again! So I got myself The Godfather. 
  
  So it isn't quite GTA, and it isn't quite Mafia, but it has it's charms. The graphics aren't great, 
 and the controls are poor, but something underneath shines through. The chance to be a part of 
 The Godfather saga is part of that. The extorting of businesses is interesting and fun. And the 
 game has a polish that most EA games get.
  
  The Godfather is by no means ambitious, but it is fun. The guns are fun to play with, the upgrade 
 system is very interesting. Vendetta and heat also add spice, there's something to be said about 
 blowing up a flower shop to end your mob war. 
  
  The music is the classic from the movies, which unfortunately gets a little repetitive. The voice 
 acting is simply superb though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_wutang
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  In the start it is very hard to learn the controls and after you learned the controls the story 
 mode is very borring. If you ask yourself is Mafia better then the godfather you are right Mafia 
 is much better then the godfather.
  
  After i had played the game for 5 hours i stopped and i wanted to give the store the game back. 
 This game is to overrated it is all i can say dont waste your money on this game go to your store 
 and buy Mafia and go home and play a very good game that is all i can say!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roteero2001
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  i have been waiting for this game for so long, im writing this review after my 1st three hours gameplay 
 of the godfather! im very very disasppointed.. the graphics are terrible... still.. its the godfather 
 i wanna play it whatever the graphics look like! but then comes the controls and the camera!!! 
 its impossible to play like this !!! i wanna play with the keyboard and mouse not with a gamepad! 
 the controls and camera are purely made for consoles and not pc, and the stupid auto aiming thing!! 
 they shouldn't release it as a pc version this is a ps2 emulated version thats what they should 
 call it!!! .... unless EA release a patch to make it Playable.. im just gonna uninstall it and put 
 it away.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _xyzman_
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  The day when EA goes bankrupt would probably be the greatest day in U. S. gaming industry history. 
 Because most EA games are disastrous. This one isn't the exception, unfortunately. Because I really 
 like "The Gotfather" book and movies. This game sounds like it's a fanboyish mod of GTA, nevertheless 
 for me.
  
  Surprisingly enough, this game ran without lags on my not so modern PC, but that's its only plus. 
 I quit the game and uninstalled it after third hour of play. Why? First, all of the graphics glitches. 
 Second, terrible controls which made me to use 50 out of 105 buttons on my keyboard. Third, boring 
 story. Thanks God, I rented it instead of buying so I didn't waste much money on this bad expierence.
 
  
  If you really want to play a good 'drive+kill' game, get one of the the original GTA games. Or, 
 get 1930's alternative with better story and gameplay (compared with Godfather) , called Mafia. 
 If you're still willing to try it though, then rent it instead of buying. And spend these 40 bucks 
 on Godfather book or DVD.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackRyan2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  While the combat system is one of the best I have seen so far - especially for hand-to-hand combat 
 - the other half of the game, the driving around, is as interesting as sitting in a chair. The 
 small number of car designs, streets that mostly look like an endless loop and the omission (or 
 is it just me?) of a hotkey for a map overlay make it so boring I wish for a "teleport on map click" 
 way of moving around.
  Altogether it's a fun game, but it's much less than I expected and if your'e a fan of MAFIA, as 
 I am, GF makes you want to play through Mafia again ... for the fifth or so time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider_3000
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  After I first heard EA was going to make a game of The Godfather, I was very excited, and looking 
 at preview pictures I thought it was going to be a success.
  When I started playing the game, I loved the whole layout and music of the menu, and as every game, 
 I changed the keyboard mapping onto my numberpad. Now comes the bad things. As I started the game, 
 I immediately noticed the horizontal axis of my mouse was inverted, and I found no option to change 
 it. Adding to this problem was a flaw in sawing settings. The next time I ran The Godfather, all 
 my control settings were on default.
  Since then I waited for a patch from EA, and can probably wait for a while longer. Are they actually 
 aware of this? How can they not know that there are problems with the settings? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vimal
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I was highly anticipating this particular title and when I saw that Gamespot gave it an 8.1, I 
 was suprised. I thought it would get at least a 9.0 given all the hype. But, I thought an 8.1 wasn't 
 bad and that I would get it anyway. Boy was I in for a surprise. The game basically sucks. After 
 playing Grand Theft Auto San Andreas (the gameplay which The Godfather attempts to emulate) , it 
 is difficult to take the plunge and experience this game because the worlds are so much less detailed 
 and get very repetive and boring. The controls don't handle very well either (at least on the PC) 
 and driving, walking and beating people up isn't easy. The graphics are also not that great. Overall, 
 this game sucks and shouldn't be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  
  It seems this game was rushed through development. It can been in the minor graphical problems 
 and AI stupid moves. 
  
  The game is mission-driven story line, yet between missions you can drive around and earn money 
 by exhorting businesses. The combat part of the game is fun. 
  
  So much of the game is derived from GTA. And a lot of the gameplay is recycled, the same faces, 
 interiors, and even the same buildings. 
  
  But the voice actors are good, the story is fun, and the game is worth it despite some of its flaws. 
 For me the biggest flaw was the fact that there was no map, except for the tiny map on the bottom 
 right. This made it really, really hard to get around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rell2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Gamers will create their own mob character in the game, putting themselves into the action while 
 reliving classic moments from the fiction and experiencing original missions alongside memorable 
 characters from the film. After a life of small-time jobs and petty thefts the player will be accepted 
 into the Corleone family, Americas most famous criminal organization. It will be up to the 
 player to carry out orders, earn respect and make New York City their own. i stolee all of these 
 words cause i didnt want to right them my self from gamestop. com and ign for, The book by Mario 
 Puzo and the classic film serve as inspiration here, as gamers will join the Corleone family and 
 earn respect through loyalty and fear as they rise through the ranks to become Don in a living 
 1945-1955 New York. It will be up to the player to carry out orders, earn respect and make New 
 York City their own. Featuring non-linear action-adventure gameplay, The Godfather will offer gamers 
 countless choices for solving the family's problems with brutal violence, skillful diplomacy, or 
 a cunning mixture of both. From mob hits and bank heists to drive-bys and extortion, step deep 
 inside a world where intimidation and negotiation are your tickets to the top, and where decisions 
 made, just like in The Godfather fiction, have lasting consequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drag80
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  How disappointing it is to discover that this very good looking and promising title is ruined by 
 the mess made on controls for moving aiming or whatsoever... at least when you dont want to use 
 a controller. 
  
  Moving the character with keybord is ok, but the camera that follows must be moved or rotated around 
 with your mouse, and here's the mess... it has inverted left and right! I thought that there was 
 an option to set it back to normal and i found that there wasn't any!!!! Not only following your 
 character is frustrating, but it is even worse when you try to aim at something (same story + moving 
 inverted again) there you find out that you are constrained to some sort of autoaiming for dummies 
 (or kids playing xbox) . I dont know if they did it this way only to differ a bit from GTA, but 
 it really sucks.
  
  I'm really frustrated to see that recently developers dont pay much attention to keybord and mouse 
 controls in their games... if i wanted to play with a controller I would buy a console!
  
  It's just too messy to play (i gave it a second chance after few days and i write this at this 
 time) and i'm sorry that i spent my money just to discover another xbox game converted for pc just 
 like that... even when it wasn't so hard to make it playable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhemberger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  It reminds me a lot like GTa in many ways. This makes it fun, but you do feel like it's just a 
 mod at times. It is also a little too linear in the objectives. With that said, it still is a fun 
 game to play. I can't help but think back to Mafia and feel that was the benchmark by which all 
 other mobster games should be judged... This is still true. The Godfather fall short in accomplishing 
 the simple task of bringing you into an immersive world that you lose track of time while playing. 
 All of the elements are there, they just don't seem to come together as well as Mafia did. But 
 this is the only new mobster game in town, so let's beat some heads in until the Soppranos is made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  In past few months there came several 3rd person shooters ( 25 to life , bulletproof , true crime 
 2 , total overdose , gun ) , but they were all worth nothing , totally pieces of sh*t . i'm glad 
 that Godfather didn't get on that list .
  As Godfather is 3rd person shooter where you are free to do whatever you want , I just can't resist 
 to compare it with the best games in this genre (Mafia and GTA ) . In Godfather you have much more 
 freedom than in mafia , but not as much as in GTA SA , but EA made very good job in developing 
 all the random stuff - business takeover , interrogation system , hit contracts , but all the takeover 
 stuff gets boring , because it's always the same , all warehouses are identical , even the bad 
 guys acts the same , so in the end I started to miss something new . 
  i like the shooting and fighting system , it's really something new , but i think it's to many 
 buttons you have to use in fighting , it takes time to get used to it .
  There is one thing , I like the most - it's explosions , fire and explosion effects are very impressive 
 , And other thing , I like very much , is that cops shoots to the bad guys , not only to you , 
 Godfather is the first game they made this work . 
  As I am a Godfather movie fan , I can say that they made a great use of license of the movie , 
 I love the storyline and the original music playing all the time , made me feel like in a real 
 Godfather movie .
  But there comes the bad part.
  First thing I noticed is the cars and driving . carmodels looks awful , especially when you damage 
 it ( it's so far from Mafia , in this regard , it's out of hearing ) windshields are full reflective 
 , car handling is stupid , there is no model names , speedometer , and furthermore , you can count 
 all models on your fingers . it seems like they did this part of game against the clock , and it 
 came out very crappy .
  the worst is that everything disappears - bodies , exploded cars , everything you hit with the 
 car , that's very sad .
  AI is very solid , but sometimes it becomes very stupid and glitchy , there are only few faces 
 , human models , you can also count on fingers . graphics are not that sharp as in Mafia , sometimes 
 it comes glitchy to , city is pretty big , but there is no free space ( mountains , fields ) as 
 in GTA , everything is closed . you can't fly , you can't swim ( you can't even reach the water 
 ) you can't even jump . And the game is way to short . so there is to much minuses and glitches 
 in this game to be one of the greatest , I think this game was released to early , undeveloped 
 as it could be , but the good thing is that there is huge chances to see soon Godfather 2 , or 
 even Godfather 3 ( there are three godfather movies right ? ) , so i hope they will fix all bad 
 things , all glitches and bugs and make this rough diamond shine . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexiska
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  I love this game no matter what everybody says. This game is like Mafia only with coller combat 
 system and faster cars so what the f*** wrong. The voices is terryfic and the graphics is pretty 
 good the gamplay really fun and overall the game really cinematic. and if you play this game on 
 the PC you don't need a horse power pc. my pc is average and I play this game smoothly on 1024/768 
 this game good. the voiceover is superb i really feel like I am in THE GODFATHER movie. so yeah 
 play it play it play it.
  and that all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I played Mafia and all the GTA Games from Grand Theft Auto 3 to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. 
 The Godfather is a great mix of all them combined together. The fighting Moves and execution styles 
 are very well done. When your shooting you can control the cross-hair to hit any part of the enemy 
 that you want and will follow the enemy moving which makes it easier especially for head shots. 
 The vehicle details just needs a bit more work, such as better damage detail when crashing as well 
 as windows you can see through. The Camera movements aren't as easy as in Mafia or GTA like when 
 you make a sharp u-turn in a vehicle you don't know if your gonna run into another car until its 
 too late. There is also minor graphics problems such as flashing textures every once in a while. 
 The Game missions are well done based off of parts from The Godfather The Movie. The Safe houses 
 are in decent locations to get back to missions faster as needed. You Can rob banks if you need 
 money, Extort businesses to earn money, and much more. Overall its a very fun game to play if your 
 a Mafia or GTA fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Movies were great, but don't know about the game. Sure it's a game made from a wonderful movie. 
 The graphics maybe need tweaking on my system, but I wasn't to impressed with them. The game handled 
 just like Mafia to me. I enjoyed mafia, but it seems this is too late just because Mafia had already 
 come out. The whole Mob aura was played out for me years ago. I mean I have Mafia/gangsters. Well 
 another I can't think of. I just started playing so I need to try it out, and post more if I see 
 anything else I like. I still think mafia is still a little better at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingpin23
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  In comparison of detail compared to the 4 year old game "Mafia", "The Godfather" comes no where 
 near as close. Car damage models in Mafia are far superior to that of Godfather, let alone the 
 driving characteristics. More weapons could of been involved in the game also, like that of Mafia. 
 Fine detailed graphics is the only place where Godfather is great, and its game involvement of 
 hands on collecting of dues, and using muscle on the people. Seems as though EA released Godfather 
 way to early and could of made the game alot better than what it is if they just put more detail 
 in making it more realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nzitser
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, although Mafia is much better. It brings the whole atmosphere of the godfather 
 and actually plays well. I didn't have high expectations, so I was happy to see that this was such 
 a good game. 
  Worth a buy. The sound immerses you into the experience and the voice overs are exceptionally well 
 done. I love this game and if you don't, it's your problem . Over all, this is a fantastic game, 
 Mafia 2. I wish Mafia 2 did come out, but i guess this is a good enough experience to get any gamer 
 to sleep late.
  For me, it's a definite buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahumut_b
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I found the godfather to really just be a big rip off of Grand theft auto, the effects and visuals 
 were up to scratch but the gameplay just couldent cut it.
  The Fighting Controls are overls complicated, with combinations of mouse and keyboard in awkward 
 possions often having to be used, i also found hand to hand combat to be very repetitive. Driving 
 was marginally better, but it certainly isn't any grounds to buy the game, overall this game was 
 a massive let down to me.
  Really i have nothing more to add to this game, lets hope one day EA pull there act together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giannhse
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the movie "Godfather" you will definitely like it!! Shooting, stealing, killing 
 and punching everybody around! Total freedom! 
  
  The game storyline is based on the movie "Godfather", you start as a soldier and finally you get 
 to be Don!!! You make your own empire taking over all kind of business in the city of New York, 
 highly addictive 
  
  For all that dont know, the controls work fine, as does the get out of car function, if you 
 download the right crack!! Also, the inverted mouse option works, so before you go saying bad 
 things about the game, get it original or as I said before, download the proper crack!
  
  Long live Diablo the best game ever!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCMan13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Wow, one thing I have to just get out of me is the Godfather is a great game. I am a bit annoyed 
 at some comments like "Just another GTA Rip-Off" or "Mafia is way better" or "There is nothing 
 to do in this game!" I will conter fire all of those statements in my review. First this is not 
 a GTA Rip-Off! Just because a game is in a city, it is free roam, you can hijack cars and buy guns 
 etc, its a GTA Rip-Off? I dont think so, because you know what a game like GTA or Halo or whatever 
 took some thoughts from another game... And for the Mafia is better, well its this persons opinion 
 but I belive that the Godfather has much more to offer. Lastly for there is nothing to do there 
 is plenty to do, I think that person did not play far enough because there is so much to do. So 
 in conclusion I think this is a great portreyal of the movie and well deserves a 9.4! Thank you 
 for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leader234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  If this game was anything else (f. e. mafia) I wouldnt even bother.
  But because its based on the most popular movie makes it unique.
  Same characters, same music 
 (best ever soundrack) , same atmoshaire.
  Graphics are not the best but who cares? Gameplay seems to be funny and interesting.
  Too bad 
 I cannot save before i finish a mission.
  To amusing that u can create your character same face as you are!
  Well, as soon as I ll become 
 the don, I ll order the execution of any ignorant says "I dislike it".
  "Barzini is dead, and Tatalia is dead and Mo Green..."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiburon1186
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nearly identical game to GTA, from the main storyline to side missions. It's graphics 
 are sub-par for something recently released. This game on the PC is also very unstable and tends 
 to crash every 10-15 mins or so (a possible memory leak?) . I like the game, but it could have been 
 done much better. Voice acting is top notch tho. The stability can make the game unplayable and 
 with a save system the same as GTA, and the 'safe houses', you lose all of your data if u can't 
 make it back to the save location quick enough. This game could be better even if just that is 
 fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edelmiro99
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I played MAFIA before this game and I have to tell that its like comparing day and night.
  
  I think Godfather is an average game, not very bad, but not good at all .
  
  The faces 
 of the characters are very similar to the movies, but I think this is the only good thing that 
 you can tell about this game.
  
  The games based on movies dont get a good level, it must be some kind of curse or maybe the developers 
 should be more careful with their products . The only one that you can save is The Chronicles of 
 Riddick.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best because it follows most scenes of the Godfather , also made fun. The storie 
 line is just the same original classic just being able to be a part of teh Godfather . The Newyork 
 atmosfear is very nice and detailed , and you being able to walk in most stores is awsome!, the 
 cars are cool , the physics when you shoot the cars and such is very well put together. The game 
 is by far a total sucess because of its most fun and enjoyable cities and the fact that you can 
 screw around and never gets boring. This game owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robindt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Review Written on Sunday, March 26, 2006 and added some opinions. 
  The Actual One-Hundred percent of story line Finished Objectives.
  Includes One-Hundred percent 
 of Contract Hits.
  Play Time from March 21 through March 26, 2006; six to eight hours a day; increments of two hours 
 each with a break in-between.
  
  The first impression of the Godfather: The Game, was a more developed game programming of: Grand 
 Theft Auto combined with Mafia: The Game and Hitman: Contracts. The combined Theme wise only. I 
 don't believe that any copy rights are infringed here in this game's development. Some have said 
 there is repetitive in the game play, are not all criminals repetitive with long rap sheets? Just 
 joking. Yes some, but the missions AI changes that.
  The texturing and lighting, indoor mapping and seemless outdoor enviorments (no loading times) . 
 Fight mechanics and vehicle handling, and the Character Editor are far superior then the previously 
 mentioned games. This is Totally interactive FPS game. Climbing and jumping small hurtles have 
 yet to be implecated into the character's enviromental movement. Some vaulting is accomplished, 
 but not in all instances where it should be to enhance game play. 
  So, it is hard to say that 'Godfather: The Game' is of the same game play. It goes far beyond that
 
  Learning and memorizing the keyboard key combinations were the most challenging of the game. The 
 in game contract hits "Execution Styles" are rated and added to the final score rating. Following 
 the unique styles of executions add bonuses to your score. The killing innocent civilians and auto 
 theft sets a negitive detuction of points in scoring while in game play and raising the local police 
 watch score. The more severe crimes are added to the FBI watch report list and scored as a negitive 
 rating also. That is when the "bridery" pays off, getting the heat off of you and The Family.
 
  As a person learns more, the AI actually scales the difficulty level along with your skill progress. 
 Every re-entry of any one mission (s) has a different replay and outcome results in unique experience, 
 alot of times catching oneself trying to predict the AI's next move which does change catching 
 you off guard. Pretty darn smart. Your enemies also will out flank your blind side. One of several 
 times the AI will copy and adjust to my driving habits, like it actually did a three-point turn 
 around in the middle of the street without even touching another object, I was amazed.
  The game menu 'options' offered are simple graphic adjustments and control keyboard 'key' changes. 
 I simply found that default settings here were fair except one. The 'Wall Cover' are used for game 
 pad buttons. My solution: Using 'Caps Lock' key plus the 'W" key (in combination) to engage and 
 the same to disengage 'Wall Cover". Audio options are omitted all together. Too bad, I love 5.1 
 surround speakers audio in gaming. A real experience to hear in all directions with background 
 noises, not that the game limits the audio, it just would be more enhanced. 
  Another not so important, but worth mentioning, is the top speed of the vehicles chases can get 
 up to speeds that will seriously put you in orbit, for instance, I was running at top speed blurring 
 past objects hit a small jump and ended up in a window of a building, three floors high and having 
 to exit my car and landing on foot in the street, hijacking another car to continue my escape efforts. 
 (if I only would of thought of saving that frame to pictures) . Each vehicle has it's own handling 
 characteristics and choosing the right one for the mission does effect the results and of course 
 your efforts in succeeding. That is also in selecting the right weapon and knowing not to use over 
 kill in executions without calateral damage to the innocent civilians.
  I would like to add my opinion to the Rating Issues to this and all Games Rating Syndicate: 
 
  You want to earn respect in The Family as well from the people on the street. Respect others, 
 they will respect you in turn, except for the agressive violent criminals. Sounds like a real life 
 thing, doesn't it? And it is said that Video Gaming has a bad influence? Two ways of looking at 
 those questions: How we are raised in what is right or wrong; and how we carry that out in real 
 life.
  This is a game of course. How it affects us was already determined long ago.
  
  RobinDale
  March 27, 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_gh_55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Very very nice game ... everything is soooooooooooooooo perfect 
  
  the graphics the sound the story line everything ....
  
  
  perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... 
 perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect gameperfect game...... perfect game...... perfect 
 game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect 
 game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect game...... perfect 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Honestly, where is the substance in games these days? Can developers not remember the good old 
 days of games when things were original and involving?
  
  This game used The Godfather series to give it name recognition, the Grand Theft Auto gameplay 
 and plot blueprint and then spent a ton of money building up hype, maybe getting reviewers (not 
 blaming just GameSpot) for giving it "Great" ratings.
  
  GameSpot typically doesn't sell out to crappy games like this, so I don't know how it managed an 
 8.1! Typically you'd find games better than this getting 7's on GameSpot, so I've gotta say I'm 
 unimpressed.
  
  Luckily the gaming community is taking note of this game's arrogance and pointlessness.
  
  
 If you guys like shooting people, stealing cars and extorting businesses, you could've done it 
 all in the Grand Theft Auto series. "But this is THE GODFATHER, Will!"
  
  And let me tell all of you out there.. The God Father is one of my favourite movie series ever! 
 Hands down unbelievable... and to have a game like this take my love and treat her like she's got 
 no self respect is just uncool.
  
  This game was fun to start, but then once you realise you're just doing the same thing over and 
 over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again... well, it 
 gets a little dull.
  
  AND also... Why didn't they bother making any of the NPCs look different? A few variations of clothing 
 and faces won't trick the average gamer. Is it so much to ask that one of your guys make extra 
 faces and head models? Or maybe some new clothes? No, I didn't think so.
  
  I don't like beating up some businessman so I can get a slice of his profits and then finding that 
 the next seven guys I extort are his identical octuplit brothers. Nice little family you got there. 
 Now give me my money back... And what's with the graphics? I thought this was 2006. And also.. 
 that repetative theme song? Give me a break... you've got it stuck in my head now.
  
  EA. You guys are a bunch of jerks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmm78
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I would start off with the grafix which is so lame that makes you think this game was released 
 a couple of years ago. The cars look awfull and their tyres seem to blend with the asphalt. The 
 characters look kinda blocky and besides the storyline characters, they all look like clones. And 
 just another detail that sais it all :pigeons looking like twisting .bmp files. This game would 
 probably run smoothly on Pentium 2...
  The gameplay is ok if you follow the storyline... the rest is just boring and repetitive: beating, shooting 
 and extorsion. The only fun part is the execution combo but this is not enough to save this game.
 
  There are many annoying things in this game like the camera, the crowded streets at night time, 
 the cars that run NFS style (they look like have been charged with nitro) whitch make this game 
 be a bitter dissapointment for people like me who expected a Mafia 2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather , what can I say other than WOW :!: a great title for what is suppossed to be a great 
 Game , Movie , Story . And right now we are talking about the game & not the story that developed 
 the movies or the game itself . So here it goes , the game is great , I mean look at its title 
 it is The Godfather , we all know what does that mean , but when it really comes to playing the 
 game everything is defferent than it is supposed to be . The story of the game goes along with 
 the story of the movies to deliver us the ability to have a role in the history of this great story 
 . But every game have it bad & good , faces & right now we are focussing on those problems or mistakes 
 or even bugs that should of never happend when a major ( company , publisher ) like EA gets the 
 license to the movie of The Godfather . 
  
  The Good : EA by making this game , they made a great game that got the best as it can get from 
 the movie & esspecially that everything is available since they got the license . The game itself 
 is great , with challenging missions & good graphics & with a new way for fist & gun fightings 
 . They made the loading times between missions ( like 0 sec ) no loading time at all , which is 
 great , & the music of the intro or the main menu make you think , I dont know in what but it just 
 make you think . 
  
  The Bad : Althought to the great graphics yet the characters seems like they are cartoons ( no 
 offence is intended ) dont take me wrong everything is great in graphics but as I said they look 
 like cartoons , & as it comes to the cars , well let me just tell you that EA ruined it , they 
 are the ones who made NFS . so why did they made these graphics like that , some say that this 
 is because of a different engine , well it is known that the graphic engine is different than that 
 of NFS Most Wanted but why , why . The gun fights are great as I said , but they will never become 
 great as long as you dont get famillier with the controls , the controls are annowing , many & 
 many people say that joypads doesnt make you get the best of it & in the other hand many & many 
 say that mouse & keyboard arent good at all , so what is good or what is the good way to play this 
 game ( but eventually you will get used to it weather you played it by the Keyboard & mouse or 
 by Joypad . And another problem it is connected to the glitchy & stuppid AI in the game , you will 
 notice so many unfamilliar things done in the game that drive you mad & it happend with me at the 
 game begging were you get rid of those two who are fighting you ( not the intrelude with the father 
 , but that with the son ) then gunfights start near you & for no reason the cops attacked me , 
 it happend twice or three times but eventually I ran away before waiting a sec after I talked with 
 luca ( or the fat guy ) . Another bad thing in this game is that there is no car chases , isn't 
 it enough that car graphics & looks are bad so they took from us car chases , it is a Mob War there 
 should be cars & another thing there is only around 6 - 8 or even 9 kinds of cars in the game . 
 Ohh , I almost forgot did anyone had this problem with this game were you can enter the car but 
 you cant get out of it , & please give me a braek & dont tell me to buyit rather than downloading 
 it , I arlleady bought it , there should be a patch for this problem because I know that I am not 
 the only one daeling with it . 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureliusmicron
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: overly simple and repeative, by the end of the game youve really done only 3 things, 
 beat up peopl, shoot people and drive anywhere. The story is unremarkable and doesn't come close 
 to the movie, 
  
  Graphics: the graoghics along with the entire setting is bland and overused. The character models 
 are descent but badguys models are completely the same.
  
  Sound: Crummy effect with highly repetative music get old ofter an hour
  
  Value: There is 
 alot to do even after the campaign is done not that theres much initiative.
  
  Overall: The game does have its merits for the hand to hand combat system in that you can beat 
 anyone up in a serious varity of ways. Buying bombs is also fun, as they cause serious amounts 
 of descruction and are great to rip out in a fir fight, provided u run like hell.
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone, its worth playing for the campaign length but not worth 
 the time or money to do much else. Youd be better off completing the GTA3 range.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Its good game based on the films. You start by makeing your own character and choose the clothes, 
 if you got money you can bye expensive stuf. Then you start the game. The character that you play 
 is not in de film, but the populair scenes are the same, like the scene withe cut of head from 
 the horse or the scene in the pizza store. you got your own house and car. If you play te game 
 you get more and more houses. In the weapon category you got very much varialety. From a Shotgun 
 til a magnum and from a magnum til a molotov cocktail. You ca execute people on a billion of ways. 
 You can brake his neck, you can hit and kick him until he is dead, You can throw him from the balony, 
 you can brake a basebal bat on somewane head, you can shoot him, you can hit him in a wall, you 
 can throw him in the micoway and much more. All the characters look real exept mike. Weapons yo 
 can buy at ilegal street seller. If you want to do something bad like kill somebody and you wont 
 want to get the police after you ass you can gif a officer 500 $. But if you want money is simple. 
 Just go int a store and speak with the man/women. Your character says that i can protect your store. 
 Nearl evrytime the seller says no. If that its the case you can renovate the store of his face. 
 Than he back mercy and giv jou money. Yust like in San Andreas you got differnt gangs with ther 
 own terretory, if you wont the ground you must start a gang war, if that happens you got 3 choises: 
 1 wait 2 days til its over. 2 go to a FBI agent and giv him money to end it. 3 go to a store from 
 the other gang and put a dynimite in it and run. You got 5 different gangs. your own gang. The 
 Corleones and another 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbblaze
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  When I heard there was going to be a Godfather game I thought "oh great now they are going to ruin 
 the movie". BUT NO. EA did surprisingly VERY well on this game, it stays true to the movie yet 
 it gives you the interactivity needed. The worst thing about this game is the graphics and lets 
 face it, eye candy really doesn't do the game's story line or plot any good. If you haven't bought 
 this game yet buy it NOW, and if you can afford it buy the Special Edition trust me its worth the 
 $10 extra. If you cant buy the Special Edition then PLEASE FOR YOUR OWN SAKE BUY THE STRATEGY GUIDE.
 
  If you buy the special edition there is no need for a strategy guide though cause the guy on the 
 bonus DVD explains a very good strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBrazilian
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I guess its hard to make a game based on a movie license specialy a famous one like The Godfather, 
 well a good game that is. The Godfather however is in that respect a true example of what Movie 
 based games should be.
  
  You know the drill with me , if you dont here it goes i just go over each category and talk about 
 it a little bit ! 
  
  Gameplay - 
  Well what can be said about a tried and true gameplay style like the one from GTA , well its damn 
 good. It doesn't just copy everything I mean sure you can still steal any car you want shot anybody 
 (cops , bad guys , girls all that stuff) and you can still roam about missions in witchever order. 
 Hits , family jobs to you Phone Call missions , its all there and its all great.
  And well those things involve shooting and punching..
  The Shooting is actualy a lot of fun once 
 you get the hang of it lock on shoot , get close when hes down and do a finishing and very vicious 
 looking shot to the head. Or grab him punch his face in and do all kinds of stuff like shove them 
 through windows , furnaces , rooftops.. you know.
  It really does shine the way you can coerse anyone into paying you a fee. The hand to hand combat 
 is very deep but you will learn that it takes a bit too long at times and well , guns are just 
 more fun (at least for me) .
  Car chases handle fine however everytime you crash the framerate kinda drops horribly.
  It all 
 consists of you making a name for yourself so extort every shop owned and every racket you can 
 find , go to corleone estate get a mission do it come back and bada bim bada bum you got a promotion 
 more cash and respect !! Rinse and Repeat.
  
  (ok so that wasn't a little bit ! sorry)
  
  The game isn't difficult at all , in so much as you keep to the easy familys at the start namely 
 the Tataglia's and Stracci's , try cuneos or barzinis as lvl 10 = bad times trust me I know. It 
 is however in a nut shell - Go in store , talk to guy , if he refuses guys barge in the door and 
 start shooting , shoot back , talk to guy again , grab him , punch his face in and then get his 
 money. Backdoor opens , go in , shoot more guys talk to other guy , buy him off or punch him till 
 he gives in and my friends Rinse and repeat.
  
  The story missions are very varied and tie in to The Godfather story line and that is pretty cool.. 
 i wont spoil it.
  
  Graphics - They look great , nice effects everywhere you go , garbage coming in and out of the 
 streets , pedestriands walking and all that , It is however unfortunate that the store owners and 
 enemys looks pretty bad... the main guys (You , Sonny , Don Vito and etc) look pretty amazing and 
 thats pretty much that can be said. It is very easy on the eyes..
  So yeah... no big text it looks great framerate does chop up here and there however.
  
  -Sound
 
  Ahhh , tommy guns , shotguns pistols and all that , they all sound amazing and have a very realistic 
 sound to them, they do feel as dangerous as they were. Voice acting is superb specialy from the 
 cast member such as Marlon Brando and James Caan. The Player voice is also very cool there are 
 some bits when you will hear the same extortion line over a dozen times and well too bad but hey 
 there are a lot of stores to hit.
  Music is great , sets the tone just right makes you feel like you are a mobster in the 50's.. pretty 
 good it is a limited soundtrack though dare i say 12 tracks maybe one or 2 more...
  
  -Value
  Well... its up to you i played it Straight for about 9 hours the first time I got it , 
 I was totaly sucked in it was really a lot of fun and well 15 hours of gamplay and i beat it , 
 keep in mind that i put off the story stuff for a long time and just extorted stores for hours 
 on end , i would say that if i kept the the carrer and did nothing extra i could have beaten it 
 say 10 hours.. maybe less i really cant tell but man you can take over the entire town and it wouldnt 
 take too long so its a good value its a great game.
  
  All in all this is a great game , as with any game it has its rough edges but it delivers a solid 
 package that can suck you in for a long time.
  
  -Trazz
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanMaxis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Sure that the development of this game was a burden at EA's back. It manages to give plenty of 
 fun to the player, and it does it very well. It delivers the movie experience very well, but some 
 issues like just 5 kinds of vehicles or how all inner scenarios are much alike kills the  
 thing. When you finish the movie-based missions there is nothing new, there wont be any surprises 
 at all. From there it turns to be just another GTA-like game. Despite those things I had plenty 
 of fun playing The Godfather, it is a very fun game to play. If they made some kind of multi player, 
 maybe it would be an unforgettable title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the bests! There really isnt anything bad about it although the graphics could 
 have been a little bit better. The whole fighting structure is very fun becuase you can slam people 
 into things, hit people with things, pretty much do anything to anyone your killing. The driving 
 in this game is very well laid out but beware that frame rates tend to drop when getting into driveby's 
 etc. Another thing is that it really goes along with the whole Godfather story and it dosnt change 
 anything around, so its like your playing the movie. This is deffintly a game worth buying and 
 I reccomend it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wailord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a damn fine game to play on, i think its almost like GTA, except the loading screens, 
 you barely a loading screen at The Godfather and if you see one, it will only last 3 sec tops, 
 i mean, GTA loading screens takes ages...
  The soundtracks are just PERFECT!! 
  And i really like the shooting style and the storyline of course. 
  There is a lot of things 
 to unlock, like movie clips, which it makes it even better!
  I found one strange thing, i don't get it why all the NPC's start moving aside with their car when 
 i honk the horn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikson_power
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather first a very high rated game that when it come out did and is getting said is overrated 
 but I don't think it is.
  Sure it isn't like GTASA but it's similar, It has the free world but not any boats or bikes but 
 in GTASA you can't take over branches like in The Godfather.
  The game is good whiteout to many annoying failures.
  sometimes the text that says witch town 
 your in have a black box behind it but when you are chased by some police-cars your not thinking 
 of that.
  
  The game is about taking over branches and compounds from the rival families and you can also do 
 hit contracts and missions but you have collectibles like 100 safes to blow up and 100 film-roles 
 to find.
  
  The graphic of the game is good but could be better but then my computer probably couldn't make 
 it.
  
  The sound is great and you always get a little happy when some of the citizens says that it was 
 good that you called that son of a ****
  
  Buy it and test it.
  The price of the game is 10$ lower than other games so it's not so much money.
  Than the ones 
 that don't have any money can Download it but thats illigal but i have tested an downloaded version 
 and it works fine.
  
  /Mikson_power
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Dw1nT3r
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Whenever they make a game from a movie it usually just plain sucks, but with The Godfather, I was 
 really amazed to see how it became like a small addiction.
  
  On a first hand on approach I thought; "Oh no, not another GTA...". The interface looked and felt 
 the same as Grand Theft Auto, especially the map system, but the physique in the cars, character 
 models and also the enviroment you are playing in felt really good, not plastic like the GTA series, 
 the enviroment actually felt filled with something.
  
  A big plus was that you create your own character and have the possibility to makeyour own looks 
 for your own personal gangster, you can choose clothes, facial attributes, hair styles, and tons 
 of more options.
  
  The graphics are good, not super, not sucky, just good. I found a lot of things like occasional 
 low FPS whenever there was too much smoke, a few details I thought they should've taken time to 
 improve, but amazingly, no real bugs!
  
  The different shops and such don''t get a whole lot of variation, a butcher shop is a butcher shop, 
 a barber has a barber shop with the same barber shop layout in the whole NYC. This however was 
 never an issue, the AI spawned at the same locations though, which made it really simple in the 
 end to figure out where they were.
  
  The fighting in the game is really great, whether it be by hand (melee) or by guns. A big downer 
 was that only the AI was able to do drive-by's for you, you never got to be the one actually hanging 
 out the window with a Tommy Gun.
  
  When it comes to playability, I'll probably keep playing this a lot longer than I did with GTA: 
 San Andreas for instance, because when you completed the story part of GTA: San Andreas, there 
 just wasn't much more fun to do in it. But The Godfather has you hooked with more stuff even though 
 you complete the game's story line. I really recommend this game for people that share the same 
 oppinions as I: "The games back in the good old days seemed to last a lot longer"
  
  The sounds you kept hearing got a little repetetive as well, when the citizens were talking to 
 eachother they said maybe 5 different things to eachother. It got a little bit annoying after playing 
 for a while. The ambient sounds were really low quality as well. Gun sounds and cars etc were great 
 though.
  
  A great game deserves a great score, it is however a movie-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlandeiro
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  In comparison to other games like the Splinter Cell series this definitely takes a back seat turn. 
 Don't get me wrong I expect even more improvements from the Splinter Cell series. 
  
  I recommend a remake or to take more care to detail in the event you decide to do Godfather 2. 
 Also, take into consideration to add more parts of the movie into the game. Critical parts like 
 the death of Carlo Rizzi that garotte scene is classic and it was cut from the game. 
  
  When Don Vito Corleone dies it is a pivotal point in the movie it should be the same in the game; 
 you don't even see his burial. Also, if there is a movie line that has become a cliche with American 
 culture is "Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer." At no time did I hear that phrase 
 said in any part of the game. When you take movies and turn them into games you need to stay very 
 close to the movies screenplay. If you don't it will lack substance. Please watch the movie many 
 times over and don't cut out these very important scenes and phrases.
  
  Finally, don't take this criticism as a put down to the game. The game itself is very good. I also 
 seek and expect a lot of improvement from other games such as Hitman: Blood Money and Splinter 
 Cell: Double Agent.
  
  The technology is there let's use it to make a more fluid movement type game. I want to feel like 
 a I am one of Don Corleone's hitman and not just another guy playing a game.
  
  Thank you for reading. Hope it was not too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, Very addictive and long if u complete it 100%.
  Really catches the feel of the Godfather and an old New York in the 40's. Really big city and well 
 designed, although the textures and interiors can get a little repetative.
  
  Gameplay: Awsome so many things to do, you can do missions right from the movie, extort businesses 
 and rackets which never gets old, rob banks and just explore.
  
  Graphics: The one miss in this game is the graphics, I have a really good PC and settings on high 
 and the graphics suffer. In cutscenes they are really bad, theyare blocky and look like they were 
 cut out of a comic book. But in the actual gameplay the graphics are actually pretty good. Also 
 the effects like hitting a light pole and papers flying through the streets is really top notch.
 
  
  Sound: Great sound they have all the music from the movie which really captures the feel for the 
 game and they also have some different music which is also good. I like it how in some missions 
 the music is timed so it will climax right at the exciting part of the mission. Great effects. 
 Voice acting is really good also, but no Al Pacino: (
  
  Value: Worth it, long lasting game with all the businesses you have to extort. At first you might 
 not like it o much but give it a try as it will grow on you.
  
  Great game overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheezyt
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with so much action and having fun punching the life out of people. But this 
 game can be quite boring without shooting people who is doing no harm to you, and having to walk 
 slow and don't cause a seen in the street. You can't even steal cars while in the street. The best 
 thing about this game is creating your own character and watching him beat up people. The guns 
 is also a plus. this is a good game, but i think SCARFACE is going to be better. You should rent 
 this game first to check it out. It might appeal to some people but definitely not all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciremi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Ive always found the Godfather films to be somewhat overrated, so I was interested in purchasing 
 a game where the story as well as the characters would take a back seat. Unfortunately the games 
 shining moments come far and few between.
  The first action you will be doing in the game involves the most ridiculous sort of combat ever 
 invented in a game; selecting your target, holding down the right mouse button, and delivering 
 blow after blow with two keys, both awkwardly spaced and awkwardly chosen. The actual combat/fighting 
 aspect of the game is the biggest flaw, as you will find yourself getting frustrated by an overkill 
 of baddies, spawning from no mans land to interrupt your game play. Then to actually pummel these 
 goombas you need to select them, rather than throwing your punches/swinging your bats wildly. 
 When being rushed at by 3+ enemies, the last thing I want to do is have to select which one I want 
 to beat down first.
  The same concept is involved in gunplay. Anyone who has ever played SouthPeak Interactives Wild 
 Wild West: The Steel Assassin will have no trouble picking this up. Actually, I take that back; 
 theyll probably get frustrated too. In order to shoot you need to lock onto a target. Your reticule 
 will shrink down until you have an effective shot that can do some damage. Unfortunately waiting 
 for the reticule to shrink is a tedious process, and since your enemies never seem to run out of 
 ammo waiting for you youll find yourself losing precious health as the bullets fly at you.
  The city of New York is well done, and there are no loading screens to get from one end of the 
 city to another, however, the textures are very commonplace and lack imagination. The only way 
 to get around the city is by foot or car, despite the fact that a phantom elevated train runs overhead. 
 There are enterable buildings that require no loading times either, which is a definite plus. Sadly, 
 a good number of places seem to have been built exactly the same detracting from the realism.
 
  All of the city locales seem to look the same as well, and there dont seem to be many alleyways 
 that can save you when the fuzz (wrong era?) are on your tail. The driving would actually be a 
 lot more fun if real cars were used, but instead we are treated to fordor fake cars and trucks 
 and although each handles differently the physics are unrealistic and the cars seem to stick to 
 the ground unless t-boned by traffic, which is a rarity in my case. Having played the 2002 classic 
 from Talonsoft, Mafia, I can easily say that the city locations, as well as the vehicles had 
 plenty of variety, despite the lack of enterable buildings and Grand Theft Autos roaming ability.
 
  The plot of the story follows along with the plot of the original Godfather film. The twist here 
 is that you play a nameless character (whom you physically create) who has been accepted and ultimately 
 employed by the Corleone family. The ability to create your own character separates this game from 
 the rest, but because the character has no real depth (not even a spoken name) it is hard to really 
 establish a connection between yourself and the character. For some this may not be a big deal, 
 but for others such as myself, I like to feel involved when I playits just more rewarding that 
 way. 
  Characters from the Godfather film come in, as the game uses voices from the original characters 
 such as James Caan, Robert Duvall, and the late and great Marlon Brando. Each actors computer-generated 
 counterpart is spot-on. Sadly, there is no Al Pacino look-alike, but it can be looked past.
  Playing the Godfather like a GTA-esque game seems to look good on paper, but truly misses something 
 during the execution. Perhaps it is the controls or the combat problems, or perhaps it is because 
 every mission requires you to continuously dispatch baddies (with no help from the beloved family, 
 mind you) who mysteriously dont die when shot point-blank in the face. I would imagine that a 
 run of the mill Godfather fan would take the film seriously, and to watch a no-named employee of 
 the Corleone family in a videogame running people over and then getting whacked and sent to the 
 hospital for instant recovery might undermine the film in certain ways.
  The game tries, but feels like it gets a little old fast. The atmosphere of uneasiness prevails 
 in the game, but the surprises cant exist because those who have watched the film know what is 
 going to happen, and those who havent might get lost in the plot and barrage of names. For a well-written 
 and inspiring Mafioso game stick with the four-year-old Mafia and give this one a rent or a borrowing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather video game is good but could of been better. I think that Gamespot just about hit 
 the nail on the head with their 8.1 score. You basically take on the role of an unnamed character 
 and you are invited to work for the Corleones and you play out the films with most of the major 
 scenes. But rather than just playing out the films, New York (1940) has been beautifully mapped 
 and 5 familys run it. It's your job to run/drive about extorting businesses for money, robbing 
 banks, cracking safes etc etc. As you work your way up through the ranks you get better at what 
 you do and thus are able to take on the more difficult of the families. So by the end of it all 
 you should be running the whole of New York with the title Don of NYC. EA reckon that to be able 
 to get 100% in the game it's going to take you about 50hours!!! The controls on the PC are a little 
 bit clumsy with lots of button combos, like pressing mouse button 1&2 which will grab your enemy 
 and then you have to press Q or E or move the mouse either up or down to punch. All of which can 
 be a little confusing especially when you've got bad guys shooting at you or smacking you round 
 the head with a baseball bat!! I have to say that the AI at times is terrible, with the enemy either 
 hiding so much you can't shoot them or running straight at you so they are too easy to shoot. The 
 AI of the characters that roam the streets of NY are laughable at best. You can be driving your 
 car down the street and turn the corner and they jump off the pavement into the road and get killed, 
 just because you've gone a little to close to the pavement. Killing the pedistrians brings your 
 heat level up and then you get cops chasing you. The vehicles handle like a dream, EA have really 
 worked hard on this and it's paid off. They are responsive and a joy to drive so I reckon I could 
 fogive them for the dumb AI and hope that they sort something out if and when they release a patch. 
 Now to the graphics, like I said they've done a tremendous job of recreating old NYC and it really 
 looks good, especially on PC with the higher resolution. But the textures look like they've just 
 been dragged off the console and they're are some "flickering" parts. But overall the graphics 
 are not bad but I would of liked to have seen proper textures for the PC version and this does 
 let the game down slightly. Overall The Godfather Game is well worth the money I paid for it (30GBP, 
 and I pre-ordered it, so I got the limited edition Godfather tin for free!!!) and I would recomened 
 it. If you weren't keen on the GTA series then I would suggest you either borrow or rent it first. 
 The Godfather is a solid "stab" at the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Gosh, I really wanted to like this game. In the end, though, the Godfather is really just GTA with 
 a facelift.
  
  I love the Godfather, but it wasn't enough to make up for this game's faults. Most notably, the 
 game shows its console roots. In fact, sometimes it seems to bear those roots proudly. The control 
 scheme is awful, for instance. The mouse controls are horrible. For instance, those used to GTA 
 or any FPS game will want to invert just one axis for the mouse. Except you can't. Invert both 
 or none. As a result, it takes awhile to get used to just moving your character around. The game 
 supports gamepads for the PC, but honestly -- no one uses the damned things on a PC, so why bother?
 
  
  The missions are really just warmed over GTA-style things, except this game is far easier than 
 GTA San Andreas, for instance (at least, for the most part. There are a few minor exceptions.) 
 Driving and evading the police in The Godfather is way too easy -- almost a joke. The mechanics are 
 the same as well -- the higher your wanted level (oh, sorry, your "heat") and the cops will expend 
 more energy to bring you in. Except, they're bumbling idiots who will rarely actually catch you 
 or kill you.
  
  Other than the Godfather patina, there is absolutely nothing new or innovative in this game. Even 
 the Godfather stuff is, in my opinion, badly done. The voice acting only goes so far. The music 
 is nice for a few hours in a movie, but tedious in a twenty-hour plus game. Little is original. 
 Rather than taking the Godfather motif further and expanding on it, it seems like the designers 
 stuck to it too slavishly. You feel like you're wandering for hours and hours over the same one 
 or two hours of material. It gets very, very old.
  
  Graphically, the game looks like a console, except for a few higher resolution textures. Locations, 
 vehicles and on-the-street characters are repeated far too often. The graphics look flat and unrealistic, 
 almost cartoonish. The blood is there, as you would expect in such a game, but it will likely make 
 you laugh. All of this serves to take you right out of the gaming experience.
  
  The story. Well, I suppose the Gamespot review is right to say that it fits in with the story of 
 the Godfather. But not really. For the most part, your character just does the little things not 
 explained in the story. A few key parts, perhaps. But fitting into the Godfather story takes you 
 only so far. The story for the character you play simply doesn't stand on its own. It is cliched 
 and, honestly, not worthy of being paired with The Godfather, which is one of the best movies ever 
 made.
  
  In the end, the game seems more about being like the movie than being a game. And as a result, 
 it feels like a retread of games we've all already played. It's not horrible, but with the goofy 
 control scheme, obvious console roots, and repetitive music, graphics and gameplay, it's hard to 
 recommend this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peternoone
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short:
  
  -The city is very much NOT alive. It's like driving down supermarket isles with "city facace" stickers 
 pasted over the food. 
  
  -The character control interface is awkward. We're all accustomed to how it works in other games 
 like GTA, why not stick to a proven formula?
  
  -It's been done better before, play Mafia instead.
  
  To summarize:
  
  I'd have been very 
 excited to cruise around in character in a recreation of NYC as seen in the godfather. What I got 
 instead was a lifeless ersatz GTA clone that didn't cut the mustard and failed to give me the "life 
 of crime sandbox" that I'd expect.
  
  Oh well..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinaru
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  
  1. The gameplay sucks really bad .. 
  
  2. The soundtrack (unbelivable) sucks .. you only have 3 melodies in the game .. and the Nino Rota 
 track is playing only when u r in the car.
  
  3. The graphics are mediocre ( i was expecting a complete diferent resault on this) .. The car 
 detail is mediocre as well .. (compare it with MAFIA) 
  
  4. The phyzic is missing .. what the.. ?? look at the car control .. 
  
  jeez .. DON'T BUY 
 IT !!!!! 
  
  
  AND WHAT THE HELL is this -  ''We Say
  8.1 '' ?? this game is mediocre or let's just say REALLY BAD .. i don't think the game we'll last 
 in our minds like MAFIA .. 
  
  bla bla bla .. 
  
  The gamespot score 8.1 it's outrageos !! 
  
  bye bye !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArtursSalnikovs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Well.. this is no doubt the best game of 2006 so far and i think it will stay like this for a while, 
 since Oblivion appear to be just another lousy RPG **** 
  
  Speaking about The Godfather, i must say it is nice at almost every aspect. I can't judge it's 
 conformity with the movie because i have never watched it (shame on me, ey?) but surely i can say 
 that the story is pretty interesting and is one of those thing that makes u play it throughout. 
 The gfx are pretty nice, but i was waiting for something more u know, after all the hype about 
 EA doing that much research on 1940s New York i though it could be better, but the buildings seems 
 to be the same wherever you go :) 
  
  Another - is that there are only 6 car models in this game, that let the game down a bit.
  
 
  Surely many of you were comparing this game to Mafia, but come on, Chezch game was in development 
 for 4 years, but EA made The Godfather in just a little bit more than 1 year.. Still it got some 
 similarities of Mafia (also with GTA) but for GTA style game it represents pretty impressive effort!
 
  
  As i mentioned earlier - Best game of 2006 so far ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra_35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  I saw that people have mixed feeling about this game and I agree that some can be happy and some 
 can be frustrated about it. It depends how you look at the game: if you only consider what's in 
 the game, how it was made - it's really well put together game. But the fact that there were great 
 games before it that are similar (I am referring to Mafia and Gta) can be frustrating for people 
 that were expecting more about this title.
  
  The biggest problem of this game is that it came late to the market, if it was the first game with 
 the mafia concept, it would have been ground braking. Now - it's just another title out there, 
 i am considering it a new version of Mafia :)
  
  About the game itself, let me start with the good things: the player customization is great, the 
 graphics are nice, the fact that it follows the movie (s) story and characters is great for fans, 
 the city is big and you have a lot to do. The way you make money is "interesting", beating people 
 up with a baseball bat is an effective way to convince them to see things your way.
  
  On the bad side i can put: character and car control is flawed (i only played on pc with mouse 
 and keys) , the interiors are not varied, you can die often and it doesn't affect anything (you 
 can lose a mob war, but it's still a bit weird) .
  
  The bottom line: great game, you should get it and try it out - it will probably keep you entertained 
 for days at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirliquid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA was simply mission after mission with some working and eating etc. Godfather has so much more 
 it has Missions and to get your weekly pay you must go into bussiness and extort them, they start 
 paying you weekly! It's fun and addicting to take over your rival famalies territory and making 
 it yours. When you shoot you don't simply lock on and shoot you can disarm them, shoot them in 
 their knees so they stop running, or headshot them. Melle Fighting is very realistic, you can do 
 quick punches, slugg them smash their head into counters, throw them off roofs, grab them by their 
 neck and swing them arround, choke them and MORE! I don't know why this got such bad reviews it 
 is the greatest game EVER! and yes I have played GTA vice city, LCS, San ANdreas, and 3 all for 
 a long time. They do NOT compare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timstpierre
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I hear you all people talking sh*t about the Godfather. Sit down and play the game for a while 
 without judging ok ? 
  
  That's what I did. The day before March 21st, I was telling to myself: OMG, not another great 
 franchise that will be destroyed by EA like Golden Eye and From Russia With Love...  but as a 
 big fan of the movies, I went to a shop and bought it !
  
  After playing it the first time, I wasn't impressed at all because the controls were a bit lousy 
 and my gamepad wasn't working (still not working) . I decided to continue playing and I loved it. 
 It follows the movie story but your mob get's through that and I think it's a great idea by EA.
 
  
  The music is great, the guns are awsome but the cars all look the same Hahaha!
  
  You can't judge this game without playing it for at least 5 hours. And if you don't like the Godfather, 
 don't play that's all ! BTW, who the fu*k is so idiot that he can't get out of a car !! let me 
 laugh real loud !
  
  A thing that is really anoying, is the eyes of the people. They have such movement in it... it 
 gets really anoying but it looks great. (reminds me of the eyes in GTA: Vice City) .
  
  Finally, it's not the best game EVER but it is still a cool game to buy ! Have fun playing and 
 don't forget to go to school and play outside !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely good with the movie. It follows the Carelone Family very well as well with 
 the storyline. Now there are very good things to this game such as "The Godfather" theme and storyline, 
 the action and many other things. You will be kept busy because you die a lot and you want to get 
 the secret film reels scattered around the city. Not to mention that the game overall is fairly 
 difficult and will keep you busy there.
  There are some disappointing points however. Some of these points include, bad driving, the controls, 
 some (actually a lot) of boring repetitive extortion missions. Now if you like taking over stores, 
 intimidating people and destroying things A LOT then the extortion part doesn't matter. The driving 
 is kind of' odd. You can easily turn corners at high speeds without losing speed. Also the car 
 handling is fairly easy. If you lightly tap the "D" key you will turn fairly hard. Then the fighting. 
 You will get used to it after a lot of game play. In the beginning you will have a hard time fighting 
 since the controls are awkward. You lock on with the right mouse button and fight using the usual 
 W, A, S, D keys. It doesn't sound too hard at first but the camera angles make it also a little 
 difficult. 
  In conclusion, even with the games many minor flaws the game play and storyline make up for it 
 making it worth the buy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinbarry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great cinema cuts, and also very good detail graphics. The graphics on people are good. ie 
 facial expressions and body. other good things include actually movie game play. it follows the 
 story line of the godfather movies.
  
  cons: horrific controls. You cannnot play this game with a mouse and keyboard. Also the world is 
 very boring, very little in terms of extra little adds that bring the 1930's to life. really the 
 gameplay would be amazing if it used something like a max payne engine, but this engine is junk.
 
  
  final word: i definatly would not buy this but possible borrow from a friend or watch a friend 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yazoo100
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game yesterday, so I have only played for about 4 hours or so. I enjoy it so 
 far. It doesn't take too long to figure out what to do. I enjoy how the game interacts with the 
 original movie. The graphics are pretty nice and flows pretty well. The game play is somewhat similiar 
 to older games that have been on the market but is still definitely playable.
  
  I hope the game stays fresh and I am able to see it through to the end. I have gotten to one point 
 in the game where it seems to just kind of linger on, but I hope it keeps my interests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondbhr
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game could have been great. Really, it could have. If EA hadn't rushed it out the door -- 
 which is what it feels like -- then we could have had a GOFTY on our hands. Sadly, though, this 
 game is severely lacking in many respects. 
  
  If you're a fan of the Godfather films or the GTA series, you will find this game appealing on 
 many levels. In the former sense, your character takes a behind-the-scenes role in many aspects 
 of the films' storylines, which makes for some truly great ahhhI remember that scene! moments. 
 In the latter sense, the game feels like a toned-down version of GTA. Whether its the mini-map, 
 the driving, or the safe-houses, the game borrows heavily from Grand Theft Auto  which I think 
 most people would agree to be a positive thing.
  
  However, as much as youll initially feel like youre playing GTA in a 1950s Mafioso setting, 
 youll quickly realize that this is of a much poorer caliber. Sure, there are some nice features 
 such as skill upgrades, in-depth fighting options, and character tweaking, but these are hardly 
 enough to offset the truly disappointing aspects of the game. For one, there is a heavy repetitive 
 use of buildings, cars, and pedestrians. In fact, this repetition is so heavy that it can often 
 be quite difficult to figure out where you are without consulting the map. Take into consideration 
 that the city as whole is much smaller than San Andreas or Mafia, both of which offer tremendous 
 variety, and it seems there should be no excuse for EA to shortchange players in this department. 
 Actually, if it werent for this one lack of detail, I would be inclined to ignore all the other 
 shortcomings of the game. Alas, thats not the case, so Im forced to gripe some more. 
  
  So, next issue: cars  or the lack thereof. While Ive already mentioned that there is little variety 
 in the motor pool, the icing on the cake happens to be the arcade-like handling and the horrendous 
 damage effects. Considering GTAs and Mafias cars handled somewhat realistically with respect 
 to their era, the cars in Godfather are all fairly sporty and handle high speed turns like they 
 were on rails. True, most of Mafias cars were sluggish at best, but that made acquiring a quick 
 roadster all the more fun. Not the case here, though. Hijack a 2-ton cargo truck, put the pedal 
 to the metal, and youll be cruising down the street in no time thanks to that 70-hp engine... ummmm, 
 yeah. And to top it off, the damage characteristics with respect to cars are abysmal. Shoot a tire 
 and dont expect any flats, shoot a windshield or headlights and dont expect shattered glass. 
 No missing doors or hoods either  or at least I have yet to see any. Unfortunately, this is something 
 most players have come to expect from games like GTA and Mafia, and it really adds to the depth 
 and immersion whilst driving around. (Nobody can deny the frustration of having a tire shot out 
 whilst evading the police in a high speed pursuit) 
  
  While there are other shortcomings, I feel whats been mentioned thus far are the only ones that 
 really detract from the overall game. Fortunately, the missions and storyline might just keep players 
 interested enough to actually complete the game. If you played Mafia though, give this one a pass. 
 It will only disappoint. 
  
  Gameplay: 7 GTA fun but without all the extras
  Graphics: 7 Not bad, but not very good either
  Sound: 8 Nice music and environment sounds
  
 Value: 7 Worth a try, but try to buy it used
  Tilt: 6 Overall, I'm not impressed and I think EA really disappointed a lot of hopeful players 
 by omitting some crucial elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTOR12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Graphics arnt special but are to a good quality. Gameplay is amazing the colateral damage OWNS 
 and deaths are good. Voices are good exept Vito who sounds like a lisp mess. Alot of gaming goodness 
 in this game ive been playing for 14 hours now and im still never bored with repeating the game 
 i still havnt got to R. I. P Brasi :P Combat is great weapons are good and the Cutsenes are ................ Amazing 
 one of the best parts of the game it gives me tingles when i watch mob killings and Hearing Vito 
 talking :D. Over all 9/10 GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Dear fellow gamers,
  Two days ago I got this game after my best friend insisted and went on an on about it. So I went 
 and got it. To my surprise I found this game to be highly addictive and very smart. It follows 
 the Godfather film and gives the gamer a feeling of really being a mobster. And what a feeling 
 that is! I just love the way that everybody respects me (ha ha ha) and fears me and the way I just 
 kill and crush anyone I dont have good business with. I have been playing it for 3 days now 
 and I have already reached level 20. The game is fast, has great plot (well it should, as I said 
 before it is based on the film) , has many different things you can do and is, well, is GREAT!
 
  
  Give it a go!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Well Well Well.. One of the most awaited games for me.. but certainly cameup with lotz of disappointing 
 features.. Lets see whats annoying with this one..
  First.. The Controls.. aah M so uncomfortable with them... not because of the Keyboard allignment.. But 
 the HORIZONTAL INVERT.. I mean there'z an option for disabling the vertical mouse invert but what 
 about the HORIZONTAL ONE?.. MAkes it so difficult for me to EVEN ROAM AROUND in the game.. The GUnfighting 
 sequence is the other story..
  
  Secondly.. The Car thingy.. I mean.. The GUy Knows How to get in to the car Even without car keyz.. But 
 What Bout Getting OUt OF IT?.. Lol.. Seriously Thats the terrible thing i could ever experience ... 
 i tried every key on ma keyboard including the function keyz hehe.. But the answer was NOOO YOU 
 CANT GET OUT OF IT YOU"RE TRAPPED hehe.. Aaah plz if someone knows how to get out of the car then 
 do teach me hehe.. n also bout the horizontal Invert..
  
  I havnt played much of the game.. but so far it hasnt been so impressing as it should be.. N i Do 
 agree with the dude who said that MAFIA WAS FAR MORE BETTER THAN THIS..
  
  Lets come to the positive aspects of the game now.. The graphics.. aah.. yea the graphics are good.. no 
 doubt.. sound is kinda ok.. (Geforce xfx 6600 n Sound Blaster 7.1 24 bit) .. 
  
  The theme is.. When we talk bout the next generation gaming.. it has to be perfect.. see.. better graphics 
 Isnt everything we desire.. but the main thing is the GAMEPLAY.. As We have to play the game not 
 just watch it.. Right Guyz?.. M only havin the problem with the controls thats ruining the fun.. Overall 
 it is a good attempt by EA.. but still thats not their criteria.. they are capable of doing more 
 than this.. 
  
  Cheer up guyz.. May b we'll find solution for these problems if they're palnnin to release some 
 fixing patch .. Enjoy ur game.. Boi BOi :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krytikal1986
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, one of my favorite movies of all time, comes to a video gaming world where you get 
 to put yourself in a position of power; a position where you get to be apart of the time period 
 that was marked as the Corleone era. But is the game really worth your time? Is it innovative enough 
 to make you buy it over the other related games out, such as Mafia? Does it offer more than your 
 general games that are based on movies? All I can say is... this game does not sleep with the fishes.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is very similar to the Grand Theft Auto series, where you're seeing everything 
 in third-person and you are running around fighting people, stealing and driving cars that do not 
 belong to you. I know what you're thinking; "Oh god, a Grand Theft Auto rip-off." Well, this game 
 offers more than that. You are able to run around freely and extort businesses, and force them 
 to pay you on a weekly basis (in game time) , and whenever you return to their shop they see you 
 and start getting scared. Unfortunately for you as a player, though, most of your weekly income 
 is contributed to the Corleone family until you rise to a higher position. Also, as you become 
 more involved with the Corleone family, people on the streets will start respecting you and following 
 your "commands". By this I mean, if you are driving in a car and honk your horn, the cars in front 
 of you will pull off to the side of the road, giving you a free passage down the road. However, 
 some of the fighting sequences can be very annoying, as you have to lock on before you can fight, 
 which usually puts you in a position where you lose half your health for being shot before you 
 even take out one enemy. This is primarily the worst in wars against other families.
  
  The cut-scene graphics look spectacular, and they are very well rendered. However, those are really 
 the only graphics that actually look good. Every thing in the towns looks repetitive, and there's 
 only so many different character models, so the chances of you seeing one shop owner who looks 
 exactly like another shop owner are very likely. And the weapon animation looks very pixelated 
 and laggy. The hand-to-hand combat animation looks alright for what it is, but it could have been 
 better. The other character models of main characters (Sonny, Vito, Tom, etc.) all look realistic 
 to their character persona's in the film, except for Michael Corleone. Michael Corleone looks like 
 Edward Norton with black hair.
  
  The music is well done, and the classic songs from the film have been remastered and sound more 
 clear. The voice acting is well done, and the character's voices really fit their persona, including 
 the real characters. The sound effects in the cut-scenes are great, but the sound effects in the 
 game are poor, and sound like they were done on a technotron. Nonetheless, the voice acting and 
 the music make up for it.
  
  Overall, the game is still very fun to play, and can be addicting. You can tell that this game 
 was heavily influenced by Grand Theft Auto games and also the Mafia game, while bringing it's own 
 elements to the table. It's recommended to any Godfather fan, whether you're a fan of the movie, 
 book, or both. There are enough missions, including story and side missions, that will keep you 
 playing for several hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_BonNeR
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  What a piece of crap. I don't believe this game is so terrible. And I've payed for it also. If 
 they've been smart and mixed up that GREAT, AWESOME Mafia with this one this could'd be the greatest 
 game of it's kind . The makers of this game didn't looked to the big success of the Mafia Game?. 
 To bad for the movie for having such a bad game. And the cars are sucks, and not much to choose 
 from, weapons are terrible also and I don't agree this all weapons carrying , the movement of the 
 character is also crap, movement of the cars is the worse i've seen lately. Like I've said, BAD 
 BAD BAD, shame on the producers, they could made an great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM2000
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game for months... finally, I bought it on the first day, came home and 
 installed it. The beginning visuals and the Prelude laid some great groundwork, I was stoked for 
 this game. Twenty minutes into playing it, I began to have serious doubts as to some of the claims 
 made by EA about this game. 
  First off, I tried playing using the keyboard and mouse... big mistake! Can anyone say "Carpal Tunnel 
 Syndrome"? I gave that up and plugged in an xbox360 controller. Maybe about 10% better, but that's 
 all. The "black hand" control scheme is just a joke... a bad joke.
  You know what? I was going to write a long review, but this game just isn't worth it. Just avoid 
 it unless you're a big Godfather fan and just have to have it... otherwise just save your time and 
 get Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, the same game, just implemented better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rodjedi
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I see the potential on this. It should have been a great game. After I read that EA will make a 
 game from the movie, i was very interested. After seeing I was no more. The graphics is.... hmm 
 I just say it is the year of 2006, not 1996. Maybe someone adjusted their windows calendar? The 
 voices are great, but only the character voices (thanks for the great actors) . The cars have very 
 similar engine sound, like a lawnmover. Controlling the character is a little annoying, later it 
 is terrible, because my anger level is growing with the free will of the character's moves. Controlling 
 the car is just terrible. The design of the city, and all of the places is without fantasy. All 
 of the streets are the same, i cannot even recognize a place, where i was before. And the best 
 graphic element is the window of the car. Maybe that's why the control is bad, because the driver 
 cannot see through it. Some pieces of the game are great, like making the character, the storyline, 
 connection with the film, the graphics of the characters etc... but it seems that the cooperation 
 work has side effects because the other parts ruin the game. Sonny is getting angry... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconerX
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Enter The Godfather, a free roaming action game based on the godfather world made in the films. 
 Sounds exciting and has been hyped up and advertised more then any other EA title to date. On paper 
 the game is great, in the trailers the game looks great, play the game yourself and its awful!! 
 Clever editing of specific scenes make this game look better then it really is.
  
  EA say dont judge this game on GTA standards, well thats fair enough. Problem with that is everything 
 about this game is a direct copy from the GTA games. You cant say dont judge us on those games 
 if you have stolen there ideas because ultimatly you are creating a game in the GTA genre which 
 they created! If there was no GTA this game would be ok, if there was no Mafia game this would 
 be great BUT those games have been done and have been done better. You can call it what you want 
 but the game is to be compared against those games because that is what the game is.
  
  The begining of this game is excellent, if you havent seen the films or heard about them its a 
 good introduction into the world your about to be apart of. It sets the tone for what is to come. 
 The first 5 missions are good and have the same semi feel as GTA uses, you feel your playing apart 
 of something thats going to get bigger. Then the next 20 missions are pretty much the same as the 
 missions you have just done, kill this guy, drive here, follow these people, escort these people, 
 extort this place, its the same over and over and over. It gets to the point you already know what 
 your going to be asked to do before you get there.
  
  Which is the next problem, driving in this game is bad. The cars feel arcady and look bad. The 
 graphics of the cars are basically the same design for each with a little change here and there. 
 The blacked out windows look awful and the scenary is damn atrocious. Everywhere looks the same 
 and 90% of the interiour to places look the same. The npc's all look the same which destroys the 
 experience of what you have just done. You kill someone only to find an exact replica is waiting 
 for you at the next mission.
  
  You buy new clothes only to find you have to turn your computer off so it can change, there is 
 just too much wrong with the game and the novelty of the good things such as back hand and extory 
 system wear off to fast. 
  I expected better from a game in the making for this long, i love The Godfather films and bought 
 this game ignoring what people said, i wish i listened as for the same money could of got something 
 better, my advice dont make the same mistake as i did and get any GTA or mafia game as this is 
 pure garbage. Its a con.
  
  Also notice with all the 9/10 reviewers dont say much in there reviews with simply a few lines 
 saying "This game is great" . Then notice the people who dislike it and write why they dislike 
 it, dont spend your money due to fanboyism, seriously you really will regret it with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cds875
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I am extreamley Disapointed in this MAFIA WANT-ABE that when my friends came by to see it in actionI 
 turned it off in front of them. What's wrong they said, The driving, shoting, walking, running 
 and everything else is mediocre in comparison to MAFIA. Thats what I am comparing it to and I can 
 not belive EA sent it out MEDIOCRE, WoW, I will NEVER Pre-Order another Frecking thing from anyone 
 again. The Godfather, the movie of my generation is a BS Mediocre Been-there-done-that game that 
 CAN-NOT go Toe to Toe with a 6 year old PC game like Mafia. EA SUCK on this Review!
  
  And I would love to see a show of hands from the Poor people who had to wait untill the next day 
 to get a hold of Tech Support to even get this 
  want-abe running?????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgardsio
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  And how do i get out of the car ?
  Is there a special key that i don`t have on my keyboard ?
  And when i move the mouse sideways 
 it goes the wrong way.
  It doesn`t mather if i invert the mouse it only changes up and down...
  Had really been looking 
 forward for this game, but what can i say ill play Mafia (from 2002) again instead.
  The progress should have gone forward not backwards.
  it has been 3 years so i think it could 
 have been possible....
  i hope there will come a update that fix these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  I really liked the game, Its like Max Payne style, i think this one was better.
  Becasue of the Storyline with the GFX, also the Sound Effects did OK, same as Gameplay; gameplay 
 was so good, with the bomb, vehicules, creeating your own guy, thats really a good stuff in a game. 
 Also buying your own clothes to look like a gangsta.
  Some people didnt liked the game, but i love it. Because of the action of the game, EA games sometimes 
 do bad games, but this ones llok tight.
  Dificulty is not that hard.
  Easy to learn, Easy to manage.
  
  So, the game owns in a point.
  
  dazie:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basersx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a long time and could not be more disappointed. I have always 
 said that Mafia (2002) is the best game ever made. I was hoping that The Godfather would be at 
 least as good, man was I wrong! First of all the graphics are terrible, I think Mafia actually 
 has better graphics than this game! Secondly the controls are nearly impossible to get set right. 
 I have keyboard+Mouse and also have a USB controller. I have tried every combination of settings 
 with all of them and still cant get the game to play well.
  
  And why did they add all those fight options?! They ruin the game! Fight Night Round 3 doesnt 
 even have as many fighting options and its a fighting game!! What was wrong with the way you beat 
 people up in all the other GTA games it was built off of? That is the dumbest thing I have ever 
 seen! First you have to lock on to a person, and then you have 2 different ways to grab them, 
 then 4 different ways to hit them. Then if they fall to there knees you have to stand them back 
 up, or throw them or something. What in the H is all that for?!? 
  
  And the city just looks weird and not engaging. It reminds me of how NYC looks in the TERRILBE 
 True Crime  NYC! What is the deal with no one able to make a decent game around a map of NYC??
 
  
  Even if you force yourself the get past the terrible controls the rest of the game is so ugly that 
 there is no incentive to try to get into this game! Bottom line, save your money and just buy the 
 4 year old MAFIA!! Its 10 times a better game that Shockingly has better graphics!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickNAshHolez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  It is 2006 and I think utilizing more of a HAVOK engine and DOOM engine in the 3rd person perspective 
 would've given the game the edge it needs to step up and sayHey, look at me, it might cost ya 
 a pretty penny to even run me, but I'm the goddamned Godfather." I love F. E. A. R even though I can't 
 run all the options on max even with Dual PCIe BFG cards and running at a cool 2 gigs of ram without 
 a little hesitation. But I feel the music alone in the game ( though it could use more ) is love 
 enough, it still gets the motive it wanted to get people to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The book by Mario Puzo and classic film by Paramount Pictures serve as inspiration for the game 
 as gamers will join the Corleone family and earn respect through loyalty and fear as they rise 
 through the ranks to become Don in a living 1945-1955 New York. The game is scheduled for release 
 in fall 2005 under the EA GAMES brand for the Xbox videogame system from Microsoft, PlayStation 
 2 computer entertainment system, Sony PSP handheld entertainment system and PC. 
  Gamers will create their own mob character in the game, putting themselves into the action while 
 reliving classic moments from the fiction and experiencing original missions alongside memorable 
 characters from the film. After a life of small-time jobs and petty thefts the player will be accepted 
 into the Corleone family, America's most famous criminal organization. It will be up to the player 
 to carry out orders, earn respect and make New York City their own. 
  
  Featuring non-linear action-adventure gameplay, The Godfather will offer gamers countless choices 
 for solving the family's problems with brutal violence, skillful diplomacy, or a cunning mixture 
 of both. From mob hits and bank heists to drive-bys and extortion, step deep inside the world of 
 The Godfather where intimidation and negotiation are your tickets to the top. Players will use 
 their powers of loyalty and fear to earn respect through interactions with characters in the world. 
 Decisions made by the player in the game will have lasting consequences, just as it was in the 
 mob underworld featured in The Godfather fiction. 
  
  The Godfather film featured some of Hollywood's finest actors and several are lending their likenesses 
 and contributing to the game's development including James Caan as Sonny Corleone and Robert Duvall 
 as consigliore Tom Hagen. Before his death, Marlon Brando granted his likeness rights to EA and 
 conducted a voiceover session with the developers. His character, Don Vito Corleone, the Godfather, 
 will be featured in the game. 
  
  The Godfather is being developed by EA Redwood Shores where such hit franchises as Lord of the 
 Rings, James Bond, and Tiger Woods PGA TOUR games are made.
  
  The Godfather
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Very good graphics overall, Don Vito Corleone is the best rendered character in likeness. You have 
 been given jobs to do as a small time up and coming mobster. If you succeed you get more respect, 
 better weapons, and you can build your clan of gangsters to assist you in doing mob-hits, 
  taking out a enemy boss etc. The gun shooting is pretty easy as far as aiming, and the hand to 
 hand fights are pretty cool as well. The gameplay is very close to that of Mafia, and GTA. You 
 shoot people, beat them up, and have car chases as well. The cut scenes early on are really cool, 
 sets up the missions you go on pretty nicely. I would recommend at least 512 mb memory minimum, 
 on a 2.0 ghz or above cpu. I have 1.024 gb of memory and it runs good . The scenery is good, immersive, 
 and gives you a sense of actually being there. If you like mobster movies.... this will definately 
 be worth adding to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightygusto
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  EA had a wonderful opportunity to create a game that would stand out from the rest. They bragged 
 about how the game world was so alive and that this was a very character driven game. unfortunately, 
 the game has no character of it's own. 
  
  The Graphics is the first thing that stands out. Everything looks the same in this game. This does 
 not make for a very visually spectacular game. I cranked up all of the video options but it didn't 
 seem to make much of a difference. Not much colour to the graphics. Lots of greys and very bland, 
 monatone colours.
  
  The controls were the second thing that stood out. They were so bad that the game is just barely 
 tolerable. Keep in mind that I play with keyboard and mouse; without a gamepad, you'll probably 
 be pulling your hair out like I was. Just the simple act of turning while running (you can't walk 
 at all. You always are running.) took a lot of effort which takes away from the gameplay. the car 
 controls are just as bad. You can't soom the camera around your car with the mouse, much to my 
 chagrin. While driving, I want to see where I'm going, and what is going on around me at all times. 
 Forget about it. You can see infront of you, and you can see behind by pressing the middle mouse 
 button. You'll also notice that you can't really look up. The camera will allow you to pan up just 
 slightly, but nothing like GTA. Not really a big deal, but you should be able to have camera controls 
 that allow you to look anywhere you want. 
  
  EA seemed to want to make a more in depth combat system then in other similar games which they 
 did... sort of. The way it works is alright but it isn't anymore entertaining then the way GTA 
 or Mafia does it. It almost makes it less entertaining because you have to hold the right mouse 
 button in to make attacks.
  
  I also found little things to be very much like an arcade game. For example, I was driving in a 
 car and I hit some pedestrians. All of a sudden cop cars were chasing me and trying to run me off 
 the road. I managed to evade them and get away. I looked behind me one second and nothing was there. 
 Then litterally, one second later, two more cop cars were right on my tail. It was very annoying 
 and seemed bery unrealistic.
  
  Overall, the game was a huge disappointment. I really hope people take heed in what people are 
 saying. If you are a big fan of GTA or Mafia, then I would reccomend staying away from this game. 
 It will only frustrate you and you will be sorely disappointed by the terrible graphics and gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I was Looking forward to another great game from ea but my god, very poor
  game.. it looks like they rushed it out, poor graphics, poor controll, im very disapointed.. i 
 think it was rushed outta prodution and put on the shelves
  way to fast. i agree w/D. Danials if you want to play a game get mafia or gta
  better contoll 
 and graphics i played mafia 
  and it was way better then this and its i think 3 -4 years 
  Older GTA is Better. Waste of Money And Time Very DISAPOINTED. 
  We all Are Gamers we expect 
 better graphics and game play C, MON EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic Arts 
 announced that it was making a game based on the license, it made sense as a business venture, 
 but it also seemed like a risky move to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video game. 
 Luckily, that risk paid off. The Godfather is a satisfying, lengthy adventure, and more importantly, 
 it remains faithful to the classic film while managing to create a compelling story of its own. 
 
  The Godfather borrows heavily from the Grand Theft Auto series of games, so you can expect the 
 same senseless violence and absurd mayhem those games are known for. You can steal cars, run down 
 pedestrians, shoot people at random, and evade the police. As you commit crimes, your heat gauge 
 increases, and anywhere from one to five badge icons will appear on the screen to indicate how 
 badly the cops want to take you down. It's easy to avoid the police for the most part, and you 
 can bribe them if you don't feel like a chase. If you don't bribe them, they'll try to run you 
 off the road, but the cars handle so well in the game that you can deftly weave through traffic 
 to avoid being caught. If you are caught, you're simply killed, which isn't such a big deal, since 
 you get revived at the nearest hospital for a small fee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  And thats what i said when i played this game, i should of chosen the rusty nail... Well next time... To 
 tell you guys the truth, i hated this game and i never want to play it again. I felt weird playing 
 this game, cause everything you did felt boring and repetive. The camera was stupid and the driving 
 parts were stupid as well. Please avoid this game at alll cost or you might have to get the rusty 
 nail in your eye...
  
  Strengths:
  -It had gangsters
  -There was guns...
  
  weaknesses:
  -Graphics felt PS1ish
  -The camera was everywhere
  -Fight system was whacked
 
  -Voices were everywhere
  -Dialogue was repetitive
  -NO actor voices
  -Fight system stupid
  -Car system was boring...
  -Some times hard!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denbak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, first the graphics are not that great (who cares) but still the faces are nice and the explosiens 
 are cool, the vhicels are not a main part of the game but youll need them to get around and do missions 
 ... they are not very well done but its fun driving the fast ones, the sound is good also with all 
 the godfather music versions it has in it, the gameplay is the greatest part it really cool being 
 a part of the mafia of the Godfather doing missions'killing people, scarring some to death, bribing, taking 
 over shops and illeagel buissnes most of the time those things are great and real fun. the story 
 is also nice your father dies when your young and the Godfather takes care of you when your older 
 and you become part of his family. overall the games great it was a real suprise to me (a good one 
 ...) that i liked it because EA is known for not taking advantage of their money and copyrights. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_x_ray
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  the storyline is great just like the main film storyline and it makes you to try the game once 
 even if u dont like the game ... the characters are made well and its just like the characters 
 in the film ... the soundtrack is great too and it reminds u the soundtrack of the main film ... 
 the combat actions are great fun and fantastic so im sure u will enjoy it so these are 4 good factors 
 ... but the buldings and the textures in overall are really boring coz it they are the same always 
 through the game and it makes u annoyed of course ... the gameplay isnt bad and its just good ... 
 and this was the main bad factor of the game ... so there is no need to worry about the game ... 
 it really worth playing .... its not the best game we thought but its a great one .... i swear 
 u will enjoy it .. try it and im sure u will have a great time through the game .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realPOISONBOY
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Have the developers of this game played Mafia??? If not, they better do, but unfortunately it's 
 too late for them. The game is already released and it's bad. Very bad.
  
  I'm not a fan of "The Godfather" trilogy, although i like movies about crime, gangsters, mafia etc. 
 So my opinion about game hasn't been affected after seeing characters from movie and hearing familiar 
 actor voices, which i would love being a fan of movie, in the game. And the game hasn't anything 
 else worth describing besides the big name behind her back. And Mafia already had, more than three 
 years ago, good script, good plot, good voice acting, character design and many, many other things 
 that this game doesn't have.
  
  Graphics is bad, car park consists of around 8 cars, and they are very badly detailed and textured, 
 and of course the physics are pure arcade, they even manages to behave badlier than in GTA series. 
 City is like one block copy pasted many times with few "unique" buildings. And what about at least 
 some signs of normal road traffic? There is no road signs, places of lanes painted on asphalt and 
 the things that change color (don't know how they are called in english :) can be counted on your 
 fingers. So when you have to drive from one city's end to another, you just take that sports coupe 
 (badly detailed and textured of course) and fast forward to blue dot on your map (copied from GTA 
 of course) to see another clip and advance the game. And the cops doesn't give a **** about speeding 
 and crashing. I remember driving in Mafia and enjoying the traffic and realistic car handling. 
 This game doesn't even try to do any of that. 
  
  Ok, i've wasted enough time writing this and more time playing the game so i will not tell about 
 gameplay that is fun for the first few hours, but gets too repetitive later, bad control and camera 
 behaviour, sound that just sounds, music that is maybe good for movie, but starts to play on your 
 nerves after some hours etc etc etc
  
  Overall this game feels like shallow and bad movie decoration for the script, that isn't so good 
 either, and it has 0 value for the genre. We already have Mafia, we have GTA series that constantly 
 evolves, works on it's errors and brings new ideas. So we don't need anything less than we already 
 have, we wan't at least the same and preferably better.
  
  P. S.
  Sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Turned a Classic Movie would made great Oblivion elder scrolls RPG exprince into a GTA shoot them 
 up.
  
  RPG eliminates i feel are kinda lacking, the build ur own char is personally i feel just tad weak, 
 the game is way to much of a country western GTA style shoot them up.
  
  now if u enjoy action games u will enjoy this game.
  
  GFX are not best but there not worse, 
 there just not cutting edge tho.
  
  as for relestic game play.
  
  its lack, example cars a car that should run max at like 30 mphs is zomming around city at like 
 120 mphs
  
  its just silly speaicly if u really wanted to get some place quickily they should just used a cab 
 exprince u call for cab u pay ur 25 cents and u just then are where u need to be.
  
  there was really no reason to speed up cars except to give action players some action.
  
  this 
 is 100% GTA even has GTA style type GFXS
  
  its GTA renamed god fathere.
  
  those of you looking for a RPG style mob game, ur best game out there is gangsters game of orgnized 
 crime.
  
  this game is a gangsters verision of GTA
  
  with parts of movie in it.
  
  not that it isnt good or fun game its just disappoint game like i said ths is not a True MOB RPG 
 style game which alot of people been looking and waiting for for a long time.
  
  this is a true story driving, linure style GTA shoot em up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico230383
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I will sum it up real quick.
  
  The graphics are really bad, they look very dated.
  The cars and surroundings all look boring and grey...
  The gameplay on the pc version is just 
 totally wrong, you cant really get total control of the action going on because most of the time 
 your trying to hit the right button but just cant because you accidently move your mouse a little 
 and the whole situation changes.
  
  The A. I is just straight from a 1995 game, they will duck behind crates but thats about it.. 
 
  
  the good news is that the story is actually pretty damn good, of course the story was already put 
 there by mario puzo and EA just changed it a little bit, but what they changed ain't bad, i actually 
 felt like being in the movie
  
  The voice acting is also very good, however with all these problems it doesnt make up for it.
 
  
  This game was supposed to be the most expensive game in the history of video games, but for that 
 kind of money they could make 20 of these games...
  
  maybe worth the rent but not worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthkiLer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  All i can say is that it fun to play the story is great just like the movie. it get hard later 
 on the game but that what i like hard not easy. good sound like the way when the gun shots are 
 heard and also the bombs you use. that all i got to say i suggest you rent it or borrow it from 
 a friend. save you money for a next big hit game that would come out in a month which that would 
 be Elder Scrolls IV. i think EA could of done better for the game they should know that the movie 
 is a big hit and people who are fans of the movie would want the game good as the movie. i just 
 hope that scarface could be a little better then godfather. iam not trying to hate love my mafia 
 movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game was hyped beyond imagination, because it is based off an excellent movie written by Mario 
 Puzo, and the rumours of such a game being developed appeared not so long after Mafia. The latter 
 game was thoroughly enjoyable by most of gamers, and the fact that there would be another game 
 with a similar concept raised a chaos, in a good way.
  
  Now that the game is out, certain doubts surfaced. Does the game live up to its rival, Mafia? Is 
 the game everything EA promised? In my opinion, EA was on the right track (for once) , but towards 
 the end, they fouled most things up.
  
  One of the major drawbacks in Godfather are the visuals. Not only do the cars' textures look way 
 too plain, but the environment seems... lacking something, it looks empty: the roads are wide but 
 there are ever so few cars, most of the buildings from afar look as if they were just plain blocks, 
 and their interiors are more or less the same. As soon as you get your second safehouse, you ponder 
 for a second whether you're back in your first safehouse, or you're in your newly found safehouse 
 - apart from a few replaces textured, everything else is the same. Same goes to barbershops, restaurants, 
 shops - if you don't look at the map, chances that you'll recognize a bakery from its interiors 
 are next to zero. And it's hard to believe that a game released in the year of 2006 is graphically 
 inferior to a game from 2002. However, things aren't that slim - character graphics save the visuals 
 in Godfather. The recreation of actors from Godfather (the movie) is astounding, and other characters 
 in the game look good, too. That's why I prefer taking a walk to driving - I'd rather stare at 
 the main character's back than to cringe whilst looking at the horrible looking car.
  
  The sound isn't great either - it uses the soundtrack from the movie, furthermore, you hear the 
 same music-piece from the main menu over and over again. You hear it in the cutscenes, you hear 
 it in the main menu, you hear it in the game... On the other hand, SFX is quite satisfactory, especially 
 voice acting, which features actors from the movie, and they fit into the cutscenes well.
  
  Speaking of cutscenes, I didn't find a way to skip cutscenes. So if you're considering replaying 
 the game, you'd be forced to watch all of the cutscenes again. Even if you decide not to play it 
 through again, everytime you launch Godfather, you have watch the whole "Paramount. Electronic 
 Arts present... The Godfather." intro before the main menu.
  
  The strong aspect of the game is most definitely gameplay. Apart from breathtaking story missions, 
 there are side missions, and the possibility to persuade shop keepers into payinng you weekly, 
 quite an amusing process, I might add. You can smash their heads against the cash register, slam 
 them against the wall, or throw one of their customers out of the window. Finally, you can just 
 shoot down some mobsters who previously owned the shop to convince the owner what threat may pose 
 to his property. You can also rob a bank for money, hit a warehouse to ruin a rival family, bribe 
 policemen to make them look other ways, blow open safes - there's a large variety of things you 
 can do. On top of that, it takes you a while to learn all those things. As soon as you learn a 
 thing or two, you learn another thing! 
  
  All in all, Godfather is a good game, if not great, and had the opportunity to become Game Of The 
 Year. Hold on before saying otherwise! Just imagine Godfather with tweaked visuals and a soundtrack 
 of its own. That's right, the game would look nearly flawless. I say it's a worth to buy, especially 
 if you have enjoyed the movie and it left you wanting for more. Even if the game won't take away 
 your breath, it will be lots of fun, I swear it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thekiller_in_me
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Beautiful game wouldnt get anything other than this game at the moment its the top of the line. 
 I highly recommend it. Just plain Awesome!!! Graphics did very rarely get weird on me but keyword 
 was "rarely". Sound was spectacular, its truly worth its weight and gold. People can't wait they 
 gotta get this game as soon as they possibly can. The levels all just keep putting you deeper into 
 the complex world of the Godfather which i was really looking forward to seeing. I was really curious 
 on this game and it really delivered right when i began creating my character...... CREATING YOUR 
 OWN CHARACTER!!!!! And all you people bad-mouthing the game..... it's cus u guys prolly have a really 
 bad system..... you wanna play these games then you gotta upgrade. Stop living in the 16th century! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  What's Good: There are a good gameplay even if u don't see what u expected and sure it's a disappointment 
 but the game is worth the money but not the wait... and that's sad cuse the game took the time that 
 a great game could be constructed... still the graphics and the sound are good and specially when 
 u shoot the other families and extorter them... that's kinda cool, people who played Mafia should 
 think of that when buying The Godfather but it got one thing that godfather has like Mafia and 
 it's the gangster feeling that makes u feel safe in a family and make a mob war and take them out... The 
 godfather are indeed a long story so that's a good thing that it takes time to finsih it and the 
 best part is that there is no loading times... takes 2 secs and u are playing!
  
  What's Bad: the AI aint that high like I expected and the graphics is not that impressing... but 
 the music and the sound is a good feeling... u gain respect and everyone on the streets respect 
 u without extorter them... maybe good for u but not for me... I didn't like the car steering at all.... in 
 a game like this u must like to drive the car like GTA or Mafia but the car feels heavy and very 
 very fast that makes from 0-100 Km/h in 2.0 secs 0-60 MPH in american... and that's the big dissappointment 
 the cars... u dont feel like to drive a car but u have to cuse it's a long distance to get to the 
 mission... and the missions the most of them u are out at urself and thats not cool either u want 
 some backup when u take out the other family but u are on ur own...
  
  But in overall its worth the money but defenetly not the time u have been waited for the game.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  A long awaited game adaption of the best movie of all time is right here with a few annoying gameplay 
 issues and minor bugs, but it still lives for it's storyline and cutscenes are top notch and really 
 add flavour to the game.
  
  The game starts with your father getting killed in front of your eyes, later on your mother asks 
 Don Carleone to take you under his wing, and since it's his daughter's birthday, he can't refuse.
 
  
  On the first levels, you are a simple enforcer, running around and extorting businesses, assassinating 
 some minor mob figures and bribing low-rank cops. 
  
  Later on you step into the big ranks, where the actual GodFather movie plot unfolds, and you might 
 recognize some famous scenes driven into the game, like assassination attempt on Don, or the famous 
 argument between Sonny and the Consilieri.
  
  And let me mark that the cutscenes in this game are perfectly executed, and the sound acting accompanying 
 it is nearly outstanding.
  
  The visual side of this game is quite neat, and really has the required atmosphere to it, but there 
 is a big lack of fine textures, especially on cars, which makes the game look a bit unpretty in 
 some urban areas.
  
  The controls could also use a bit of polishing, the whole "Q" and "E" bashing is not really comfortable 
 and it makes the game look like a cheap port from a console.
  
  Also the interface of the game is quite a shame, the bars are way too huge and the map has a huge 
 ugly border for some unknown reason.
  
  Summing it all up, The Godfather is a good game, with some minor annoying glitches which can be 
 easily addressed with a patch from the developers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
