-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Guild 2: Venice
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/theguild2venice/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Doesn't require the original game to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very little truly new content.
 New maps do a poor job of depicting Venetian architecture and its famous canals.
 Visuals are rough and seemingly only half-finished.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 7, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This stand-alone Venetian expansion adds practically nothing to the gameplay of The Guild 2. 
 

  The Guild 2: Venice is a stand-alone expansion that purports to be all about the legendary sinking 
 city best known for its canals and singing gondoliers, but it's actually just a third-rate face-lift 
 of its predecessors. The only noteworthy additions to this economic simulation are a couple of 
 new professions, four new scenarios depicting Venice and its neighbors on the Adriatic Sea, and 
 some horrific bugs. So even if you're hungry for more merchant-on-merchant action after the original 
 game and its Pirates of the High Seas add-on, you don't need to take this Venetian holiday.  

 
  If you played any prior Guild 2 games, you'll find the gameplay here very familiar. You once more 
 sign on as one of four medieval classes and work at making money, building RPG-like skills, and 
 going forth and procreating to establish a multigenerational dynasty. That description makes the 
 game sound a little more far-ranging than it actually is, however. Instead of a role-playing medieval 
 adventure, you're actually playing a merchant in a humdrum real-time economic sim. The patron, 
 craftsman, scholar, and rogue classes may allow you to take on a wide range of occupations that 
 stretch all the way from priest to highwayman, but each deals with nearly identical buy-and-sell 
 busywork. As a priest, for instance, you set up a church and make your daily bread by selling holy 
 water and the sacrament. On the other end of the moral spectrum as a rogue, you do pretty much 
 the same thing, although you take a shortcut to wealth by stealing items that you later sell. All 
 of the lines of work here seem just about identical, with similar goals that mainly revolve around 
 buying raw materials and turning them into finished goods dished out for a profit. Basically, you're 
 playing a medieval workshop boss, with all of the thrills and chills that such a job entails.  
 

           Serfs slave away in the new glazier buildings just like they did in the other craftsman 
 jobs available in previous Guild 2 games.      

  About the only difference between this expansion pack and the previous Guild 2 games is that you're 
 now plying your trade in Venice instead of northern Europe. Changes are so superficial that it 
 can be hard to even notice them. About the only difference between this expansion pack and the 
 previous Guild 2 games is that you're now plying your trade in Venice instead of northern Europe. 
 The lagoon-based city and its neighbors such as Trieste and Ravenna are depicted as being waterlogged, 
 which generates a lot of atmosphere in comparison with the blah northern European maps in the original 
 Guild 2. The canals in Venice really set this backdrop apart from those in the earlier games, although 
 the way that city neighborhoods are spread across tiny islands connected by narrow bridges makes 
 the map layouts feel almost puzzlelike. A lot of tedious scrolling around is required to find specific 
 buildings. Trieste is even more of a pain to navigate, due to it being scattered over even dinkier 
 islands connected by narrow, half-submerged roads. This city looks more like it could be found 
 in the Florida Keys, not along the coast of the Adriatic.  

  Pathfinding is awful, too, and the number of roads so limited that you can never guide a character 
 directly from one place to another. You need to head west a lot of the time to go north, east to 
 go south, and so forth. Even worse, your characters move so slowly that they might as well be running 
 underwater, while NPCs race around. Even people that you're in the process of successfully wooing 
 tend to just take off and run away from you at a moment's notice. This forces you to either break 
 it off and pick up with someone less fleet-footed, or run after your intended and hope he or she 
 takes a breather at some point before you lap the entire town.  

  The constricted map design also restricts building possibilities, especially in Trieste. Lots are 
 so tightly packed that it can be tough to find enough space for the game's generally large structures. 
 You typically have to do a fair bit of scrolling across the landscape in order to find a spot big 
 enough to accommodate something like a cathedral or even a smuggler's den. Perhaps this is a realistic 
 concession to the watery landscape of Venice and the surrounding region, although these building 
 restrictions just seem annoying from a gameplay perspective. Bugs cause even more problems with 
 building placement. The tutorial mission on building purchase and setup cannot be completed because 
 there is no place big enough to put the foundry that it requires. Since you have to finish each 
 tutorial to keep going, this little problem nicely locks you out of the remaining primer missions 
 (which is kind of a big deal since the game ships without a paper manual) . Also, the ghost building 
 outline routinely vanishes when you try to place structures, making it even harder to properly 
 drop them onto the map. We have to wonder if anybody play-tested these maps before booting the 
 game out the door.  

           Nothing quite says courtly love like beating the hell out of the thug trying to rob your 
 fiancee.      

  And even though the general map terrain is vaguely Venice-like when it comes to the "water, water 
 everywhere" shtick, the city itself looks very little like its canal-laden counterpart in real 
 life. Most buildings appear to have been reskinned with new textures, but in a quickie fashion 
 that leaves everything looking unfinished. Cheap homes now look like shotgun shacks thrown up with 
 a few two-by-fours and some corrugated metal. Adding to this rough look is a lot of clipping. Characters 
 routinely run through buildings and carts, and also tend to hang out half their bodies sticking 
 into a wall or door. This at least makes the awful pathfinding a touch easier to deal with, but 
 it gives the game a real shoddy look, especially when you're inside a building with lots of people, 
 like a tavern, or have zoomed in to get a close-up look at city streets and see unemployed serfs 
 loafing around with their legs buried in benches up to their knees. The camera doesn't seem to 
 know where solid objects are, either, as it frequently gets jammed behind walls when it switches 
 over to the letterboxed sequences depicting conversations, such as when you're courting a potential 
 spouse. Just a few new iconic structures have been added to give Venice a distinct appearance, 
 such as the Council Palace and the University of Venice, but most of these are inaccessible, and 
 those that can be entered seem to reuse interiors from the earlier games. At any rate, the landscape 
 here is nothing like the exciting domain of canals and carnivals promised on the box.  

  While we did experience a few crashes to desktop, always during political events like voting, we 
 haven't experienced the hard crashes and corrupted saved games that have apparently plagued other 
 users. Yet it's hard to really credit the game here, since these issues have been reported on many 
 online message boards and have caused the publisher to hurry a patch into private beta development. 
 So despite our dumb luck in at least partially dodging the bug bullet here, the game seems unstable 
 enough in other areas that you should be sure to download a patch as soon as one shows up.  

  Any way you look at it, The Guild 2: Venice is pointless. It provides almost nothing new, includes 
 none of the content in the original game or the first expansion, and even omits the multiplayer 
 mode of play included in both of its predecessors. Instead of taking you for a ride on a gondola, 
 all this expansion does is take you for a ride.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  If you read the official Gamespot review, you already know that the Guild 2: Venice doesn't really 
 add anything to the franchise. In fact, all it really does is limit you to four maps and strip 
 away the multiplayer, which was easily the best part of the game - assuming you could find some 
 like-minded friends and tolerate the p2p out-of-sync issues. (I really don't understand why a client-server 
 architecture wasn't used here.)
  
  Anyway, the good news is that a patch is promised that will remedy some of these issues. Included 
 in the patch will be updated graphics to satsify those complaining about the lack of new architecture 
 - personally I didn't care; when I buy a new Guild game, I'm looking for professions - additional 
 maps (a must have) , obligatory bug fixes, and best of all, multiplayer support. A beta version 
 of the patch is available, but so far it doesn't really add any of these things.
  
  Hopefully the official patch will be out very soon, and then we'll see if Venice is really what 
 it's cracked up to be. The Guild will always have its share of annoyances considering its arbitrary 
 level of sophistication, but it's a one-of-a-kind series. Hopefully it stays that way on the very 
 highest level. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
