-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Guild 2: Pirates Of The High Seas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/theguild2piratesoftheeuropeanseas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Adds new nautical professions, buildings, and political options.
 Interesting campaign.
 Tremendous scope, with the ability to rise all the way to king now.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still takes you to the ninth circle of micromanagement hell.
 Way too much repetition and crafting.
 Clunky user interface and feel.
 Engine remains a performance pig.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: 4Head Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 25, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a second-verse-same-as-the-first stand-alone expansion that adds seafaring jobs but fails to 
 correct any of the issues of the original game. 

  Pirates of the High Seas is a stand-alone expansion pack for The Guild 2 that isn't big on innovation. 
 This is essentially the exact same game as its 2006 predecessor, with the one not-so-big change 
 to this "medieval Sims with economics" being the addition of sea trading and piracy to the list 
 of occupations used to escape lowly serfdom. Yet while there are real pluses to being able to go 
 all Blackbeard on those Hanseatic League, developer 4Head hasn't done enough to address the micromanagement 
 issues of its core design, or other preexisting problems like poor pathfinding and demanding system 
 requirements.  

  Basically, what you've got here is a repeat of the original game that's been cleaned up and enhanced 
 with some skimpy nautical features. Gameplay modes in both single-player and multiplayer are carried 
 over unchanged. You still create a serf with basic RPG characteristics and statistics, pick a profession 
 from the four choices of patron, craftsman, scholar, and rogue, and set out to build a family dynasty 
 through siring lots of serflings and earning loads of gold through various and sundry business 
 activities that involve a lot of crafting. Three new professions -- fisherman, medicus, and pirate -- are 
 added, although this really amounts just to added depth for some of the existing career paths. 
 The fisherman is just a patron who can construct a shack or hut on the seashore from which to launch 
 fishing vessels, while the pirate is just a nautical rogue who can build pirate havens, nests, 
 and fortresses on the coastline. But that's about it, aside from new buildings like the pesthouse 
 and watchtower, and the ability to rise all the way up the social ladder to become king. Social 
 interactions seem more fleshed out now, though, in that wenches often slap you for the sleazy pick-up 
 lines that got you a shared bath in the first game.  

           Even monks need a break from all of that praying and chastity every now and then.     

  None of the new features are anything to write home about. Focus remains strictly on the nitty-gritty 
 of Middle Ages economics, which means that, whether you ply your trade on the seas or on terra 
 firma, you still spend almost all of your time making and selling goods. No matter which job you 
 pick, you wind up buying and selling. The fisherman must flog his herring and salmon in the market 
 just like any other patron looking to make a few bucks. And the three piratical buildings play 
 similarly to the three thieving headquarters from the original game, only instead of stationing 
 underlings along roadways to rob carts, you pirate merchant vessels in simplistic sea battles and 
 set up prostitution rings. These fitting touches do give you an opportunity to be the "scallywag" 
 described on the back of the box cover, though you're still more of an accountant with an eye patch 
 that a real scourge of the European seas.  

  Nevertheless, some of the seafaring additions do make Pirates of the High Seas a better game than 
 its predecessor, even if these improvements are slight. While the three new one-off maps dealing 
 with Britain, the Hanseatic League, and pirates in the North Sea are just revamped takes on maps 
 from the original game with access to oceans, the new campaign is an interesting tale of redemption. 
 It deals with the exiled Wiegbald family of Danzig seeking to right a past wrong and regain good 
 standing with the Hanseatic League. As this organization of medieval traders was best known for 
 its sea trading, the Wiegbalds are deeply involved in the new ability to make a living from the 
 good old H2O. There is a dramatic sweep to the entire campaign, as well, because you start as a 
 fisherman with a tiny shack and a single boat and branch out to full-blown merchant shipping. The 
 basic plot is well told, if a bit melodramatic.  

  Still, much of the great promise of The Guild 2 remains unfulfilled. Micromanagement is still a 
 real bear. Buildings and workers can be automated to get your goods to market without a lot of 
 messing around, but carts still get hung up along the way by running into other carts or citizens 
 and stopping dead in their tracks. You just can't trust the artificial intelligence to handle your 
 merchandise properly, which becomes a real problem after you expand your business endeavors and 
 get family members into different professions. Pathfinding is also a problem, due to similar issues 
 with traffic and oddities like a character abandoning his orders after being stopped and given 
 a gift by another citizen. You're given no notice about events like this, either, so you often 
 have to hunt down your errant traveler. The interface always seems to require an extra couple of 
 clicks to handle routine tasks, also, and the icon menu is really finicky when you're simply trying 
 to rob somebody or make a baby with your spouse. Again, all of this is awfully frustrating to deal 
 with, especially after you get rolling with a reasonably large business empire. Everything is much 
 improved from the original game, although additional work is needed.  

           Fishing for herring highlights the new seafaring job opportunities listed at MedievalMonster. com. 

  Another major unresolved irritation is the visual engine, which along with the music and sound 
 effects has been carried over virtually unchanged from its predecessor. Even though this is an 
 attractive game, with nice looking architecture and a few atmospheric touches like town halls ablaze 
 with light in the evenings, the overall look is reminiscent of something like 2003's Neverwinter 
 Nights. Yet despite this dated appearance, you need a powerhouse rig with an 8800-class or equivalent 
 video card to avoid regular trips to slide-show town. Even dialing down or turning off frills like 
 shadows does little to speed things up, so those with average machines are stuck enduring choppy 
 animations and bothersome skips and delays when zooming in and out of scenes with a significant 
 number of citizens.  

  Other fit-and-finish issues further hamper playability. Collision detection is hit-and-miss, so 
 characters frequently walk through walls, and even meld into ladies of the evening when conducting 
 "salacious" business (in reality just a cheesy bump and grind on the streets, by the way, so don't 
 get worked up over that Teen rating) . And trying to influence elections in town halls seems really 
 buggy. Offering up bribes and compliments often sends the game into graphical stutters and sound 
 loops where somebody says "I thank you" a couple of dozen times in a row.  

  If you've already gotten your fill of the original game, or simply didn't like it in the first 
 place, there is nothing in The Guild 2: Pirates of the High Seas to change your mind. The additions, 
 minor improvements, and overall greater scope make this a better and more fulfilling game than 
 its predecessor, although only marginally.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those odd games that strangely its good and addicting if you know how to play it.
 
  In the world we live we tend to be honest in most of cases and in games too since most of them 
 you are the good guy and have to fight the bad guys and ultimately save the world if not all the 
 universe itself... wow amazing.. I saved the universe for the 321343th time when I played Mass Effect 
 and you know what... It was boring (and yes I got the sex scene too) .. 
  No I did not play Mass Effect 321343 times.. the 321343 was other games that involved saving the 
 universe of some evil guy, power, dude, force, whatever.. 
  
  Well anyway, why am I talking about this in a game like the guild 2? There is a preety good reason.. Being 
 honest and good guy today is lame and you rarely get something good out of it and that is the case 
 on the guild 2 too.. Being honest and being a respectable citizen brings out the most boring aspect 
 of the game.. Having a honest micromangament job and do same task over and over and over again.... zzzzzzzzzzz.. So 
 for once I thought a little and said. 
  
  Ok let me try and be a rougue and a thief and do smething like the godfather in medievel version.
 
  Guess what.. Its so awesome.. controlling all the city politics and killing everyone that is.. undesirable.. It 
 goes like this you start with your little guy.. Create a robbers nest hire some guys to get
  protection money from houses and there you go having your money to start.
  
  Then just go hiring 
 more guys try to get on politics.. hire more guys.. marry have a kid or two. Eventually you will 
 have like 7 or 8 gang like guys to take money and kill undesirable people
  Just choose a good place to kill people and try not to be caught by someone that sees your shameful 
 actions.. well if that happened.. someone saw you killing some guy, so what kill him next lol. So 
 even if he/she presses charges against you.. if they are dead afterwards they cant go to trial so 
 there is no trial and you keep killing people whitout the justice being made.. (so unfair)
  
  You want to ocupy a big seat or all the big seats on the political space of the game with all 
 of your family? No problem just kill the other possibily candidates or threat them.
  
  In short time all the city and political system will be yours and you will do as you please to 
 everyone you please!! You control justice, trials, taxes.. everything.. So eventually you will
  be a king and will kill everyone and you won the game.. So you can now start again and do everything 
 again
  on another scenario until you get bored.
  
  So to sum it up play it like this and its great.. you feel like a mastermind controling everything 
 and there is always someone to "get rid of" or some trials to attend. Hard not to get addicted..
 
  So this goes for an 8 for this game if you play it like that. If not well.. you better like micromanegment 
 and do the same task over and over again.. zzzzzzz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Games these days have such a wide variety of feedback on them. Many people love it, nearly as many 
 hate it, and then there is that in between crowd who can't make up their mind about the game. The 
 Guild 2 is different in every way that counts; including this.
  
  This is a game that you either love or hate. The in between crowd is few and far between.
  
 
  It's nice to see a game that is almost entirely based on economy, as such games are rare; and 
 I'd imagine because the fan base for such games is almost equally rare.
  
  I have not read the manual for this game, but I did play the in game tutorial, and what I can say 
 is that the tutorial doesn't even cover enough to get you started. It will give you some clue how 
 to play, but you will still have no idea what you are up against until you jump into it. Other 
 then this small thing, I am at home in this game trying to figure out how to make money so that 
 I can increase my status.
  
  
  There are few words I can actually use to describe this game; it's so completely different from 
 anything else I've ever played that I'm not sure exactly how to classify it; suffice it to say 
 that over all the game is oddly satisfying to play.
  
  You start out with a single character that you are given some minor control over the appearance 
 of. You choose a few stats that will improve your character to some degree, either to make him 
 better at fighting, or allow his workers to produce more goods per manufacture. Your main goal 
 seems to be to start a business of some kind based on the class you choose and make whatever money 
 you can. It's almost like a sandbox. What you do in game is only somewhat limited by your class 
 at the start but you can expand into other jobs as you continue the game. You need to gain experience 
 for your character so that you can expand your business and make more money and there seem to be 
 several avenues to do this. You may go to the town hall and apply for an office, get involved in 
 the politics and earn favor and gain quite a bit of power over the township you start in, you can 
 get married and have children (though the marriage thing seems less optional, but more on that 
 later) you can work in your business with your associates. It's somewhat tough but very rewarding. 
 Even marriage is very important to the game, if you are playing dynasty mode you basically cannot 
 lose until your dynasty is wiped out; the only way to keep going long after your main character 
 has grown old and died, is to bear a child and pass your dynasty on to him/her. You start to feel 
 good about what you've accomplished though, not only because you've spent so much time doing it 
 but because you've spent even more time trying to figure out HOW to do it, which brings me to my 
 only real gripe about this game.
  
  There are virtually no strategies to be found anywhere. I'm not even joking about this. No guides, 
 no information online, and while the official forums have some ok advice you have to do some deep 
 digging to find it. The game is very under appreciated, and I imagine that is due to the nature 
 of the game. It's very management oriented. You have to juggle everything. True, you can hand the 
 reigns of your business over to the AI and let it continue to make money for you, but if you do, 
 you won't be maximizing your income; and you will eventually be running more then just one business.
 
  
  I am giving this game a decent score, but score is subjective in all games to the person who is 
 playing it. If you don't like games that have you doing many things at once (and utilizing the 
 pause button to get as much done as possible) then this will not be the game for you. It will be 
 a challenge to figure your way out of the gate without falling flat on your face, but the feeling 
 of accomplishment for finally getting through the tough stuff and finally figuring out the game 
 is quite high. It's satisfying.
  
  The best part is if you can find a copy of "The Guild, Universe" you're patched all the way up 
 to 2.0 already, which is enough to play a stable game and not worry about too many glitches (which 
 as I understand it, there were many initially) .
  
  Again, not for everybody. This game is absolutely different from the norm, and can be satisfying, 
 but you have to like at least a little bit of micromanagement to get into it, because even if you 
 let the AI take over your business for you, there is still plenty for you to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous versions of this game in the past. I, like many others, was unable to 
 enjoy either Europa 1400 or the original TG2 because of crash errors. It was just one of many others, 
 such as most of it's competitors, filled with CTD bugs, in comparison to others that have poor 
 memory management. I was quite tired of putting up with the poor programming of these amateurs.
 
  
  When you compare these companies to Firaxis or Maxis who does not suffer from any of these problems, 
 it begins to add up a little. As someone else has stated, even EA at least patches it's games.
 
  
  You should not have to be forced to buy an expansion to get those fixes.
  I am assuming most of us live in a free country if we are legally allowed to roam the internet 
 and play video games. However this is just an assumption.
  
  
  The Guild 2 PotES, beyond what is mentioned previously, is still a rather incomplete game. Beyond 
 playing each profession there is very little desire there to continue playing except for playing 
 multiplayer, which is extremely difficult to do considering the small player base and the need 
 for third party programs, such as xfire and all seeing eye, to get online.
  
  This expansion pushes each profession but adds little more than momentary depth perception that 
 simply doesn't last. The patch added Guilds and Chapels by using already existing graphics and 
 quick stable code to provide more of an interactive environment. It would be better if it didn't 
 remind me of KotOR, when they released a sequel that used the same graphics as the first one. 
 
  
  The community itself is simply suffers from inflexibility. While there are some mods, most important 
 features, such as creating a character without a hat, are left to the user to mod themselves. The 
 tutorials are spectacularly unhelpful, and the files to mod themselves are spectacularly unaligned 
 and hard to look through because the programmer did not properly order the code like any newbie 
 is taught to do.
  
  In conclusion, I am still convinced that Jowood and 4head are simply amateurs, and I do not recommend 
 anyone buying this game, even for 10 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  With all of the blood and guts, runnin' and insane gunnin' shootem'ups glutting the game market 
 these days, The Guild2 stands alone in it's own genre. A RTS/RPG on both land and sea - LIFE SIMULATOR!
 
  
  The 3D graphics are drop dead gorgeous, of the same caliber as Oblivion and Witcher. Gameplay is 
 like a cross between Patrician III, The Sims 2 and 1701AD. It could best be described as a 3D version 
 of Patrician III with much more depth and character development.
  
  The over-micromanaging complaint makes absolutely no sense to me, because you can put any business 
 in AI management mode and simply let it do its thing; sending carts to market to buy raw materials; 
 sell goods; upgrade your business all automatically! You can even hire a housekeeper that will 
 do the same for your house (s) - so the micromanagement complaint has got to come from a reviewer 
 that is not as familiar with the game as they should have been before writing the review, but it's 
 a typical Gamespot Bearing False-Witness Review that I, as well as many of you, have grown accustomed 
 to (I look at player reviews only now. They are much more reliable) . 
  
  As a former game review TV producer, When you review as many games as Gamespot you become naturally 
 jaded and desensitized by the sheer number of games that need to be reviewed, so intelligently 
 written player reviews are always much more reliable.
  
  As I played this game I was deeply impressed by the amount of sheer depth of the ambiance of medieval 
 times, as well as the intriguing diplomatic, political and criminal systems. The towns have fully 
 functioning governments with town meetings that go on with or without your participation that changes 
 the entire political/economic and criminal systems dynamic.
  
  While most gamers want to avoid having children when playing THE SIMS 2,, because they are a real 
 pain to deal with, in THE GUILD 2, your goal is to continue your dynasty - so children are a necessary 
 evil :-) (just kidding) , but you must have an heir to your dynasty or the game will naturally come 
 to an end when your character dies of old age (if he's lucky) if there is no one to pass on all 
 of your knowledge, wisdom and business to (your dynasty would end - as well as the game) . Yes, 
 the characters actually get older and eventually will go home and lay down for the big-sleep and 
 you'll mourn their passing (more so for the loss of all those experience points - you insensitive, 
 heartless minions :-)
  
  Your heir can be trained at an early age and actually have a better start on life than their parents 
 by going to school, university and through being an apprentice in one of your businesses (or someone 
 else's) . So gaining experience gets easier and easier with each new generation. If you start by 
 playing in DYNASTY MODE, the free style game, you also can gain experience on how better to play 
 through each generation without starting over, as each generation is like starting a new game.
 
  
  While not perfect, as I have never played a "perfect" game yet, they all have some quirks that 
 remind you that it's a computer game, walking through furniture at times, pathing sometimes gets 
 weird (I have never played a game with perfect pathing - have you? and I own literally thousands 
 of games) the level of sophistication in all of these working systems in The Guild is amazing.
 
  
  Sure Gamespot gives it a low rating, I expected them to before I even looked, because its not an 
 adrenaline junky game, but one of tranquil, peaceful (mild violence) business management and life 
 management. Gamespot really needs a strategy game reviewer BADLY for these type of games and not 
 use the same guy that just reviewed DOOM, CRISIS and UNREAL TOURNAMENT to suddenly take an adrenaline 
 hit to have to sit down and actually have to THINK QUIETLY for a change. You're guaranteed bad 
 reviews.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this title to anyone who likes The Sims 2, especially those who like 
 1701 AD and Patrician III. It is an awesome, deep and extremely entertaining adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 6
Date: May 1, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, The Guild II's scale puts the likes of The Sims and the Elder Scrolls series to shame. 
 It simulates an entire medieval village, with romance, crime, government and even a legal system, 
 and offers players the chance to build their own dynasty, marrying and starting a family, running 
 a business and rising through the ranks of prestige.
  
  The level of micromanagement is not severe. There is no need to eat or sleep regularly - your character 
 can keep toiling away at their work without interruption (though other characters sleep) . Employees 
 can be hired off the street and assigned to tasks with a few clicks. Rather than having to find 
 raw materials on a map and send workers off there, they can be assigned from the business and will 
 find the resource themselves, constantly collecting and returning them. Family members can be controlled 
 by the AI, as can businesses. There are some issues with pathfinding, but most tasks are painless.
 
  
  Courting and romance are quite simplistic, with a few words and gifts enough to lead to marriage. 
 Different classes have different preferences, though the strategic difference is minimal. Likewise, 
 running a business regardless of your class is a simple task of collecting raw materials and assigning 
 somebody to use them to make a product, then sending a cart to sell them at the local market. The 
 main strategy here comes in how you improve the business, which affects what you produce, but given 
 the static nature of the demand for products, it makes little difference. Hence, the introduction 
 of new classes to this standalone add-on really have minimal gameplay impact. 
  
  The character-building elements are limited, with most abilities clearly aimed at a specific type 
 of character. There are numerous attributes, upgradable in a neat system with less-suited attributes 
 to the class costing more experience to increase. The gaining of experience is somewhat obscure 
 - events like marriage and the birth of a child award lump sums of experience, but minor tasks 
 and training can also build it quietly.
  
  Aside from the drudgery of running a business, the character does not have a great deal to do. 
 Gaining council roles can offer new opportunities, and the game's courtroom system is quite interesting, 
 but once married, the only time a character need ever leave their work is to create children.
 
  
  This would not be too serious a problem if this were the only concern - the idea of continuing 
 and expanding the dynasty, having several generations build the family name through their deeds 
 is a fascinating one. The virtual village dynamic is interesting, with characters dealing with 
 each other depending on their roles - rogues try to commit crimes, guards try to stop them, neighbours 
 may rush to fight fires or even start them depending on the relationship. Unfortunately, several 
 key elements are broken.
  
  Primarily, the relationships with other dynasties are badly handled. They degrade over time, so 
 unless you spend a great deal of time running around giving gifts or complimenting them (which 
 can only be done to the opposite gender) , you quickly are in feuds with everybody just for going 
 about your work quietly. Given that they vote for you to go onto the council, this is a major blow. 
 Bizarrely, the best way to improve relations is to insult a rival dynasty member, leading to a 
 duel. After shooting each other, your relations with that family are suddenly terrific, and they 
 will be your allies - at least, until it degrades again.
  
  Worse is the inability to employ your family members. If you want them to work at all, you have 
 to build them their own business. There is no ability to have a child work at his father's business 
 and take over at some point, which is nonsensical. Leaving them to the AI means that they will 
 achieve very little, unlikely to marry and unable to get a job regardless of their education. Indeed, 
 they seem to serve only to get robbed. This means you must control many characters, spending plenty 
 of money to give each a business. Annoyingly, you can only choose to control them once each - after 
 returning them to AI, you cannot take over again.
  
  The graphics and sound are acceptable, though the characters are rather unattractive and the dialogue 
 is quite poor - albeit translated from the German version and perhaps tongue-in-cheek when it comes 
 to romance.
  
  Though frustrating and ultimately unsatisfying, it is possible to get caught up in the virtual 
 village, which can consume many hours. As a bargain purchase or a basis for a future version (not 
 just an add-on, but a complete overhaul) , it is worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentassasin05
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The Guild 2 - Pirates Of The European Seas, quite the little game if you ask me and quite hard 
 done by in its review and score done by GS. But thats my opinion.
  
  The game play is much the same as The Guild 2, except this one has worked out a lot of the bugs 
 and is quite enjoyable to play. Well, it is a lot more stable with the latest patch installed, 
 but what game isn't. Thats what GS should take into account i feel.
  
  The game picks up much the same as the original in terms of game play and character actions and 
 what can be done. But, the new classes, or sub classes within the main ones add the extra nice 
 to the game and give it that bit more re playability.
  
  Not much of a review here, but before passing this game off because of the score it got from the 
 GS reviewers, I think it is worth the go from anyone that is interested in these kinds of games 
 or any kind of strategy game for that matter.
  
  Happy Gaming all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimw127
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game, and The Guild 2, have been bashed hard here on Gamespot and I do not feel it is justified. 
 I've never had the pathfinding problems or other bugs listed in the GS review.
  
  There is a whole lot of content to this game. Professions have enough variety between them to keep 
 the player interested, and there is a lot of growth in searching for ways to improve your business 
 and expand your wealth. Including making life hard for your competition.
  
  Politics is a totally different aspect to aim for success that can take up a lot of your character's 
 time once you start to develop a successful business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  First release of Guild 2 was good but plagued by lots of bugs. It was barely playable. Pirates 
 of the European seas, not only fixes bugs but also adds numerous features.
  
  I complained mostly from bugs and nothing more in my review of guild 2 but Now with this add on 
 ,I can concentrate my review on its features and gameplay value. First, this game is truly a fresh 
 blood to the game industry with its innovative concept, moreover, it is quite exciting as you are 
 able to run a dynasty with your own way. it is a relief to the players who are bored to death from 
 games flooding the market with being clone of each other. THE GRAPHICS are well greased. The view 
 of the town and scenery is awesome. Blooming effect adds to the game ambiance in nights. Wide variety 
 of graphics options allows easy tunning for low end computers.
  
  THE SOUNDS are good, tons of different and quality sounds make up the ambiance. But character voices 
 might become repetitive as hours pass by. Game Music is proper for the era it reflects and, i encountered 
 no single annoying music track.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is nice, there are numerous things you can do, although it requires lots of micromanagement. 
 Even the most hardcore micromanagement fan could be frustrated during playing. In overall, with 
 tweaks on interface and little fixes would be great.
  
  Pros:
  + High replayability value
  + High FRP value.
  + Top of the line graphics
  + it creates ambition 
 to earn money and political power later on.
  + Market fluctuations and goods demand &amp; Supply models are well designed thus Simulating a 
 successful economic dynamics. + Fallout style perks, abilities and experience system is very well 
 implemented.
  + Tons of options in producing goods, running a facility, improve features of your buildings and 
 more.
  + Politics and intrigues increases gameplay value.
  + Quite Addictive gameplay.
  + Kotor / Fallout style character creation / customization screen.
  
  Cons:
  - You can only 
 add 3 people to your group (why a group is necessary, hard to understand)
  - Courting noble women is almost impossible due to their enormous demands. - You don't gain the 
 assets of serfs you marry. (Although it is stated as rich in the info screen)
  - Sending carts forth and back especially when you have more than one facilities becomes frustrating
 
  - Most of the time basic actions like compliment or court is not working in game. (bug?) Characters 
 often look on each other doing nothing.
  - equipping your henchman is possible but way too difficult.
  - When your character dies, the 
 equipment on him goes as well
  - It is not possible to estimate the market fluctuations and when it does, the factors affecting 
 is not explained to player. The prices just drop or increase with no apparent reason.
  - Finding characters is pain in the rear. There is a shortcut on the left side of screen but it 
 is not possible to commence actions via your henchmen, you have to go by yourself.
  - I just couldn't understand for what increasing state taxes good for?
  - There is no apparent 
 outcome of talking people (action: talk)
  - There is no reason to enter buildings (interior view) ? You can do nothing inside. Everything 
 is ran by the production screen free of interior of the building.
  - Sales of the buildings not confirmed to player. if you wish to sell it, You don't know the selling 
 value even it is set as on sale . The seller doesn't know his property's sales price? It is just 
 sold out right away.
  - When you assign a mission to a character, mission type icon is displayed on her face icon however 
 it doesn't provide any information about duration, for whom the mission is set, etc. especially 
 when yo have more than 3 henchmen, it is a total confusion which henchmen is following who.
  
  Suggestions for improvements:
  * Being able to enter buildings are although exciting, there 
 is nothing you can do inside. The game: FABLE was much more innovative about it, you could decorate 
 your house to increase its selling value, you could place pictures on walls or various exciting 
 things could be placed increasing house value.
  * In court screen, no information is available about the characters, often causing a confusion. 
 Moreover, it is not stated why and what factors affecting the court's judgments for guilty or not 
 guilty. The game should feed the player with more information. Like if a player uses his rhetoric 
 ability it should be displayed as a floating rhetoric value above character just like XP gains 
 do. or large arrows on the head of characters pointing him for who will use a vote on the round. 
 (So that we can use our convincing abilities on them)
  * Player should be able to set the selling value of his buildings. (And It should be related with 
 his bargaining ability)
  * Most of the items you purchase provides abilities for a certain time. It is not realistic. Like 
 money bag improves bargain value. How come it becomes useless after 20 hours?
  * Most of the textiles you wear doesn't provide you with anything. A Citizen cloth should improve 
 character's say, charisma or rhetoric value. * Often catching up with other dynasties characters 
 are frustrating. Why not there is a shortcut of dynasties and negotiate them from that friendly 
 interface? Actions should not be forced through characters by person only.
  * Interface should be improved for good. You need to search and find the character and assign him 
 for a mission again dragging screen to the desired mission area. You should be able to simple point 
 to a target character and set desired mission from a pop up menu showing for available henchmen. 
 More friendly interface pls.
  * Benefits of some abilities are not expressed well. Also Most of the Perks are much better than 
 the others so improving your next character, you just go for the same slots. They should be more 
 of an equal value for attractiveness and differentiation from each other. For example what the 
 heck emphaty ability is good for? game says: judging abilities bla, bla, i already judge people 
 by myself, what is the benefit of this ability to my character?
  * Also what is the benefit s of shadowing someone over spying on someone? Not clear. They should 
 be differentiated with sharp lines.
  * Hiring a random employee is a bit limiting the player, you don't know the price upfront, no options 
 are offered but only one candidate is shown. And he is always level 1. Player should be allowed 
 to hire from a list of available people. Price vs Level must be offered. * Balance sheet is freaky. 
 It doesn't show your fixed expenses like salaries and income like state office earnings. On the 
 next page, there is only the revenues and expenses about the previous season displayed. This should 
 be fixed.
  * Also there is a production cost value shown on particular goods however it is not stated how 
 it is calculated? material costs only? or labor costs included? a drop down menu could be helpful 
 about that. * Group rule should be omitted. Why in the hell i need to group my family members? 
 and for a max. of 3 people? Why can not i use them all? Also why in the earth my spouse can not 
 work in my shop as well? Only one family member is allowed to work in a building. I just cant understand 
 that!
  * Education and apprenticeship for a child should mean a lot more. They are giving just not enough 
 XP for the character. As you earn enough XP and level up to a point you desire, your character 
 becomes 90 years old. And soon dies, making a hell of a lot of work useless.
  * I don't see any point increasing item slots or item qtys for a house Just what the hell it is 
 good for? House improvements should be changed, differentiated completely from a shop and added 
 more nobility and political features. * In my game, a ship was not available to me. I had to carry 
 all my goods via carts and they got robbed all the time. Is it because it is forbidden for players 
 or only the certain classes have the ability to possess them? Not certain.
  
  All in all, Guild 2 - Pirates of the European seas is an exciting concept. I always consider such 
 games (other than clones) should be backed up and supported. 4Head Studios have accomplished a 
 wonderful project yet still needs some tweaks and fine tuning. I recommend all players who likes 
 this genre to give it a try. You might find this game just grows on you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
