-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Golden Horde
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thegoldenhorde/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting subject matter in the 13th-century Mongol invasions.
 Innovative customization options when it comes to equipping soldiers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Troop customization is typically more interesting in theory than in reality.
 Slow building and unit creation times.
 A lot of base-building repetition in missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 86 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: WorldForge
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jul 15, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A unique subject matter is the most compelling aspect of this otherwise boring real-time strategy 
 game. 

  Being able to guide the armies of Genghis Khan is the only real attraction in The Golden Horde. 
 Developer World Forge's real-time re-creation of the crazy years immediately after Genghis Khan 
 pillaged his last town is just about as mediocre as the developer's last effort: this past spring's 
 Great War Nations: The Spartans. This is essentially a straight-up sequel built atop the same engine 
 as its predecessor, with many of the same issues relating to tedious micromanagement and sluggish 
 paint-by-numbers real-time strategy gameplay. Some aspects of the design have been streamlined, 
 making for a more playable game, although all of the pillaging and burning here still generates 
 more yawns than thrills.  

  With that said, the idea behind The Golden Horde is a great one. The basic design is strictly by 
 the book, with everything laid out along the same lines as something like Age of Empires, but the 
 subject matter is unique for RTS gaming. Battlegrounds are all little-examined ones from Eastern 
 Europe and Western Asia fought over during the tumultuous 13th century immediately after the death 
 of Genghis Khan left his many legions of smelly barbarians without a pillager-in-chief. Despite 
 the name, however, the game deals with more than just the Mongol armies. Three factions are included 
 here -- the post-Genghis Mongols, the Russians of the Duchy of Ryazan, and the Teutonic Knights Crusaders. 
 Each side plays the starring role in a solo campaign dealing with different perspectives on the 
 Mongol invasion of the 1200s. So the Mongols attack Russia, the Russians defend against the Mongols, 
 and the Teutonic Knights seek to round up support to drive the Mongols out of Hungary. Each campaign 
 is completely independent and can be played at any time. This leaves you free to bounce among swarthy 
 barbarians, swarthy Slavs, and swarthy Germans at will. There are just 14 missions in the game, 
 along with the ability to play custom matches over LANs (there is no online support) with up to 
 eight players, although the huge maps mean that you can get a good couple of dozen hours of playing 
 time out of the game.  

           Here come the Mongol hordes. Ah, that explains that awful smell!      

  But even with 
 the inclusion of multiple nations, there isn't a lot of historical flavor to be found here. Missions 
 are not drawn from specific battles, leaving you little sense of what actually took place during 
 the Mongol attacks of the 13th century. Context is seriously lacking in mission introductions. 
 You generally only know that you have to beat back the bad guys and then raze their settlements 
 to the ground. Lack of variety, when it comes to how the nations play, is an even bigger problem. 
 Each side builds very similar bases, collecting the same metal and wood resources used for constructing 
 buildings, as well as equipping troops, in the exact same way. Sure, the Mongols have nomad-friendly 
 mobile tent buildings, while the Russians and Crusaders are all about permanent fortresses with 
 distinctive architecture, such as Kremlin-style towers. All of these buildings and units look pretty 
 spiffy for a budget game as well. They give structures and troops unique visuals; for example, 
 you'll never mistake a khan's tent for a Russian town. Audio sets the factions apart, too, with 
 Mongol units praising the khan and the Christian Crusaders mouthing such lines as "Pray more often, 
 or you'll go to hell!" But this distinctiveness is only skin deep. The Mongol missions don't force 
 you to utilize their nomadic attributes, while the Crusaders and the Russians are both founded 
 on traditional base-building RTS lines. So the basic style is pretty much identical across the 
 board. You set up shop, send peasants off to cut wood and work in a metal mine, then start cranking 
 out the soldiers, no matter if you're a wandering Mongol or a God-fearing Crusader.  

  Cranking out those troops has its merits, though. As with The Spartans, the big gimmick in The 
 Golden Horde is being able to customize armies as you see fit by giving troops specialized weapon 
 and armor loadouts. Each nation comes with just one or two basic professional soldier types, forcing 
 you to rely on creating citizen armies. So instead of choosing from lists of pre-rolled troops 
 as in a standard base-building RTS, you pick average Joes then equip them with various swords, 
 pikes, bows, shields, and armor. As the Mongols, for instance, you take Aduuch horse wrangler laborers 
 and turn them into warriors simply by handing out weapons, such as yataghan scimitars or bulgar 
 pikes. You also have the option of converting foot soldiers into cavalry units by plopping them 
 onto horses you create in the stable. Then, you send these homebrewed troops into the field, often 
 behind powerhouse hero units, where they gain battle experience and soon turn into set unit classes 
 based on the weapons they wield. Once you reach the first level, there is no turning back, so you 
 have to choose wisely.  

  Sound like a more authentic way of building an army than what goes on in the traditional base-building 
 RTS? It is, but this realism is not without some flaws. While the developers have thankfully eliminated 
 the multipart weapon research that sent The Spartans into micromanagement hell, everything here 
 is still awfully involving. Having to keep an eye on multiple production lines just to equip a 
 single class of troops is a real pain. You need to recruit workers in one building, as well as 
 oversee weapon and armor construction in another. You also need roll out the horses in one more 
 building and, of course, watch over the frontiers in case the enemy attacks. It's all very tedious 
 because of the sluggish pace of all building and unit construction. You could practically run to 
 the kitchen and bake a loaf of bread in the time it takes a hero to capture an enemy building or 
 a peasant to build a forge. There are no adjustable speed settings, either, so you can't make things 
 zip along when it's really needed, as in the early stages of a level when all you're doing is waiting 
 for buildings to be completed.  

           Crusaders are religious fanatics, but aside from constant references to praying, they 
 don't build bases or fight all that differently from their heathen enemies.      

  Also, it's not like you can create wildly unique units. The ability to scavenge items dropped by 
 vanquished enemies can help you create some interesting soldiers, although generally, you'll skip 
 this annoying busywork (the automated function where you assign a worker to gather abandoned weapons 
 and armor doesn't seem to work, so you have to manually pick up every stray sword or pike) for 
 just setting up templates in the barracks buildings available to each faction. Then, you can pump 
 out troops automatically. In the end, this customization rigmarole leaves you with units that fight 
 and look a whole lot like generic spearmen, knights, crossbowmen, or cavalry from any of a hundred 
 traditional RTS games. It hardly seems worthwhile spending so much time screwing around with so 
 much custom-outfitting stuff when this is the final result.  

  Battles in The Golden Horde would probably seem to drag on forever even without these tiresome 
 soldier customizations. While missions aren't as mind-numbing as the wham-bam, kill-everybody stuff 
 in The Spartans, they have been pushed too far in the opposite direction and turned into plodding, 
 dull affairs. This is good in that you now have the time to fuss around with your armies and kit 
 them out in various ways; but it's bad in that you now have so much time to fuss around with your 
 armies that you might wind up falling asleep. Missions also involve a great deal of repetition 
 because you generally build the same bases and grind out the same troops in every single scenario. 
 The only saving grace is a varied chain of objectives that sees you attacking, defending, sneaking 
 around, and searching out allies. At least you're not always just mindlessly battling enemies. 
 And those enemies are not mindless this time around, either. You still can't call the opposing 
 AI brilliant or anything, but at least now it seems to function partially independent of battlefield 
 triggers and is extremely aggressive when it comes to pursuing hostiles that try to retreat in 
 the midst of battle. Think twice before letting loose with that volley of arrows or you might just 
 find yourself chased all over the map.  

  Unless you're a history fanatic who is big on the Mongol invasions of the 13th century, it's safe 
 to give The Golden Horde a pass. Enough changes have been made to elevate this game beyond its 
 classical predecessor, The Spartans, but only marginally. Everything about this RTS is a blend 
 of been-there, done-that formula and new features that don't quite work. It's hard to believe that 
 the atrocities of Genghis Khan and his successors could ever be boring, but, well, there you have 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gibeee
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The sight of mongol charging at full gallop sets my soul alight with ambition of virtual conquest. 
 Sadly all it gives my is indigestion.
  
  The gameplay while employing new features like customizable soldiery and salvageable battlefields 
 falls short of my expectations. Gameplay is buggy, unrealistic and historiclaly inaccurate. In 
 the ned all strategy is reduced to rushing your enemy with oddly armed peasants who in time get 
 upgraded to a disparate assortment of warriors who fail to have any particular strategic depth. 
 It also makes the game much harder since micromanagement was apparently not on the developers' 
 radars. 
  
  
  In a more conventional game like Age of Emp [ires where a stone-paper-scissors type gameplay was 
 evident strategies were easier to formulate. While I am not a great fan of the mindless cloning 
 of games, I might have preferred some of it in this game.
  
  A failed experiment at best, this game only gets points for (a) trying to be different and (b) 
 being about the mongols. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan933
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The game features the on goin' war between the crusaders, russians and mongolians in the XIII century 
 . The game features three distinctive nations, each with it's own architecture, weapons and heroes. 
 The interface looks almost as if it was stolen from Warcraft III ( even the cursor :D ) so if you 
 played W3 you'll easily master the controls. The key part of the game consists of customizable 
 battalions. Each soldier can be armed differently from the last . Each unit features a main weapon 
 slot and a shield slot and weapons vary from nation to nation ranging in from spears , axes and 
 swords to bows. As for the graphics they are simple yet nice-looking giving you a nice perspective 
 ( again the camera movement is EXACTLY like in W3 ) The main problem is the absolutely DUMB AI 
 - at least in custom game mode. After just a few enemy-unit thrashin' the Computer halts all attacks 
 against you , and even when the AI is at it's prime , you can still finish it off with 5 bowmen 
 and a Hero .
  All in all the game is worth playing on a lazy afternoon when you have no idea of what to play 
 . 
  
  P. S. if anyone wants to play on LAN please gimme a PM cuz the AI is as I said before. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
