-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Game of Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/gameoflife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 30, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC conversion of The Game of Life brings some of the charm of the original and tampers very 
 little with the formula. 

 Another old-time favorite board game materializes as a revved-up PC adaptation. This time it's The 
 Game of Life, an old-staple board game originally from Milton Bradly that should be as familiar 
 as they come, but my memories of it are vague. I remember enjoying it when I was young, my memories 
 being mainly centered on that big spinner in the middle of the board. Spinning it was fun. There 
 were also those little cars with plastic pegs to insert, and the board was colorful. But I don't 
 really remember anything more specific than that. Not like Monopoly where there were familiar street 
 names like Park Place and spaces like Free Parking. Reminiscing about The Game of Life is like 
 remembering sugarcoated cereals that aren't available anymore, both having been colorful and innocuous 
 childhood treats. The PC conversion of The Game of Life brings some of the charm of the original 
 and tampers very little with the formula, but as with several other board game conversions, it 
 fails to make much use of the PC's potential.   

 The Game of Life allows up to six players to gather 'round the ol' monitor to take turns spinning 
 the wheel, or rather clicking the pointer that spins the wheel. (Could you really gather six people 
 around a computer?) At most I could imagine two, maybe three, seated around a computer playing 
 this game. The ability to allow multiple players seems better suited to allowing one person to 
 play multiple characters, say one person playing as two against one or two computer opponents. 
 Any more than two computer players and the game is drawn out to a greater length than is humanly 
 possible to sit through. For solo play, I found that playing two characters to one computer character 
 made for the most interesting play. That way you get to play more often than the computer, and 
 you get to watch the computer have its fun without having to endure too much noninteractive tedium. 

 The actual gameplay is fairly lighthearted. In fact it's practically nonexistent, but then I wasn't 
 expecting Starcraft-like strategizing as I began the game. Along the lines of other board game 
 adaptations involving movement along a set path, this one involves nothing more complicated than 
 clicking a picture that simulates the spinning of the famous plastic dial. But obviously I wasn't 
 expecting to be spinning the actual thing; what I expected was a colorfully animated facsimile, 
 and that's what the game delivers. Other gameplay elements have been left intact. Once the dial's 
 spun, a player moves along the track the specified number of spaces and plays out the scenario 
 listed. These include things like "Produce rock video, Pay $100,000" and "Find buried treasure, 
 Collect $80,000" and come with cartoons and voice-overs that bring them to... life. Some spaces 
 involve playing little minigames (the most complicated that the gameplay ever gets here) like picking 
 squares to match prize dollar amounts. The game board itself looks good and is actually a treat 
 to pan over to check out all of the little scenes.  

 In the beginning, you either choose the route to a career or to school. Along the game path of either 
 choice you eventually hit the space to get married, without so much as the choice of your partner's 
 gender (that could've been a cute '90s gesture and would've given a fresh twist on all the baby-rearing 
 that goes on in this game.) Along the game path the music that plays in the background changes 
 era every sixth of the way, going from the '50s all the way through to the 2000s (which sound suspiciously 
 like the '90s) .   

 So here we have a game in which not much choice is offered and from which the set path cannot be 
 deviated: You go to school, you get a job, you get married, you have a baby, you endure things 
 like having your tattoos removed or watching your stocks soar, and then you retire, to a lovely 
 estate of course. No wonder I promptly forgot all that Milton Bradley tried to teach me in Life 
 when I was little; in the words of an old English crooner, "It says nothing to me about my life..." 
 For those who have found themselves traveling along this path, Life will probably play more like 
 the harmless diversion it is while evoking some pleasant nostalgia.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The Game of Life features a board game where you travel through time, buy a house, get married, 
 choose a job, and play through a mini-scale of life. You'll try to retire with the most money and 
 play mini-games and land on special spaces to get money. Relatively simple: earn money, play the 
 game, and retire with the most $$. It's fun, but after a while, it gets a little lifeless and boring.
 
  
  The graphics are nice, but nothing to brag about. The SFX and music are pretty nice though. Also, 
 I wouldn't say it's entirely worth your time and money. Borrow it from a friend and it's worth 
 it. But don't go out and pay money for it.
  
  I'd recommend it to only fans of board games, especially of the Game of Life. If you're not a fan 
 of these kind of games, then pass. It does seem fun, and it is, up until you play it several times, 
 then the Game of Life seems to lose a little of it's "life." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McHenry2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The great thing about playing the computer version of the game of life over its board game counterpart 
 is the fact that no one can cheat!
  
  This game features all that you would expect from the board game, but also includes hilarious comic-like 
 strips and puns that work well with the voice overs that you and whoever you play with can laugh 
 at.
  
  The graphics are decent, along with the sound quality.
  
  Depending on how much you replay board games will determine the value of this game to you, personally 
 it gets boring after about 2-4 games, though you might pick it up once again a year later.
  
  You can play with I think 5 computers and any of them can be substituted for your friend, who 
 has to sit right by you.
  
  You start out either ending college or not going to college and land on various events which determines 
 if you lose a turn, pay $1,000 to whoever is the teacher, if you gain money, etc. You get a job 
 and roll each turn to determine how many spaces your car moves, the board is separated by decades, 
 playing a different tune representing each decade.
  I never really understood how the game determines a winner because it's been a while since I've 
 played it, but I think it's a combination of how big your family is, and how much money you end 
 with. Occasionally you land on a space and get a boy or daughter added to your family (you choose 
 your wife at a certain part of the game) . Sometimes I hate the fact that you have to wait for the 
 computers turn, there should be a skip watching them move button.
  
  The ending cinematic if you win either shows you driving a limo over a rainbow in retirement or 
 you on your yacht\, which is pretty cool.
  
  Things forgot to mention: You also buy different houses, and can choose insurance if anything happens 
 to it.
  
  But overall this is a worthwhile funny game to play (hundreds of funny little scenes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Game of Life is a game based on the classic board game Life. This game has great graphics. 
 Lets start at that, just great graphics. The game is fully 3-D and going around the board just 
 looks good, for something made way back in 1998. Everytime you land on a square you get a funny 
 comediac joke or cutscene such as when you vacation in florida there'll be a comic strip with the 
 Devil talking to a lady saying Where i come from it s sort of a DRY heat Lol... This game is probably 
 even better than the ACTUAL board game! Yes you heard me! Better than the actuall board game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gordon_Sniper62
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 31, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The Game Of Life is a rarity in videogaming to be based on a classic game, and even with no bells 
 and whistles, It Manages to stand on its own.
  
  The Game Of Life Statistics:
  
  Gameplay 8/10: This Game Manages To Bring all the fun of the original classic while providing it 
 in video game form, Bonus points go to the multiplayer mode, which is a feature all on its own.
 
  
  Graphics:7/10 Two Words: Pixel Perfect. Big-headed Graphics Provide hours of fun for gamers of 
 all ages.
  
  Sound:7/10 Classic sound effects are perfect for gamers who prefer to go old school, Kudos to Connor 
 Black, Who Provides the narration for the game.
  
  Value 9/10 Anybody who wants a solid version of the board game will find it here.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: 8/10 Almost anyone that knows the rules can play this game, which adds to it's cool factor.
 
  
  Overall: 7.9/10.0 Good|This Game is A Reasonable Port Of A Classic Board Game, And Longtime Fans 
 Will not be Dissappointed, Because Fans Will Surely love It 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjfz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. If you have played the board game version, and you've enjoyed it get this 
 game. But, if you haven't then I'll tell you what it's all about. The Game of Life is very similar 
 Monopoly, except you don't get to build stuff. In fact, the game depends on luck a lot, you get 
 to choose college or start a job right away. Having a job means that you'll earn money everytime 
 you lands on Payday . Other than that there's nothing much you can do about LIFE. Well, this is 
 a rather fun game, but I would rather get the board game rather than the software version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty sweet. it is just like the real game ony better because you dont have to clean 
 up the game. yea it is pretty sweet. i would play this game all day long if i didnt have halo 2, 
 counter strike, football (real football) , school, and work. are you kidding me this game is a joke. 
 the only good part about it is that you dont have to clean it up (see above) . but seriously it 
 isnt that bad and the "AI" is pretty good. for a crappy game. it lives up to the standards of the 
 game life but you want to know why i dont like this game. because i dont even like the board game 
 life. it sucks, yea i said it, what you gonna do about it, thats what i thought, nothing you panzy. 
 im jk. COW out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arodsfuturewife
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  i love this game!! it is a really fun game. my favorite board game is the game of life and i think 
 it is so cool that they made it into a video game!! it is a great game to have when you are bored 
 and have nothing to do. it is also a good game to have on a rainy day. it does not take a lot of 
 time or brain power to play. LOLZ!! it is a really good game and it can last you for a while.
 
  i woudl reccomend this game to anyone who is looking to buy a video game for a friend or realitive. 
 oh yea but i would not reccomend it for someone over the age of 14 it can be a tad babyish at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  The good: One of the great board games that we always play. Different game modes. Multiplayer.
 
  
  The bad: Quite empty. Bad graphics. Gets repetitive.
  
  One of the amazing board games that we played all the time with that spinny wheel is the game of 
 life. After a while, they have decided to make a game off it. 
  This is one of those games that would have been a great hit. Unfortunately, they have left a lot 
 of stuff quite empty.
  
  The game begins by picking your characters. Yes beleive it, you actually get to pick characters. 
 After you pick your characters, you click on the wheel. You pick your careers by using a slot machine. 
 Then, your salary is picked by you clicking on 9 tabs, and picking one with the highest salary. 
 After you get married, and stuff, kids, blah blah blah.
  
  One of the interesting features is all of those humourous cut scenes or text pictures that you 
 find in each square. These scenes are the reason that I put this game score a bit higher. In conclusion, 
 this game is alright. If you get this from a cereal box, like me, then keep it. Otherwise, don't 
 get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opima
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game for the PC could have been much better if they had spent just a little more brain power 
 on it. As opposed the Monopoly, The Game of Life could be a much better game on the PC rather then 
 as a board game. The makers of this game should have played with the interface a little more and 
 should have been more creative. This is the type of game that can go in many directions, and they 
 just didn't let it go there.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed playing this game, however, in the end, somethings get so 
 tedious. The replayability is almost nil, unlike the board game.
  
  Gameplay and graphics are okay, nothing to brag about. The sound is funny, they have electric music 
 that goes from the 70's to the 80's to the 90's as you progress around the board.
  
  All in all, it's only a mediocre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
