-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Great Escape
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/greatescape/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 31, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 134 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gotham Games
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date:     Jul 23, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Great Escape may be fun for die-hard fans of the film, but if you're just looking for a good 
 stealth action game, you could do better. 

  The movie-licensed game is a longtime, if somewhat dubious, tradition in this industry -- every summer 
 you see a raft of games that tie in to the latest box-office-busting Hollywood films. In the past, 
 these games were generally confined to consoles, but in this age of simultaneous cross-platform 
 releases, they've begun to pop up on the PC as well. In addition to this summer's expected crop 
 of current-action-flick games, we've also received a game based on a 40-year-old action flick. 
 The Great Escape is an action and stealth game based on the  1963 Steve McQueen film  of the same 
 name, and though it provides a large amount of varied gameplay for fans of the movie, none of its 
 parts are developed enough to be wholly satisfying.  

          In The Great Escape, you must use stealth to complete your missions.     

  The plot 
 of The Great Escape, the game, is closely tied to and actually expands upon the plot of  The Great 
 Escape , the movie. While the film focused on the escape of Allied POWs from Stalag Luft III, a 
 high-security Nazi prison camp, that event doesn't occur until several missions into the game. 
 Prior to that, you'll be playing missions that detail the back story of memorable figures from 
 the film like Hilts (the McQueen character) , MacDonald, and Sedgewick. These early missions fill 
 you in on how the heroes of the movie came to be imprisoned at Stalag Luft III and provide a good 
 introduction to their personalities. Of course, after the big breakout, you'll play several more 
 missions that chronicle these characters' harried path through Europe to freedom. Each mission 
 has a set playable character, and you'll switch back and forth fairly often to catch up with the 
 progress of each one.  

  The Great Escape's gameplay is surprisingly varied, but it's a stealth action game at its core. 
 You control your character from the third-person perspective, and you have a standard assortment 
 of basic moves to facilitate sneaking past the ubiquitous Nazi guards. You can vary your walking 
 speed or crouch to move around silently, and you have a "stealth camera" that lets you look around 
 corners, over boxes, and even through keyholes to see what the guards are up to. You can also punch 
 enemies or choke them from behind, but doing so is pretty awkward and can often backfire, leading 
 to your capture. When alerting a single guard means you have to start the mission over, you want 
 to keep to the shadows as much as possible. Though The Great Escape is a console-style action game, 
 and it appears to have been developed primarily with consoles in mind, it plays perfectly fine 
 on the PC in terms of control. As you'd expect, it supports standard gamepads, and it even handles 
 relatively well with a mouse and keyboard. However, the added precision of the mouse offers both 
 an advantage and a disadvantage: Though you can aim more accurately in the combat portions than 
 with an analog stick, you're not given as much auto-aim assistance as in the console versions, 
 so you have to do more of the work yourself.  

  Unfortunately, when compared with the best games in the stealth genre like the PC's reigning champ, 
 Splinter Cell, the gameplay in The Great Escape doesn't hold up very well. For one thing, it never 
 seems like your sneaking has much of a point -- the stealth missions mostly degenerate into glorified 
 fetch quests. Sneaking from point A to point B, then back to point A, then to point C just to grab 
 some trivial items and throw a couple of switches can be pretty uninteresting. The game's stealth 
 wouldn't be so bad if the guard AI were a little more realistic, but sometimes you'll end up getting 
 caught for no discernible reason, while at other times you'll be able to sneak past a guard that 
 has a direct line of sight to your position. To make matters worse, you're limited to three saves 
 per level, which you'd expect would make the game more challenging. It does, but at the cost of 
 introducing a lot of repetition -- when you can get caught at the drop of a hat, you'll be repeating 
 large portions of the missions over and over until you've figured out exactly how to evade the 
 guards' search patterns. Occasionally the gameplay and level design will come together and you'll 
 encounter a sneaking segment that's pretty cool, but these bits are too few and too minor to rescue 
 The Great Escape's stealth missions from the otherwise pervasive tedium.  

  Thankfully there are a few other types of gameplay in the game to break up the stealth action, 
 though none of them are really valuable as more than diversions. The first level, which takes place 
 on a damaged bomber, has you jumping in a rear turret and fending off incoming fighter planes for 
 a bit. You'll also get to ride a few vehicles during some missions, such as an APC you can plow 
 through enemy soldiers with. The last two missions even see you playing Hilts as he rides a motorcycle 
 to freedom amid a hail of Nazi bullets. Finally, some missions abandon the stealth model in favor 
 of all-out action, but the combat is incredibly clunky when you first get to try it several missions 
 into the game. You can get the hang of it eventually -- the trick is that you have to let your character 
 stop moving long enough to auto-target a nearby enemy -- but even when you've gotten better at it, 
 it's only mildly entertaining.  

          The game's control is decent, even with a mouse and keyboard.     

  As a PC port of 
 a console game, The Great Escape looks about like you'd expect it to. It's certainly the best-looking 
 version among the three (the game is also available on the PS2 and Xbox) , which is what you'd expect, 
 considering that most high-end PCs have superior graphics hardware. The PC version features higher 
 resolutions, a better frame rate, and a few more graphical details than the console versions, but 
 the actual visual content remains unchanged -- it basically has the same textures and low-detail 
 models as the console versions. In other words, the game looks fairly solid but not nearly as impressive 
 as other modern PC games that are designed specifically for that platform. Film buffs should at 
 least appreciate the fact that the Steve McQueen character in the game does in fact look like Steve 
 McQueen. The sound is actually pretty high-quality, as it uses snippets from the film score, and 
 the voices are generally well acted and appropriate for the parts. The presentation of the game 
 is decent; it's just a shame the gameplay that backs it up isn't as enjoyable as it could be.  
 

  Overall, The Great Escape is merely an OK game that could have been a lot better. Perhaps if the 
 developers had focused more on the stealth part of the game and less on the other aspects, we'd 
 have a game that's less varied but more fun to play. As it is, The Great Escape may be fun for 
 die-hard fans of the film, but if you're just looking for a good action game, or even a good World 
 War II action game, you could do better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kavster2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  what a game this is. when hiding blye in the bog ensure to do it as close to the back of the train 
 as possible do not hide him in first bog as prompted as you will never get him to back of train 
 alive after you have killed all gaurds there is always one that wipes him so go to the bog as near 
 to the back of train as you can. When shooting gaurds on train roof after going onto second carraige 
 go down ladders but come straight back up and shoot the two gaurds that come up the other side 
 and use health packs when just under half health on this level. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
