-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Guild 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/theguild2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative blend of role-playing, real-time strategy, and economic-sim genres.
 lots of detail and a great medieval atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive gameplay.
 really heavy on micromanagement.
 limited character interaction.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: 4Head Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Micromanagement and repetition really bog down this original but unfulfilling game about directing 
 the lives of people trying to make it in the Middle Ages. 

  While nobody expects a game about building a family dynasty in medieval Europe to be an action-packed 
 thrill ride, The Guild 2 is so detail-oriented that it should be on meds for obsessive-compulsive 
 disorder. Much like its predecessor, 2002's Europa 1400: The Guild, this is a micromanager's dream. 
 4Head Studios' manner of blending The Sims-style babysitting with Middle Ages economics remains 
 original, but the gameplay is so repetitive and meticulous that it will even wear down medieval 
 history buffs.  

          Medieval villages look and feel so authentic that you can almost smell them.     

  
 As in Europa 1400, the focus here is on setting up a family. You begin with a single peasant and 
 must gradually move him up the ladder in society by starting a business to make lots of money, 
 acquiring a wife, having children to carry on the family name, and even running for public office. 
 A lot of the lines between genres are crossed. Your characters have role-playing game-style ability 
 scores, classes (patron, scholar, craftsman, and rogue) , and special abilities (complete with funny 
 line-art illustrations reminiscent of those in the Fallout games) . Your character also gains experience 
 points and levels up like in a role-playing game. But you additionally construct and upgrade buildings, 
 gather resources, and produce goods like in a real-time strategy game. And, you'll also oversee 
 businesses like in an economics-simulation game. There is even a bit of action involved where you 
 can hire guards to fend off highwaymen who are intent on robbing your goods-laden carts, or you 
 can become a rogue and rob such shipments yourself.  

  Campaigns all play out in 15th century Europe on maps that represent the English, German, and French 
 countrysides. There are a total of eight maps in the game, although they represent variations on 
 just three general locations. The locations are mainly differentiated by building changes in the 
 starting towns and some adjustments to the opening economic conditions. In Hills of Lyon, for example, 
 you deal with a rich region that forms the hub of five trade routes. But in Alamannia, you have 
 to contend with an economic slump that has been caused by the effects of trade-disrupting bandits. 
 Goals can also be changed in each region by switching among four modes of play. Dynasty is the 
 most enjoyable mode because it's open-ended and the most lifelike. Extinction, time limit, and 
 assigned missions (which involve pretty basic goals like getting rich and becoming a top criminal) 
 are more restrictive and feel more gamelike, although they are reasonable options when you don't 
 want to leap into full-blown, dynastic family building.  

  All these options are available for play in multiplayer mode, so in theory, you can have some pretty 
 lively online contests with fellow wannabe burghers. We tried to find an online match for a full 
 week after the game was released in North America, but we never found any games in progress. So 
 either there are technical problems with the game, or very few people have taken their dynastic 
 ambitions online thus far.  

  Although it sounds like The Guild 2 has a lot going on, it is pretty limited in scope. The game 
 centers on repeating a handful of tasks over and over again, even though there are numerous occupations 
 available for each of the four classes. Patrons, scholars, and craftsmen make money in similar 
 ways, by crafting goods from raw resources and selling them in town marketplaces. Scholars are 
 the game's professional class, serving as priests, doctors, and the like, but they still manufacture 
 goods like the parchment and holy water that are cranked out in churches. Food-producing patrons 
 work in the fields to cultivate crops and raise beef cattle for sale. Or they run pubs and inns, 
 making and selling booze and food. And craftsmen make their money by crafting metal goods like 
 daggers in foundries or by making clothing in mills.  

          Special abilities are illustrated with art and humorous text reminiscent of that in the 
 Fallout games. Meet the medieval Pip Boy!     

  All these careers are very similar in the way that they play. Even worse, acquiring raw materials, 
 making finished products, and selling goods in marketplaces require painstaking effort. You can 
 automate buildings and carts, but the pathfinding is awful. If you let carts go on their own, they 
 inevitably run into pedestrians and slow to a crawl (it's like there's a narrow, invisible track 
 for all traffic on roads) , as well as take circuitous routes to and from markets. So you're stuck 
 with manually moving a lot of workers and carts from your mills, foundries, churches, and assorted 
 other places of business to the marketplace and back. It never gets overwhelming because the pace 
 is moderate even when you've become a medieval tycoon, but it's never a whole lot of fun either. 
 And movement isn't without problems, because the game is buggy and frequently requires numerous 
 right clicks before it accepts destinations.  

  It's a little different playing a rogue because your objective isn't to make goods but to swipe 
 them. Instead of building a business, you set up a robber's nest, then hire some thieves and assign 
 them to country roads where they can ambush loaded carts. Or you can assign them to town businesses 
 where they can extort protection money from law abiders. As you might imagine, this is more enjoyable 
 than the straight life. But it's viable only in rich areas that have lots of carts to rob, and 
 you still have to haul your ill-gotten gains to market, so it's not like you're completely evading 
 the mundane shopkeeper stuff. Also, you can run into a string of bad luck where your thugs constantly 
 get killed by guards, which keeps your coffers low on cash and puts you in front of a judge more 
 often than Michael Jackson. Still, if you can get rolling and stash away some money, you can run 
 your burg like a mafia kingpin, robbing locals, killing rivals, and setting up family members in 
 top political posts.  

  Even when you get your nose off the old grindstone, the game continues to repeat itself. The personal-relations 
 engine, where you kiss up to other people to enhance your reputation around town and court a husband 
 or wife, has very few options. When playing up to, say, a town official to curry favor and gain 
 a vote in an upcoming bailiff election, you throw out compliments and bribes. If you get enough 
 money out there, you'll generally build a solid network of friends and guarantee an election win. 
 If you want to woo a hot babe, you dish out compliments and give gifts before popping the question. 

  And the personal interactions are a long way from realistic. Courtship is marked by women who giggle 
 like morons and guys who make out like bandits with lines like "Hey, you're really built." And 
 you can score bonus points with strangers by kissing them out of the blue or asking them to take 
 a bath with you. Good luck trying that with the staff at Medieval Times. Bonus points to 4Head 
 for trying to inject some humor into a pretty serious game, but this stuff just isn't going to 
 have people rolling in the aisles, and anyway, it mainly draws attention to how character interaction 
 is pretty shallow.  

  Yet there are aspects of The Guild 2 that are compelling. Even though repetition weighs everything 
 down, every so often you're taken by surprise by some nifty feature. Towns do seem like real places 
 at times. Running for office can be a real kick because you typically need to shake a lot of hands 
 and work voters to move up the ladder. And, you always seem to have mortal enemies who will do 
 anything to ruin your reputation, from dragging you into court on made-up charges to robbing or 
 torching your house or business.  

          Just like in The Sims, you can play dress-up with your peasants and give them funky hairstyles. 
     

  And 4Head has done a great job of bringing medieval towns to life. Everything is nicely rendered 
 in an attractive 3D engine, so you get a good look at the cart-shuffling and goods-manufacturing 
 citizens, as well as those who are milling about the streets. Visuals are a bit behind the times, 
 with characters that are marred by blocky faces and stilted animations. But the clothing styles, 
 interiors and exteriors of buildings (most interiors are gorgeous, particularly the town hall) , 
 and even the haircuts look like something out of a History Channel documentary. The audio doesn't 
 add much to the presentation and is marred by negligible sound effects, forgettable musical, and 
 character dialogue that consists of a few lines of English and a smattering of Latin.  

  Unless you want to play Robin Hood, The Guild 2 is pretty much a lesson about the drudgery of toiling 
 in a medieval workshop. After playing this game for an hour or so, you'll thank whatever deity 
 you believe in that you were born a good 600 or so years after your serfs. While you will certainly 
 learn a few things about the Middle Ages in the process of hammering out daggers and directing 
 monks on how to make parchment, the excess of repetitive tasks means that this isn't edutainment 
 at its finest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fabianmaxime
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, I'm a huge fan of the original and this follow up! While many folks complain of the 
 bugs, the ONLY one I ever experienced was the pathing bug that was addressed in the patch. I find 
 this game and its predecessors two of my top five favorite games of all time. Simply put, it's 
 amazingly unique and addictive, offering an enjoyable mix of RTS, City Builder and RPG that no 
 other game offers. Two keys when buying/playing this game... first, make sure your machine exceeds 
 the min. specs... most of the 'bugs' that are complained about have come from two sources as experienced 
 on the official forum: 1) those who's machines don't or barely meet the min. specs and 2) those 
 who obtained the game illegally. The second key is LIVE the life of the game. I mean enjoy it... take 
 the time to dig into every nook and cranny of the lives that your allowed to lead in this game! 
 You'll find the immersion amazing!
  
  And graphically, it's stunning to say the least! I eagerly await the add on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  TG 2 brings you back to the medieval Europe, where power struggle happened everywhere between big 
 countries, leaving the space for guilds to grow and expand. This world is described very lively 
 in 3D graphics. You will be surprised at the details of items and architecture here, all of which 
 are true to the context of the game: a medieval world. Moreover, there are many characters from 
 all walk of life, each with distinctive face and voice! They are not merely decorative, but always 
 have at least something interesting to say with you. The sound tracks are in harmony with graphics, 
 very exciting and lively, and cleverly merged sound effects describing daily life, leaving a strong 
 impression in player.
  
  Game play of TG 2 is a mixture of RPG, strategy and virtual-life. Your character starts off with 
 an amount of money and use this fund to build his/her life. He/she is of one of three class: Craftman, 
 scholar, rogue and there are about 10 professions to choose, like blacksmith, merchant, thief, 
 scoundrel... TG 2 also provides players with very detailed maps containing location of all mines 
 and other NPCs. With the option to adjust game speed, you will not have to wait while your building 
 is being constructed or some characters carry out their orders. Besides the campaign, Multiplayer 
 mode allows up to 8 players playing on LAN or Internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zquirly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Stop stabbing and shooting and killing everybody. Though there's still a fair amount of that if 
 you choose to play that way, The Guild 2 is more about scheming in a political and economical sense. 
 
  
  Open an inn, grow crops, brew beer, mine gold and other metals and convert them into armor and 
 weapons. Then sell everything to the masses. Use your riches to influence the people in your local 
 town and maybe you'll end up in a public office - from Guild Master to Mayor to Executioner. Every 
 position comes with pay and some benefits and using those benefits to further your own agenda is 
 what it's all about.
  
  There's even a slight Sims aspect to it (but don't let that put you off) in that the game lets 
 you woo the opposite sex and start a family - after all, someone needs to run the business once 
 you're observing the carrots from below. It's not a case of having to pay attention to their physical 
 needs though so you won't have to worry about pissing yourself while in the courtroom.
  
  The graphics are nice, with the animations looking a bit awkward at times. I put that down to there 
 being so many of them, though. Like with any cRPG that tries to give you the world and allow you 
 to do anything, what you get is quantity not quality - but the quantity makes for a varied and 
 involved game with lots of options. It's a trade-off I'm more than willing to make.
  
  Everybody needs to try this game, even though the tutorial took me more than an 1 hour and after 
 that I still restarted about 3 times. It might need some special attention but the payout, like 
 with any good cRPG, is exponential. With re-playability coming out of it's ears this game is a 
 good investment if you're into this sort of stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToanDeaf23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The content of this game is so rich and emmersive.. There's so much to do and conquer. How was 
 this EVER badly rated? Fair enough to say the game, without the patch being installed, is terribly 
 bugged and glitched. But one it has been updated, it's a frickin' Masterpiece. I kid you not. It's 
 cheaply bought and the expansion back adds another massive layer of depth to it.
  Awesome, beautiful, magnificent game. I've never been so appeased since the days of Oblivion. Yes, 
 it's THAT addictive. I will give anyone a pat on the back to be a unique gamer and take this "unpopular" 
 game up.. 
  The starting gameplay and hour or two are quite complicated, I'll admit, untill you find your feet. 
 Within no time you will be constructing your second branch of Bakerys, running for Mayor of your 
 town, seducing a potential spouse or planning the assassination of your most feared rival. What 
 a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollobrains
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is reasonable good visuals, good underlying game engine, if youre running a low 
 res system use minimal settings. As lag can be a big issue
  
  Now for the downside 
  * customer service they have abaondoned all customer services and patching
  * their forums have 
 people complaining about being overcharged and then not being able to play the game because save 
 games are corrupted and it has a tendancy to crash at random times
  * there is a 1.3 patch for the cd version which deals with some of these bugs however their digital 
 download perchase version is stuck on 1.2 which there is no plans to realise a patch to make it 
 compatible ( i dont like companies that neglect the digital stream which is an increasing revenue 
 source)
  
  * all in all lots of potential and if they surprise with one last patch that balances and fixes 
 the various near game breaking bugs it might be worth buying but i cant recommend it at this time, 
 i have asked for my money back but am unable to get a refund.
  
  The expansion pack is also bug riddled and not worth touching 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunk888
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play the game I was at first very pleased with the way it handled, all 
 the way up to when it crashes randomly. The game was obviously not ready to be launched, I had 
 to wait till the first patch to come out, to fully enjoy the game. Other than that the game was 
 pretty solid. The graphics were very impressive, and the changing between the four seasons was 
 great. The other thing that was not too impressive was the fact that character customization was 
 very limited. Depending on your class you have to choose from a very limited amount of styles and 
 appearances for you character. As far as combat goes, not so much you battle between your rivals 
 for the things such as resources that are required for you to run a successful business. The game 
 overall is very limiting and in ways pretty dissatisfying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proudmoore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the predecessor of this game but I imagine it was good if it is anything at 
 all like its newer version. The game starts of in the late 1400's of Europe and allow you to create 
 a profile complete with all the visuals like face, hair, facial hair, body size.. etc , though you 
 only get two or three choices in each category. The game also throws in other RPG-esqe aspects 
 by allowing you to choose to be either Protestant or Catholic and choosing what astrology sign 
 to be born under. These affect your starting stats but not by much. You are then placed in the 
 game without further adieu you are left to drift on your own, while all you know is to eliminate 
 your competition. Pros:
  1. An excellent idea for a game that combines a simulation with an RPG.
  2. Fair graphics but 
 nothing to rave about.
  3. Being able to be elected to a political position is fun, especially if you abuse the powers 
 of that position.
  4. Courting, dueling and playing as a judge are excellent little mini-games. 
  
  Cons:
  1. 
 BUGS. I can't stress enough how unplayable this game can be at times especially without downloading 
 the newest patches.
  2. LAG! 3. Ignorant NPC and player controlled characters can make for a more difficult than needed 
 time.
  4. Learning curve. Though tutorials are provided they are worthless. Just go to the community forum 
 for any help you need.
  
  With all its faults though, I still have a very hard time putting the game down and just keep coming 
 back for more... until it crashes to the desktop and I quit in frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraturkurati
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I agree The Guild 2 was poorly created compare to the older version, no matter what, this game 
 has improved now more than ever, the graphics are beautiful, the game play is amazing and there 
 is much more you can do in The Guild 2, the reason that most people still accept this game is basic, 
 no other game does it like this.
  
  I say this, if you are the owner of the previous version or just want to try something different, 
 this is a game you have been searching for but never found, just install the latest patch before 
 you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad11
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, I'm a huge fan of the original and this follow up! While many folks complain of the 
 bugs, the ONLY one I ever experienced was the pathing bug that was addressed in the patch. I find 
 this game and its predecessors two of my top five favorite games of all time. Simply put, it's 
 amazingly unique and addictive, offering an enjoyable mix of RTS, City Builder and RPG that no 
 other game offers. Two keys when buying/playing this game... first, make sure your machine exceeds 
 the min. specs... most of the 'bugs' that are complained about have come from two sources as experienced 
 on the official forum: 1) those who's machines don't or barely meet the min. specs and 2) those 
 who obtained the game illegally. The second key is LIVE the life of the game. I mean enjoy it... take 
 the time to dig into every nook and cranny of the lives that your allowed to lead in this game! 
 You'll find the immersion amazing!
  
  And graphically, it's stunning to say the least! I eagerly await the add on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forddevil666
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  If you want to build glories trade empires, bring the heathens to the light, or just down right 
 cheat, steal and bribe your way to the top then this game is for you. I have been playing this 
 game for about a week now and admittedly I have found the bugs to be rather a nescience as I have 
 lost whole dynasties, this however is partly my fault as I should have saved the game. Some of 
 the bugs Ive encountered are
  
  The game will start to lag before eventually crashing
  
  Buying some buildings will cause it to freeze up
  
  As for the comments about the repetitiveness 
 of the game Id have to say its about equal with any other game and no where near as bad as samurai 
 warriors. I found there was plenty to keep a player occupied and if the game became excessive Id 
 switch over to a new profession or try something different. In the guild 2 you can do many different 
 things, a few of my favorite ones Ill explain in brief detail.
  
  Set up a underground empire
  In one of my games I selected the rouge class for play, personally 
 I have found this by far the most entertaining profession, as a rouge you can manage robbers dens 
 and thieves guilds, some of the options available to you if you choose to are 1 Setting up highwaymen 
 to pillage caravans along the road 2 Pillage buildings, taking all there hard earned wealth and 
 contents for yourself
  3 extorting businesses for protection money
  
  The other option in the rouge class is to build a thieves guild, with this building you can
  
 
  1 Set up your thieves to pickpocket passers by
  2 Kidnap and demand ransom for other people
  3 Commit a burglary on a building The things to 
 watch out for are the town guards seeing your misdeeds and angry people seeking revenge (my main 
 character was murdered) . You will also make a ton of enemies and be taken to court regularly.
 
  
  The scholars class
  In this class you can set up churches to preach to good book to all the citizens and nobles of 
 the city, if this does not take your fancy then you might like to try your hand at being an alchemist 
 or perhaps mage.
  
  Deep in a dark dank basement below the hub of activity upstairs a women took some toads eyes from 
 a white plate sitting upon an alter, she spoke the magic words and looked down ' not another poison 
 pie' she thought, the mages guild is quite fun and allows you to produce many items to sabotage 
 or kill your families enemies, its income is not vastly great but with patience and a little work 
 it can turn into quite a lucrative business.
  
  Not locked to one class however is politics
  
  As a dynasty you can apply for a better title 
 for example a peasant can become a citizen and so on, not only this you can also apply for the 
 positions in your town centre as say head torturer of chief prosecutor giving you a lot of political 
 power, and lastly you can use and abuse the courts to bring justice or revenge to your familys 
 enemies.
  
  These are but a taste of the many available objectives one can complete in the guild 2, As for 
 the graphics Id have to say a lot of detail was put into the game however the faces of the people 
 can look a bit unrealistic, especially the women. In closing I would like to say that the game 
 is quite enjoyable and apart from a few bugs it promises much enjoyment for players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursed_lion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The Guild 2 is an underappreciated game because of the bugs that has make the life of the gamer 
 difficult but when you download the patch most if not all of them are vanished to the thin air. Most 
 of all this game is extremely rare to find another one like it with the same form of gaming, the 
 dynasty capabilities that force the gamer in a pleasant way to look many other sectors of the in-game 
 life except pure economics and battles or guild wars try to see this game not as a buggy one but 
 as a game that has many sides to see and taste and not only one. Among the many good and unseen 
 things that this game has is that you can almost feel like a medieval trader or rogue or scholar 
 when you play it the feeling that gives when you zoom to the streets is unique the courting the 
 duels the thieves the titles all of those things make this game not only worthy to play but gives 
 it a place to every gamers respectable collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jathyr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to make this brief but informative. This game allows you to micro or macro manage in a 
 very complex world where business, politics, relationships, and even subterfuge come into play. 
 You choose a profession and that guides your business style, while you try to woo a wife and build 
 a family all while playing political game. Choose what interests you, there's multiple ways to 
 win, including never playing politics! The world is all connected, the marketplace, the community, 
 and wheeling and dealing all make you have to balance how you master this game. As for detailed 
 playing... it has a deep learning curve where You can play this game for hours trying to best manipulate 
 market. The AI is pretty good, the multi-player is better due to patches and I think this game 
 is wonderful new style of game. Not a city builder but has parts of that, not a sim game but has 
 parts in the relationship building, and it has economics and more. I thought the graphics and sound 
 made the game really enjoyable, a zoomed in look isn't so sweet but you'll be zoomed out mostly 
 and from afar the world is really well-rendered. The games take a long time to finish and you'll 
 be surprised to find that while you're trying to profit on growing wheat, someone hires a mob to 
 attack your farm and you die. There are experiences like that which can be very frustrating but 
 overall you'll actually find this game rewarding and not just a sap of your time.
  
  Hope you enjoyed this!
  
  Jathyr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotonio_204
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I believe overall this game is good and maybe one of the best game of the year also, I mean come 
 on 4 head had design something for those whom just like me, that love to do as many thing as possible 
 all at once. You can rob someone and had one of your highly skill employees that works for you 
 to start extortion protection money from someone else. Now that my friends is one of the best thing 
 about this game The Guild 2, and all I can say is you need a little patience and appreciate, what 
 4 head has give this game such a great name. THANK YOU 4 head!!! 3 thumbs up, when is some gamers 
 don't agree. The graphic is great, I got a good ATI radeon x1600 pro 512mb, and the game runs just 
 fine, yes this game isn't for every other graphic cards out there, but it's still a great game 
 for those who can worth a good graphic card. The simulation and strategy is the basic controls 
 of ths game and this is why I purchase the product. If you love Medieval 2 total war, than this 
 game is for you too, for me it's NOT all about how the game function but how you as the gamer is 
 playing the game and finding the good and bad views of the game that was design for you satisfaction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerno1
Rating: 2.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhhhhh........ Finally I have uninstalled this game. I am surprised that even after so much 
 time, the creators of Guild 2 couldn't solve the problems with the game. Patch 1.2 is much more 
 buggy than the vanilla one.
  
  First I spent a good time just to learn this game, and then after starting this game, all the crashes 
 and bugs just started to mess up every thing. I spent a good time over internet, surfing numerous 
 websites, browsing different forums discussing The Guild 2 just to solve the problems with this 
 game, but DDDDaaaamn!!!! . There is no other solution than quit playing this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashuea
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game seem to have both good and bad points. While the open-ended dynasty mode is perhaps the 
 most enjoyable game mood, the repetitive chore of micotasking your business gets difficult as you 
 get further into the game. The characters are also somewhat buggy as they seem to do the 'electric 
 slide' at times. Perhaps the rouge class is the best one to play, as you don't have to worry about 
 businesses and just rob carts for profit, if you can avoid the guard. Finally, the AI itself is 
 rather simple to figer out, and can also get repetitive at times. In the end, the game has a few 
 redeeming features, but its downfalls drags this game down to the discount bin. If you like medieval 
 type games, this MIGHT be your game, otherwise avoid like the black plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna be brief.
  This game is tremendously buggy.
  The closest thing I've seen to news about a patch beyond 1.2 is the announcement of an expansion 
 pack, you'd think they'd want to iron out the bugs in the base product before making one of those, 
 but what do I know? In any case, even with the newest patch you'll come upon a plethora of bugs 
 and glitches. Everything from not being able to get into your own home to sharing the same dynasty 
 in multiplayer due to a synchronization problem in multiplayer which screws with the saved games. 
 When the game does play, it's pretty fun and a decent enough improvement on the original game to 
 warrant a purchase, again, if you can survive a buggy game. It looks okay, it sounds okay and if 
 the bugs during your session are at all forgiving it'll play okay too, but you can't count on that.
 
  
  Still, with little competition in the 'medieval life sim' market this is your best bet.
  
  Note: I've only rated the game hard due to the unforgiving and random nature of the bugs in 
 this game, which make it hard to contend with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adagio4life
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  A poor way to spend your money. It had the potential for something greater, but it seems that the 
 manufacturer decided that The Guild 2 is a very small budget game. The graphics and the game-play 
 have a good potential, but still, all the bugs just don't justify it's purchase. I just hope that 
 they are gone release a patch for this game to fix all the problems and turn this in to a hit. 
 It has the potential, the idea is good, the graphics are not bad, the sound is not bad neither 
 and it has a pretty good line. As a conclusion, i'm waiting for the patch that will release the 
 beast . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  The Guild 2 is one of those games that can only be described as an acquired taste. That does 
 not mean its only for the uber-intelligent or hoity-toity gamer crowd, but it most certainly will 
 not please gamers who like instant results and lots of action.
  
  The Guild 2 is a unique blend of economic and political strategy, with a dash of Sims thrown in 
 for fun. Having never played the original Guild, I was pleasantly surprised at what the game had 
 to offer. Starting on the standard RPG screen of designing your character, including meager physical 
 characteristics, you decide what type of gaming experience you wish to have. You can focus on sales, 
 scholar, industry, or the rogue class, which robs and engages in political intrigue. You also 
 decide which of the many character traits you want to boost to give you an edge in fighting, selling, 
 speaking, or other function you may need later on. In the end, you use a little bit of everything 
 (rogues spend a lot of time in court, patrons may have to fight off assassins, etc.) , so a well 
 rounded education is certainly called for.
  
  On top of running a career, you can vie for a political position. Some positions offer diplomatic 
 immunity, so even if you have no desire to run the town politically, it may behoove you to have 
 one or two family members grab these slots. Political power is obtained through bribing the voting 
 officials, being a positive member of the society, or killing your rivals. Its all in good fun. 
 The same works for being accused and standing trial, or accusing others, and balancing money between 
 your business and court fees (read: bribing people) is a constant stressor to the game. Court and 
 political proceedings can be a real nail-biter, with you making bribes and threats right to the 
 end.
  
  All of this is for naught if you have no family to pick up after youve died (whether by age or 
 by sword) . Much of the beginning hours of your character are spent finding a mate, and, much like 
 real life, some will marry you simply by asking while others have their own agenda. You may end 
 up going through two or three potential partners before finding someone that will finally give 
 them your hand. Ive heard complaints that this is far too complicated; its not. Its challenging 
 and a very well-placed aspect of the game as you have to run your character back and forth trying 
 to boost your new business while attempting to court someone to your bed. All the while, the clock 
 is ticking on your age, your dues, and the latest criminal charges that are being filed against 
 you. For a slow-real-time game (similar to Tropico or Sims in time management) , the pace of this 
 game rises and falls from sluggish to frantic in a blink. Once you do find someone to share your 
 home with, you can start cranking out children to expand your empire even further. You can populate 
 a towns entire political hierarchy with your own blood, if you play your cards right.
  
  Running the businesses, with the exception of rogue class, is beyond frustrating at times. I micromanaged 
 my tavern as much as I could, making sure someone was always working, running carts back and forth, 
 and neglected the AI option because, heaven forbid, I cant do it better than the AI. I almost 
 went broke. I let the AI manage my building and my profits were doubled before the next turn. I 
 still cant figure out what the difference is. Regardless, once you find a pattern, whether AI 
 assisted or you just have better luck than I, there are many ways to upgrade your single business 
 or expand your franchise. Eventually, you can run a monopoly throughout the land. The rogues, by 
 contrast, just hang out on the road and steal from carts passing by. So long as your men are far 
 enough away from city guards, you have a constant income to rival other businesses. Its easy money, 
 until the entire town tries to kill you or have you arrested.
  
  I can honestly say this is one of the most difficult games Ive ever played, but its not necessarily 
 all due to legitimate challenge. Much of the trifle of this game is the lack of detail in the manual. 
 Youre told you can ask around to gain evidence on other people, but it doesnt tell you that you 
 have to be a certain class or certain level to be able to do this (one of my henchmen of the rogue 
 class could, but none of the others could) . A suggestion for courting a specific type of person 
 calls for taking a bath with them, but there are no instructions on how to do so (I think you install 
 a tub in your own house and lure them back, but Im still not sure) . Other things like why my character 
 cant hire certain unemployed citizens or court certain single people are never discussed.
  
  Graphically, the game is very pretty and runs quite well on my AMD 3400+ with GeForce 6600 
 and 2gig RAM. I have almost all the options turned up with some minor things here and there shut 
 down. When I do a jump across the map, the game slows while graphics reload, but its a minor issue. 
 Slowing the game down actually causes a memory issue and the cursor all but ceases to work unless 
 youre in normal time. Despite that, the graphics depict a very pretty image of life in medieval 
 times without being like a cartoon or drenched in fantasy imagery. If you zoom low into the game, 
 you are often rewarded with surprises like fish in the water or cautious deer sneaking through 
 the woods. The character animations, however, are jerky and repetitive, something 4Head should 
 have spent just a few more weeks working on.
  
  That said, the game is not without bugs, on top of the manuals shortcomings. I tried three times 
 to select an unemployed person, and it wouldnt click. I clicked on my business to hire someone 
 random automatically, and the person I had been trying to select was the one hired by my business. 
 You can tell your troops repeatedly to follow one of your carts or family members, then, when there 
 is a time or event change, your troops will stop and stand there for the rest of the game until 
 you intervene. You get notified of the goings on in another town, but frequently receive no notices 
 of what is happening to your own buildings or people unless you are looking right at them. These 
 sound minor, but they are a constant in the game and slow your progress significantly.
  
  Its far from perfect, but if you have a little forgiveness and a lot of patience, The Guild 2 
 certainly delivers an entertaining experience. Speedy RTS gamers will balk at the pace, but people 
 who want to stroll through medieval Europe and pretend for a few hours will find their wishes fulfilled. 
 It has all the depth that other games miss for intrigue and monopolies, and it lets you set your 
 own pace of gameplay. You can sit at the game for short periods of time, or you can spend all night 
 trying to be the dominant political family in one town. The choice is yours, and The Guild 2 gives 
 you all the options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Very nice idea processed and formed as a game. It is much impressive and Could have been great 
 if it was bug free 
  
  Its surely a fresh blood for the gaming industry as most companies seem to be prefering cash cows 
 policy and release games of far from innovation. That is; this game is an innovative one and deserves 
 to be supported. On the other it is sooo incomplete and full of bugs that my copy refuses even 
 to work more than a minute as early as i start my first campaign i have experienced a Ctd.
  
  Although I blamed my laptop system and tried it also in my desktop computer the result was 
 unfortunately same.
  
  All in all, i patiently waited for some patches for the game to be playable because all the forums 
 in internet was full of protests who experienced same problems i endured. yet no satisfactory patch 
 was released. I found some unofficial patches and some user solutions barely helpful. Also there 
 was this weird problem about the patches: More than half of them was released German version, and 
 it was very irritating as english version followed receiving aids much later.
  
  The company should have been more responsive and should have been quicker issuing a solution for 
 the problems.
  
  As a conclusion, Good ideas supported by poor programming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  This is a game I was looking forward to for over a year. When I played the first version I was 
 happy to have a new style game that was slightly different than everything else. The first word 
 of this sequel made me happy and I had it on my wishlist as soon as I could.
  
  Here we are shortly after release and the game is nearly unplayable.
  
  There is many things 
 I could say about the game, but this is a company I trusted becuse they are still relatively small 
 and yet got no reply from regarding this game.
  
  I can no longer pay now and play later on games. I have to break my own first principal and download 
 and buy only the games I like because there is far too many bad games these days, sadly, this is 
 one of them.
  
  The first one rocked, this one is not so good. It can't be more simple. Even the patch did not 
 help much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I really needed to sit down and think a while before even attempting to write 
 a review for The Guild 2.
  
  While at the time I wrote this review there were only 114 folks listed on GameSpot with this game 
 in their collection, I have hardly ever read such varied reactions to any game. This certainly 
 doesnt make the game top 10 selling material and I guess it really can only compete in a relatively 
 small niche market anyway.
  
  I have written quite a number of reviews here on GameSpot over the years, but this is certainly 
 unique - Given the relatively small number of reviews up to this point, its almost bizarre in 
 a sense:
  
  A large percentage of the reviewers claim that the game is a complete fiasco from a technical perspective. 
 Others all feel that the game is the best thing since ice cream and hot chocolate!
  
  Thats not to mention the relatively large percentage of reviewers (albeit small in numbers) who 
 perceive the game to be boring to the point of rather sticking hot needles in your eyes than watching 
 another minute of the drudgery of medieval life. From the original GameSpot review, it appears 
 the latter would apply there as well.
  
  So now what?
  
  I think its only fair to begin at the beginning and address the large percentage of reviewers 
 that commented about the poor technical standard of the game:
  
  I have now played this game for almost two weeks, at least 1 hour a day, which would therefore 
 equate to approximately 20 hours, give or take an hour extra over weekends here and there.
  
  In those 20 hours I have not had a single crash to desktop, blue screen or even hanging PC 
 in game. I lie  I actually had one crash when I accidentally did the Alt-TAB thing while busy 
 with the tutorial to read an urgent new E-mail that arrived  that was the only problem so far.
 
  
  Like always, I immediately patched the game to its latest available patch moments after taking 
 it out of the box anyway. So, from that perspective I cannot comment about the game in its original 
 release form.
  
  Perhaps Im just lucky, but as far as I can tell, the game is really quite stable, given the usual 
 few quirks such as stuttering graphics on certain occasions, etc.  quite normal for most games 
 I have in my collection anyway.
  
  So, from a technical perspective, I personally certainly cant complain.
  
  Now lets address 
 to other two types of review responses I referred to above in the usual manner:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Back in 2003/04 I spent many hours with a rather obscure game (based on pure numbers 
 here on Gamespot in terms of collections, etc.) , called Patrician III.
  
  While playing that game, which I personally really enjoyed and reviewed here on GameSpot in October 
 2004, I often wondered what it would be like if this, that and the other were possible.
  
  Well, in short, The Guild 2 is really everything I would have wanted to add and include in that 
 game then and a bit more  almost like Patrician III ++ (the guys at 4Head will hopefully forgive 
 me for this very direct comparison in the creative department) , bearing in mind that I dont own 
 the previous installment of The Guild.
  
  When one first starts the game and one goes through the rather extensive tutorial to begin your 
 first dynasty so to speak, the game actually feels somewhat overwhelming when your character stands 
 there in front of his or her medieval hut for the first time.
  
  Where to from here is the first question that goes through your mind. Do I start a business, do 
 I go into politics, do I hire a few rogues, or do I start bribing folks and try to court someone?
 
  
  Its all a bit confusing at first, and after defaulting to a sort of Sims 2 playing style with 
 my character, I soon realized that this was a completely different kettle of fish. It doesnt play 
 like The Sims 2, since the character interactions can be done from almost anywhere on the map using 
 the many different ways of finding the target such as your diary, list of important persons, etc. 
 This means that the interface is somewhat divorced from the actual intimacy of character interactions 
 found in Sims 2, for example.
  
  But then again, this is not Sims 2, and the game needs to cater for many other aspects over and 
 above character interactions, such as running your business (no not Sims 2 Open for Business style 
 for those who were wondering) , going to court, etc.
  
  It appears that quite a lot of design thought went into the user interface, and once you get used 
 to it, you can almost leave your character anywhere on the map and simply order everything in the 
 game world around with a few clicks here and there.
  
  One of the complaints I have in all of this, is that the original GameSpot review was right when 
 it said that the path-finding in the game is rather poor  it is! While the interface is good, 
 your character can sometimes literally spend game months to go from point A to B just to kiss or 
 court someone thats actually just standing at the hut next door!
  
  The same applies to your carts, once you start automating your businesses via the rather extensive 
 AI built into the game for that aspect of it. Carts almost go MIA sometimes, often leading to cash 
 flow issues in the business they are supposed to serve.
  
  It would definitely be a good idea for the developers to address these issues in the next patch.
 
  
  Building a business can become somewhat repetitive at first and I can see where the immediate feeling 
 of boredom can creep in. However, I found that this quickly changes once your family tree grows 
 and other characters have their own businesses and children are doing apprenticeships, etc. The 
 economic climate differences between towns on a map can also make for interesting business variations 
 in terms of sourcing and selling goods.
  
  Life in politics is real doggy-dog stuff as one would expect from medieval times, with quite a 
 lot of bribery and kissing up going on, not to mention spying on all and sundry to gain evidence 
 to take to court and get the opposition to the gallows if possible.
  
  Theres nothing like ordering a tax audit on one of your competitors!
  
  The main problem here 
 is that you need the memory of an elephant to keep track of all the character names involved in 
 regular gameplay just so you know who to bribe and accuse and court! It can become rather cumbersome 
 going through all the lists of enemies, folks in politics, etc. finding names belonging to messages 
 that pop up all the time.
  
  To summarize the gameplay therefore is actually rather simple:
  
  This game will really only 
 appeal to a handful of players who actually enjoy significant levels of micro-management with some 
 variation in terms of character interaction, role playing and so on  Patrician III ++ as I said 
 before.
  
  The game is almost like a very good novel that just starts off way too slow to get most people 
 to that point where it really starts getting good, since they would have put it down by then!
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are really very good albeit that, as always these days, I believe youre going to 
 need something in the NVidia-based 6800 plus range, to really get some eye candy going. I dont 
 own any ATI-based cards, so I cant really say from that perspective.
  
  The graphics engine does tend to stutter a bit up close and under certain conditions in my setup 
 NVidia-based 7800 GTX with 512 MB - but Im actually quite used to that in most PC games anyway.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  As usual, theres not too much innovation on this front, as far as I can see.
  
  My biggest 
 complaint would be the appalling synchronization during character interaction cut-scenes.
  
  Perhaps another aspect to address in any future patches.
  
  Value:
  
  This is really 
 a unique game in many aspects and to give credit where credit is due, the developers really tried 
 to come up with something new in a sea of cloned games in a limited number of genres. In fact, 
 its really hard to find a genre to describe this game.
  
  While this is the games biggest value aspect in my opinion, it could also be its own worst enemy. 
 The game can be many things to many people but as a result, it probably can only be average at 
 any of it and not really good at anything, so to speak.
  
  So, if you enjoyed a game like Patrician III, theres definite value in this, otherwise youd probably 
 be hard pressed to find any takers, which shows in the vital statistics here on GameSpot.
  
  Who Should Buy It?
  
  Anyone who really enjoys Dynasty building at a fairly intricate level 
 of micro-management with some good graphics and unique gameplay additions to go with it, bearing 
 in mind that you have a fairly good graphics card and dont mind going through the first hour and 
 a half of rather boring gameplay to get to the meat of it.
  
  Who Shouldnt Bother?
  
  I guess just about everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  I like this game. I originally gave it a 7.1, but have been addictied to it for weeks now. I love 
 the dynasty mode; creating your character and then trying to survive, marry well, and grow a business 
 in the 1400's is challenging. I like how you can train your children and then have them take over 
 when they're ready. If done right they start out with more skills than their parents.
  
  What I don't like (I am concentrating this review on mostly the Patron class because to review 
 all would take too much space) :
  1. 4 years per turn with each turn being a season. I would like to see the turns being seasonal, 
 with 4 turns per yer year.
  2. The seasons don't have much of an effect. I didn't notice my Croft/Farm/Estate being less productive 
 in Winter than in Spring. I would like to see a seasonal effect where in Winter the farmer can't 
 grow grains, but can slaughter pigs, sheep, cows for food/profit.
  3. It didn't seem to me that using a skill helped increase the skill. The more a skill is used 
 the more XP should be generated.
  4. I would like to see more professions: Soldier, Doctor, Barber (Barber of Seville anyone!) , with 
 more elite professions for the landed gentry such as politician or noble.
  5. Farms that have cows as a resource shouldn't use one cow for leather than another for meat. 
 You should be able to get both from one cow. Also, there should be a way to have dairy cattle. 
 This wouldn't use up the cow, but a timer should keep the milkings to maybe twice a day.
  6. This is the middle ages. Women did NOT become priests and live long (see Joan of Arc) . I know 
 that's not politically correct. I would like to see more reality in the game. Towns of this era 
 did not have both Protestant and Catholic churches as they were pretty much at war with each other! 
 It may be possible to start a Protestant church in a Catholic town and eventually surplant the 
 established church, but the initial church will be small and held in secluded areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowelliny
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  first let me tell you all that i own a pc that will never be able to play oblivion or games like 
 that since i only have 512ram and a radeon 9600 128 mb but still i bought this game to my own risk 
 to satisfy my economy game craving and boy am i not mistaken! This is the ultimate economy, battle, 
 sim baby making, sim love making, mafia style goon playing, politics dirty or clean and u name 
 it this games has it from kidnapping ur enemies to massacring all those who wants u down even the 
 mayor of the town etc. I JUST GOT SO ADDICTED to this game i havent worked for 5 days to play this 
 and barely talk to my gf the whole week and still i cant get enough. Music too is so medieval it 
 has made me sit in my chair 20 hours playing non stop and i only had ONE.. just 1 ctd after 20 
 hours which is very normal. I suggest you guys try this at ur own risk since its so addicting coz 
 u will get the chance to build ur own business empire from different options like a baker or a 
 mamamia cook and my fave is craftsman of course. BUT REMEMBER TO GET THE PATCH IF U WILL PLAY THIS 
 GAME coz it will take away all the problems other people where saying. To make this short, this 
 game is the best and completely normal. Grafix are sweet too. dnt forget too check forums for this 
 game to get different mod patch too like different form of bed time :P and more sounds stuff and 
 age delayer so u dnt get too old fast :) ENJOY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Gamers that like the middle ages' games! If you haven't bought the game yet! Think well before 
 you buy it! Why? Let's talk it through:
  &gt; BUGS BUGS BUGS:
  This game is full of bugs; I never saw anything like it! It's PLAIN JoWood!
  They always surprise 
 us with more bugs! Its like a beta version! It keeps closing and hanging, crashing, and sometimes 
 the some items aren't shown, the name of the money is quite weird (not all I report) , at least 
 if you want to play this game always remember to download the first patch (at least) .
  &gt; Stupid loadings: 2 loadings, one at the beginning and one when you play and they are both 
 a bit long (ATI X800 series, both with Intel Core 2 Duo - Ive got my computer and my brothers')
 
  &gt; Damn Long Learning curve: Almost 7 tutorials about how to play the game that eventually I 
 found boring! And without the patch (first one) n# 3 is broken! (You cannot buy the building)
 
  &gt; Game play: The game play isn't exactly middle age lifestyle! It focuses only on business and 
 it is uninspired, you feel as if you are doing the work! (I mean BORING) Only at the beginning 
 but eventually it's like a monopoly (dont get to excited MONO. fans, it isn't the same)
  - Stupid fighting, so simple
  - Without storyline.
  &gt; Graphics: - Doesn't support HDR. Only 
 Bloom Lighting.
  - SO simple character graphics! Hands are one piece (Not the ANIM!) ...
  - Not So Detailed
  &gt; Sounds: Only some of the music is good, others like music, ambient, voices 
 ... normal br /&gt;
  Value: GUESS WHAT? BAD
  
  IMPORTANT: I only recommend this game if you own a high speed internet connection or a source to 
 all the patches! In the end it is a focuses only as business! With some life! Marriage, courthouses, 
 a very simple Mid Ages' lifestyle.
  It is a good one, try it on your own risk
  If you found any comments or abuse
  mail me at: zellwwf@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game that I've barely been able to play because it consistently reboots 
 my system?
  
  The idea is brilliant. Back when I was playing Europa 1400: the Guild, my biggest complaints were 
 the poor user interface and frequent network errors. When I'd read of a sequel being made, I expected 
 little more than snazzy new graphics slapped onto a game with all the same flaws that plagued its 
 predecessor. How wrong I was!
  
  The interface is a remarkable improvement. Everyone is right at your fingertips in the form of 
 iconic buttons. You can quite literally perform any crucial action without moving the camera or 
 entering a single building  though you may find the urge to look around and scope out the beautiful, 
 living world of which your character is part. The simplified classes make the game more accessible 
 than its prequel  anyone can do anything; it's simply a matter of how good you are at it.
  
  I'm not too fond of the character presence in the world, and the need to act out a courtship. 
 I grew tired of the Sims a long time ago and wasn't ready to see it in this of all games, but to 
 placate the die-hard business-oriented minds such as my own, this will not heavily interfere with 
 your strategy. Marry quickly, have a kid, and then sit back and enjoy your business.
  
  To put it straight, I love the idea. As a fan of the original, the Guild 2 has risen beyond my 
 expectations, and for that I am duly impressed. What I'm _not_ particularly impressed with are 
 the obscure bugs, regular crashes, and sporadic hard-reboots. Yes, the game reboots my computer, 
 and frequently. It's to the point where I don't even want to risk running it anymore.
  
  I'm not the only one having serious problems with it. Though there are a few posts here and there 
 from people who have enjoyed a relatively stable gaming experience, a great many of the Guild 2's 
 investors have been unable to play longer than 20 minutes. Now that the game has been patched to 
 version 1.20 (at the time of this review) , the crashes seem to be waning, but I would say the newly 
 introduced problem of BSOD's and reboots is hardly a worthwhile tradeoff. I'd rather have the crashes.
 
  
  This game obviously had no right to be released as early as it was. JoWood is notorious for releasing 
 games without sufficient testing, and now 4Head has a lot of work ahead of them if they want to 
 preserve their good name by making the Guild 2 stable.
  
  If you're planning on buying this game, be prepared to wait for another patch. You may be one of 
 the lucky ones who can run it without problems, and you may not encounter any of the show-stopping 
 bugs, like losing the game when a random person unrelated to your dynasty dies, or paying a heavy 
 fine when your recently deceased wife fails to show up for an appointed trial. In that case, if 
 you liked Europa 1400, you will _love_ this game.
  
  Or, you may end up like me, unable to play it for fear it will shut down your computer. Either 
 way, the Guild 2 was not ready for release, and we're paying the price. This was a brilliant game 
 ruined by a faulty publisher's inadequacy.
  
  Gameplay: 7 (good variety, but unpredictable at times)
  Graphics: 6 (average)
  Sound: 6 (average, 
 nice music)
  Value: 8 (fun when it actually works)
  Tilt: 1 (technical nightmare) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mausolus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  First of all you have to throw away every preconception you may have about this game. It is not 
 a variation of The Sims, it is not like Sim City, it isn't like Age of Empires or Stronghold, nor 
 is it like any other game you care to think of except the original of the series, Europa 1400: 
 The Guild. This is actually the cornerstone of its potential, the fact that we are dealing with 
 something very rare in the gaming industry today, an original concept!
  
  There are really two ways to play this game, as a sandbox where you roleplay your dynasty and watch 
 them prosper from rags to riches or you play it to wipe every other dynasty off the face of the 
 map no matter what the cost or method. The latter activity is actually what gives this game replayability 
 and enjoyment for me and it's very easy to overlook any strange nuances like 'why do elections 
 work in this way?' when you realise that really the entire system of the game down to every mechanic 
 is really designed as a kind of arena to get one up on your fellow players and find creative ways 
 to engineer their downfall. Think of monopoly set in the middle ages with torture racks instead 
 of parking fines and that really puts you in the right mindset to get the most out of this game.
 
  
  So let me summarize some of the key differences in this game from the original Europa 1400 :-
 
  
  * You now have an avatar, in fact you can control up to three members of your dynasty simultaneously. 
 This increases the immersiveness of the game and also controls the flow. In the first Europa you 
 could carry out your daily activities very quickly, click on the market, buy something, click on 
 the council chambers, do something, click on the house, invite some guests round to dinner. Now 
 you have to actually run around the map doing all that stuff, but there are no 'action points' 
 to constrain your activities. You can simply do as much, or as little as is more often the case, 
 as you have time for. Some abilities have a 'cooldown' feature which basically means you can only 
 do it once every 12 hours for example, this was also necessary to balance the game after the removal 
 of action points and overall I give this the thumbs up. It feels better than the original game 
 even though I was extremely sceptical about it going in.
  
  * The camera works independently to the rest of the UI. This is a great thing, it means that you 
 can be busy watching a fight and at the same time hire a new worker in your smithy, tell your wife 
 to start training in your house and send a dungeon guard to go and pick up your rival for a cosy 
 little 'Q&amp; A' session with the hot irons and all that without missing a moment of the action 
 you're actually interested in. Getting bored in a long winded council meeting? No problem just 
 move the camera somewhere else, your avatar will stay there and play his part and you can pop back 
 in at any moment and take direct control of proceedings. Almost every task in the game can be accomplished 
 with one or two clicks although there are also more long winded ways to do things and not every 
 player will discover all the short-cuts. For example you can target your actions against people 
 in your dynasty book just by opening the book and clicking on their frames. The tutorial should 
 take more trouble to point out these UI tips, but it really leaves you to figure it out most of 
 the time.
  
  * Class based advancement and abilities. This is a big hit for me and hugely adds to the replayability 
 of the game. There are lots of different directions to take your avatars and they even gain special 
 abilities. Like a scholar will gain the ability to pray and have God Himself protect a building 
 of your choice for 24 hours. Who can argue with security like that? You gain XP for almost every 
 type of activity that furthers you in some way and you can spend that XP in a wide array of skills 
 such as rhetoric, and less familiar ones like empathy and martial arts.
  
  * Multiple cities on one map. I'm not convinced yet that this adds a lot to gameplay but it's an 
 interesting variation on the original theme. Each city is a distinctly independent entity and has 
 its own council, laws and market economy. Generally it's not very viable to divide your interests 
 up between both cities as that inevitably involves lots of time wasted travelling between them 
 so you tend to pick one and go with it. I was once put in the extremely uncomfortable position 
 of being required to appear in court in two different cities at the same hour on the same day. 
 As a result of this I automatically became an outlaw in one of the cities for not showing.
  
  * It's been built for multiplayer. Every gameplay feature has clearly been thought out with 
 multiplayer ultimately in mind. In this respect this game works much better than the original. 
 The 'cutscenes' that used to frustrate you in the original such as going to court or getting married 
 are now better integrated into the flow of time. As I mentioned earlier if you are stuck in a boring 
 meeting you can just move the camera out of the building and go do other stuff instead or even 
 just not turn up for the meeting in the first place. You can also witness some of these events 
 as a third party with the help of visual chat bubbles, for instance you can actually see your opponents 
 flirting and bribing various people and especially entertaining is when you are sitting in the 
 council chamber and see one of your adversaries walk up to the registrars desk and demand your 
 removal from office.
  
  * Custom avatar models and facial features. More in line with roleplaying games you get to customize 
 your avatar, but what is even better is the way each dynasty has a very distinct clothing style 
 based on your coat of arms. It's very easy to identify your rivals or allies this way and in court 
 cases and council meetings gives you a very visual indication of whom you should place your trust 
 in or undermine or whether you are losing control of a situation (it's a bad sign with everyone 
 else in the room is wearing the colours of your bitter arch rival) .
  
  * The graphics engine has had a complete overhaul and feels up to date and at least on par with 
 today's technology given this is not the focus on the game. The camera controls felt very intuitive 
 and easy to manipulate. It's no oblivion though.
  
  There has been a lot of talk about bugs and glitches. I installed the 1.2 patch on the day I installed 
 the game, so this is the only version I have seen and the only one you should be worried about 
 unless you have a problem downloading patches. This game is very stable and has very few glitches 
 that actually bother me. I experience occasional sound glitches, and that is basically it. The 
 only other glitches I found really do nothing to hinder gameplay or experience: one of my congregation 
 was sitting in mid-air, and sometimes the animations of emotes go slightly wrong, for instance 
 if you intend to cherish your loved one with a kiss and she is standing on a slope higher than 
 you, you will plant the kiss squarely in her bosom and yet she will still reply with some shy Jane 
 Austin 'Oh good sir, you flatter me with your attentions!' when really given the era you've just 
 acted like an outright scoundrel. This is actually entertaining, probably not intentional though.
 
  
  I was scared multiplayer would be unstable. Usually when there are problems in single-player that 
 is the tip of the iceberg as far as multiplayer goes, as in most games this is usually an afterthought 
 for the developers. Not in this game, I played a LAN game with my wife for the best part of an 
 entire day and not a single crash, glitch or problem was observed. In fact, it outperforms the 
 original Europa which would usually crash every 5-10 game days or in multiplayer one person would 
 get stuck in infinite loops.
  
  This game is best played in multiplayer with your friends and some beers so you can In summary 
 if you have never played Europa before this game is worthy of your attention. At least try and 
 find a demo and try it, the concept and gameplay is not for everyone but it's truly unique and 
 you will not know if it's your kind of thing until you have tried it. If you are a fan of the original 
 don't hesitate any longer just go out and buy this game already you will NOT be looking back. Invite 
 your friends over with some beers, fire up a multiplayer game and then laugh at their demise as 
 you vote them 'Guilty!' of some terrible crime you just made up out of thin air and send them off 
 to the dungeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkitZaY
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  What was released as a Pay 2 play beta, has now become a great game with the patches (however long 
 they took to release) .
  
  The Guild 2 is like The Sims, but they have had bags of dirt thrown on them, and been sent back 
 to the 'happy' medieval days. Believe me when I say, that there is so many things to do, from pillaging 
 and plundering old ladies, to farming for future food for your young'ns . And it doesn't just end 
 at occupations, you are capable of 'wooing' in the opposite sex (I haven't tried the same, sorry 
 everyone xD) to make love and create a future generation to continue your greatness.
  
  The game still has bugs that need fixing, but no game is perfect, atleast now its out of beta stage.
 
  
  P R O S
  Fun gameplay, Great Multiplayer, Replay Value, Nice graphics when maxed out
  
  C O N S
  Bodgy looking people, Not so great optimization, Horrible amounts of bugs at first 
 with areas still needing improvement.
  
  Last Rant
  I would suggest buying the game if you are into sims, and general 'medievalyness', but if you do 
 make sure you get the absolute latest patch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James009
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of the Europa series and when the Guild 2 came out I knew I had to try it. 
 However, my first impression was not a very good one. I started playing it and was very disappointed 
 with a number of bugs that it was released with and missing features (such as working in your own 
 business) . I did find the game fun but my patience was being lost in bordom (lack of things to 
 do) and bugs.
  
  It almost feels as if the game was released early because of a number of bugs. These bugs include 
 bad pathfinding (bad AI) , graphical glitches (bad compatability) , scratchy sound (bad drivers?) , 
 and some crashes to desktop. However, not too long after I got the game Jowood released an international 
 patch that was bound to fix these errors. Only problem was they didn't release a US patch (had 
 to send it to publisher first) . One the forums we managed to make the german patch work for the 
 US version... and thats when I began to play.
  
  Luckily, The game was GREATLY improved with the new 1.2 patch. Most of the bugs were fixed, gameplay 
 is almost solid, and multiplayer is ... playable.
  
  Lets get started:
  The Guild 2 is a medieval RPG/Simulator where you create a character and survive inside a medieval 
 town, village, or city where you must work, cheat, steal, or betray in order to survive. Your goal 
 is to create a great dynasty that will survive the ages and grow in power. You can choose from 
 four different fields of work. The Patron, who mainly provides the cities food supplies. The Craftsman, 
 who provides many of the daily tools and weapons. The Scholar, an elite who runs churches or creates 
 potions. Lastly, the thief, who controls pickpockets and thugs who steal and rob from the cities 
 wealthy (or poor, for that matter) .
  
  Another very interesting and fun part of the game involves politics. You can run for various city 
 offices sch as Mayor or Colonel where you gain powerful abilities such as embezzal city money or 
 commanding the city guard. These can give you a boost but can also make you a target.
  
  In order to live on your family must grow, therefore, one of your first objectives is to find a 
 suitable mate. You can usually select one from a list of around eight women (or men, if your female) . 
 Courting is easy and kinda fun. It sometimes feels a bit like The Sims but the gameplay doesn't 
 revolve around courting. Its mainly just a minigame.
  
  Also, I'd like to mention that this game has a lot of talent put into it. Its an innovative and 
 ambitious game that isn't really like anything else. Humor is spread throught the game and really 
 adds to the games value. Lastly, the music is amazing (I'm listining to it right now!) . Its almost 
 like a combonation of We Were Soldiers, Bravehart, and Europa.
  
  Final words:
  If you have the patience to get past some annoying bugs, glitches, and problems then this is a 
 game you can really love. Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  The guild 2 is surprisingly a good game. I enjoy playing the computer but it does get tedious after 
 a while, but I think the multi-player side will be very good. (Obviously when the bugs are fixed) 
 Its better than The Guild 1, Graphics are better &amp; the gameplay is better, but there is a 
 lot more bugs in the Guild 2. But hopefully they have been resolved with the new English patch, 
 just released.
  There are a few things which could have been done to make this a good game. They could have included 
 a map editor, more professions, demolishing building option and the hat is annoying. Overall the 
 guild is a fair game but the Multi-player will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betterdays_IC
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a couple years now. I was hooked ( addicted like it was crack) 
 to the predecessor Europa 1400. I finally got it last week and have been playing it (US/NA 1.1) 
 for a while. I have been monitoring the Guild 2 forum boards and I expected a complete buggy mess. 
 But I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. I did encounter some of the regular bugs and slowdowns 
 but I have not had a single CTD so far. The game has retained most of it's original allure. Business, 
 Family, Political, Crime. But the interface has had a complete overhaul. In Europa 1400 your character 
 could use actions in specific buildings. Like, if you went to town hall to apply for an office 
 you needed to click on the specific item in the room in the building to apply. Now it's changed 
 a little so that you go to the building to apply and then on the interface an action pops up for 
 you to perform. This does help the player maximize their time but takes away from the feeling of 
 depth. In Europa 1400 it felt like you were living in the middle ages. Now with the interface it 
 feels like you're playing a game that's set in the Middle ages. I still do enjoy playing the Guild 
 2 though. I and alot of other people are waiting for ASPYR to release the US 1.2 patch. Everyone 
 else on the planet has it except us. If you look at the forums theres a way to hack the german 
 1.2 so it can be used on the US version but I don't suggest it. It could lead to even more bugs 
 that you just won't ever get an answer to. Best to wait for stingy AS (S) PYR. Overall, it's a great 
 game series and something new that hasn't really been touched. But it would have had a bigger impact 
 on the PC gaming market if 4head (the main developers) were given a few more months to polish it. 
 There are talks of an expansion Q1 2007. Unless you're a die-hard Europa 1400 fan or you're just 
 tired of everything else out there and have a passion for medieval times then I suggest you wait 
 until the expansion comes out to buy it. It should be alot more stable and have some cooler features. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khalid_power
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  The Guild II is one of the greatest games I ever played in my life. It has a wondorful 3D graphic 
 enviroment. The graphic and sound are well done that they make you feel completly in the middleages. 
 Unlike many games it makes you play the player as if you are him and makes you responsble of taking 
 daily life decisions to make sure that the player servives the defficulties of the middleages.
 
  
  Good things. Excelently made and presented Good graphic and sound enviroment No restrictions in 
 the game (you can play it a million time and never get bored) Thousands of other good things that 
 will make the list never ending
  
  Bad thing. The only bad think in the Guild II is a bug that makes the game crash about every thirty 
 minutes. This bugs makes it annoying. I advise you to wait until the company fixes this bug and 
 then buy the game. Dont hesitate it is a great game, educational, fun and suited for all ages.
 
  
  Wope you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreLegion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game alot, It did have bugs when shipped but those have been addressed and patches 
 are available for download from jowood
  
  The game is very fun to play, you start up a medevil busniess and try and rise to the top anyway 
 you can.
  
  There are lots of fun things to do and the game doesn't come across as being a micro management 
 game like the reviewer would like you to believe.
  
  I enjoy running for office, and they using that power to get further into office and also allow 
 my offspring to copntinue in my path.
  
  I also enjoy destroying other revel families in the game, sometime with fire sometimes with murder 
 or just good old blackmail!
  
  Great game, and well worth the time you use to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Europa 1400: The Guild, is easily somewhere in my top 10 list of favorite games. There was easily 
 no other game like it, and it was that unique approach that gave The Guild a lasting appeal.
  
  The Guild 2 tries to follow in some very big footsteps. One would think that 4head Studios 
 would have had a history to learn from with their first game, which was extremely bug-ridden at 
 release. Unfortunately, a handful of users are experiencing show stopping bugs that are ruining 
 their experience, a situation all too familiar to fans of The Guild.
  
  As far as my own experience, it has (believe it or not) been relatively bug free. I do not want 
 to imply anything to users having problems with this game, but I purchased the US retail version 
 of this game, and am not experiencing any of the woes that other people are (so far anyways, crossing 
 fingers) . So this review is based on the game itself, since bugs have not been a factor for me 
 so far.
  
  Graphics: Nicely done and updated to look like a sequel. Far from screen shattering good, but they 
 do what they need to do. The cities look great, full of life, and the weather effects are rather 
 good too. Character models are decent, and have that signature Guild look to them. Audio: Fantastic 
 music score, fits the game well, and the voice acting is sufficient for the game. Gameplay: Where 
 to begin. The Guild 2 tries to do about a million different things in one game, and for the most 
 part succeeds. However because there is so much implemented, it seems like each portion is missing 
 a little something. Whether you're courting a spouse, starting a new business, running for mayor, 
 dueling a rival, there's something different to do all the time. Four years per turn makes for 
 a very rushed career, and the game could have done fine were it slimmed down to, say, 2 years per 
 turn. There are mods that supposedly do this, though I have not experimented with them myself. 
 The game is very challenging, and it will take you quite a while to 'climb to the top' of the dynasty 
 ladder.
  
  Replay/lasting value: There are many different things to do and try in the Guild 2. There are four 
 general classes, each of them having several different subclasses, and each defintiely plays significantly 
 different than the other. The Guild 2 succeeds, like its predecessor, in offering a different experience 
 every time you play.
  
  In conclusion, the Guild 2 is in many ways, a worthy successor. However, it defintiely could have 
 undergone another month in QA and testing, as it feels lacking in the polish and shine department. 
 While my experiences have been relatively bug free (not even a single CTD) , other users have complained 
 of the game being unplayable, literally. If you enjoyed the first game, I would say wait a couple 
 weeks before buying this one, as they are rolling out a patch that will be addressing many of the 
 issues users have been bringing to the table. Overall though, it plays and feels just as good as 
 its predecessor, although I do miss the old cinematics for ceremonies/funerals :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Guild 2 really does look like a very good and inovotive game when you look at the packaging and 
 see what it says it can do. The reality is very very different. From the word go there are problems. 
 Its one of those games where you install it and then have to spend a couple of hours just getting 
 the thing to work. Even then its still riddled with various bugs. However im sure eventually they 
 will fix most of these bugs so i wont go on about them. No my dissapointment was with the game 
 it self. Its actually a very clever concept, a game where you control a dynasty/family in the medievil 
 era, trying to make a life and at the same time fight of rival dynastys. In concept there are elements 
 from the Sims games and elements from roleplaying and strategy games. However there is not enough 
 of any of these genres to make the game work. At first its quite fun controlling your initial character. 
 Deciding what craft he will specialise, to which there are four to choose, and then which business 
 he will create. Would have been nice to have a bit more choice but the four career choices do work 
 well at least. The problem is when you get a little further into the game. There is little to no 
 automation so when you have a few business up and running you still have to tell every cart to 
 pick up goods and what to buy when they get to market. Also the interaction is ridiculously limiting. 
 You cant even talk to other people. If you want your character to interact with someone of the 
 same sex they can either give them a cake or bribe them. With someone of the opposite sex you only 
 have a few more op [tions. Its an unforgivable oversight considering it is marketed as one of the 
 games main features.
  Another of the games many problems is you can only control 3 characters at a time. So once you 
 have found a spose and had 2 children, the 2nd child is computer controlled. By that i mean the 
 child wanders round town being robbed and does absolutly nothing constructive at all. This serves 
 to give a very impersonal aproach to the dynasty as the further you get into the game the less 
 you actually care about your characters. The graphics are nice though they slow even a high end 
 pc down far too much. The sound i think is certainly the best part of the game with catchy mood 
 setting tunes. To summerise
  +Looks pretty
  +sounds great
  +very good ideas
  - The ideas were only done half heartedly
  -far too many bugs
  -not enough to the character 
 interaction
  -not enough character control
  -far too many bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4PH0M37
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I think the guy below needs to rebuild, the game has wonderful graphics! gameplay and replayability, 
 jowood never fails!
  
  ive been enjoying jowood games for about 6 years now, and the company really devotes themselves 
 to gamers. The previous version of this game was utter trash, but they made up for it with The 
 Guild 2. The American release was better than i thought it would be, with broken english translations 
 and whatnot. Yet this time, I was proven wrong by the developement team!
  
  Although this game may seem slow paced and boring, for a sim addict. Its a godsend from the highest 
 heavens [or hell] ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 2.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Guild 2 is a totally broken product unfortuntely, it suffers seriously annoying CTDS (crashing 
 to desktop) and other serious issues such as pathing problems and serious glitches, which leads 
 me to believe this release is a very early beta-release since I haven't seen a game with so many 
 serious problems since Battlecruiser 2100 came out...
  
  TG2 has the potential to become an awesome game if it wasn't for all the problems, its a mix of 
 a simulation and rpg since you can own and build your own farms, taverns and other buildings and 
 explore the area looking for materials, fight robbers and highwaymen and even get married and have 
 children, all sounded promising but right now, you can't do anything with it except play the tutorial 
 without having any issues at all..
  
  I played the tutorial without any problems at all, but once getting into the main game, oh boy 
 did all the problems show up and within the first 2 minutes, crash to desktop... not good after 
 that I tried patching which only then made it moderatly more stable.
  
  Once some serious patches have been released to fix the crazy amount of problems, i'll re-do this 
 review and most likely post a positive one, but for now, no games 'ever' should be released in 
 such a bad state, this is worse than a beta! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshaltout
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  This seems like a good game at the first glance, that's why I got it, but I have some stuff on 
 it, nothing can be perfect but the errors here r not very tolerable after I played for like 3 or 
 4 hours (before I go on, the tutorial isn't covering everything and covers some odd points while 
 forget about some other important points) , AND the BIG BUG: the game CRASHES a lot , nearly every 
 20 min. which an awful disadvantage, again after 4 hours s I am out of money and can't manage good, 
 can't go through both managing shops and finding a soul mate for my character which u have to sooth 
 first in a long term and costly way, more over I have to have a political life which also consumes 
 time and seems effective in the game ( I didn't go much in game as u can assume but this is what 
 I see) , I played on version 1.1 of the game, still I find the game suffering developer's flaws 
 but the idea seems good which I believe too didn't come all true as it was thought off, ahh by 
 the way, the trailers of the game are deceiving as always in all trailers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Where to start is I think what Jowood has promised a medival life where you can do almost anything 
 that occurs in our most delicate minds. I think it lives up to this problem. Please note that this 
 game takes quite long to learn! But in my opinion it is very rewarding! So if you are in-patience 
 rent the game or don't even bother ! Here is a few things what you can do - Get married
  - Get children
  - Insult people
  - Challenge people to a duel to the death - Get into the city 
 council - Molest random people - Rob random people - Waylay (block a road and rob anyone who passes 
 it
  - Craft your own items
  - Plunder Buildings
  - Bribe people
  - Purchase title's - Build a your house - Enter buildings and see what is happning there
  
 
  And the best of the entire game is you can do it multiplayer! I enjoyed almost all of my gameplay 
 time multiplayer and me and my friends really enjoyed it. There are 4 classes in the game which 
 you can easily look up at www. theguilds2. com and see what they can do. Downside of this great game 
 is almost standardly when a small studio (small compared to EA and Atari) launches a innovative 
 game is BUGS. I am sorry to report that the Guild 2 has quite a number of them most are just annoying 
 and bypassable but still. You really can't play the game on highest settings without a crash every 
 hour or some. If you put them on low settings you will have a crash every 4 to 5 hours. Read more 
 on the gamespot forums where I gave a few tips to bypass a few annoying bugs. Second thing I think 
 is annoying is the sluggish control when trying to perform actions on other people you will find 
 it very hard to target for some reason. Buy or rent or leave it where it is? Depends on what person 
 you are if you feel appealed by what I just said and the www. theguild2. com webiste then you should 
 buy it UNLESS you are fast annoyed by a few bugs, in that case just wait a few months for them 
 to properly fix the game. If you have your doubts you should rent and see what it is. Other cases 
 I think you should just leave it in the shelves, this game is for a small crowd of people. I really 
 think this game deserves a lot more credit then it will probarly recieve because it aint that much 
 of a hype game like BF, Sims II, Fable and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka-Langley
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  The Guild II is very similar to Europa 1400, many new features have been added but at its core 
 its still the same game, great for people who love all the sim games. Some of the biggest differences 
 between The Guild 2 and Europa 1400 are that the developers tried to modernize the game by letting 
 your character run around the game world instead of micromanageing your businesses from overhead 
 with no visible character in the game, this opens up many more possibilitys and was a good step 
 they even changed the courting of spouses so now you its more like the sims where you pick an action 
 from an action panel at the bottom like kiss, hug, complement, give gift overall good improvements. 
 The new cameras arent all good however as they take some time getting used to at first and the 
 new cameras make it harder to look around inside your buildings or while your inside other town 
 buildings. The new government changes arent too great either, in Europa 1400 there were many offices 
 available and up to 6-8 people could apply for each office but now in the Guild 2 there are fewer 
 offices and you have to start from the bottom offices if 4 people apply before you get there you 
 have to wait until the office is open agian, there is also a fee to apply for offices now so if 
 you lose the election you will lose your hard earned money as well. Manageing your business has 
 changed alot too, you can no longer hire managers to run your extra businesses for you and its 
 really difficult to make money early on in the game (at least alot harder then in Europa 1400) . 
 Time also moves by alot quicker then in Europa 1400, every time you end a turn the next turn you 
 will wake up 4 years and a season later which makes for really short character lifespans. You can 
 now also control up to 3 characters at once by grouping them together (highly suggested because 
 if you ungroup them the AI will just walk all over town, goto church and keep getting pickpocketed 
 or robbed instead of improveing its skills, helping with your business or applying for local offices) . 
 The old Action points system has now been done away with, instead your character can train at his/her 
 house with a cooldown on the skill, they also moved all the abilitys of the buildings to a bottom 
 action panel. The game had a rough launch with many many bugs and memory leaks (the german and 
 uk releases) but the devs said that the U. S release will be shipped out pre-patched so it shouldnt 
 have the same bugs the uk and german releases were shipped with. If you were unfortunate enough 
 to buy the uk or german release however most of the issues except poor game performance, portrait/grathics 
 glitches, and a dumb ai are fixed by applying the german 1.15 patch then changeing the language 
 back to english after applying the german patch by editing the .ini files in your installation 
 path (change language from german to english) .
  
  Its a fun game but I find it really hard to play rouge classes without any tutorial on them and 
 the game crashing on me when i start to do really well doesnt help matters either. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
