-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/thegodfatherii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to see some cool movie moments from a different perspective.
 Impressive and upgradable arsenal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nothing about the game feels finished.
 Uninspired and repetitive gameplay.
 Crew members are unbelievably stupid.
 Poorly designed multiplayer modes and maps.
 Dated visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 518 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 7, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if it were finished, this movie-inspired action game wouldn't be deserving of its prestigious 
 license. 

  If  The Godfather II  had been a mediocre, mindless action flick, the game of the same name could 
 at least be considered faithful to its source material. As it is, though, Coppola's Mafia-themed 
 masterpiece has been reduced to an uninspired, repetitive open-world action game with out-of-context 
 movie quotes and a handful of recognizable characters sprinkled throughout its forgettable story. 
 To make matters worse, The Godfather II has clearly been released in an unfinished state and is 
 riddled with performance issues and bugs like they've been fired from a Tommy gun.  

  You play as Dominic, an important member of the Corleone family who somehow managed to make it 
 through the epic movie trilogy without ever wandering into camera shot despite apparently being 
 involved in a number of key scenes. As one of Michael Corleone's most trusted men, you've been 
 groomed to head up your own family, and after a brief introductory sequence set in Cuba, the game 
 proper gets under way in a diminutive New York where you're instructed to set about making a name 
 for yourself. From this point on, much of your time is spent seizing and attempting to retain control 
 of businesses run by rival families in order to make money and, ultimately, force said families 
 to retreat into their compounds where you can eliminate them entirely. Unfortunately, killing rival 
 mafiosi and intimidating business owners gets repetitive quickly and isn't much fun to begin with. 

           Dominic's wallpaper-like clothing made him easy to overlook in the movie.      

  That's 
 largely because the gunplay in The Godfather II is neither challenging nor satisfying. You have 
 an impressive arsenal at your disposal, and weapons like the Magnum and the shotgun really feel 
 like they pack a punch, but the enemies you're using them against rarely seem too interested in 
 self-preservation. Too many of them simply stand their ground or charge at you and, if they somehow 
 manage to get close before you put a couple of bullets in their heads, can easily be grabbed, punched, 
 strangled, or head-butted into the afterlife. With that said, the made men working for rival families 
 are geniuses compared to the clowns you get to recruit into your own family. They have their uses, 
 but even having them do something as simple as walk through a doorway ahead of you or climb into 
 one of the game's many slow but slippery cars with you can take some work. Predictably, things 
 don't get any better when they're put into combat situations or are asked to perform the very specific 
 tasks that they supposedly each specialize in, which include cracking safes, committing arson, 
 and kicking down doors.  

  The problem isn't that they're unable to perform those tasks; it's that walking from A to B is 
 rarely straightforward for them. When they're not failing to get into cars with you or running 
 rings around one another at superhuman speeds, your guys can often be observed wandering off in 
 the wrong direction or just remaining stationary while appearing to ponder their next step. Doorways 
 are especially problematic, regardless of whether you're leading the way or are trying to send 
 your guys in ahead of you to soak up some enemy fire. When you're in front, it's not uncommon to 
 open a door, step into a room, and encounter the guys that were right behind you already standing 
 around waiting for you in there. Other times they prefer to enter through different doors while 
 running backward, or perhaps crash through a window for an entrance that really gets them noticed. 
 If you turn your back on them, though, they'll be warped instantly to your side, sometimes.  

 
  Initially you get to recruit only one of these laughable soldiers for your family, and you get 
 to choose between a demolitions expert and a medic. The former can create shortcuts through walls 
 and blow up buildings, but like most of the crew abilities, these can be used in only very specific 
 locations. The latter is arguably the most useful guy you'll ever meet, because if you or any other 
 crew member gets killed, he can bring you back to life with full health just by sticking a needle 
 in you. Ultimately, you can recruit up to seven made men for your family, and as they prove their 
 worth, you can spend money on attribute upgrades and better weapons for them and even promote them 
 so that they can specialize in more than one field. It behooves you to take the maximum allowed 
 three crew members with you on every mission that you accept and to every business that you make 
 a move on, because location layouts are generally so contrived and architecturally improbable that, 
 for example, the only way into a building with seemingly easily accessible doors might be to blow 
 a hole in a wall or to have your engineer cut a hole in a fence. Annoyingly, there's no consistent 
 rule set in the world of The Godfather II, so while some fences can be cut through in specific 
 locations, other, identical-looking fences, are impenetrable. Doors are another example; some can 
 be kicked down, some can be lock-picked, and others can't be opened even with dynamite. You can't 
 even predict which waist-high walls you'll be able to vault over until you get close enough to 
 try, which is incredibly frustrating if you're fleeing from the cops on foot.  

           Blissfully unaware of the evidence on the roof, Dominic fled from the scene of his latest 
 hit-and-run.      

  Businesses that you control after successfully negotiating all of the aforementioned problems don't 
 just earn you money; they can also unlock special perks for you if you claim every business within 
 a crime ring. Controlling both of New York's prostitution rackets will get you brass knuckles, 
 while three diamond smuggling operations in Florida will earn you and your crew bulletproof vests, 
 for example. These crime-ring bonuses add some small degree of strategy to the proceedings when 
 it comes to planning your next move, not least because rival families can benefit from the same 
 bonuses that you can, but none of the bonuses significantly impact the difficulty of subsequent 
 actions -- regardless of who has them. Rivals will often attempt to reclaim or bomb businesses that 
 you control, denying you your bonuses if they succeed, so it's important to hire guards to protect 
 them. The guards aren't always up to the job if a rival family decides to send soldiers and capos 
 along, but at the very least they'll buy you some time until you can send members of your own crew 
 there via the "Don's View" map screen or go and join the fight yourself.     

   

  Rival families can be eliminated only when they've lost control of all businesses and have retreated 
 to their fortress-like compounds. At this point, the compounds become unlocked so that you can 
 get into them and fight your way to wherever it is that you need to place a bomb. In theory, you 
 shouldn't attempt this kind of operation until you've weakened a family by assassinating a number 
 of its made men, but in practice, the only real difference between those guys and the regular guards 
 is that it takes more bullets to put them down. Interestingly, the only way to permanently kill 
 a made man other than to bomb his family's compound is to do so in a way that sends a specific 
 message to his family, and you can find out which message needs to be sent only by doing favors 
 for people you meet on the street. Remember how Vito Corleone was unable to turn down any request 
 from a friend on his daughter's wedding day in the first  Godfather  movie? Well, this is nothing 
 like that. Rather, you approach complete strangers and tell them they look like they need help, 
 at which point they tell you who or which building they want attacked. Do them the favor, and they'll 
 tell you where one of your enemies can be found and that he can only be killed with a Molotov, 
 with a shot between the eyes, with a fall from a great height, by being run over with a car, or 
 something similar. Not only is soliciting murder advice from random pedestrians totally absurd, 
 carrying out these contrived actions is more trouble than it's worth, so you'll probably end up 
 just bombing the compound every time.  

           The front door was locked.      

  Once you take down all five families, you're about done with the single-player portion of The Godfather 
 II. Multiplayer modes designed for up to 16 players include Team Deathmatch, Demolition Assault, 
 FireStarter, and Safecracker. You play as one of the members of your crew from the single-player 
 game, and as you earn honor points online, you can use them to upgrade your guys' weapon licenses 
 so that they're able to use more-powerful guns both online and off. Your choice of crew member 
 will likely be dictated by the game type that you're playing because, in case you hadn't guessed, 
 those last three modes favor players with demolition, arson, and safecracker skills, respectively. 
 Unfortunately, The Godfather II's multiplayer isn't much fun. Targeting enemies without the lock-on 
 feature feels too imprecise on consoles, completing objectives on the non-deathmatch modes doesn't 
 earn you as many points as just killing people, and most of the maps are too big for just 16 players. 

  One of the more interesting multiplayer features, regardless of the fact that it's functional rather 
 than fun, is the option for one player on each team to play as the don. As the don, you don't play 
 as a guy on the ground at all, but as a disembodied camera flying high above the map and able to 
 relay information to teammates about enemy locations and the like both with voice chat and by dropping 
 waypoint beacons. When your team captures strategic locations on the map, you can also reward them 
 with bulletproof vests and other perks, which is great for them but as boring as it sounds for 
 you. Worse still, you can only fly around freely at a fixed altitude, so although you have the 
 option to jump between players and key locations with a couple of button presses, your movement 
 still feels oddly restricted. It's possible to make money as the don by betting on the outcome 
 of games, but money's unlikely to be an issue once you near the end of the single-player game, 
 so it's hardly compelling.  

           Two soldiers demonstrate their very different interpretations of Dominic's order to follow 
 him.      

  Questionable design choices aside, the problem with almost every aspect of The Godfather II is 
 simply that it feels unfinished. Dated visuals, voiced lines of dialogue that seemingly play at 
 random and often inappropriate times, dead bodies falling through scenery, a car hovering in the 
 air about half a mile off the Cuban coast, being able to snipe enemies through walls and doors 
 that haven't popped into view yet, guards who fail to recognize you as a threat when you walk into 
 a federal building and crack a safe, cars and pedestrians that appear and disappear long before 
 they leave your range of vision, getting stuck in an animation somewhere between a regular walk 
 and a crouch after vaulting through a window -- these are just some of the problems we encountered 
 in the 13 hours or so that it took to play from start to finish. Even looking past these anomalies, 
 all you're going to find is repetitive, unsatisfying gameplay in an illogical, inconsistent world. 
 The Godfather II should have been an offer impossible to refuse, but like Michael's brother Fredo, 
 this one will break your heart.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LosGallosno2
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Mafia was way better than this game! The visuals (for the time) were great, music was great, and 
 game play was great! Sure, if could have used a little work, but that game made me want to buy 
 the next version whenever it would be released - not the Godfather, though. I played the first 
 one and was highly disappointed. The second game is exactly like the first, other than you can 
 recruit other members and control different things using the "Don's View." but game play is the 
 same. At least they should have tried to mix the missions up a bit, not just the same two or three 
 things over and over again. The dialogue coming from the NPC's is also very repetitive. The cut-scenes 
 are OK and the story is somewhat interesting, but they don't add much to a basically uninteresting 
 game. I am highly disappointed in this game. I feel like I bought Spiderman 3 for the PC all over 
 again. If they keep making boring games, who's ever going to buy them? - Nobody!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: am_70
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  It's got me hooked. Can't stop playing it. Could be a bit more Technical. The guns are quite good 
 but the whole system goes over and over. So it's like you are doing the same thing all the time 
 but even still its a great game and I would recommend it to many people. Comparing to the actual 
 movie would be a disgrace becuase I don't think you could compare a game to the movie... Also your 
 dons starts saying the same thing over and over when you go to hire more people in your family. 
 Which is quite annoying at time. All the mob members look quite similar also. The aiming system 
 could be better. The acurate aiming system only allows you to run slower so you end up using it 
 all the time. If you are really picky then you can find many things wrong with this game. But overall 
 its great and got me hooked which is fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evade8888
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  In all of the reviews that i read here i didn't see a single mentioned flaw of the game that wasn't 
 made up. Here EA have focused on gameplay and have done a wonderfull job. The game is exciting 
 an one can not help but feel like a don while playing it and feeling like the godfather in the 
 end. From what i've seen it's more of a difficult to accept ganre and that makes it harder to get 
 a good rating, but whoever does not like the ganre itself should not rate, and definately should 
 not write a review on the game. And even if he does he shouldn't blame the game. Personaly i think 
 this is one of the best games in a few years and even though the makers didn't really try to make 
 an interesting story and an exciting plot, they've succeded in locking me infront of the computer 
 for atleast 3 hours a day untill the end of the game. The only problem might be that it was fairly 
 short, but it is really the Fahrenheit kind of short, it feels like it was longer than it was, 
 becouse the story advanced quickly as i was enjoying this wonderful game that i was happy to give 
 12 hours of my life for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  STORY
  
  Great storyline, although it could have went a little further, needed one more mission to flesh 
 it out. Despite this, the pacing of the game did not match the story. You could wipe out a family 
 and the cutscenes would not adapt to what you actually did.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Th fighting was okay, but I never saw the body-part mechanics like in GF1. Although the game said 
 you can focus on a particular body part, there was no indicator. In GF1 you had a target lock that 
 told you you are going to shoot a knee, a head, and so on. EA messed up here - telling you can 
 do that in GF2, but obviously did not program it into the game. Was it rushed?
  
  The driving - horrible. Car selection - worse. The camera was very wild and you could hardly tell 
 where you were turning. The steering was way too sensitive and unpredictable - try to loop around 
 a car in front of you can send you careening into the sidewalk. The braking was unresponsive and 
 there was no solution to fast stop the cars. Cars move way too slow.
  
  Weapon selection was broken in te fact that there was no shortcut to the explosives. It looks like 
 EA rushed this element out without completing it too. When you press the space bar to change weapons 
 you see your explosives to the left - but you cannot get to them! You have to cycle through them 
 with Z and X or wheel to them with your mouse. really handy when you need to quickly get to it 
 before the boss tat you need to assassinate with an explosive is swooning on his knees and about 
 to get back up in 5 seconds. Yeah EA - good job...
  
  Interaction with objects and people - non-existent. With objects you can see another clue that 
 the game is incomplete - there is an arrow pointing to it, but you can't do anything. Just an arrow 
 for nothing. Talking to people gets you nothing. Flirting does nothing and doesn't tell you anything 
 about your status. Sometime your crew tells you that you stink - but unlike Saint's Row where it 
 affects your reputation when you don't change your clothes and look once in a while it means nothing 
 in GF2. Looks like the underpinnings of another unfinished element to me.
  
  Lets not forget - there was no boats, planes, helicopters or interaction with the water at all 
 (no swimming) . EA went on the cheap here.
  
  Melee fighting was hit and miss. When you grab someone, you are supposed to be able to do a number 
 of things with them. I found no predictability in this. I press forward to push soeone a certain 
 direction and sometimes my character would stand there, smoetimes he would get in a hard push position, 
 sometimes he would knee the enemy instead of push him. Turning the grabbed enemy sometimes would 
 pull him, sometimes strike, sometimes throw, sometimes let go. Jabbing and striking was difficult 
 because your character is stuck on four directions. Most games have at least eight directions, 
 which includes the diagaonals. EA could have made the turning more fluid - but they didn't. And 
 no, there is o lock-on here either.
  
  Speaking of objects - why no upgradeable cars, clothes, safehouse, jewelry, etc.? It would have 
 made the game more compelling to play.
  
  That brings me to upgrading. Sad indeed. This is where EA's desperation really shines through. 
 You cannot upgrade your crew member's weapon license AT ALL, unless you go online to "earn honors". 
 That means if you purchased the game to play singleplayer mode you are out of luck and will never 
 find a crew member with master skills. There are some crew members with expert skills, but not 
 enough to flesh out your whole crew. And what if you did go ahead and earn honors online ad get 
 your crew to master level? Guess what, you won't get te 4th level weapons by playing - you have 
 to pay for them online - AND you have to wait until April 23rd to do so. Isn't that fun? The April 
 23rd premium pack will not include any new missions for the singleplayer - so why would anyone 
 but a multiplayer buy it at all? It really reaks.
  
  There are NO mini-games in GF2. It would have been nice to include some to upgrade your crew - 
 but EA decided to cash cow that element instead. With this and the other negatives, the game ends 
 up feeling very "on rails". You just say to yourself, well let me just play with what I got and 
 get it over with. Whoopie, EA. 
  
  Despite the absence of upgradeability (besides skills) in the game, it starts feeling really easy 
 at about halfway, when you own the majority of businesses in New York and Florida. The opposing 
 families cannot keep up and if they do manage to take one of your businesses you just send out 
 a crew to take it back as soon as you see the prompt - they usually only have 1 defender there 
 right after they take it from you and it's very simple to send a crew an immediately take it back 
 from them. I never felt any danger of losing the game because of my businesses getting taken away 
 like in GF1. Not challenging in the least bit. 
  
  VISUALS:
  
  Despite people saying it looks like a 2005 game, it really isn't that bad. It was made to optimise 
 the multiplayer experience, so the graphics were an afterthough. You can crank them up to the highest 
 level and it will look okay.
  
  The explosions are quite nice, but that is about all of the special effects you are ever going 
 to see in the game.
  
  The camera is wild and fixed focus. Moving the camera around can be slow. There is no zooming in 
 and out, which was really needed here.
  
  Draw distance was pretty bad and unchangeabe. Sniper-rifle distance was not as far as it could 
 have been - because of the draw distance. The furthest you can see with the Sniper-rifle shows 
 no characters, only the street. What a waste of my favorite weapon.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Effects sounds were nice, a little over the top sometimes for what little damage, say a tank explosion, 
 really did. The music selection was really awful. I know they were going for that 60-70s feel, 
 but come, those songs were really sad. They should have let you play your own music. It said you 
 could change the radio station in the car - but to what? Why EA didn't include a visual, like in 
 GTA, to show you what kind of station you were listening to was another head scratcher - another 
 element unfinished?
  
  I don't know about anyone else, but i had to put it on stereo to hear anything. The 5.1 or surround 
 or Dolby (which I have) did not work. I had t trn my system way up to hear subtl sounds like passerbys 
 talking - later I found that watever they were saying had no impact on the game anyway, so who 
 cares.
  
  Environmental music was a big "whatever". At least they let you know, by the music when the enemy 
 was disbanded.
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  Overall, GFII was another big EA disappointment. It is yet another game that is a shell of what 
 it culd have been. Insaed of fleshing out a complete and expansive game they chose to cash cow 
 yet another game - and even then they don't offer much of an incentive to purchase anything. I'd 
 say this is a rental (for consloe player) and for PC players, just wait until it slams into the 
 bargain bin so you don't waste 100% of your money on 50% of a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre9977
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:12 am PT
Review:  I was quite amazed when I stepped into GameSpot and discovered that the game has only received 
 4.5 points from the reviewers. There's not much to put the blame on though, I just think they got 
 pissed when installing it or didn't get how the "Don's View" function worked. For me all has gone 
 fine and all will probably!
  
  First of all - graphics. They satisfy me. What I see isn't the latest Grand Theft Auto IV, but 
 it is a cool game that has its own "theme". I heard someone say it looks like The Simpsons: Hit 
 and Run. Well maybe vehicles in the game look a little bit Simpsons-ish, but I must disagree. I 
 run this game at best rate and it doesn't use much resources. That's good, maybe they didn't want 
 to max it out like some high-end game that your grandchildren can play fine some day? Nah, graphics 
 are all fine and I like that.
  
  Secondly, there's gameplay. First I thought it is a little unsatisfying, but my rating to it increased 
 rapidly when the Manganos mafia entered the ring. I had to break my word of stopping playing the 
 game, because it got fairly interested. You and your dear Don Corleone's brother were almost successfully 
 driveby'ed at your Florida mansion and so on. Then came Cuba, yeah. It looked cool doing those 
 missions in Cuba, assassination attempt to Fidel Castro and all that. I loved how there's betraying, 
 I loved the hostage thing, I loved the court-case thing where you also had to investigate stuff 
 from people and ask them for hints.
  
  New controls over your family such as the Don's View system and your crew is awesome cool also. 
 I couldn't imagine such cool system from even the trailers I had seen. How you manage your business 
 is totally up to you. You can't control the storyline like that, but you can control your success 
 in the business world, how you take over rackets and everything. There's not much left from The 
 Godfather original game to that, so good for them and good for us, the players.
  
  
  Yeah, as one forum topic says I disagree to the GameSpot rating, but I'm not gonna argue much on 
 that. Instead I give this game a rating of 9. 
  
  Good game, worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eiadrtr
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:55 am PT
Review:  first thing i noticed is that the grafic's are so bad that they make pope looks good, even though 
 the game have many good aspects like the don view and being bloody ( in a cool way) i found that 
 the game have many many many glitch for instance somethimes when you talk to someone the game stiff 
 and you dont hear a thing and the you have a stuped crew members even thu they are very helpfull 
 but in the end after playing it is found then in the matter of 4 houers i took countroll of 46% 
 of bussines in the game and i wasn't even trying too so when u take controll of all the bussnes 
 in town i asure u the game will became very boring and very bad cuz the only fun thing in it witch 
 is kill well go away so i recomend not spending your money on this crap and go buy a mutch better 
 game but if you are a real fan of GF go play it but it will give you plesure for a little time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justgorka
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  The team who "created" this, should be brought to justice.
  As far as I can remember, The Godfather for PS2 felt much much better and modern that this joke, 
 driving was even fun, but in this one... Mario Kart felt more realistic than this.
  It's a disgrace that such an emblematic series of Films, get such poor videogames. The potential 
 is enormous and the technology is here, but perhaps EA pulled the plug at some point in the development 
 process, it feels totally that way. But if you do that, don't ship it!
  I am glad that I didn't pay for this, but even so, I consider that I've wasted my bandwidth, time 
 and space in my hard drive.
  I wonder if they are even thinking in making the Godfather III... I hope not, not even the movie 
 was good. Please EA, sell the license to someone who cares about the fun we all could have with 
 this and lets hope that they used the name but develop a totally new game.
  Until then..
  All our hopes are in Mafia II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisjef34
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have been psyched about this game for months. Then I bought it and played it. Very very bad game. 
 Steal the game first to try it and then buy it if you really like it. 
  It is so redundant.
  What the hell EA? 
  Maybe you guys could concentrate on making a good 
 game. Sim City is something we are still waiting on.
  
  The main complaint is that I've played this game before, it was called Scarface!! and it had better 
 gameplay. The gameplay is too choppy. Did I mention its very redundant. 
  
  If they made the game 100% online where you had a virtual world you had to control your crime rings 
 in, then my mouth would be shut.
  
  I cant believe I have to waste my time writing a crappy review for a crappy game. SAVE YOUR MONEY! 
 SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR 
 MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE 
 YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! 
 SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR 
 MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! SAVE YOUR MONEY! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:55 am PT
Review:  really what was EA thinking releasing this game so early... i mean really i feels like they just 
 held a meeting and said... how can we make peoples lives hard... its like they dont like the movie 
 Godfather...
  
  Good: Its the godfather, Shooting seems easy. most gameplay is alright, almost simlar to the other 
 godfather. Being a don is pure awsomeness. first few hours are great. learning cuve is very very 
 gental if u have played the last godfather. The arsenal youget by the end of the game is awsome. 
 some girls are topless.... whatever floats your boat.... AI is good at shooting...
  
  Bad: Graphics are dated.... very dated.... fram rate drops for no reasons what so ever. The clothing 
 selection compaired to the last game i think has surpisingly (in a bad way) decressed. Glitches 
 are a plenty. cars get stuck in mid air when u take a jump. AI have difficulty getting into a car. 
 Multiplayer is.... C. R. A. P from the start... theres a glitch where you cant crouch that some spot 
 for some unkown problem. The last godfather is better than this.
  
  I mean really what is EA doing.... seriously.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game isn't so good as the first one. Honestly first one was mind blowing.. but this one.. not 
 up to the mark.
  The graphics are terrible if compared to current games in the market, game play is not that handy.. quite 
 complicated.. very small city. I am really disappointed by this one. Rent it first !! if you are 
 a die hard fan of god father game. Sound effects are very good, and upgrading your abilities and 
 weapons makes your quite easier for becoming DON At end, it takes you no where, you feel that you 
 just completed brothers in arms ( controlling your men for the job) and gta (doing missions for 
 somebody else) . Story line is poor and graphics are even more poor.
  
  I would say its worth trying at least once but buy at your own risk.
  Come on EA what have you 
 done..!! don't let us down... by turning legend into a new generation JOKE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgariontietje
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Godfather II sounded like it would be a great game - a chance to have one's very own crime 
 family, what gamer wouldn't enjoy that? Well, this is not the game you're looking for in that case.
 
  
  Comments: Not much to say, it's a boring, dated shoot fest with some interesting ideas that never 
 quite come to fruitiom, especially in it's pseudo strategy aspects. 
  
  Breakdown:
  Graphics (possible 3 points) : Low poly models, washed out textures lacking any depth, and lack of 
 any real eye candy. Everything looks the same, nothing catches the eye, and the art for the whole 
 game was uninspired. On the plus side, the facial animations were well done, and the ability to 
 customize your character's look would have been great if the avatar didn't suffer from all the 
 aforementioned problems. The explosions are pretty well done, very flashy but lacking aftermath. 
 Overall, the graphics on this game are pretty much in synch with the rest of it: boring. This is 
 dissapointing considering the abilities of consoles and PCs these days, that the game takes advantage 
 of precious little of these available features. 1 point
  
  Sound (possible 3 points, Voice, SFX, Music) : Voice acting was well done, even if the scripting 
 of the dialog was a but stilted. The Sound effects are pretty standard, making for nothing horrible 
 but nothing great or memorable either. The music may as well not even have been there, and ambient 
 sounds were lacking in depth and realism. Overall, boring. 1.5 points
  
  Gameplay (possible 3 points) : The controls feel clunky, the mouse is either too sensitive or not 
 sensitive enough, and the constant run and gun has been done to death. There's not really even 
 any ability to take cover to add that much excitment to it. It does, at least offer the ability 
 to make headshots for quicker kills. 1 point
  
  Story Fun or not Fun (possible 1 point) : The story was predictable, not play-driven, and nothing 
 you do really has any consequences on what happens beyond the win/lose category. 0 points.
  
  Bottom Line: Don't waste your time or money. If it's given as a gift, politely thank your aunt 
 and use it as a coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GallardoLP_560
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is no dought a worth playing game. Its features are much better than the first Godfather, 
 however out in the city, you can not compare the graphics and vehicle controls with Godfather 2. 
 Godfather was much better on this. The other bad thing, is 3 different cities. Just a big one would 
 be much better. ToD is not that realistic, and there is no rain! Still I give the game a 7.5 still, 
 because its enjoyable!
  
  So to sum up in a few words, the first Godfather was more reallistic and had better graphics (no 
 big defference) ,
  
  I think you will enjoy the game though. If you like these kind of games (and I am not talking like 
 GTA or Hijacking games, because you will not fill that in this game) , the mafia kind of games, 
 you will love this one. Because you are the boss and you chose almost your every move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresdistroyer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  The Game Came 1 Year Afer GTA 4 But The Achivements That Game Brought You Cant Even 1/10 of them 
 here. At Times The Game Gets Lazy And Boaring After 1 to 2 Hours Play. The Story goes Nowhere and 
 The Crew Are A Big Spoiler. If We Look At The Classics Like Mafia Or GTA. It Is More Of Rule The 
 City Focus Than In Game Focus And No Real Enjoyment While Playing The Game. Graphis Are Good But 
 They Dont Keep You In The Slightly Boaring Gameplay Like In Mafia The Music Would Go With The Pace 
 Of The Game You Cant See That Here. The Dons View Is A Good Edition To Mention But Defending Businesses 
 And Getting New Businesses Gets Boaring After A Few Hours. No Major Improvement Can Be Seen Here 
 But Is A Worth Play For Those Who Like A Fun Game. If You Liked The Earlier Godfather You Could 
 Like This But It Is Not Worth All The Hape. Controling New Businesses In The Start Is Fun But Later 
 It Gets On Your Nerves. Many Bugs Are Seen But None Of Them Will Hamper Your Gameplay Majorly Except 
 The Bugs Like Crew Members Dont Get Into Cars While Cop Chase. Can Never Be Called A Major Improvement 
 To The Franchise But Sill Is Better Than What Gamespot Rates It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzardlion
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I will tackle the game part by part
  
  So the gameplay of godfather II. Its damn highly addictive, Im not that big fan of finishing games 
 but godfather II is another story, its addictive it has simplictic gameplay mechanics which most 
 will like. You are the don, you control a crew of mobs which have skills which you can use according 
 to the environment. That's all straight forward and fun. It has a very useful strategic view to 
 manage your crew and the 3D map when you enter a building is great and original. The only complain 
 is that the movements seem to fast, the crew runs like being chased by a stampede of bulls. And 
 the crew A. I. tend to move in circles and sometimes is unresponsive but nothing too drastic.
  
  Now the graphics of the game, I've reading some user reviews and they tell that the former 
 godfather has even better graphics -.-, the graphics haven't downgraded, they are much more better 
 than the first godfather. The character models and textures are done nicely. Unfortunately Michael 
 Corleone does not look like Al Pacino but doesn't make a difference. The cars are a little crappy 
 but they are a huge improvement over the godfather I, the explosions are outstanding. It has some 
 minor glitches and some characters models have their eyes popping over the eye lids, but nothing 
 that bad. It has good graphics and thats all.
  
  The sound of the game is fine, voice acting is done great and other sounds are great as well. Gun 
 sounds, explosions are think they are pretty good. 
  
  The A. I. of the game is a little bit awkward, neither the enemies and neither your merry crew have 
 a good A. I. Your crew has the tendency to just stop and shoot and when you call them, either they 
 run in circles or they go another way. But only in some cases, most times you call them and they 
 come with their paranormal speed. Most times when you need something, the A. I. responds good. For 
 example when you need a medic, it just comes straight, and when you need to cut a fence you may 
 have to direct twice but it responds fine. So the A. I. has the good and negative aspects but in 
 the end it's just a game, why the panic xD. 
  
  The story is great, it fits perfectly with the different perspective of your character and stays 
 true to the Godfather II at most times. 
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  It is just a great game, and even an addictive one which you will spend about 15 hours in it and 
 enjoy it. I haven't tried the multi player but I will and from the reviews of it I think it will 
 be great as well. 
  
  Keep in mind this:
  
  A game doesn't have to be realistic and have outstanding qualities, we already have our real lives 
 to take care of, we dont need another real virtual life to live. Enjoy a game which lets you escape 
 reality and gives you a fantasy world to live at least virtually. The godfather II is great and 
 simple and most importantly fun, good work EA
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I quite enjoyed the first game, yes it got repetitive but it was enjoyable none the less. This 
 game however is appalling, it feels like it was thrown together in a couple of months by people 
 with no pride in what they do. 
  
  One improvement over the first should have been the henchmen, this time round you get to train 
 them up and they feel more like a crew and less like a gang of random A. I as they did in the first 
 game. The problem is the A. I is awful, they have more comedy value than anything else. They'll 
 run around in circles when trying to get into a car, they'll do the same right in front of you 
 in the middle of a gun battle too. They rarely use cover preferring instead to stand there trading 
 bullets with equality stupid enemy A. I, that's when they're not mysteriously managing to go from 
 behind you to in front you without passing you. I don't remember a teleport system being part of 
 the movies. How anyone at E. A thought this is acceptable is beyond me. 
  
  The gameplay starts off OK and the gunplay is decent enough with a cover system that works well 
 but sadly it soon gets very repetitive. Go to a rivals business, kill the gang members there, bully 
 the owner into paying you protection, repeat ad infinitum. Even when someone takes one of your 
 businesses the formula doesn't change unless you use the automated system to recover your business. 
 The inclusion of a mode that plays the game for you says it all. The only other activity on offer 
 is murdering people or destroying property at the request of random pedestrians, your reward being 
 cash or the whereabouts of one the rival gangs senior members. The problem here is the gameworld 
 is so small you're often tasked with smashing up your own business or even worse blowing the thing 
 up, it makes no sense at all. 
  
  Graphically it's ugly, GTA 3 looked better than this. Cars pop in a few feet in front of you, the 
 textures are the sort of "quality" last seen on the PS2. This looks no better than the first Godfather 
 game on the Wii. I'm running it at 1680x1050 with everything maxed out and it still looks terrible, 
 the wildly erratic framerate doesn't help either. I can play Fallout3 at the same resolution with 
 all the eye candy on, why on earth does something this ugly looking sometimes drop as low as 20fps 
 before flying back up to 60 and back down again? It's an unoptimised mess.
  
  The driving physics are poor and the car models ugly, I can't say much about the physics system 
 in the rest of the game because there isn't one. 
  
  The Godfather movies are timeless classics, something this mess will never be. 
  
  Don't bother 
 with this even when it hits the bargain bin next month, there are far better games out there. If 
 you've not got the Movie boxset then buy that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Most of the reviews have it pretty much right. The game isn't nearly as bad as Gamespot made it 
 out to be, but it really isn't anything outstanding or really even new. 
  
  So far I haven't encountered any bugs, glitches, or crashes (knock on wood) . The story is pretty 
 solid, and pretty interesting to see things from different perspectives. Some have complained about 
 graphics, but I assure you on High, I think the graphics look outstanding (running on dual 8800GTXs) . 
 
  
  A lot of this game is the same as the original. Taking over business one by one and eventually 
 taking out the rival family is the over all goal of course with just a few minor additions to game 
 play. This of course is where the repetitiveness of the game play starts to come through. Yeah 
 missions are fun at first, but then it's the same thing over and over again. Also, missions typically 
 aren't hard in the slightest and even evading police is a pretty simple task... even with a maxed 
 wanted level. 
  
  All in all, it's really not a bad game at all and really does have a fair amount of fun, but it's 
 nothing that would make it a "must by". The best way to describe this game is what I read in another 
 review: "Good if you have nothing else to do." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  I liked the first Godfather game, but had some disappointment with the fun aspect of it. This one 
 takes all the fun things about the first, adds a lot more, and addresses the problems that the 
 first faced.
  
  Right off the bat, this is a review about the game, not about the franchise. If you're looking 
 for how this game ties in to movies etc. then you'll need to look elsewhere. If you care instead 
 about the game for itself, you're in the right place.
  
  There is an under-laying story for the game, but you also have a huge amount of freedom do run 
 things as you want. In this game, you're the boss. You can decide when and what businesses to take 
 over, how many guards to put on them, and who to recruit into your family when slots open up. The 
 people you recruit have their own skills, which you can built upon by spending money to improve 
 their training, special skills (with promotions) , and weapons. You can then choose which people 
 to take with you, up to 3, which you want to protect your interests, and even send them out to 
 take over another business without you.
  
  There are a few things that should have been worked on more before release. Driving is done using 
 keyboard control, support for joystick driving would have make it far better for driving vehicles. 
 Also to improve the license for what level of weapons your crew can use can only be improved by 
 going on-line, forcing on-line play even if you have no interest in it or not convenient to do 
 so. The only other way is to have those with lower license levels killed and recruit someone new 
 to take their place, throwing away anything you have spent upgrading their skills previously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricoxs
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well, I played this game for 2 days in a row, playing ~12 hours at each day, and I was pretty impressed. 
 The game was FANTASTIC, it had so great game play, and intresenting missions! 
  
  But, sadly many moments were ruined due to few serious bugs. In overall, I liked this game, it 
 was fun fighting off rival families, taking out their rackets etc. 
  
  Missions were pretty easy, mainly the hardest two missions I had were killing Castro and the last 
 mission where you had to kill Mr. Roth. The ending was simply great, story was AMAZINGLY good.. 
 It was really close to how it actually was in 90's - backstabbers, traitors, corrupt officials, 
 family wars etc.
  
  This is short review, as I don't have anything much to say. Simply, good game. But it was sort 
 of SHORT, it could have been longer and the last missions could have been more impressive, except 
 the last one - last one was perfect and not too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaWang
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:33 am PT
Review:  I never played the first game but GF2 so far has been quite enjoyable for me, I completed it yesterday. 
 I didn't encounter any bugs or issues with the game other than when first creating your character, 
 the game never slowed down and ran perfectly maxed out. I had fun playing it and wasn't expecting 
 anything great to begin with. 
  
  The don view is very useful, managing guards, defenders, assets, rival families, your family, upgrades, 
 weapons, apparel, favors. I also have to say that the minimap is very useful showing a small 3d 
 preview of everything such as stairs, buildings etc and green strips indicating entrances/exits.
 
  
  The different classes of men that you can recruit into your family bring definite advantages as 
 well, its not just tacked on, since there are always a few ways to get into a building and lots 
 of them require a certain class, such as an engineer to cut through fences. Usually to upgrade 
 your men's weapon license you would play online but for those of us who can't do that you can mark 
 one of your men for death and kill him with friendly fire, then recruit someone who has the necessary 
 license.
  
  Overall i'm happy with the game, true its not the best looking game but it runs great and to me 
 it makes up for the visuals in having some fun while adding a little strategy. I say for those 
 with consoles its a good game to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eidis007
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  At first look this game seems not so good as the first part was! But, after some hours I spent 
 playing this game, I discover some pluses and some minuses too! 
  I liked the idea about making your own family and recruiting made men, however some off them is 
 really dumb! Because after you whistle not all of them follow you, and sometimes after you have 
 cold them to follow you they are coming from another way, and when you go further you see that 
 they could not come form there, I suppose that it is some kind of game bug or just a mistake from 
 EA! One off pluses is count off locations, in the first part of Godfather, there were only one 
 city, but here is three location's- New York, Florida and Cuba! About Cuba it's very hard to escape 
 from cops here, they are coming and coming and sometimes you just can't get rid of them. I would 
 like more mission's in this game, because they are not so many as it was in first part of game, 
 in this part you have to take over rackets, more than do jobs from Godfather!
  To my mind the game is pretty good, because it gives you many options about your own family, taking 
 over the rackets and doing favors for peoples! I hope that this is not the end of Godfather series! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The game play of GF2 dosnt bring a lot of new things to the table that part 1 didn't already have. 
 I like the new Don View and the ability to send crew members to take care of task while you work 
 on certain things yourself. I also like the RPG element of being able to advance your crew members, 
 to make them better through out the game. That being said, there is a lot more they could have 
 done to make the game have a better storyline, like the first one did. They could have done a lot 
 more in the dons view to make the game longer and better as well. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in GF2 are seem actually worse than in GF1. But those who have read any of my reviews 
 know that I don't think graphics make a game. Could have have been better? yes by a long shot. 
 Did they effect my game rating? No not at all.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds of the guns and executions are great, the cars sound like cars, nothing outstanding 
 here.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  The replay value seems to be good in this game, hiring different crew members will allow you to 
 go through the game a second time in a different direction.
  
  Recommend ? :
  
  I'm only 5-10 hours into the game but I will recommend this game. I know Game spot gave it a 4.5 
 but I don't agree with that at all. They could have done a lot more to make this game better, but 
 its a lot better than 4.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:04 am PT
Review:  Important note to start off with: I'm rather new to the whole Godfather/Mafia games/movies, what 
 have you. 
  
  When people rate games, they usually do so based on impact. With that said, It is obvious to me 
 that two main factors are influencing negative scores: a) anticipation/expectations b) the movie/mafia-genre. 
 The GS reviewer himself is obviously upset about the game because he loved the movie. The extremely 
 low score of 4.5, only serves to support this notion.
  
  The reason why I mention these factors isn't to discredit them; rather, it's to open up a chance 
 for me to say: "I understand". I more than understand that 'impact' is reflected in the way a game 
 is reviewed; heck, even 'I rate' based on impact. So maybe if I anticipated this game (like I did 
 with Spore) or if I was a diehard fan of the movie (or mafia games) , I would be extremely irritated 
 (not hard to imagine this actually) . 
  
  But this wasn't what happened with me. I played Godfather II with -very- low expectations. In fact, 
 I was honestly expecting this to tank. But this isn't what happened. First thing I noticed was 
 that it ran very smoothly. I was able to max the settings and get a stable/high FPS throughout. 
 I mean, yes, there are bugs, but after playing Wanted Weapons of Fate and Saints Row 2, I really 
 wasn't complaining -at all- with regards to PC optimization or bug-like experiences. Though the 
 reviewer does have a point about jumping over fences being rather schizophrenic at times.
  
  In a nutshell, Godfather II's biggest strength is also its biggest weakness: superficiality. 
 The game has the depth of a kiddie-pool, but this can be both a good and bad thing. For diehard 
 fans of the movie, it's going to hit like a sledgehammer to the face. The storyline is incredibly 
 forgettable/anti-climactic; even though I'm not a Mafia-fan by any means, in my opinion the 2002 
 game has a storyline/script that makes Godfather II look like a preschool coloring book by comparison. 
 In addition, the characters aren't too great; it seemed like there was potential in the game's 
 opening, but everything fell flat soon thereafter.
  
  So what then, is good about the game at all? First off you have to keep in mind my expectations 
 were by no means high. Second, the PC-optimization wasn't half bad. The graphics aren't by any 
 means top-notch, but they looked alright to me. And third (and most important of all) , the gameplay 
 was somewhat fun.
  
  Fun yes, but not all that deep. As I said before, this game's biggest weakness is its biggest strength. 
 Godfather II was, in my experience and with everything previously mentioned kept in mind, somewhat 
 fun to play. Throughout all 11 hours, I found myself engaged, and games don't always do this for 
 me. Essentially, you start off with a custom character that is incredibly weak, and work him up 
 to a Don with incredible power. To do so, you need to slowly build up a family and upgrade their 
 abilities/take over monopolies in the city. 
  
  Superficial, but still fun. There's one word I'd use to describe my enjoyment: cathartic. This 
 game is just so -raging-. The main character is just so obsessed with power; walk into a joint 
 and shove the owner against a wall. Won't listen? Threaten to smash his face in. Or some random 
 pedestrian walks by, but irritates you? Execute him/her with a quick-time finish! It's surprisingly 
 fun to just 'increase your power/domain' while leveling up your made-men with the money you accumulate. 
 You actually feel like you're taking over the city.
  
  That said, remember the theme is superficiality here. Cities are small, medics are very overpowered 
 (a team of medics makes you basically invincible) , and your party spawns unrealistically wherever 
 you go. Worst of all are the cars; they just look horrible and don't play that well. Funny enough, 
 it's these same aspects that make the game so streamlined and easy to play. It's incredibly cathartic, 
 and lacking of any tedium whatsoever. Many times I just ditch my party because I know they will 
 respawn wherever I go. That's fine; it just means I don't have to wait for them to get into the 
 car.
  
  All in all, GF2 is a superficial game. As a Mafia game, it fails hard, so I more than understand 
 why some fans are upset. But the thing is, I personally didn't have any anticipation or experience 
 with the genre. I played this game as a gangster-game rather than a mafia-game, and it was somewhat 
 enjoyable as a result. Taking over cities and flaunting your power in a devilish-way really had 
 me hooked. You also feel a sense of progression as you become increasingly stronger. But as mentioned, 
 in terms of story-depth, we have a kiddy-pool. Heck, even the hookers reflected this theme of superficiality: 
 you could 'flirt' with them, but nothing else! In addition, despite not being experienced with 
 the Mafia-genre, I can see 'from the outside' how this game failed to be both a mob-game and a 
 'good-game'. Perhaps if I had anticipation for the game, I would've been -really- upset. Actually, 
 I can totally see this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gherghita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:43 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Finished a few minutes ago.
  So let's start with the gamespot rating:
  4.5 , what, what ,what ?
  The crap Saints Row 2 ( PC) got more than this game and SR2 is the most 
 annoying slideshow like game i've ever saw.
  
  The Godfather 2 Pro's
  -Character customisation has fingerless gloves.
  - Graphics are very good, (not as well as GTA 
 IV, but they are very good)
  - Fire and explosions have very real-like fire
  -Your family: I loved the idea to have recruits with you and promote them
  -Crime rings: oh yeah 
 this thing maked me won the game
  -Made men: Killing them in a way is great, and gore
  - Executions: Make you feel revenged when you kill a enemy guard.
  -The Don's view: A perfect 
 3D map that alows you to control you actions.
  
  The Godfather 2 Con's
  - Driving: While the cars look good, the driving is incredibly stuuuuuuuupid and annoying, i mean 
 if i drive into a trash can, the car stops.
  -Police is annoying: If you are followed by police, good luck. i can't escape them.
  -Stupid 
 Racket design: Some rackets are made so that you have to walk to a labyrinth to reach the owner.
 
  - Can't jump: Here i am standing in front of some boxes ( saml boxes, can't be destroyed) But can't 
 get pass them to the other side, so i had to go across the racket to go in the same point, only 
 after the boxes.
  -Can't hide the bonuses: While the ammo belt and body armor are usefull things, the look stupid 
 on you when you're walking on the sidewalk in Florida.
  
  So this is my review ( first review ever) of The Godfather 2
  It really deserved better than 4.5 
 (at least 7.5)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wm_maw
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun... from start to finish.
  I finished it quickly. i think the Online mode should be fun. Did not had time to test that one. 
 
  I liked the ways you have to dispose of enemy made mans: soldiers, underbosses and even the bosses 
 (dons) themselves.
  The game is very easy... all about fun, I like being a bad ass in game, so I enjoyed this one.
 
  The bad part are the graphics. They simply suck. The car smokes out on the first 2 scratches, 
 stuff dissipate into the thin air, cars vanish and appear out of nowhere, some missions are hard 
 to accomplish and other are so easy that makes you laugh. In one scene I could really see some 
 dudes eyes through his skin... it was weird... 
  The single player mode was fun. The crew knows what to do, I do not know why Gamespot reviewers 
 complained about that and from the picture it seems that the other soldier was not in the crew... 
 so he does not listen to direct orders but just don's view (MAP VIEW) orders.
  I recommend this game to all sorts of players... over 18 years old :) .
  I hope you will enjoy 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worldjdogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of sceptical at first because of the godfather port to the X360. I played it and was 
 disapointed in the graphics. The AI was not so bad. I know I am alone in this review but Overall 
 I thought this game was Great. I had it 3 days ago and play it atleast 3 hours a day which beats 
 my record of playing games maybe 30 minutes a day. I love the gameplay. This game brings back so 
 much of Godfather one on Xbox but improves everything. The graphics dont look so bad when th game 
 is this fun. It keeps you involved and the story has many twists. I knew for along time that the 
 gamespot reviewers are slightly harsh on game reviews but whom ever reviewed this one is a complete 
 idiot. Buy this game!
  The only thing that this game could of had was maybe a better AI and closer to the original story 
 but this does not bother me at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondogx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  i have been looking forward to this game for a while it sounded good but it's a bit on the boring 
 side
  i have played the godfather 1 almost as long as gta san andreas but this one is a bigger let down 
 then gta 4
  
  + points 
  playing don is fun for a while 
  weapons are good 
  explosives look nice
  recruiting you own family is a nice addition
  
  - points 
  graphics 
 look bad ( specially cars )
  i did not really feel like a don
  controls are a bit annoying
  got some annoying bugs
  city's are to small !!!
  gets boring 
 very fast
  
  i would not advise you to buy this game until the price is down a bit it got some new stuff in 
 it but its nothing special
  if you look for a gta style game saints row would be a lot better if you have not played godfather 
 1 you should buy that game 
  the one thing that annoyes me the most about the game is the small city's specially new york 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomaskedhero
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Come on guys, this is Godfather II. We have been waiting for this since we finished the first game 
 and became Don of the NYC. First, I will start with the good parts 'cause its less, and come to 
 the final blow later.
  
  Well, it has a good story alright. Michael Corleone makes us the boss, so we can build a new family, 
 and in the Mob Market, we try to become two big families. That's nice.
  
  Secondly, it is very clever to organize your men, your rackets with your funds, your money and 
 you need to build good strategies to remain powerful. You need to pick the right men for the right 
 job, you need to put correct amount of men into a racket to keep it healthy, and in big fights 
 you can develop different strategies.
  
  And finally, the BAD PARTS:
  
  -THE GRAPHICS!!! These graphics are even worse than the first game. Hellooo? We upgraded our systems, 
 it's the next gen game age? The cars look like they jumped out from the "Midtown Madness" or "Taxi", 
 you bump into a car, and there are not even one scratch? At least make a glass break for God's 
 SAKE!
  Not only the cars, the streets, the models, they all look like crap. You see an old fashioned, 
 Midtown Madness style streets, very bad looking and too similar cars, then you see a very good 
 exploding effect. What the...? If you can do this good exploding effect, why the hell you screwed 
 the cars, street and the models?
  
  -Michael Corleone? Just look at Al Pacino, and the Michael in game. You see any similarity? You 
 cannot, cause there is not any! You can draw Vito, but how is it possible to draw a model which 
 has absolutely no relevance to the original??? He's not Michael Corleone, maybe Mickey Corleone, 
 but not Michael!
  
  -And what's with the walk! You create a tough mafia character, who is the boss of a family, he 
 runs fast, okay, but when you press "LAlt", he walks like a gay man!!! What the heck is that, tell 
 me!
  
  -And combats? It is so easy that it looks impossible, one man shoots you with a shotgun or a machine 
 gun (no difference) , he keeps shooting until you come near him, and beat him with your bare hands? 
 HE USES A SHOTGUN! Are you a superhero or something? A superhero walking like a gay man?
  In the first game, to beat a man, we had to fight really well and become well developed to beat 
 a strong brawler, even in the one on one bare handed fights, we could have beaten, but now? We 
 can beat a man with a shotgun, no matter how far is he. 
  
  -The sounds are also pretty lame. Sounds of the weapons are weird. And the map? To use it, you 
 must have a wise man's patient!
  
  In conclusion, if you have lots of money, and you wanna try it, go ahead and try it, you can have 
 fun if you ignore all the nonsense stuff; but if you value your money and wanna play a good crime 
 game, just buy GTA 4 or wait for Mafia II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritikroshan_09
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game isn't so good as the first one. Honestly first one was mind blowing.. but this one.. not 
 up to the mark.
  The graphics are terrible if compared to current games in the market, game play is not that handy.. quite 
 complicated.. very small city. I am really disappointed by this one. Rent it first !! if you are 
 a die hard fan of god father game. Sound effects are very good, and upgrading your abilities and 
 weapons makes your quite easier for becoming DON At end, it takes you no where, you feel that you 
 just completed brothers in arms ( controlling your men for the job) and gta (doing missions for 
 somebody else) . Story line is poor and graphics are even more poor.
  
  I would say its worth trying at least once but buy at your own risk.
  Come on EA what have you 
 done..!! don't let us down... by turning legend into a new generation JOKE!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renofilo
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  What a huge disappointment, i mean Godfather 1 was good enough, had a nice control, nice imaginative 
 fit in with the Godfather movie' s story, entertaining enough, nice graphics, and quite addictive. 
 Godfather 2 for PC (the one ive played) looks like a game from 5 or 6 years ago... horrible graphics 
 (considering whats on the market nowadays) , very poor control, very poor story, horrible controls, 
 and its a very VERY boring game, you'll easily get sick of it... i think the only good thing about 
 the game is that some prostitutes appear topless... ... cmon EA for a huge company like you obviously 
 are, at least graphics should be way better then the garbage you bring to us all in this game... 
 i mean the last games ive played were Crysis, Crysis Warhead and Dead Space, all games in a row, 
 all from EA, and i thought they were all great, and i installed this with good expectations considering 
 it was from EA too and also considering the first was quite a good surprise, and they release a 
 horrible outdated totally boring game... I think Francis Ford Coppola and Paramount (and i exclude 
 Mario Puzo from this list because he died already) should sue EA for relating such an amateur and 
 weakling game to that masterpiece franchise named The Godfather! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hlesey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  I never been fan of Godfather series, the game. To be honest even Mafia first is better then Godfather 
 2, but this was quite fun. 
  
  ---The good and the bad ----
  
  Good
  + Taking over Chops/drug stores/brothals and all other kind of places, is suprisingly fun.
  + 
 Alot of ways to kill or remove and enemy.
  + Alot of wepons with good sounds.
  + Upgrading and improving youre teammates is awesome.
  + Holding controll over youre owned slots 
 is challenging, not alot but a bit.
  
  Send youre teammates to take over a slot while you go for another, or send them to protect your's.
 
  
  Bad
  - Car's are horrible
  - story is numb, dosnt make you feel powerful or importand (Not even as a Don) . Tough it has nice 
 suprises when more advanced into game.
  - City's are very small
  - Police and Police car's spawn randomly. (Not a bug)
  - Car's spawn randomly and dissipear randomly. 
 (Not a bug)
  
  There's definatly more good and bad things, but at the end, after finishing the game i was left 
 in hunger for some more. Even if the game wasn't that great, it was time well spent. 
  
  And you can countinue youre story in online, so the game is quite fine. 
  Couldn't expect more 
 at the present, games arnt the same as they where before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeimosGT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game's worse tahn the first one, The graphics have actually degraded! The gameplay is also 
 worse, only thing new is you can take over places and assign guards. and you can have comrades 
 like in gta san andreas. but they come with special abilities. The y messed up the original godfather 
 story too, Michael just comes up to you and say, "Dude, Dominic! You are the new Godfather!" Well 
 the dialogue's not exactly like it, but that's the idea. It doesn't even have much to take over. 
 And the city is very very small, much much smaller than gta 3 map! And hand to hand combat has 
 been messed up, and you can no longer shoot specific parts of the enemies body.
  In other words, if you liked the original godfather game for what it was, then you'll hate it. 
 EA isn't making games seriously anymore.
  They are tucking in some crap ideas into their unrefined games.
  Just like they did with NFS 
 Pro street and Undercover, and now Shift.
  
  Go get GTA 3, VC, SA, 4 if haven't already. Or wait for Mafia II.
  But if you need an GTA clone 
 desperately, you might wanna check godfather II out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
