-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The History Channel: Great Battles of Rome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thcgreatbattlesofrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Semi-interesting, RPG-light army promotions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shallow strategic options.
 Generic battles against mostly generic enemy troops.
 Provides no sense of history or any serious context for these &quot;great battles&quot;.
 Abysmal graphics and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Slitherine Soft.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 15, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Recycled edutainment and terrible production values make this RTS survey of Roman history stale 
 and simple. 

  Slitherine Software is getting a lot of mileage out of Legion. It's now been five years since the 
 British developer launched this real-time strategy game, yet the company continues to recycle its 
 engine to retell the story of how the Roman Empire conquered the world. This time around, the game 
 is a derivative little number from Black Bean Games called The History Channel: Great Battles of 
 the Roman Empire. The theme, such as it is, is a tactical real-time strategy survey course of battles 
 with the Carthaginians, Greeks, Persians, and loads of pesky barbarians. Although the content adeptly 
 highlights the struggles of the veni, vidi, vici boys through nearly a thousand years of history, 
 the advanced age of the engine and the stale, simplistic battles make this game feel as fresh as 
 Caesar's toga after he was finished with the Gauls.  

           Most people are unaware that the Romans conquered Europe by fielding an army of clones. 

  Lack of depth is the biggest problem. The Roman campaign is a shallow collection of battles rounded 
 up by historical period and introduced by video-clip cutscenes presumably borrowed from History 
 Channel documentaries. You steadily work your way through virtually all of Roman history, moving 
 from the early years when Rome needed to subdue the Italian peninsula, to the wars against regional 
 powers that characterize the glory days of the Republic and the Empire. However, battles generally 
 seem to be approximations of what actually happened, which means that many engagements are presented 
 without dates or much in the way of historical background. Every now and then you take on a battle 
 rooted in history, such as the betrayal and murder of Coriolanus, but you wage a ton of generic 
 assaults against the Latins, Etruscans, Volsci, Greeks, Gauls, Persians, and the like.  

  When you finish the Roman scenarios, a second campaign is unlocked in which you guide the Celts, 
 but by that point the anonymous nature of most of the battles will have likely worn you out. Even 
 if you ignore the lack of dates and real context, look-alike enemy troops drawn from only a few 
 basic archetypes such as skirmishers and cavalry make most of the engagements appear exactly the 
 same. Are you fighting the Samnites or the Hernici? Who knows, and better yet, who cares?  

  Battles themselves are so simplistic and vary so little that it doesn't really matter who you're 
 fighting. This is a basic tactical RTS, where you simply hop from one battle to the other, arranging 
 troops and issuing most commands before entering the fray. Scraps are mainly prearranged, in that 
 most orders are set prior to entering the battlefield. Units can be bossed around after the fighting 
 starts, although this is limited by the need to replenish the order-point bar of your in-game general 
 each time you direct a unit. At any rate, the lack of command options both during the deployment 
 phase and during the action makes the whole order thing sort of a moot point. Battles all play 
 out roughly the same, given that there is only so much you can do when your tactical options are 
 limited to a handful of variations on holding, rushing, as well as holding for a bit and then rushing. 
 Strategizing is also a waste of time during many battles because you can often simply charge enemy 
 lines mindlessly and still wind up shouting "Roma victa!" at the end of the day. At least most 
 of the engagements fly by. You can wrap up an average battle in a couple of minutes (a pace that 
 makes the one-on-one LAN multiplayer mode of play something of a joke) , so at least you're not 
 sitting around waiting very long for outcomes.  

  Army management between battles is at least a little more involved. Although there is no resource 
 management or any need to construct buildings, you do earn denari after successful battles and 
 use this cash to purchase new units needed to bolster your army. Buying smartly is a must because 
 the scenarios get progressively tougher (albeit in a pretty leisurely fashion) as you move through 
 the campaign, which requires you to field a strong selection of soldiers. Troops also gain experience 
 during battles and can be trained in various skills as they increase in level. So you can trick 
 out militia with the swordsman ability to buff attacks, give skirmishers the junior NCO attribute 
 to boost morale during battles, and enhance generals with the leadership option that lets them 
 issue more orders during the fray. There is a good selection of these abilities on offer across 
 all of the different unit types, which gives the game something of an RPG feel. However, units 
 share many of these characteristics, so it's not as if there's a laundry list of enhancements from 
 which to choose. Also, these options are generally passive stat boosts that work behind the scenes 
 to aid attacking and defending, which means that you don't have to actually choose to employ them. 
 Consequently, these skills don't have any readily discernible effect on how things play out once 
 the swords start crashing and the javelins are launched skyward.  

           Despite the History Channel logo and some professional cutscenes, you're not going to 
 learn anything here.      

  Very little about the battles here is obvious, actually, due to visuals that are a decade out of 
 step with the times. Units of each specific type all look the same and just smash together when 
 they fight. Character models seem hacked together, with few fine details and jagged limbs that 
 you could cut yourself on. The animation is so archaic that horses swivel in place when you redirect 
 cavalry. Likewise, the minimap is an ugly mash-up of great big dots oddly reminiscent of the Commodore 
 64. Audio is pretty much missing-in-action with the exception of the brash, brassy musical score 
 that also seems like something borrowed from a History Channel documentary. It's just too bad that 
 nobody swiped any of the atmospheric sound effects from those cheesy reenactments that fill up 
 so much time in the average production on the cable channel. There isn't much to be heard during 
 battles at all except for irritating, repetitive bangs and shouts.  

  If you want to learn about the real great battles of Rome, turn on the History Channel or, better 
 yet, crack open a book. This sure isn't edutainment at its finest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: optiow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play all of Romes great battles and battle many of her enimies. You start the 
 story off at the start of Romes history when she was threatned by Gauls, Germans, and Carthigians. 
 The way this game is played is you go into a battle and position your troops. You then commence 
 the battle and try to rout the enemy army. You can upgrade your troops with better weapons to fight 
 better and junior officers for morale. You play over 100 battles in Romes history and there are 
 some cool cutscienes as well. There are many diffrent units that you can buy like skirmishers and 
 Heavy infantry, they all have strenths and weaknesses and you will soon learn where to postion 
 your troops to win.
  
  Bottom line you should probly rent it because it is a bit short but it is a great game so if you 
 do want to buy it then go for it. I cant wait until it comes out on ps2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle3g
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  graphics-atari 2600 graphics
  sound-ok... probably the best thing about the game.. though i would give the sound a 6/10
  gameplay-abysmal
 
  defficulty-defficulty??
  overall-I can make a better game with "gamemaker" program..
  
  abysmal.. purely abysmal... worst excuse for a game I have ever seen.. graphics are atari 2600 quality.. and 
 the gameplay is just customizing your army and then going to the battlefield.. repeat... u do absalutly 
 nothing else.. just choose your army color... hire troops.. and then go to battle.. repeat.. and thats 
 the entire story mode... from time to time u get a boring cutscene that u will most likely skip.. unless 
 u r REALLY bored.. and thats it!!! and the battle is so easy... I won the first five battles without 
 even playing or touching my mouse/keyboard I just started the battle and watched... my army automaticly 
 attacked the enemy when the enemy came close enough... and I won!!! after that i throow away the 
 disc.. wow.. what a waste of money on a piece of rubbish!!!! oh.. and did i mention the pacman graphics? 
 big rigs is better then this game.. at least big rigs you can make fun of and laugh at with your 
 friends... this game is just sad.. avoid at all cost!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
