-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Hobbit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/hobbit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Midway - Austin
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 10, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The story still stands up, but the game that has been wrapped around it simply cannot keep up its 
 end of the bargain. 

  In contrast to the grand scope of J. R. R. Tolkien's epic  Lord of the Rings  trilogy, the story 
 of  The Hobbit  is the much smaller, more personal affair, chronicling the first big adventure 
 of a reluctant young halfling by the name of Bilbo Baggins. Now, Inevitable Entertainment has woven 
 this tale into the context of a fairly standard action adventure game. Tolkien fans may enjoy the 
 game's presentation of Middle-earth lore, but The Hobbit tends to rely too heavily on derivative, 
 uninspired gameplay for it to stand up on its own.  

          The Hobbit is generally quite faithful to the novel it's based on.     

  Though it 
 regularly takes liberties with the details, the game is fairly faithful to the original story of 
  The Hobbit . Bilbo is swept away from his comfortable hobbit hole in The Shire by an imposing 
 wizard called Gandalf the Grey and a group of dwarves 13 strong, all of whom intend to travel to 
 the Lonely Mountains to reclaim a dwarven treasure from a none-too-friendly dragon named Smaug. 
 On his adventure, Bilbo runs into all manner of trolls, goblins, and giant spiders, as well as 
 a creepy, pathetic cave-dwelling creature called Gollum, who happens to possess a very special 
 ring.  The Hobbit  is an elemental tale in the genre of high fantasy, and the story elements lifted 
 from the book are some of the strongest elements in the game. It's apparent from the start that 
 The Hobbit quite sincerely wishes to be an action adventure game much in the same strain as The 
 Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, and its format is fairly typical for the genre. Bilbo starts off 
 his adventure with a sack of throwing rocks and a walking stick to defend himself, but as the game 
 progresses, he'll pick up a sword and learn some new attacks, and about halfway through the game, 
 he'll gain the fabled One Ring, which he can use to turn himself invisible for short periods of 
 time. The bulk of the gameplay relies heavily on action adventure staples like platform jumping, 
 light combat, simple item-based puzzles, and a healthy amount of stealth action. The PC version 
 offers support for either a gamepad or a keyboard/mouse-based control scheme, and though both have 
 their quirks, such as the inability to alter the vertical position of the camera with the mouse 
 or the inability to assign multiple context-sensitive commands to a single button on the gamepad, 
 either is a serviceable control solution.  

  The platforming portions of The Hobbit are pretty straightforward and tend to go on for great lengths. 
 These sections can be a bit challenging at times, mostly because the controls and the camera aren't 
 always agreeable -- though a lot of the game's bite is taken away by the liberal dispersal of save 
 points. The combat is also pretty cut and dried. Bilbo can attack enemies from a distance by using 
 his throwing rocks, but he's far more effective when he gets up close and personal with his glowing 
 elven sword. He can lock on to a single enemy easily enough when equipped with his sword, and it 
 makes one-on-one combat a lot more manageable. But most of the time he'll be fighting a small group 
 of enemies at once, and locking on to one enemy makes it difficult to defend against any of the 
 other enemies.  

  Bilbo's assigned role of burglar within the adventure party, and the ring's ability to turn him 
 invisible, makes the game's regular use of stealth action seem like a no-brainer. Like most stealth 
 action, it boils down to pattern recognition and basic trial and error. Stealth action is designed 
 to build a sense of tension, but it's all too predictable here, and in practice it ends up just 
 being slow and boring. You'll also find plenty of treasure chests in your travels, many of which 
 are sealed with strange, arcane locks, giving Inevitable Entertainment an excuse to implement the 
 hottest new gameplay mechanic for 2003, the lock-picking minigame. The Hobbit's take on the lock-picking 
 minigame tests your reflexes with a quick succession of timing-based puzzles. Ultimately, the gameplay 
 ideas that The Hobbit is built on are perfectly serviceable, but they have all been done before, 
 and done better.  

  While Peter Jackson's films based on the Lord of the Rings trilogy have popularized Middle-earth 
 as a very dark, gritty, and rather unpleasant place to live, The Hobbit has a slightly lighter 
 take on Tolkien's fantasy realm, and this comes across most apparently in the visuals. The game 
 generally uses a bright, saturated color palette, which gives the world a certain vibrancy. The 
 exaggerated character designs, the sketch drawings that appear during portions of the story exposition, 
 and the detailed environmental textures, which have a hand-painted look to them, all give the game 
 the feel of an illustrated fantasy book for children. Indeed, this is the most kid-friendly presentation 
 of the Tolkien universe to date -- whether you'll appreciate this or not will depend on how you like 
 your high fantasy, really. That the PC version can be displayed at much higher resolutions than 
 its console counterparts is both a blessing and a curse -- the game as a whole looks cleaner and 
 sharper, but when crummy textures or chunky character models show up, their faults are especially 
 noticeable. Also, for some reason, Bilbo's hair has an especially plasticky shine that it's lacking 
 in the console versions. But, despite some rough enemy character models and animations, and the 
 fairly limited size of the environments, The Hobbit is a decent-looking game.  

          The story is good, but the actual gameplay in The Hobbit is predictable and derivative. 
     

  The sound design isn't as well conceived or thought out as the visuals, though there are some highlights. 
 The voice acting, which ranges from the Queen's English to a Scottish brogue for most of the characters, 
 is convincing, though you may notice Gandalf's usually confident, commanding voice crack and tremble 
 a little from time to time, and there are some peculiar bugs that make it sound like the speed 
 of the recording is quickly ramping up. The musical score usually relies on an underplayed percussion 
 track as you hop about on platforms and sneak your way past various trolls and elves, though it 
 will shift to a fuller, more dangerous-sounding instrumentation when you're engaged in combat, 
 or it will swell to a symphonic crescendo when you complete a mission task. In-game sound effects 
 are just sort of there, with nothing standing out as terribly impressive or offensive.  

  With the current glut of Tolkien-inspired games focusing directly on the brutal, tragic stories 
 of  The Lord of the Rings , The Hobbit offers up a story that's less dire and more of an enjoyable 
 romp. The story still stands up, but the game that has been wrapped around it simply cannot keep 
 up its end of the bargain. The experience it offers just isn't as engaging or inventive as its 
 source material.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pim1994
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I looked in the low-price box and i saw The Hobbit. I an a die hard LOTR fan. I red the books like 
 3 times, saw the films even more, played a lot of theitr games etc. So i buyed it. ( In a box with 
 the War of the Ring too) Please, first read the books and then play the game. That makes it more 
 cool. So because of that i not telling the story. 
  
  This game is really old, but it not seems to look like that. The cutscenes look really cool. In-game 
 is not really good, but we are like five years later. Look at the first picture you see on the 
 website then if yoy want to see it.
  I like the gameplay too. Beat-m'-Up with platformer style. 
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  Gameplay: 8.0
 
  Story: 9.0/9.5
  
  If you are not a LOTR fan, let this game behind, even after this review.
  Not LOTR fans shall 
 give the game a 6/7. Please, do something with your time. LOTR fans will have a really good time.
 
  
  Well, another review is ready. See you till the next review. Goodbye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miskosi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best action adventures I have played so far.
  
  I finished the game 3-4 times so far, and still haven't got bored of it.
  
  Since I played 
 OUTCAST I don't think there has been an action adventure game that kept me coming back so many 
 times. It's much better than lord of the ring games.
  
  Fantastic adventure that leads you through the Tolkien's world.
  
  Story follows the book.
 
  
  GAME play: 9.5
  Music: 9
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  Only remarks I have, is that a game has occasional crashes.
  
  Brilliant game that has been 
 neglected by many people just because of low reviews. It's too underrated.
  
  This game deserves at least an 8 rating score if you ask me!!!!!!!!!
  
  Anyways, the true action 
 adventure fans are missing a lot if they haven't played it.
  
  I dunno what to say anymore just writing this last sentence to fill 800 character term. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Im not sure why i found this game so fun, the graphics arn't great and theres not much "awesome" 
 stuff in it, but i still loved it because it was so much better than lord of the rings, fellowship 
 of the ring. It seems to work for me, maybe because it was simple, and simple is effective
  
  i think the levels are quite well planned out, and dont get repetitive, some are like "bad 
 graphics but still fun" splinter cell, sneaking around your enemies because they would trash you 
 if they saw you. Whilst some levels are pure fighting and others are like puzzles, exploring until 
 you find out how to do something, like you would expect in any other adventure game.
  
  People who have read the hobbit book will enjoy this game more but it still works really well for 
 someone who hasnt read the book (although, i dont know that many people who havent read it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  The Hobbit, based off of J. R. R Tolkiens book, is not the worst game ever, but it is not the best 
 either. The graphics arent bad at all, the sound is nice, the game play gets pretty repetitive, 
 except they do throw in a puzzle every now and then, and the puzzles actually arent half bad. 
 This game is actually pretty long, but again, the game play is a little boring. So eventually you 
 kind of get tired of it. Overall, this game isnt that bad and if you see it lying on some stores 
 shelf for like $10, I say go head and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  This is like a poor man's Jedi Outcast. I love Jedi Outcast, so I'm enjoying this game. The only 
 thing that bugs me is how they draw Bilbo... but from the back he looks okay, and unless you're 
 playing with their horrible gamepad control system, you'll never see him from the front except 
 in cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay: Like I said, it's a lot like Jedi Outcast, with jumping puzzles and keyhunts to match. 
 The level design can be fantastic, as in The Gathering of the Clouds and Riddles in the Dark, or 
 unimaginative, as in Roast Mutton. The boss fights can be annoying, but they're supposed to be, 
 aren't they?
  
  It seems like every game I get these days my gamepad won't work correctly with right off. I have 
 to edit the program files or download mapping software or use exploits in the settings or stuff, 
 and it takes me a while to figure out. This time, it was one of the strangest yet.
  The game can either be played with a keyboard or a gamepad. Unfortunately, you can't make it stop 
 reading either one: As long as you have a gamepad plugged in, it cannot be disabled but must be 
 read as a gamepad. Not only that, but when you use a double-analog gamepad, the right stick is 
 supposed to control the camera and aim your crosshairs in aiming mode, but the horizontal axis 
 moves the camera &amp; crosshairs vertically, while the vertical axis moves them horizontally. 
 And instead of turning or strafing, the left stick makes you run in the direction you hold... including 
 right at the camera. Which is horrible, because the only way to parry in the game is to move backward. 
 You lose some other controls they only have for keyboard also. And I thought I couldn't get the 
 mapping program to work with it since the game would still read my gamepad as a gamepad.
  However, it did work for the sticks. I did have to program all the buttons to be the same thing 
 as for the gamepad controls, but my gamepad had enough extra buttons to get features like use skeleton 
 key . Also, they don't have tech support for the game, but they have a tech support forum. They 
 got right to me with another excellent behind-the-back way to do it, but it takes a little more 
 time so I'll just use my way.
  
  With the mouse and keyboard you won't have any of these problems. Like Jedi Outcast, each control 
 can have two buttons mapped to it, so there are two control profiles as the default and you can 
 use either one in-game. Also like Jedi outcast, one is the WASD shooter-bind, and the other is 
 arrow keys (with turning instead of strafing) and space bar, alt, and ctrl.
  Both are quite usable, but I like my gamepad mapped to the WASD one, with the right stick as the 
 mouse.
  Strangely enough, when I target enemies my right stick goes back to the vert/horiz switch. Who 
 cares.
  
  Graphics: The in-game cutscenes look just like the game, which can be pretty bad if your settings 
 are low. The cutscenes between the levels are stunning, much better than even the current Computer 
 Animation movies. The game looks fine at a high resolution, but people with smaller screens on 
 their laptops than me (mine is about 1600x1200) can't use that well. Ha ha.
  
  Sound: I like the music... the sound effects and voice acting have no problems by me.
  
  Value: 
 Incredibly high. I LIKE games 2 or more years old! They're so dang cheap. How in the heck could 
 anyone spend $50 for the newest game when there's something better out there for $10?
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Pretty good. I played this a few years ago and it's fun to play it again. I'll 
 buy this one of these days.
  
  One last note: This game has my favorite video-game enemy ever. Hordes of little jumping miners 
 that come up to your ankle. Crush them! Crush them all!!!!11!!11!!11111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svdbygrce02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, my brother bought this game for $10 a few years back and it sat in his closet for 
 a few more years. I just rediscovered it last week and haven't been able to put the game down since!
 
  
  Gameplay: Using an xbox 360 controller with my PC, this game really feels like Super Mario 64. 
 The analog stick works the same way, being able to walk slowly or run, depending on how far down 
 the stick is pressed. Also, the 360 movment is here as well. This makes for some great action. 
 The cameras are touchy at first, but are quickly mastered and become useful later on in the game.
 
  
  Graphics: Good graphics for 2003. The graphics also resemble a Mario 64 game, with nice 3d poly 
 characters and lush backgrounds. Smaug's lair is exceptionally done with the technology of the 
 time.
  
  Sound: The sounds of middle earth and authentic and further immerse you in the game. The music 
 is top notch, and the battle sounds, complete wiith explosions, are great. Value: At $10 or so, 
 this is the best game for the money I have played in a while. If you love the Lord of Rings lore, 
 and loved Mario 64, you will definately enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The Hobbit is an action-adventure game that takes place before the original Lotr trilogy. You play 
 as Bilbo, a young Hobbit who is looking for adventure. You will lead this Hobbit through caves, 
 grasslands and more. Of course all of the dwarves and Gandalf are here. Unfortunately they are 
 no help what so ever and just give you low pay-off side quests. Through your journey you will fight 
 wolves, plants, goblins, and many like them. 3 weapons will be available for you. Right from the 
 start you get a walking stick and stones. Then a few chapters in, you get the Elven blade Sting. 
 Sting is more powerful than the walking stick but has a smaller swing arc. Scattered all over the 
 land are courage points. If you get enough of these, Bilbo will get an extra health bubble. You 
 can also gather these points from killing enemies. You must gather silver pennies to buy things 
 from the vendor as well. After you finish a chapter you will have a chance to buy helpful things 
 for the next chapter. Not only will you have to battle evil creatures, you will have to solve puzzles 
 too. Treasure chests can be found but sometimes to get to the treasure, you will have to play some 
 minigames. These games are easy but makes it more fun than just swiping the goodies inside. The 
 character graphics are really really bad, the things like the landscape and sunsets are gorgeous. 
 The Hobbit is solid and likable by pretty much anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitty_dolfi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The Hobbit wasn't exactly go-kill-the-big-boss at first, but, I donno about you guys, but that's 
 my type of game. It takes me an hour or two to get used to the controls. It follows the book very 
 well. It even puts a couple of the slow parts in. The one let down (following the book-wise) was 
 that Golem was nothing more then a mini-movie. You still got the ring, of course) . Bilbo looked 
 kinda funny, and sometimes they didn't stop to explain who all the charicters are, so the grafix 
 were so-so. =/. Anyways, Either you love it, or you hate it. It's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  well i played this game for two days and nice graphics i have mustly been into the lord of the 
 rings films anyway the controls are a bit strange and for the people dont konw the hobbit well 
 its the frist one of the lord of the rings series easy story line to follow its bit more of a pc 
 game than a console game good for all ages its also great for the lord of the rings fans and i 
 hear that peter jackson is makeing a film of this game i just hope its true the other lord of the 
 rings games are ok and some are great like midde-earth 2 and 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pt99866
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  The Hobbit is a good game, but it's feels like it's meant for kids. 
  
  The Hobbit has graphics that are pretty good, but not amazing. The movies and the games of LOTR 
 show Middle- Earth, as a dark and scary place. In The Hobbit, you won't come across Orcs and Uruk- 
 Hai. You'll battle terrifying wolves, man eating plants, trolls, goblins and other creatures you 
 wouldn't normally see in LOTR. This is the prequel, but everything looks tailor- made for kids. 
 Even Gollum looks somewhat friendly.
  The music is OK, but isn't going to compel you to listen to the music for hours on end. 
  
 
  The Hobbit doesn't feel like a Lord of The Rings Game, unless the Middle-Earth was a happy, semi-scary (that's 
 not a word) place when Bilbo Baggins, Frodo's dad was 13.
  
  This game is pretty good, but just leaves you felling that The Hobbit was made on a restricted 
 schedule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  This is a good example of game developers taking a story, totally ripping off Zelda games, and 
 making an okay game. This is a zelda clone wrapped up all nice and LOTR-like. This is based on 
 the Tolkien book "the Hobbit" and is actually pretty good. The voice acting is one of this games 
 strong points, as is the live music. This is a pretty decent action-adventure game with lots of 
 sidequests and things to do. This game should keep you busy for quite some time, as the story mode 
 is pretty long. Sometimes the camera is faulty, and there are a few glitches that can really screw 
 up your game. This game serves as a decent rent, only die hard Tolkien fans should buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta339
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Instant Classic. Sierra did a revolutinary job when they made this game turning the book, movie 
 into a rpg game every thing is just right form the gameplay to grahpics to music, sound makeing 
 the world of The Hobbit come to life just as it is in the book and movie. You play as Billbo a Hobbit 
 who takes a task no one took befor. But all do not go as well for him when the whole world is in 
 his hands Billbo must save the world and over come his fears. The Classic game well take you on 
 a never ending tale that no tale ever did. The Hobbit is a tale, Classic game that well never be 
 forgetted all said and done GETTHO HOBBIT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dravond
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  as i said its fun not very hard but defenetly worth playing i admit the grapich aint the best but 
 its a good story in a rather cute cartoon way could beecomed better but defenetly worth a few bux 
 when its on sale buy it if you think it looks intresting enough or your kind of game (perfect for 
 young tolkien lowers i belive) 
  
  after a while of course you begin to know exactly what to do but its still fun after you playe 
 it through the first time but if you are the kind who just run throug fps games shoting and kiling 
 person dont buy this game its a bit not that kind 
  
  by the way take time and exlore the acording to me abit smal world dont just run throug it then 
 you will mis many important parts and most important the fun parts.
  
  sumeray fun and cute but a bit small world and linear and the graphic could been made better worth 
 trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xzavier77
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  In my experience as a gamer, there are a few games that I go to when I feel down. This is one of 
 them. With colorful graphics and delightful, non-bloody gameplay, I feel better after playing a 
 few hours of this game. The music of the game, together with the happy-go-lucky atmosphere makes 
 this game a joy to play, as a fun pastime. The game also closely follows the Tolkien's book, which 
 happens to be my favorite story. Lastly, there is the scenery. Starting out with the cottages and 
 bright sun of the Shire, going into the mountains and woods, then coming to the pleasant area of 
 Laketown. Afterwards, my personal favorites, the Treasury of the Mountain, and the workings and 
 view from the greathall. Finally, there is the last battle, afterwhich I felt sad inside, for the 
 game had come to an end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:00 pm PT
Review:  If anyone remembers back when this game was being advertised, they would remember how long it took 
 for this game to come out. I got it shortly after it was released, and was highly impressed, first 
 off, with the scenery, environment, and so forth. The levels are complex and yet still simple for 
 the younger generation. The combat style is a little repetitive, but hey! it's a beat-em-up / adventure 
 game! The sound is good, with a varied soundtrack, minus the battle theme. lol But yea, this game 
 is just plain entertaining. If you like cartoon stylish combat games, this is a game for you. It 
 has a fairly long game experience, and will probably last you a bit. I don't think Tolkien is having 
 convulsions in his grave about this adaptation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  If you love Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit more than anything in the world, chances are that 
 you will really enjoy this game. I didn't say that it was great, but it is pretty good. I know 
 that I was pretty generous with the tilt here, but I think that it at least deserved a "Good" rating. 
 It is extremely short, I mean like 3 hours of good play, and doesn't have a lot of replay value 
 to it, but I am trying to balance this between an and a kid rating. It is a very clean and safe 
 game to give your kids for Christmas. So, in short, if you are over the age of 12 or 13, I don't 
 recommend this game unless you are obsessed with Tolkien. But if you are under 12 or 13, then I 
 totally recommend this game - it's completely worth the money when oyu are that age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slboss926
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game since I am a big fan of the book. This game is fun to play out 
 the story of the hobbit, but it could have been done soooo much better. Its obviously designed 
 for kids to be able to play. The difficulty is disappointing and the graphics are on the weak side. 
 Playing this is like a stroll in the park, enjoyable but there are better things to do (play) . 
 If you have kids they will definately enjoy it for the story and gameplay. This game is worth grabbing 
 if you find it cheap ($15) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
