-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Immortals of Terra: A Perry Rhodan Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/theimmortalsofterraaperryrhodanadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Heavily detailed sci-fi epic storyline with real depth.
 Innovative visual design.
 First-rate voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Storyline is almost impenetrable if you're unfamiliar with Perry Rhodan.
 Many illogical puzzles.
 Derivative &quot;pick up everything that isn't nailed down&quot; game structure.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: Braingame
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Jul 3, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even an innovative sci-fi setting can't save the illogical and boring Immortals of Terra. 

  Perry Rhodan, at least according to our limited research, is the lead character in the biggest-selling 
 series of sci-fi books ever published. That will surely come as big news to befuddled stateside 
 geeks, at least until they read a little bit further and see that Perry is mostly big with the 
 kids in Germany. With this question answered, you can now rest easy knowing how some guy you've 
 never heard of managed to get his name tacked on as the subtitle to developer 3d-io's space-faring 
 adventure The Immortals of Terra. That, however, is the easiest mystery to solve about this point-and-clicker 
 because the game itself is loaded with maddeningly illogical puzzles. It would take less time to 
 learn German and read all of Perry's more than 2,000 adventures in their native language than it 
 would to figure out this game without fleeing to the sanity-saving safety of an online walk-through. 

  You play as Perry Rhodan, a studly Flash Gordon sort who has apparently been rewarded with virtual 
 immortality after discovering alien technology on the moon back in the 1960s and using it to turn 
 fractious Earth into united Terra. The scene is set in the far future of the year 4934, where there 
 are robots -- nasty robots that attack Earth at the beginning of the game and make off with Perry's 
 squeeze, the brilliant archaeologist Mondra Diamond. Your objective is to track her down by figuring 
 out who sent the killer bots and possibly save the universe, as well as root out some treachery 
 in your own ranks along the way.  

           A confusing backstory and aliens that look like Mayor McCheese combine to create one of 
 the most obtuse adventures you'll play this year.      

  But these ostensibly exciting plot points offer a meager payoff. For starters, the game assumes 
 you already know all about the Perry Rhodan universe and its leading characters. While a lot of 
 work has clearly been done to bulk up the game world through loads of text, including encyclopedia 
 entries that pop up onscreen every time you use a computer to scan a piece of evidence, there is 
 virtually no effort to properly introduce anybody. So even though you collect tons of random trivia 
 about everything, from alien codes to an accident that left a brilliant scientist as nothing more 
 than a brain in a flying box, you never feel like you really know the characters, their motivations, 
 or the world around them. This isn't helped by a liberal dosage of sci-fi gobbledygook about such 
 things as supran, Illochim, Beings of Water, singing crystals, and so forth. Basically, you're 
 always a couple of steps behind the plot and pushing forward solely in the hope that there's a 
 big explanation coming just around the corner. Unfortunately, there isn't one. Those who grew up 
 with Perry Rhodan might love this stuff; those who are getting their first exposure to the guy 
 are just going to be confused.  

  When The Immortals of Terra isn't baffling you with its story assumptions, the game lulls you to 
 sleep with a hidebound commitment to traditional adventure gaming. This is one of those games where 
 you pick up anything and everything, no matter how useless it might seem at the time. You do this 
 because you know that even the most inconsequential lunchbox and robot part is eventually going 
 to be as valuable to you as the Holy Grail is to, uh, guys searching for the Holy Grail. There 
 isn't any sense of self-referential humor through most of the game, either, which is often the 
 only saving grace in these "swipe everything that isn't nailed down" adventures. At one point, 
 you're even forced to pocket a pile of carnivorous plant dung for no obvious reason. Perry protests 
 about how disgusting it is to scoop poop from this refugee from  Little Shop of Horrors , yet he 
 does it regardless.  

  Puzzles tend to leave you even more bewildered. You spend a lot of time running back and forth 
 between just a couple of rooms in each location. This is both boring and confusing because you 
 can never wrap up all tasks in one area in a single visit; thus, as a result, you're constantly 
 wondering if you've missed something. There isn't a lot of logic behind Perry's frantic zipping 
 around. It is also rarely explained why he has to pick up so much refuse. Generally, the rule of 
 thumb in a point-and-click adventure is to present you with a problem, then toss out a bunch of 
 crap that you might be able to MacGyver into a solution. Here, though, the formula is turned on 
 its head. You collect odd pieces of junk first and then find uses for them much later. That poop, 
 for instance, winds up being used well after its acquisition to spice up a cup of espresso needed 
 to wake up a drunk. A remote-controlled flying saucer found in one location is used in the next 
 location to explore a ventilation shaft. A technician's lunchbox is used to collect flies that 
 you didn't know you would have to collect when you stole the item in the first place. That's the 
 sort of thing you'll encounter. And those are just examples from early in the game -- before things 
 start getting difficult. Some of the set piece logic puzzles are even more challenging. Codes are 
 hard to come by, plus some devices can't be figured out without resorting to a great deal of trial 
 and error.  

           A lot of point-and-click adventures force you to pick up crap, but Immortals of Terra 
 takes that formula a little too literally.      

  One positive aspect of Immortals of Terra is its presentation values. Apparently, the Perry Rhodan 
 franchise has real worth across the pond because somebody has put some resources into this game 
 when it comes to graphics and sound. All of the 3D character art is excellent, with the sort of 
 textures and lighting effects that you would be more likely to find in a shooter than an old-school 
 adventure. Alien design is weird, too; Douglas Adams weird. The menagerie of bizarro creeps is 
 highlighted by the Blues, which are lanky, screechy extraterrestrials with heads that look a lot 
 like flattened-out hamburgers topped with doll's eyes. Some of the background scenery is a little 
 flat, however, as well as too reliant on generic sci-fi accoutrements from the late 1970s, such 
 as white rooms, holographic projections, and shiny jumpsuits. Many locales are also shrouded in 
 heavy gloom that obscures finer details and the many items that you need to pick up. Voice acting 
 is remarkably accomplished, and definitely a step above what you usually get in adventures these 
 days. The actor portraying Perry is excellent, providing the immortal hero with a palpable world-weary 
 character.  

  Even with all of its flaws, The Immortals of Terra is still compelling simply because of its space 
 opera plot. There is a lot to be said for a point-and-click adventure that doesn't deal with a 
 humdrum murder mystery ripping off Agatha Christie or a jaunt through some surreal land dreamed 
 up by French poets. But because that's just about the only positive comment you can make here, 
 given so many design eccentricities and frustrating puzzles, feel free to give this one a pass 
 anyhowunless you're one of the millions of Perry Rhodan fanatics from Germany, of course.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rainbowschaser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This has wonderful graphics and nice music but the story is very lame. You have to do everything 
 in the exact set way and you can then have to go back some hours to catch up and it only has 8 
 slots to save!!! You go to a museum and it has like a zillion things you have to do and they are 
 so complicated and you have to do them the exact way and if one thing is off than you have to figure 
 out what is wrong. The puzzles are SOO HARD. There is a part where you have to get a mining car 
 to go down and you have to complete 4 tasks to get the action to move and it is hard to figure 
 out and it doesn't add anything. Sometimes they just make things invisible like a crowbar in one 
 scene and then you have to go crazy to get him to find it. I had to use a Walkthrough almost all 
 the time and even then I could not do some things. There is no real story just these stupid puzzles. 
 Rent it or don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trampler
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Let me introduce, Perry Rhodan, one of the most successful and best selling German science fiction 
 series ever. Created in 1961 by K. H. Scheer and Clark Darlton and then by ever changing team of 
 authors, the series hit 2450 installments in August 2008. What they all have in common, like the 
 name points, is Perry Rhodan himself. Immortal man, remembering centuries he endured.
  
  While there have been a many kinds of his adventures, involving parallel universes, extremely remote 
 parts of galaxies, rides in time, encountering new races, etc, much like Star Trek Episodes for 
 example, this game will engage you in one of the most uninteresting stories, that could be in store 
 for Perry Rhodan.
  
  The game starts by an animation, roughly showing the world of Perry Rhodan, pointing on problem 
 with over-globalization of the universe, the greed and promising a very interesting insight to 
 the mind of a man that lived for centuries. The real problem with the game is that nothing of that 
 is going to happen, at all. 
  
  After the intro sequence (that ends by a very well choreographed fighting sequence) the game throws 
 you right into a story offering some solid questions for you to uncover. Unfortunately, that doesn't 
 take so long and by the end of the first act (there are six) , you probably will have the whole 
 mystery all figured out. And if you won't, then all that you are going to find out is that you 
 really had in the first place.
  
  The game puzzles is probably even worst, than story. Not well scripted and designed. That the game 
 doesn't offer many alternative ways to explore, that wouldn't be a problem, but because it's bad 
 design forces you to go the right way, it does as much as not allowing you to do something, while 
 it's just because you haven't collected all the objects, or haven't spoken to all characters. Once 
 you do all, that designers of this game required you to do, voila, impossible is just possible 
 again. Or things (that I really loved in this game) that you have something in your inventory, 
 you are absolutely sure to use and spend a lot of time of figuring out, why the hell it doesn't 
 work, while the advance in game requires somewhat completely else and much more unrealistic.
  
  Also, you play through as Perry Rhodan, probably the best known and the most powerful human 
 in universe; still, you solve really simple minded and not very ambitious quests. The story is 
 presented through his talking to himself, which is again boring and just explaining. No emotions 
 and no space for player experiencing much, at all. Also, every interaction feels like Perry Rhodan 
 knows things, but never really left his bridge HQ on Earth.
  
  The ending is simply shocking. Especially the last puzzle and never ending comment "It has a safety...." 
 or "There is a safety...", that you are going to hear so many times, that it could make you shout 
 back at the screen. After that, the point of the ending itself is just so not right and you didn't 
 even need to save the galaxy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This is an outstanding adventure game and I have hard time understanding all the bashing that it's 
 had to endure. This is sci-fi adventure gaming at its best.
  
  In my book it's up there with "moment of silence" or "blade runner" (yes - there was a blade runner 
 adventure game, play it if you haven't) .
  
  It's 3d-person point and click with full 3d-graphics, and it might just be one of the best looking 
 adventure games ever made, it's genuinely good looking.
  
  The story is epic and very sci-fi, I haden't heard anything about Perry Rhodan before I bought 
 this game but know I'm interested in maybe getting an audiobook, it's a pretty fascinating universe.
 
  
  The game is also quite long, maybe 3-5 hours more than I expected due to the high graphical standard. 
 It's of course a welcome bonus and only adds to the appeal of the game.
  
  The voice acting is sometimes a little uninspired and flat but otherwise flawlessly executed. The 
 music is understated and very well fitting.
  
  So - once again, I have a really hard time understanding all the bashing this game's had to recieve. 
 It's not fast paced, but it's a thinking man's adventure game. If you like sci-fi and adventure 
 games I highly recommend this game.
  
  I'm looking forward to the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristyrazvan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  What can i say, 15 minutes ago i have finished this wonderful game. Took me quite few hours, playing 
 it a couple of days. I couldn't wait to finish my work to come home and advance a little further 
 in this game!
  At first i thought that the game is mostly graphics oriented, as it looks flawless. The environments, 
 the characters... It all looks so good! But from the first puzzle i was able to recognize an instant 
 classic. It reminded me of Syberia and TLJ, for the well conceived puzzles and intriguing atmosphere. 
 From the Villa to The Dark Levels, from the Gom to the Illochim Ship... fantastic!
  Some of the puzzles got me stuck, but after solving them i felt so good!
  The only thing that 
 makes me sad is that the game ended, leaving some unanswered questions. What about QB? Did the 
 Illochims left for good, not even trying to contact the terrans that saved them? But wait, i get 
 it. There must be an answer to all this. And there must be a sequell, a very revealing one. It 
 would be a shame if the adventure wouldn't continue.
  Let's hope that we didn't hear the last from Perry Rhodan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
