-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Incredible Hulk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/theincrediblehulk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Randomly smashing is fun for a little while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Woeful graphics.
 Lacks imaginative missions.
 Clumsy controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 2.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 398 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Edge of Reality
Genre: Action
Date:     Jun 10, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You won't like it when this simplistic, repetitive, and occasionally broken game makes you angry. 
 

  From a blind man's perspective, the PC version of The Incredible Hulk is a mirror image of its 
 Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 counterparts. You control the giant green monster in a free-roaming, 
 fully destructible version of New York City. The repetitive missions and devil-may-care structure 
 make the transition intact, letting you wreak havoc on the streets if you feel like shirking your 
 duty to save the city. Though the core mechanics are identical, what little fun that could be had 
 by mindlessly terrorizing the people of New York has been lost in translation. The rudimentary 
 graphics and mostly empty streets eradicate even the simple joys of causing massive chaos. By emulating 
 the PlayStation 2 and Wii versions instead of the far superior Xbox 360 and PS3 versions, The Incredible 
 Hulk on the PC loses what little charm there was in mercilessly destroying a city. This abject 
 mess should be avoided by even the most diehard comic-book fans.  

  The story shows Hulk's evolution from local monster who everyone wants out of their precious city 
 to the lesser-of-two-evils abnormality who saves New York from an even greater threat. Half of 
 the cutscenes are told through static screens featuring just a tape recorder and Edward Norton's 
 tired voice, whereas the other half are poorly rendered cinematics that show barely recognizable 
 versions of the stars from the movie. It's hard to get immersed in this tale of alienation and 
 redemption when the actors sound so disinterested in the proceedings.  

           Doesn't anyone want to play?      

  The visuals in Hulk are absolutely atrocious. 
 The comically archaic draw-in and pop-up from the other versions are even more pronounced here, 
 hindering not only your visibility but your fun as well. Though textures are more detailed than 
 in the lower resolution Wii version, the same abhorrent fog is ever-present. When you climb a building 
 and look at the city beneath you, there is nothing but a thick wall of gray engulfing everything. 
 It's often impossible to judge how far you must jump to land on the next building because you can't 
 see it, which saps the fun of bounding around the city. When you're walking at ground level, people 
 and cars will pop into view right in front of you and mysteriously disappear when they leave your 
 sight. There is also a lot of clipping going on. You can toss cars straight through buildings, 
 and you'll see Hulk's arm go clean through the backside of enemies, causing no damage. At other 
 times, you'll reach out to grab an object that lies in front of you and it will vanish right before 
 your eyes.  

  The thriving city that made the other versions fun in short bursts seem to have been overrun by 
 a life-ending plague here. Streets are often completely empty. Where an abundance of cars and people 
 once fled in terror, there are now only a few people and the occasional car lining the streets. 
 The idea of rampaging around a virtual New York City is enticing, but when the population seems 
 to have disappeared, it loses some of its appeal. It's boring destroying a city if no one even 
 cares.  

  At the very least, The Incredible Hulk controls competently. Jumping around the city and smashing 
 objects is fairly simple to pull off, though it's far easier to crush your foes with a game controller 
 than the keyboard and mouse combo. It's satisfying throwing your weight around and bullying the 
 general population, but things get a little tricky when you want to target specific opponents. 
 You can lock on to enemies with the push of a button, but it takes a second to register and has 
 a tendency to slip off when you start moving around.  

           The world ends just past that building.      

  The story missions aren't loaded with 
 variety, but there are some minigames and statistics-based feats to add a surprising amount of 
 replay value if you somehow get sucked in. There are a number of unlockable Hulk skins to strive 
 for, and you can earn more-powerful versions of your moves along the way. It is rather shocking 
 that not only can you knock down famous New York landmarks, but that you're also actually rewarded 
 for doing so. It's darkly satisfying to destroy Stark Tower or the Empire State Building; it's 
 just unfortunate that the city doesn't react when you raze these structures. Hearing Tony Stark 
 shouting an angry threat at the beast that toppled his home would have given some weight to these 
 unforgivable destructions. Strangely, the PC version is missing a few landmarks. For instance, 
 the Bear Stearns Building is physically located in the game, but it isn't listed by name, and you 
 won't be rewarded with a Landmark token when it's torn down. All told, there are 35 landmarks in 
 the PC version and 50 on the Xbox 360 and PS3.  

  The PC version of The Incredible Hulk is awful. What little fun that could be had in the other 
 versions of this game has been destroyed here, only to be replaced with glitchy graphics that won't 
 even let you see the city and a desolate city that somehow makes destruction boring. It's bewildering 
 that the developers ported the inferior PS2 and Wii versions instead of the far more satisfying 
 PS3 and X360 versions. Stay far away from this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  In a game taken from the same name's movie, The Incredible Hulk is roaming once again the streets 
 of New York, destroying everything.
  
  And this is truth, if you take into consideration that you play in a fully-destructive environment. 
 Destroying every building or object in sight is real fun, the best point of the game. But unfortunately, 
 it is the only good part of the game.
  
  There is great dissapointment with the low cutscenes performance, which is a most typical case 
 of such a non-prestiged game. The poor frame rate, the awful RenderWare and the many bugs scratch 
 the game and bring back memories of games released in the eighties. This case of the very poor 
 frame rate also prevents you from seeing clearly or be precise in your movemnts or combat moves.
 
  
  Another concerning issue, is the one of the keyboard. The default keys of The Incredible Hulk are 
 not trustworthy at all. Furthermore, pressing a key multiple times is something to be done at least 
 five times during the game. The only solution to be suggested is that you use a joystick, or better 
 a joypad, as this game is clearly not supported into the high expectations of a PC.
  
  THe visuals of the game are clearly the worst point to be noticed while playing. While the details 
 and animation seem to be drawn with the oldest of engines, they still expect you to have a good 
 graphic card, otherwise you will be plagued by bugs (it seems that bugs are a threat used by the 
 developers in order for you to use smooth systems) . For example, if you get too high, you may think 
 that you have jumped over the atmosphere (that's because a gray fog exists beneath you) , while in 
 fact you have just jumped thirty metres high. The sound of the game can also big described with 
 the worst words I can call in my mind.
  
  The Incredible Hulk is a complete failure. Destructing the city is good in the beginning, but it 
 gets boring and annoying, due to the awful graphics. This game is to be avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lallulalu
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Like many would have understood by now, its just u playin as Hulk in a totally free roam environment.. 
 Well, obviously, u can completely destroy anythin, (cars, buildings, u name it..) go around completing 
 main missions and side missions, jump challenges, collecting gamma canisters, rage canisters, comic 
 covers and landmark souvenirs, travel through subways for faster transportation etc.. 
  
  Hulk also faces lots of enemies in this one, like in the movie and more, like army, Hulk Busters, 
 Enclave threats and their bosses, U Foes, Abomination etc..
  
  The game also covers many unlockable players, like Abomination, Iron Clad, Grey Hulk, Maestro, 
 The Professor etc, and skills, like Thunder Clap, Ground Slam, Use mace, poles, healing factor, 
 incredible jump, use tanks as mace, use cars as gauntlets etc..
  
  Inspite of all such features, the game lacks somethin crucial. The enemies are all too damn easy 
 to beat, also nothin much to keep u glued to the comp screen and u'll be bored of every feature 
 in an hour..
  
  Anyways, give it a try if u r a hardcore hulk fan.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodfialho
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  You get to fight the army, Blonsky and some enemies like Abomination.
  
  The game gives you the liberty of wonder around the city, climb buildings, destroy buildings, cars.
 
  
  You can make a weapon out of everything: peasants, cars, trees, electricity posts, you name it.
 
  
  Hulk also has rage attacks that cause great damage.
  
  In this game you'll only control Hulk, not Banner, as in the the previous game.
  
  The game 
 has possibilities, so that you can distract of some campaign missions, like milestones.
  
  You choose if want to play a campaign mission or destroy the city a little more. In the second 
 choice, you get the army after your, like in GTA, when the more damage you inflict on the city, 
 the more cops appear to stop you with bigger weapons.
  
  To sum up, I really liked this game. I don't care about the graphics, but I recognize they could 
 be better.
  
  There are several things that should have been better. For instance, when Hulk destroys a building, 
 its always the same animation: the building simply collapses... I can't explain, you have to see 
 it for yourself to understand.
  
  One of the things I really think is stupid, is the fact that the peasants you punch, grab, and 
 so on, NEVER DIE, no matter how much damage you take on them. They always get up and run away.
 
  
  Overall, I rate it as a 7.0, because beside these small things the game is fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  WTF was sega thinking about when they designed this piece of crap? These graphics are worse than 
 ps2... no! theyre worse than ps1! wait... worse than n64
  
  HEEEY SEGA, welcome to 2008, our computers are better than a ps3!
  Maybe they think we all have 
 those radeon 7000 or geforce 2... or not! they were lazy enough to make a game that should be one 
 of the funniest games to become a piece of crap...
  
  
  The gameplay! This game is nothing more nothing less than smashing everything you see. Looks nice, 
 doesnt it? NO! Why? because the graphics sucks. Theres no fun on smashing every single ugly pixel 
 you see.
  
  Why the hell did they made this game? I don't know, maybe we will never know. Just don't buy it. 
 Trust me mate.
  
  ugly graphics massy controlles and so booring!!! ugly story
  this game is one of the worst games ever right after The IRON MAN game
  
  when i heard that 
 another hulk is going to be realesd to the PC i thought that SEGA will fix all the problems that 
 was in the IRON MAN game
  
  but the still maked again ugly and stupid game
  
  DONT BUY EVER !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sauron-
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  WTF was sega thinking about when they designed this piece of crap? These graphics are worse than 
 ps2... no! theyre worse than ps1! wait... worse than pac man!
  
  HEEEY SEGA, welcome to 2008, our computers are better than a ps3!
  Maybe they think we all have 
 those radeon 7000 or geforce 2... or not! they were lazy enough to make a game that should be one 
 of the funniest games to become a piece of crap...
  
  
  The gameplay! This game is nothing more nothing less than smashing everything you see. Looks nice, 
 doesnt it? NO! Why? because the graphics sucks. Theres no fun on smashing every single ugly pixel 
 you see.
  
  Why the hell did they made this game? I don't know, maybe we will never know. Just don't buy it. 
 Trust me mate.
  
  well that's it. Tbh i never played this game, but i saw some vids and ffs, this game sucks!
  
 
  bye, and dont waste your money
  
  Sauron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonazam
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  When I saw that a new game of HULK was in production, I vibrated! and the new game ofHulk
 is really incredible! It's incredible to see graphs totally surpassed, that can be found in games 
 of 5 years ago, It is incredible not to have options to improve the video, it is incredible to 
 see a plot completely without logic and repetitive, it 's incredible to see as the game it was 
 done in the hurries, only to leave with the film, and it was totally badly finished, incredible 
 to see a franchise to be played in the garbage. In other words, the new game of the hulk is INCREDIBLY 
 DISPENSABLE!! I hope the next games based on films are well produced and that don't disappoint 
 me more as it is frequently happening: short games, without amusement and repetitive. Excuse for 
 weak English, because I am Brazilian and I am only beginning. Even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_Banner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is very nice. Not only it has something to do with the movie (as most games based on movies 
 haven't) as it's a lot of fun. The game allows the player to travel through NYC and there are a 
 lot of optional missions and mini games, which increase Hulk's abilities. Hulk can use the subway 
 system to travel faster, and he can climb buildings in a King Kong style. There is also a combo 
 which transforms cars into giant gauntlets, like Hulk does with the police car in the duel with 
 Abomination at the end of the movie. They've also mixed the comic universe with reality by putting 
 fictional places like the Baxter Building and the Stark Tower in the city. It is best than the 
 game based on the 2003 film, as it offers more space, more moves and attacks and, consequentially, 
 more fun. And the actors themselves have voiced the characters, I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deespiral
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  WTF is going on with this piece of crap. How the hell in this day and age has anyone made a game 
 like this. They must have thought "wait a sec this is awful what are we doing here" Clearly just 
 a "theres a film so lets make a game as quick as possible cus some poor sucker will buy it" job. 
 I wouldnt even download this from a torrent site (not that you should anyway) . Infact i cant believe 
 im even gining it the time of day now. And now i have to write 100 words in order to submit this 
 review well i cant think of 100 about this game other than crap rubbish.
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariusyka
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Why am I saying this???
  Whell its simple, the game has an acceptable graphic but the gameplay is not so incredible.... The 
 level of the boss fight really sucks, when you fight with a boss you can simply and easylly kick 
 his ass.
  All the bosses are TO EASY to defeat, they dont use strong attacks or something special that can 
 use against you and make the battle a tough one.....
  
  The system requirements are not to high:
  
  MINIMUM PC REQUIREMENTS
  Intel or AMD 2.0GHz 
 Processor
  512MB RAM
  1.8GB Hard Disk Space
  DirectX 9.0
  128MB DirectX Compatible Video Card
  DirectX 9.0c Compatible 16-Bit Sound Card
  8X DVD-ROM 
 Drive
  
  I dont like the game because you dont get a well experince. The only thing you do in this game 
 is to smash.... Thats all..... My opinion the game SUCKS.
  
  But who wants to play the game..... Play it, and then tell me what you think.... Its a boring game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Sigh.....
  After reviewing Iron Man.. and showing the world the good points... wait there weren't any...... 
 oh well.. I got this new game.. The Incredible Hulk... It's developed by SEGA (like Iron Man) , 
 it's based on a guy from the Marvel Comics universe (like Iron Man) ... so you can see the enthusiasm 
 I had before playing the game.... (I still can't believe I'm reviewing this )
  
  The Graphics
  
  It seems that SEGA didin't learn from the big failure that Iron Man was on 
 the graphical side, or they might think that we're too dumb to notice they've been using the same 
 graphical engine on The Incredible Hulk.... That means that Hulk's texture looks ugly... I mean 
 he's supposed to be that big angry guy with muscles.. but as far as you can see there's just some 
 green guy with black stripes all over his body... you can barely see that they're muscles or the 
 angry facial expression... Now passing on forward the building and objects' textures are so ugly 
 that Mafia's (a gaming masterpiece released back in 2002 ) building's look "Great" compared to 
 those... same goes for the civilians that roam the streets and for your enemies which literary 
 are missing a face... 
  Now I know that we're in 2008 and we expect fancy motion blurs or depth of field effects from every 
 new game. Well Hulk doesn't have even a pitiful Glow effect, and it doesn't offer any kind of settings 
 to change.. so the textures are as dull as would be standing and watching my grandpa brush his teeth...
 
  
  VERDICT- 2
  
  The Sound
  
  Let's start with the good part (yes.. it has one) .. and that is Bruce Banner's voice acting... 
 yes it sounds exactly as it should.. nothing else to say.. oh wait .. but there is lots more to 
 say...
  Now.. in the 40-45 minutes I've played this game.. I expected to hear at least once "Hulk Smash! 
 Hulk Crash ! Hulk's Stupid! Betty!".. but Sega surprised me and didn't make my wish come true.... 
 All I heard was Hulk shouting... now .. normally it would be ok.. but when that shout sounds like 
 you've just recorded an old Godzilla movie with 40's technology it really hurts my ears...... The 
 explosions sound like a firecracker would explode.. though sometimes there are big tanks that explode......
 
  
  VERDICT- 2
  
  The Gameplay ?
  
  Yes.. that is a question mark above and you will see why.....
  As defunct as the Iron Man gameplay 
 was.. Hulk's gameplay couldn't stop to amaze me... Now let's start with the start... The main objective 
 of the game is every monster's favourite activity... kill people.... with other people , with objects 
 or with your fists..... now this sounds promising , I know... but when you'll see the way Hulk 
 moves you'll get to hope you won't have too kill too many enemies... I mean Hulk moves quite fast 
 for a monster of his size and sometimes you're too agile to hit the pesky army dude firing at you 
 with his small gun... those are the moments when you'll start hoping for the mission to end fast.... 
 Hulk doesn't have too many combos.. they all are punches which do the same damage...
  Whenever you hit an object it miraculously explodes...... I never saw a car exploding when It got 
 hit by a man .. but oh well .. they're using HAVOK so we must believe it was meant to be that way....
 
  There are boss fights .... which resume to pummelling your opponent to death... or hitting him 
 with an object then pummeling him to death.. or blocking his attacks ( :O ) and pummeling him to 
 death..... but sometimes when the boss can't kill you.. there's that pesky soldier in the corner 
 that instantly kills you with his M16.. I mean COME ON! I've seen Hulk eat bullets , get hit by 
 tank projectiles and being ok ... and you come to me and say that a M16 could possibly kill him?!?!?!?!
 
  Because GTA is very popular , the producers thought of ripping it and giving Hulk the possibility 
 to freeroam through the city.. this is quite relaxing if you ignore the ugly graphics.. well at 
 least untlii you get close to a man which says "You are violating my personal space"... I mean 
 yea.. Hulk is just a big green monster that killed 10 civilians before.. and that dude tells me 
 with a calm voice that I'm violating his personal space... 
  Assasin's Creed was also ripped with this game .. Hulk can miraculously climb buildings (by getting 
 his hand into the building texture without destroying it) .. and jump from one building from another 
 being 10 times more graceful than Altair was... the only thing missing was a small stealth element 
 in there and it would have been perfect
  
  VERDICT - 3 (just because I like throwing fire trucks into buildings)
  
  The Story
  
  You 
 are Bruce Banner a guy that .. blah blah blah blah yappity yappity blah blah wakka.... you probably 
 know this already.... everyone does.. well the game puts you in front of an EVIL organization called 
 the Enclave which you must stop..... I never understood how Hulk could be directed by a human but 
 oh well.. I'm just a player .. Sega knows all... nevertheless a better story would be me explaining 
 how nicely I installed Crysis on my cousin's PC..
  
  VERDICT - 1
  
  Overall Impression
  
  
  
  VERDICT - 1
  
  So.. if you 
 value your life.. go play Big Rigs.. at least you have fun there by going backwards at 50000 km/h.... 
 or go play football outside with your friends.. and if your brother/kid/relative is bugging you 
 with buying The Incredible Hulk lock yourself in a room and condemn yourself to endless sleep... 
 it's more constructive than wasting time playing this..
  
  FINAL GRADE - 1.8 .. so a MARVELous 2
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymx
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Just got my hand on a PC version of the game, thought it might look better on my nvidia 8800 GTX 
 rather than on the PS3 and boy how I was disappointed. First thing I couldn't do is changing the 
 resolution or textures or anything of that sort, it seems like a dumb port from another platform 
 with minimal tweaks.
  
  Can't change the resolution, well okay I can live with the default 1024x768 resolution, let's try 
 the game... to make a long story short the game looks horrid on every level. Graphics are seriously 
 flawed from textures to lightning to clipping, they look outdated as well. Character animation 
 looks a bit bulky and isn't fluid, I played Mass Destruction a couple of years ago and even with 
 a few glitches it really made me feel like the hulk when moving around the city, leaping buildings 
 and clinging to military choppers... that game was fun... this game is just a wannabe
  
  Voice acting is done by the original actors but it's like they are forced to say a couple of lines 
 at gunpoint, and most of what comes out is just lousy. I just saw the movie and thought I might 
 check out the game right afterwards... I wish I didn't...
  
  Gameplay on the PC are a joke, still feels like a simple port from another platform, you move with 
 your WASD keys and you use both mouse buttons as attack buttons, F to grab or hold stuff and space 
 to jump... the controls are unresponsive at most points and they seriously make you ANGRY...
  
  Don't play this game if you have anger management issue, most likely you'll be needing a new 
 PC after 10 mins... In face don't play this game at all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zitzy2000
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Yeah its fun for a while running around destroying things, but come on guys, first iron man, for 
 the pc, thought graphics would be outstanding, like XBOX360, and the same for this. Graphics a 
 let down, cant even change the resolution or detail from what I could work out. If anyone knows 
 let me know, but I didnt find an option to change it anywhere. Game is fun for a while like i said 
 just running around and destroying stuff, but dont expect the graphics you see for the xbox 360 
 version.
  
  Ya know, I have to put 100 or something words on here, I just cant believe that with the next gen 
 graphics that are out there for pc games (Crysis, Assassins Creed, need I go on?) And we get stuck 
 with a port from the ps2. Why not a port from the 360? I dont really understand ports and stuff, 
 I just know that the pc can handle much better games than these ports that we have had. 2 Big Movies, 
 2 Big Games, 2 Game Letdowns.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  So many have reviewed this game as bad and I don't really understand why. The game has free roam 
 so there is no complete linear game play unless you wish it. I think people have been bogged down 
 with the linear games that they can't play something as simple as a open game. That was the problem 
 with Marvel Universe. Apart from the 1990's graphics it was completely story line with no independent 
 play at all. This game you can climb a building or destroy them. Pick everything up destroy it 
 or use a s a weapon to destroy everything else. There are a few things that could have been addressed 
 better like more variety in the game of enemy's cars etc... But from the games that are released 
 today and turn out to be garbage this game is definitely one of the better out there. The game 
 doesn't really go with the movies story line but I would rather it be that way or I already know 
 what will happen which sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoKuVeGeTaGoHaN
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  the crap you find in this game is even bigger than the one you find in the iron man port (just 
 like hulk is bigger than iron man... well you get my point) It's a poor pooor pooooooor port from 
 a ps2 encounters ps1 encounters n64 or something like that but hey! nice way to make a quick buck 
 for SEGA. Stay away from it! If you're like me and you did'nt learn your leason with iron man well 
 you'll sure learn it with this pile of turd called THE INCREDIBLE BULK OF KRAP So to sum up just 
 play hulk on the SNES or Genesis. It's cooler, funner and has better graphics too he he he he he 
 he he he he he he. Run away imediately. Run to the hills! Run for your life! Read a book instead. Go 
 out! Play a sport. Take out your girfriend and go watch a movie. Go watch THE movie The Incredible 
 Hulk and the memories that you'll obtain will be better than playing that piece of turd of a game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jusdafide
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is honestly one of the worst games I've ever seen. I would expect graphics like this maybe 
 10 years ago, but this is unacceptable. On top of that, the story goes absolutely no where. It 
 really is pointless.
  
  I don't have a clue how games like this get released anymore. I only hope that the editors at gamespot 
 see through the big checks they get for good reviews and tell it like it is on this piece of crap.
 
  
  I played this for a while, thinking that I might have installed it wrong.
  
  There were almost no textures, no detail, it really looked like an early beta version of the complete 
 game. The pictures you see for this game are completely wrong. You don't get to see veins in the 
 hulk's arm or any shadows or shading or anything. Just flat buildings that look like a 10 year 
 old spiderman game from ps1 and HONESTLY, that even looks better. I'm not trying to bs you, I'm 
 only trying to warn you and save you the stress, aggravation, and disappointment of this years 
 worst game.
  
  If there was a rating less than one, this game would get it immediately, unfortunately, SEGA gets 
 a one for effort. Steer clear, run for you life, the Incredible Hulk is terrible!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silpion21
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  I don't know what happened with Sega, but the last games so far for PC are a total waste of time 
 and money. From the start do not , I repeat DO NOT buy this game it's total waste of your money.
 
  
  First of all this game like Iron Man is the same like the one on PS 2 and PSP i think so that means 
 very bad graphics for a 2008 game, Hulk looks like it has been done with a pencil, and the rest 
 of the environment looks like a game from 2000, even those I think look better. 
  
  Now let's have a look at the gameplay, it's very easy to master I say in the first half an hour, 
 and it's repetitive after the very first mission. You have to smash all in your way, sure that 
 sounds fun, but eventually you will get bored. They've added some movies beteween the levels, witch 
 sadly have the same effect as those in Iron Man, you don't have any idea what is happening. 
  
  All that you will get from this game is at least 1 or 2 hours of smashing stuff and after that 
 you will get bored and throw it away. It's a shame that Sega it's throwing away good games like 
 this one, they could have done more work on it, the game doesn't has the option to change the resolution 
 in game for crying out loud !!! Sega we are in 2008, wake up and see what the others are doing.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessiebrown321
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  i heard that. omg what a pile of crap. i cant even believe they released this game for pc. it looks 
 like it was made back in 1995 or something. it in no way looks related to the nex gen console versions. 
 this has scaried me big time as for the console versions. i was going to pick it up for ps3 but 
 i will definitely wait now. this is the worst pc game i have played in a long time. 
  
  
  the graphics are very horrible with flat boring textures pasted on. it glitches so bad you barely 
 even control it. there are next to no animatings when a building is beat down. the characters look 
 like utter crap. they look nothing like the actual people aside from edward norton who i couldnt 
 tell was him very good either... still looked very bad. 
  
  definitely stay away from the pc version. i would be ashamed of myself if i had released this. 
 this is a travesty of a pc game port. man does it suckkkkkkkkkkkkkk.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuRanVII
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  A month ago SEGA released Iron Man for PC. The screenshots were very beautiful featuring the same 
 graphics as the X360 and PS3 versions. I couldn't believe it was a PS2 when I've bought the game. 
 We are on 2008 and PC IS a next gen gaming plataform too. SEGA has just started following the exemple 
 from EA, releasing old generation graphics for the PC counterparts and letting PC players angry.
 
  
  As you can see, this port is even worse than Iron Man for PC. Why do we keep getting PS1 graphics 
 (its worse than the PS2 version) , when we got computers that can run any next gen games? I'll never 
 buy anything from SEGA and EA anymore. 
  
  CAPCOM did some mistakes on its past, but look at Devil May Cry 4 port. It's an exemple of quality 
 that SEGA and EA should strive for.
  
  Please SEGA, if its for you to release crap ports like that, it's better not the release the game. 
 I think most of people share my feelings : (
  
  ps.: as you can see english is not my native language, but I think I did well =D
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
