-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings Online: Mines of Moria
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/lordoftheringsonlineminesofmoria/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent art design makes exploration a treat.
 Creation of legendary equipment is excellent and addicting.
 Top-notch storytelling.
 Varied quest objectives keep things compelling .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very little content for new players.
 Not much new for PVP enthusiasts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 419 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 17, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Explore Khazad-Dum online in this excellent, narrative-driven expansion pack. 

  When you first enter Moria, the famous dwarven depths, an imposing stairway of 1,001 rocky steps 
 greets you. It's an indelible moment for Tolkien fans, but more importantly, it sets the stage 
 for this curiously murky, moody expansion pack to last year's massively multiplayer The Lord of 
 the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar. With Mines of Moria, developer Turbine pulls off quite a feat: 
 they make the tight labyrinths and cavernous halls of the mithril mines even more compelling to 
 explore than the rolling hills of Middle-earth. Aside from a couple of new character classes, there's 
 very little incentive for newcomers to join in, particularly given the thin population of the original 
 environs. But for veterans, this is a treasure trove of rewarding questing and clever storytelling, 
 and a must-buy for anyone with a character approaching level 50.  

  The mines aren't the only new area; you'll spend some time (perhaps a little too much during the 
 slow-starting introductory story quest) in Eregion, and later in Lothlorien. Yet even in light 
 of Lothlorien's glowing green spaces, Khazad-Dum is the most incredible region to behold, far surpassing 
 what you would expect from what amounts to a gigantic underground dungeon. The environmental design 
 is absolutely meticulous, and the corridors and hidden alcoves are at once ominous and inviting. 
 You don't know what monster, what goblin encampment, what magnificent statue may be waiting around 
 the bend, and it's this sense of unsettled wonder that will keep you peering around corners. However, 
 the bleak sights don't just unfold in front of you, but also above and beneath you. One misstep 
 may mean a heartrending plunge into a dark abyss or an inadvertent descent into an undiscovered 
 area. Glance above for a look at impressive formations (natural and dwarven alike) that make for 
 vistas that are at once spacious and eerily claustrophobic. The effective soundtrack ranges from 
 the dramatic to the melancholy, dutifully enhancing the atmosphere.  

           You never know what dangers are lurking within Khazad-Dum.      

  These environs aren't 
 just for show. The complex design of these areas also means you need to give thought to how you 
 travel and how you fight. With the threat of a 300-foot plunge lingering a few footsteps away, 
 root and fear abilities are as important as ever. And though there is a smattering of dwarven guides 
 to help point you to nearby areas of interest, one of the greatest challenges is to figure out 
 how to get from point A to point B alive. You may see your destination hovering above, but getting 
 there might require fighting through glass spiders with your party or fending off orcs and their 
 flaming arrows. Ensuing encounters are simply a lot of fun, even with just another player or two, 
 thanks to thoughtful enemy placement and varied attack types. Even differing AI behaviors mix up 
 the pace, with some creatures giving you a warning grunt before attacking you outright.  

  It's a wonderful marriage of content and art design that further strengthens the developer's knack 
 for storytelling, a floundering art in most MMOGs, yet a triumph in Mines of Moria. Although some 
 of the story chapters lack cleverness (gredbyg killing is better left to the nonessential questing) , 
 many of them shed light not only on the dwarves' attempt to reclaim their rightful territory, but 
 also the origins of their plight. For example, in an early quest, you teleport to the past and 
 watch the dwarves inadvertently release the fiery Balrog, and destroy a tenuous pact between themselves 
 and the elves in the process. Its cinematic presentation and sense of real danger is a treat, and 
 though much of the questing boils down to the usual fare, these special moments, and fantastic 
 quest writing, will keep you emotionally involved.  

  Although there are some solo-focused quests like the one noted above, you'll want to grab a buddy 
 or three and drag them along. The shadowed crevasses don't just look dangerous -- they  are  dangerous, 
 and general exploration has been clearly geared toward small fellowships. This was a smart choice; 
 the small-party camaraderie fits well thematically, conjuring images of humans and hobbits huddled 
 together for warmth as they eke their way to glory. But this focus on small groups also wisely 
 pays heed to the diminished population of the game in general. Experienced adventurers looking 
 to reach the new level cap of 60 will find plenty of questing partners during peak hours, but the 
 original areas of the game are sparsely populated; if you're new to the game, or decide to roll 
 a new character, you could play three or four hours before you run into other players, depending 
 on your chosen race and profession.  

  Though Mines of Moria is not generally a solo-friendly experience, there are opportunities for 
 you to keep yourself occupied when you're not in the socializing mood. There are numerous solo 
 quests, some pitting you against fun bosses and requiring a good command of your abilities. However, 
 the most intriguing way to spend your time outside a group is by creating and tweaking your own 
 legendary weapons. The introductory quest to this feature is a bit tedious, but once you wade your 
 way through, you will be grabbing legendary items off of fallen monsters. Then you can dismantle 
 them, rejigger them, level them up, and even rename them. This flexibility is a welcome adjunct 
 to the already-elastic traits and deeds system, but more importantly, you're not just forging a 
 new sword, but an actual relationship with it. No longer is your weapon a disposable commodity; 
 it's an extension of your virtual self. So powerful is this connection that you'll wish you could 
 create legendary armor and accessories as well. Sadly, you can't dual-wield legendary melee weapons 
 (though you can simultaneously equip, for example, a legendary bow and a legendary sword) , but 
 even in its current form, the customization possibilities will keep you constantly rethinking your 
 character.  

           If you tire of dark corridors, don't worry: you'll find visual respite.      

  More 
 flexibility is on tap within the two new character classes, the rune-keeper and the warden. Rune-keepers 
 are essentially wizards, and they're a potentially troublesome addition for Lord of the Rings purists 
 who would rather not see magic proliferate in this universe. Nevertheless, rune-keepers fill a 
 spell-flinging need and are an absolutely proper compromise that favors fun gameplay over the strict 
 tenets of Tolkien's prose -- perfectly acceptable in a world where even the smallest details highlight 
 the developer's reverence for the subject matter. Both new classes offer a wide range of gameplay 
 possibilities. Wardens act as light tanks, stringing attacks together to create powerful finishing 
 attacks called gambits; rune-keepers attune themselves to their chosen role as healer or offensive 
 powerhouse. They are excellent classes, but without much in the way of new-player content and considering 
 the low starting-area populations, they feel geared more toward existing players looking to try 
 something new.  

  The unique player-versus-player component has seen some tweaks as well, such as new traits for 
 monster players and a ten-llevel upgrade. Better support for smaller groups is also a wise change 
 that is consistent with the other tweaks mentioned earlier, but clearly, Mines of Moria is focused 
 more on storytelling than player battles. There aren't any major additions to PVP play, which is 
 a shame, considering Wrath of the Lich King's newfound focus in this area and Warhammer Online's 
 major inroads. The addition of the two new classes should make for some interesting battles in 
 any case, though it remains to be seen whether that will be enough to breathe life back into the 
 generally fun and exciting monster play.  

  The bowels of Middle-earth have no right to be this interesting to investigate, yet Moria's dim 
 passages are a dungeon crawler's delight, surpassing even Shadows of Angmar's charming landscapes 
 for sheer exploratory value. There isn't much for new players, though if you've avoided The Lord 
 of the Rings Online until now, consider this: The expansion pack includes the original game, a 
 value rare in MMOG expansions. Nevertheless, LOTRO veterans have the most to gain, thanks to awesome 
 new areas, new story chapters to probe, and the giddy trepidation that comes with not knowing what 
 ghoulish ogres might be lurking around the corner.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Bug free and well balanced, this is the MMO that's not WoW, yet still has a faithful player base, 
 active community and economy, and *gasp* fully functioning Dx10 support (*looks at AoC's devs*) .
 
  
  Solid graphics and art design, varied terrain, LOTRO does a good job of keeping that carrot dangling 
 just in front of you. Playing through the main story line gives you purpose and is rewarding. Those 
 Tolkien fans even agree it stays quite true to the lore found in the books and movies.
  
  Recently, the community feels rejuvenated with WoW and other MMO dropouts, personally I jumped 
 ship after AOC turned into a ghost town, and Warhammer got boring and turned into an RvR grind, 
 which personally, I'm not into.
  
  One minor gripe is that the crafting system isn't quite "aligned" with questing. That is, by the 
 time you've mastered your current tier and can make more desirable (purple) gear, you've most likely 
 outlevelled it in the process and are ready for better items than you could currently make. Perhaps 
 this is done intentionally as a way to keep the economy active, nonetheless it would be nice to 
 be able to equip yourself and your friends with level-appropriate crafted gear.
  
  See you in Moria! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  I loved the original LOTRO. I played my hunter to level 50 and began making ALTS. However, when 
 things became boring I decided to switch to some other MMORPG's and see what they were like.
  
  After being away for about 6 months I came back to LOTRO for Mines of Moria to continue the 
 fun. All I can say is that if you aren't in a group then don't even bother playing. Maybe it's 
 because I'm playing a hunter, but maybe not. Either way, it's far too frustrating. 
  
  Why? First, the adds are impossible. Attack one guy and 3 more come out of the woodwork. Literally 
 since sometimes they walk through walls. The threat area is far too big. I can be far away from 
 someone and all of a sudden they come running after me. With the way monsters are spaced out, it's 
 next to impossible to get through an area without having to fight your way through. However, the 
 respawn rate is pretty quick so if you go too slow you'll get stuck with guys on all sides. Of 
 course if you go to quickly then you'll pull to many enemies and be dead. 
  
  Another thing that makes me want to scream is getting dazed. Almost every single time in combat 
 my character ends up being dazed just when they are getting to the end of a long spell/action. 
 Once in a while is fine, 9 out of 10 times in combat? Come on. How come the enemies don't get dazed 
 left and right?
  
  Another annoying thing is trying to attack when there are several mobs on you. You can never get 
 a shot off. They keep hitting you and stopping you from attacking, but when you hit a monster that 
 is attacking or casting a spell it never stops them or delays their action. So, again, if you draw 
 more than one enemy forget it.
  
  Then there is money. One thousand silver pieces for a piece of gold? Then you get 25 silver for 
 a quest completion? It's like "Hey, can you risk your life and save my butt by facing several deadly 
 creatures and killing them for me? I'll give you taxi fare!".
  
  The mines themselves are great and and the new weapons system is fun. However, if you can't do 
 any quests solo because you get your butt kicked then the fun kind of goes out of it.
  
  Sure, I could play with groups, and I try to. However the attitudes of people online have been 
 getting worse and worse. No one helps anyone any more and most people seem to want to play just 
 to show off how much they have or how good they are while knocking everyone else out. Not exactly 
 worth paying for. I'm sure there are still good people out there, but it seems that when people 
 hit cap in a computer game they somehow think that they are better than everyone and I like to 
 avoid these people as much as I can. That means soloing. Since you can't do that in Mines of Moria 
 it's back to WoW for me. Yes, there are even worse rude people in WoW, but at least I can solo 
 and have fun without getting screwed by the AI. Seems like WoW is there for you to have fun. Not 
 sure what LOTRO has against solo players, but it's definitely not fun for them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistel162
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  I have been playing LOTR Online for over a year now and am completely satisfied with the game. 
 
  
  An incredably phenominal game LOTRO has great potential to maximize as an online game. Perfect 
 evidence is Mines of Moria. 
  
  As you play the game you will come to enjoy the ease of character development and questing. Groups 
 often tend to be more open to help each other out than would be expected. Difficulty is at a perfect 
 level, based on the expansion of the character. The world is incredibly detailed. LOTRO recieves 
 highest honors in the gaming environment.
  
  Actual game play can at times be alil trying as one's specific objectives are not clearly defined 
 as to their location. Soloists will find themselves with alot of independence but will find that 
 they must depend on some groups to attain specifc endgame contain. The storyline plays out brilliantly 
 and there is little left to critique there.
  
  Character customization though is slightly less than expected though as one still finds similarity 
 with other toons met along the journey. 
  
  I will highly recommend this game to anyone interested in playing a fun friendly mmo. I believe 
 this franchise will last a decade or two to come and as long as it remains active i willl continue 
 to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse1024
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The legendary item system is the #1 negative of LOTRO today. It is so monumentally egregious to 
 all but the hardest of hardcore grinders that it literally drives away players. After level 50, 
 you can't avoid using them without seriously hampering your abilities, yet you have to grind like 
 mad just to find one that's actually half decent. There is just way too much randomness for it 
 be even remotely fun.
  
  The crafting system received an update in MoM also, but nearly all of the resultant items from 
 this new tier are woefully inferior to even simple quest rewards. There is virtually no reason 
 to craft anymore, and for players that cannot rely on groups to complete fellowship instances (or 
 raids) you are just plain out of luck.
  
  Speaking of end-game content, if you thought having to replay the Rift in Shadows of Angmar over 
 and over again was bad, you haven't seen anything yet! There are now half a dozen "must-do" instances, 
 all plagued with bugs, exploits, and gimmicks, that you have to revisit over and over again, all 
 in the name of grinding for gear.
  
  The entire nature of LOTRO has changed dramatically from a friendly quest/story based game to another 
 Lineage II rehash.
  
  For those who haven't purchased MoM yet, don't. At least wait until they've fixed the current LI 
 system and crafting system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USMCBigDog
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive and you will love every hour you play. I have been playing Lotro for 
 over a year now. I still can't get enough. I love the new expansion and can't wait for more. I 
 have seven toons. One of almost every class out there. You max at lvl 60 but that goes up with 
 every expansion. I have 4 that are over 50 already and one of them about to be 60. So come on out 
 and join the fun. Look me or anyone in my Kin to join the kin for more fun and friends. The Kin 
 name is LostHeros. I'm the leader and make sure we have fun and work together. You can have it 
 all with this game. You can be anything from a healer to a killer. I have both and then some. There 
 are even those that toons out there that can do both. You can hunter your prey or go head to head 
 toe to toe with anything in the game. There is even the PvP zones for those of you that what to 
 have fun killing your friends lol. So what are you waiting for get in the game already. I'm in 
 and having fun waiting for you to join me on the best epic questing mmopg game on the plante. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivanhan5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Lotro SoA & MoM all together is too awsome. This game contains huge amounts of content, lots of 
 craft items, quest, creatures, spells and all that good stuff. The game's engine is off the hook 
 with beautifull real time shadows lighting and character models. The sound is incredible and best 
 in a video game as it could ever be cuz it is taken from lotr wich is a good thing. One great thing 
 about this game is there no retards playing it so everyone is nice and helpfull. Besides the go 
 kill and gather quests, u get to do the EPIC QUESTS!! epic quests let u interact with gandalf and 
 frodo and all the heroes of middle earth to fight the minions of sauron! the pvp is BAD in this 
 game so if ure a heavy pvper, u wont like the game but questing, crafting, housing, raiding and 
 all that good stuff is AWESOME! i highly reccomend if u have a gd computer and internet to get 
 the complete edition cuz its just FUN and thers ALOT of stuff - 60 levels, 9 classes, 4 races, 
 thousands of quests and items and great ingaging content with the best sound around! Give this 
 game a try and u will surely like it!
  
  (sry for bad spelling) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Shleif
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  ive played LOTRO for over a year, the PvE was pretty fun, but i was looking for more PvP in a game. 
 Anyone can point and click an enemy NPC and then put in their favorite attack order cuz you will 
 find an order that works for everything. But when you PvP you need to take into account that the 
 enemy is attacking you just as strongly as you attack them, not to mention that they are moving 
 and have just as many tricks up their sleeves as you do. besides that the PvP is severely unbalanced, 
 and players are more encouraged to "zerg" (everyone in the raid attack one target) or roll a crowd 
 control class such as Burglar or Lore-master, if you have no CC whatsoever like the Captain (a 
 class i regrettably played but stuck to it for who knows what reason) your PvP experience is gonna 
 suck! you will only ever get kills and points if you go out into the PvP zone in a group because 
 of 2 reasons: 1. you dont deal damage as fast as you would like to. 2. (this is the worst part) 
 you have no CC, no slows, no stuns, no roots, nothing..... no wait scratch that you do have a slow, 
 but you have to sacrifice about 30% of your health to do it. all in all if you like to play dungeons 
 and enjoy a really in depth Lord of the Rings story then go ahead and play this. if you're looking 
 for PvP go somewhere else.
  
  
  also dont play on Silverlode (the server i was on) everyone there is a douche. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  GOOD.
  - Awesome atmosphere. (feels like the LOTR movies) . 
  - Excellent design.
  - Great and cinematic storyline
  - Many new content.
  - Moria is HUGE.
  - Great interaction.
 
  - Solid gameplay.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  BAD.
  - Small 
 amount of PVP players (WoW is getting more attention) . 
  - Becomes a bit repetive. 
  
  CONCLUSION.
  This is one of the most atmospheric MMO expansions that i have played... even if 
 i am not a Hardcore MMO fan...
  The whole game universe is beautiful and very detailed it feels so much like the movies i am sure 
 the Tolkien fans are going to love that and even if you are not a Tolkien fan i am sure you are 
 going to find that it is a pretty solid game and an excellent value.
  
  Graphics 8.5
  Sound 8.0
  Gameplay 8.0
  FINAL SCORE 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rnpowers
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  After reaching level 60, which was very easy, there's not really anything left to do but keep redoing 
 the instances. The Radiance drop armor is only needed if you want to do the last fight. It's possible, 
 the next update may have some reason to farm these instances, but there is too much time required 
 to do this by a casual player. We need more casual content besides farming experience for our legendaries. 
 While there are 6 solo onstances to do this, it gets boring very fast. There are also 5 repeatble 
 quests for IA (Item Experience) , but here again, this gets very boring. I enjoyed tier 5 crafting, 
 but tier 6 does not have the same level of rewards compared to the instance drops as it did in 
 SoA.
  
  SoA was greatly improved by the book updates, and hopefully MoM will be the same. The first book 
 update is due out soon, so we will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics; great music; nice effects -- when are developers going to learn that, while 
 nice, those are not the key to a great game (or a great expansion) ?
  
  Mines of Moria (MoM) is not a worthy heir of the Lord of the Rings Online (LotRO) franchise for 
 a lot of reasons: (1) voice acting is horrible and the digitial recording quality is poor compared 
 to the original game release; (2) story-line is non-sensical at times, certainly not engrossing 
 nor even interesting at times; (3) newly introduced features such as the legendary item system 
 and "supreme crafting" / crafting guilds are poorly done, apparently not thought through, and certainly 
 not consistent with the original game design; (4) new classes, the Warden and Rune Keeper, while 
 quite fun to play and very good for soloers, are correspondingly overpowered -- and inconsistent 
 with the many "nerfs" made to the Guardian, Minstrel, Lore Master, Burglar, and Hunter classes 
 (sorry, can't comment on Captain and Champion classes) ; and (5) Turbine has resorted to the same 
 area design philosophy that they originally applied to the Angmar region: "checkerboard aggro", 
 ridiculously rapid respawns, improperly difficult tasks with respect to levels (both in terms of 
 too easy and too hard) , improperly balanced quests with respect to different classes' abilities 
 to perform them, and WoW-style group quests that not so much demand specific classes with specific 
 skill mixes as they do the opposite, precluding use of certain classes with certain skill mixes.
 
  
  Turbine, perhaps in recognition of the inability to retain subscriptions, has joined the "gear 
 treadmill", and the change in philosophical approach to the game is very apparent to the players 
 (lemmings excluded) .
  
  Voice acting - Most of the digitized voices sound as if they were recorded using single channels 
 (vice multi-channel) in an echo chamber using unemployed actors trying to mimic Scotttish and Polish 
 accents. Sorry to be so blunt, but comparing digitized voice in the original LotRO to MoM is painful. 
 Presumably, whatever sound laboratory used in the original LotRO went out of business -- or simply 
 was too expensive to use again -- and Turbine resorted to some employee's teen daughter's Karaoke 
 setup to record voice, using the bug-fixing department to do voice-overs instead of professionals. 
 It's that bad.
  
  Story-line - Why would an orc be talking to a player in what is almost Elizabethan English? Why 
 would an orc be talking to a player at all? Why would an orc be asking a player to present his 
 papers? This is stupid. While much of the story-line is intended to create an atmosphere for the 
 player to be immersed in the game, far, far too much of MoM does exactly the opposite because it 
 is CLEARLY targeted instead at creating a player time-sink. The story-line is not engrossing and 
 far too much of the text is really out of context with Tolkein's world, the lore of Middle Earth, 
 and -- most especially -- the game as laid out in the original LotRO.
  
  Newly introduced features -- Legendary items AREN"T [legendary] ... they are plentiful as drops, 
 are generally totally random in their "legacies" (their "perks" to use) , and are clearly targeted 
 at off-setting the nerfs to the various classes -- vice being "legendary". They do NOT make a player 
 more powerful until leveled up -- if the player gets one with appropriate legacies to begin with 
 (since they're all random, this is a very rare occurrence) -- and most likely will be replaced 
 before completely leveled. The implementation does not match what was originally advertised by 
 Turbine, but instead clearly appears to be just another time-sink (JATS) . "Supreme crafting" and 
 crafting guilds are GENERALLY (by everyone) considered to be a dramatic turn-around from the original 
 game's crafting design -- which, although tedious and very random, allowed production of crafted 
 goods that were a viable alternative to drops from raiding. JATS is again clearly the priority. 
 Crafted gear is now very definitely second class quality in the game. Materials needed for the 
 better items are next to impossible to obtain and even if obtained, produce inferior items. The 
 utility of crafting skills has diminished significantly. As a "for instance", players "must" use 
 their legendary weapons in order to level them up, so weapon crafting just took a nose dive in 
 viability for selling player made items. Crafting guilds (basically, just another reputation scheme 
 and JATS) provide less-than-useful rewards -- especially since raiding produces significantly better 
 items than the best recipes. So, why bother? Again, JATS...
  
  New classes -- Both the Warden and Rune Keeper classes are interesting class designs. However, 
 both are clearly overpowered relative to the original classes (which have all been nerfed) . Both 
 are enjoyable, but players of these classes need to wonder when they will be nerfed also to bring 
 them in line with the other classes' capabilities.
  
  Angmar-style area design -- Anyone that played the original LotRO (at release) and made it to Angmar 
 (the top-level region) knows what a poorly designed area that was -- pretty much characteristic 
 of the type of area design that long-term MMORPG players associate with "Oh my God, we; re the developers, 
 we're running out of time on this development, and the high level areas haven't been completed 
 yet!!" regions in almost all MMORPGs. Angmar eventually got fixed (more or less) in the original 
 LotRO, but clearly the same problems exist in MoM. Very, very obviously, there are areas that have 
 not been balanced against the various classes. Very, very obviously, the solution to "challenge" 
 by the level designers has been to make it impossible to progress without fighting every blastid 
 step of the way. Like to use your brain and come up with innovative solutions to presented problems 
 in a MMORPG? MoM doesn't allow that. Try to drag a monster into a LONNNNNNGGG hallway that you've 
 already painstakingly cleared so you can pull monsters one or two at a time and fight them within 
 the limits of your class' abilities? Forget it; a monster will magically spawn behind you (even 
 though there is no way a monster could have gotten there without 5 minutes of running) . This is 
 unfortunately TYPICAL of MoM. It is not well done; it is not challenging; it is only tedious; and 
 it is not FUN.
  
  Overall, with some other complaints, it is difficult to give MoM any kind of high score. Turbine's 
 new management team very clearly opted for JATS instead of "fun-sinks". In the process, they have 
 very clearly missed the mark in this expansion. For those of us who have been playing since release, 
 this is a disappointment and, as an indicator of the future, a good incentive for players to leave. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanan3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  this expansion adds tons of new content to the original game, making it even more fun. with the 
 greatest fantasy epic of modern history as its basis, how can it possibly fail? so come on over 
 to try it out with the free trial download able from this site. lotro really makes you fell as 
 if you are part of the lord of the rings story as u often interact with characters and locations 
 that are indepthly described by J. R. R. Tolkien and his son, Christopher Tolkien. this truly a must 
 buy that you and your kinds can enjoy for years to come ( I highly suggest you make them read the 
 books first. it gives them a certain sense of respect for the story, as well as being a chance 
 to expand their vocabulary) it only recieved a 9 from me because it costs 10 dollars a month, which 
 is pretty exspensive for a kid with a small allowance and no job. but yeah this game just flat 
 out rocks, especially with the new legendary weapons for even more customization and moria is huge. 
 inside its cavernous depths, you can barely see ceiling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawlin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Truly what Lord of the Rings Online needed after months and months of grinding end-game content 
 and leveling alts. The expansion is spot on when it comes to tieing into the epic story line and 
 additions of new game mechanics such as the legendary weapons and items make this expansion great.
 
  
  Be it that the expansion is not without bugs, I can live with this knowing that the producer is 
 working hard to improve. Shadow of Angmar was in my experience a very solid game from technical 
 standpoint and Moria is soon to follow, I'm sure.
  
  The down-side is that I have trouble deciding where to play my level 50 characters to the new level 
 60 cap or to spend time on playing my new Warden and Rune-Keeper, both turning out to be really 
 good classes.
  
  In short, I can highly recommend this expansion to new and old players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 001Bigt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I've played almost every single MMO but for WOW and LOTRO is hands down my 
 most favorite but for my very first MMO Everquest experience back in 1999. I started a loremaster 
 and ended up shifting over to a warden AND I'M HAVING A BLAST! LOTRO is giving me that "feeling 
 of playing a MMO for the first time" feeling. I was a bit worried about the lack of races to pick 
 from, but that worry has come and gone. The selection of ****s is obviously the most important 
 and LOTRO fills the bill. This is what I really like about this game:
  
  1.) quests are loads of fun especially epic quest.... LOTRO actually makes you hunt for locations 
 sites without waypoints which is very important to me. It makes you actually want to read to quest 
 story line which gets you more involved. Yes, some of the quests are kill x amount of this or that, 
 but a majority of the quests actually have a involved story line talking and searching for so and 
 so NPC, killing so and so boss, and quests really gets you involved into the whole lord of the 
 rings story. Epic quests are loads of fun!
  
  2.) THIS GAME IS HUGE! I thought vanguard was a big MMO, but I'm starting to wonder if LOTRO is 
 even bigger especially with the mines of moria expansion pack. I really like the fact there is 
 minimal zoning and if you do zone is takes all of 2 seconds. Zoning is really really fast! Zones 
 and landscapes are very realistic and there is absolutely no lag. 
  
  3.) great solo and group play ****. Both are equally balanced. 
  
  4.) really fast game engine 
 and the overall game itself is very polished. I have yet to find a bug and i have 1 character @ 
 level 19, and my warden is @ level 25. I have this game completely maxed out settings and this 
 game runs really really smooth in town and out in the country side. Even with loads of other characters 
 running about. Computer specs 2.4 quad core @ 3.0 overclock with asus p5e mobo and 8800gts 512evga. 
 
  
  5.) character equipment, stats, virtues, ****stats, deeds, and legendary stats are loads of fun 
 and very involved. 
  
  6.) in game maps are perfect. Fog ****maps expose new areas are you explore making you want to 
 see what is around the corner. Maps are perfectly etailed. Not too much information, but enough 
 to let you know where you are in the LOTRO world. 
  
  7.) great community and really nice game population. 
  
  8.) layout of towns and zones are 
 very well done. 
  
  9.) very nice quest log page
  
  About my only tiff with this game is the look of some character equipment. It is not as detailed 
 as other games like vanguard, BUT that is most likely the reason why vanguard's game engine runs 
 like complete crap. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonanH73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Have played the original since pre-release and the expansion was very much anticipated so it could 
 have been a big let down, thankfully Turbine have hit the nail squarely on the head! The creation 
 of such a colossal space as Moria is truely groundbreaking in design. You really have to experience 
 the vastness of the caverns to believe just how huge they are. All this is done across a very big 
 area and there are absolutely no loading screens in the entire dungeon.
  
  They introduced a great item advancment system with the expansion. You choose a weapon based on 
 attributes that you want and the weapon levels up as you do things. If you outgrow that particular 
 weapon (or item) you can deconstruct it getting a share of the gained xp back to pump into the 
 new item. It's a great way to increase the desire to play after you hit the new L60 level cap.
 
  
  Overall a great expansion to an already very good game. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaccourion
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  it is so brilliantly architechtered... amazing everything better then any current rival mmorpg 
 and mines of moria totaly owns wow!!.... well balancedi nstances and rewarding also, the end game 
 armour is substancial, great work for both codemasters and turbine they've made a peice of art!! 
 i advice everyone to play it and to live the magnificent fantasy by J. R. R. Tolkien!! if he was 
 alive he would've been very proud of what his fantasy have became :) .. should see ya in middle-earth 
 the loremaster class owns :P and for people who wants flying mounts and 1 million class just comprehend 
 the factthat this game is based on the books of tolkien and it; s only essence of success is to 
 follow those books word per word any changes in the story will defect the gameplay and the ambiance 
 of such a wonderfull game plus you don; t see the competitive ambiance much in the game, everyone 
 is friendly unlike other mmorpgs where they can; t wait to screw you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FleshTone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Mines of Moria is an excellent expansion for both the casual and "l33t" LOTRO player: the sheer 
 size of the MoM expansion is breathtaking (with vistas as dark and mysterious as they are sprawling) . 
 The legendary weapon system is good... though not perfect (and actually it did damage some of the 
 game's player to player commerce) . The expansion introduces interesting and well thought out new 
 character classes; and those players who enjoy grouping with others will find MoM was really developed 
 with them in mind (MoM can be enjoyed solo however it was absolutely created with the notion that 
 a fellowship is needed to explore it's deepest depths) . The actual size of both the 'zones' (available 
 areas for gameplay) and content has increased the game by 45% in terms of geography and quests 
 / storyline arc. The worthiest explorers will find the elvish ruins of Eregion a familiar and comfortable 
 place to fight; then once the MoM have been successfully traversed, the wonders of Lothlorien await. 
 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerboy91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Been playing LotR since beta, and have loved it since.
  
  In a nutshell, I love the new regions and trait sets/overall update. I have still yet to try any 
 of the higher level raids/fellowships for the new high-end gear, but so far everything is oustanding 
 including questing! Ereigon is absolutely amazing, it looks beautiful. And as for Moria, It has 
 been a great travel, but I have not yet discovered it all! :)
  
  If your a LotR fan, (Like me) this game is a MUST-HAVE... I've played and owned almost every other 
 LotR game, and nothing reaches the overall experience of Lotr: O
  
  Even if you have never played MMORPG's in your lifetime, or perhaps thought they were for "teh 
 loosers", you will definately LOVE this game... Trust me, I was that person! I once never touched 
 an MMO, nor did I plan on it. But the fact that this game was lotr, I couldn't bear to resist... And 
 man am I glad I didn't!!!
  
  
  10/10, this game well deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawren
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Expansions I have ever been able to Experience, The work on the new area 
 of Moria is just soo amazingly done. The Area is by far the biggest Dungeon i have ever been in. 
 Moria IS MASSIVE!! A lot of quest, a lot of things to kill , a lot of instances and raids, and 
 a lot of Legendary weapons to find. The Legendary Weapon system is very well done as well. There 
 are some very small Bugs on some quests but i believe they will be fixing them in the 2 patches 
 or so. I also enjoyed the way they brought in the new raid system witch makes it a lot easier to 
 get the Raid gear but at the same time still make the end game content difficult. There are also 
 some solo instances in the game that tell the story of Moria and Middle earth very well. Overall 
 this game is very well polished and it just makes me very excited to see what Turbine has next 
 for Lord of the rings Online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattybs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  well what can i say (apart from sorry for bad spelling :) .
  the shadows of angmar is one of the top mmo's out there and mines of moria is if not the best then 
 a close second best expansion to ever come for an mmo.
  
  what 1st drew me in was i needed to get away from WOW, (i am also a big love of the books and movies) , 
 so i got in and was hooked.
  
  you get to go to bree, rivindail, the shire and many more places and now with this expansion you 
 can go to the original dungion, and go to Lothlorien (not got there yet) .
  
  the graphics in moria are stunning, the attention to detail, when you walk in there are the 100 
 stairs that the fellowship climb and yes i counted and there are 100, the vastnes of Moria is mind 
 boggeling, monsters fit in with there suraundings.
  
  there are 3, 6 and 12 man instances that are perfect for every play style and they are all very 
 well maid with a good story.
  
  the two new classes (not played much of them) to what i have played are very enjoyable (liked the 
 warden the most) they both implement new styles of playing and to what i have heard very fun.
 
  
  legendary Items to me is one of the best things in the expansion, they are items that have there 
 own xp and level up, you apply different objects to them that give them different propertys, the 
 system is very deep and fun to play around with.
  
  they have also changed the combat a little so that you cant get to 100% in block, parry and evaid, 
 most classes are now more squishy, some are calling this a nerf but it needed to be implimented 
 so that you dont get guradians (the tanks) blocking every attack, and things are now more of a 
 challange. (thats a good thing btw)
  
  well that was quite long (sorry :) ,
  but to sum up. GET IT!
  Baruk Khazd! Khazd ai-mnu! 
  Axes of the dwarves! The Dwarves 
 are upon you!
  
  (ye i like Dwarves with axes lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Review rig
  
  Vista 64 bit Ultimate
  4GB DDR2 Ram
  Geforce 8800 GTS
  Intel E8400 1333 FSB
  Realtek 5.1 Surround Sound
  
  
  I've played Lotro since it first 
 came out and with the three monthly, free expansion packs, this game has just got better and better. 
 So 18 months into Lotro, along comes Mines of Moria (MOM) , the first paid for full expansion.
 
  
  MOM is for level 47+ players and starts in the large outdoor area of Eregion. Here there are hundreds 
 of quests to do and the start volume 2 of the main quest line which runs into a massive 15 books.
 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  The expansion carries on in much the same vein as Volume 1 Shadows of Angmar, in terms of gameplay 
 is concerned. However there have been changes to the combat and armour system, which if you are 
 an established player of Lotro may find a bit of getting used to as it does require some change 
 to your gameplay style. However new players obviously won't notice any difference at all, but essentially 
 the devs have made the game harder.
  
  Once book 1 is complete and (if you wish to complete all the quests in Eregion, which would probably 
 see you through to around lev 54) , you then move on into the Mines of Moria.
  
  The mines are a huge , expansive, seemless world and the map makers have done an A+ job here. To 
 be frank, its simply amazing how this huge expansse of space has been put together.
  
  The quests are more of the same, but I'm not complaining - the world is immersive and the game 
 is highly addictive, I have barely put it down since it came out, and other new games on my machine 
 like COD5, Fallout 3 and Dead Space have simply gone unplayed.
  
  MOM raises the level cap fom 50 to 60 and in my opinion this is the game's biggest failing, as 
 there are so many quests to do, and for many the fun is in levelling. The devs could have easily 
 made the new level cap to 70, but I suspect they did not want to alienate the hardcore raiding 
 or PvP fans, who need to be at the cap.
  
  In MOM there is plenty for everyone. Most of the quests are for solo play, which means you don't 
 have to wait around for hours to find a group. But if you do choose to go through the quest in 
 a group or with kinmates, you still can. This is probably the quickest way of levelling up, but 
 it is purely down to the player's choice.
  
  A number of repeatable instances have been introduced, some solo, some three man and some six man 
 - they are all very much fun and give great rewards.
  
  The biggest change to the game is the legendary weapon system. This simply means that weapons drop 
 from mobs as loot, you have to identify them and then salvage them if you want to extract the constituent 
 parts to add to your existing weapon. (This is obvious theft from Guild Wars) . Quests now give 
 weapon XP so the weapons level up as you play through the game, and you can modify them as you 
 wish.
  
  Two new classes have been added to the game in the form of the Rune Keeper and the Warden. Unfortunately 
 there are no new starter areas so if you roll one in means playing through Shadows of Angmar from 
 scratch.
  
  The only bad things I have to say about Moria is that no more bags have been added, we only get 
 2 extra vault slots and the quest log has only been increased by 4, to 44 active quests, which 
 is a real pain.
  
  Overall Moria is great fun to play. There is very little grind in the expansion. It is immersive 
 and addictive. Whilst it's only been out for two weeks, a few players are now hitting the 60 level 
 cap and ready to start raiding or to go into PvP. However most casual players are around the 55 
 mark so I guess it would take an average player 4-6 weeks to get from level 50 to 60, before starting 
 endgame play.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Simply breathtaking if you have a rig that can run it in all its DX10 loveliness. Moria is supposssed 
 to have had gfx revamp, I can't notice any difference but those running DX9 have reported a huge 
 improvement.
  
  
  Sound
  
  Sheer excellnce, with an epic sountrack alond similar lines to what can be heard in the films.
 
  
  
  Stability
  
  All MMO's have teething problems at release. MOM's main problem is that the whole Lotro community 
 is rushing theorugh the expansion and concentrated in one small place at the same time causing 
 huge lag. This will sort itself out as people level. I have experienced the odd glitch and been 
 stuck a couple of times, but no crashes and nothing really to complain about.
  
  
  As we all know, the Lotro community is great and mature. Lotro has the best graphics and content 
 of any MMO out there. This is a polished and professional co-operative game. Moria is a must buy.
 
  
  Hope to see you in Middle Earth !
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Gamplay 9.5
  Stability 9
  
  Overall 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixie111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Turbine did a great job with this expansion.
  
  They added two new classes: the warden and the rune keeper. I was happy with concept behind the 
 classes.
  
  The warden is a mix between the champion (melee AOE DPS) , and the guardian (tank) . Great solo class! 
 They are officially a tank class, but again, they have decent DPS as well. They have a "gambit" 
 system. What this is, is when you click skills in a certain succession, you will come up with a 
 certain special skill to use. It's good to memorize the gambits and what skills get them to pop 
 up. Some heal, others do extra damage, still others give better blocking, etc...
  
  The rune keeper is a fairly advanced class. I thought it was a lot of fun, but there is a bit of 
 a learning curve - especially if you are new to the game. That said, once they come into their 
 own, they can be great ranged DPS (second to the hunter) , and great healers (second to the minstrel) . 
 There is a range bar that goes both ways. The more it climbs one way, the more the skills get powerful. 
 The reverse is true as well though. If you are blasting things with your DPS skills, your heals 
 will be weaker (some will not even be available) - and vice versus.
  
  
  They overhauled the graphics a bit. I noticed they looked sharper right away.
  
  I like the 
 new legendary items. Even if you are one who likes to race to the max level, you can still continue 
 to advance because the items also level up as well. As they level they get more powerful.
  
  Next is the new areas themselves. I have only been playing a few months, so I am not an authority 
 in this area. That said, many of my kinsmen (guild mates) have been there. They say the graphics 
 are really awesome, and give you a real sense of being in an underground ancient civilization. 
 They also commented on how enormous and how epic the place felt.
  
  As far as PvP - or PvMP in this case, They revamped and did some balances to the Moors. The moors, 
 for those who don't know is the Ettinmoors. There is a instanced area where players fight against 
 monster players and also do quests/objectives in a very large valley. The valley is a lot bigger 
 than AV (Alterac Valley from WOW) .
  
  I want to point out one thing that was true before the expansion, and continues to be now: the 
 crafting. The crafting in this game is very well thought out. It's not perfect (besides we all have 
 different definitions of that anyway) , but it is fun and relevant. I can buy items that were crafted 
 that are pretty much in the same ball park as PvP and raid items. This makes for a decent player 
 economy. It's not as complicated as EQ2, but more so that WOW, IMHO. A good happy medium if you 
 will.
  
  Anyway, as a long time 3+ year WOW player who recently moved on, I can really appreciate this game, 
 and the great job they did on the expansion.
  If you are a fan of the Lord of the Rings, or simply love MMO's with a good but not stifling story, 
 then this is a good place to invest some time into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The first LOTRO game brought to life the greatest fantasy story ever written by tolkien. But what 
 makes this game special? The expansion introduces the next step in the story, the mines of Moria, 
 and it introduces new and completely unique legendary weapons that you decide the traits on, you 
 level up along with your character, and YOU NAME. This is no cheap put a blue gem on your weapon 
 system like other MMO's (hmm WoW?) , your weapon is completely unique to you and depending on your 
 class and style, will be completely different then someone elses. But this system extends to armor 
 also, a truly unique system belonging only to this game. The expansion includes two new classes (WoW 
 has added 1 throughout 2 expansions) The best thing about buying this expansion- it comes with 
 the original game too! There's so much to list I can only cover a small portion- Player houses 
 (Kinships too) , Mounts, Deeds, Traits and Titles for characters, PvMP (players vs monster players) , 
 Deep crafting, the best story out there, great graphics, skill based combat, and tons of free content. Also, 
 one of the best things about this game is the community, people are alot more mature and knowledgable 
 then your warcraft preteen/teen players. Onto Moria! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabutrader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  First off, I don't know what game that one poster is playing but it sure isn't LOTRO. It doesn't 
 take a high end gaming pc.. not even close. Secondly, this expansion just plain rocks. You have 
 the ability to customize your weapons, added armors, and a addition to pvp play. Not to mention 
 the two new classes they added. While there are some things that can be improved upon I think this 
 is one MMO that does deserve a lifetime subscription. Totally opposite of AOC, Tabula Rasa, and 
 countless others which have just plain failed in more ways that one could mention.
  
  Sadly, the major feature lacking is the travel system. They have added mustering horns to gather 
 your group together and such, but it just isn't enough (unless you're a hunter or a warden) and 
 this needs to be addressed. Another negative is the lack of other group members to join instances 
 and to find the pools located randomly here and there. You could easily spend a couple hours just 
 getting to your destination if you add in the problems with fellow instances - and that isn't fun 
 at all.
  
  In short, I am not a huge LoTR fan (sorry but I just don't like the idea of dwarfs and elfs) , but 
 I sure am a fan of the LOTRO mmo. It's just a fun game to play and this game is going places... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The Mines of Moria adds many new things to make an already great game, even better. I will start 
 with the 2 new classes, the Warden, and the Rune-keeper. Both new classes are very unique and very 
 different from all the others. 
  The Warden is a master of the shield and the spear. His role is to be a tank, although he is limited 
 to medium armor, many of his skills temporarily increase his defence greatly, such as increasing 
 his chance to block or parry ect. I would call the warden a combination of the guardian and the 
 hunter. I consider this so because the fighting style of the warden reflects that of the guardian; 
 slow combat while being able to last a long time. It also resembles the hunter because it has porting 
 powers just like the hunter, and has speed boosts just like the hunter. Unlike the guardian tank, 
 the warden can use right when he starts a ranged weapon, the javelin. this has a 25m range only, 
 but deffinitely helps the warden in combat. the warden has a new system called the "gambit". this 
 is where if u do a certain number of skills in a certain order (starting at 2 skills in an order) 
 you will unlock a more powerful gambit attack, which different ones do different things. for example, 
 some gambits will heal you, some will do massive damage, and some will do damage over time. once 
 you exit battle or use a one of these powers the gambit system is reset.
  Now i will move on to the first "magic using" class in LOTRO, the Rune-Keeper! If you are experienced 
 in MMORPGs or played others you will notice most have a "glass cannon" class, which can deal very 
 heavy damage, but also can take very little. in the original Shadows of Angmar, this game didn't 
 include a class like this. now it does, introducing the Rune keeper. The rune keeper specializes 
 in using elements of nature against his foes, such as lightning, fire, and ice. The other thing 
 the RK can do is heal! don't get too excited thinking he will be unkillable, for this is very much 
 not true. He has a special new system, the "attunement", which, as you use more damaging skills, 
 you're attunement increases, making better damaging skills available BUT making you're best healing 
 skills unavailable, and when healing it does vice verse, makes more healing powers available and 
 makes damage powers less available. After each battle, you're attunement goes back to normal, allowing 
 some damage skills and som healing skills, so in one battle you could be the person dealing all 
 the damage, while in the next battle seconds later you could be saving a fellow tank from certain 
 death by healing him. theres the rune keeper for you.
  Now to get back to the good old classes such as the champion and burglar. don't think you have 
 to abandon you're old characters! first of all, the level cap has been raised from 50 to 60, so 
 you will plenty of leveling up to do, and secondly, a lot of new powers have been added! this adds 
 new excitement to the game to the old classes too, including the monster play characters, they 
 have new skills too. 
  Now lets talk a little bit about the new areas in the game, i am sorry to tell you that i dont 
 know much about them, not having been to them yet, but friends have said that moria is beautiful 
 and exciting, full of new enemies, and i can't wait to get to the other new place, Lorien! this 
 is the home of the elves.
  Now to the downsides of this game = (, 1, i have experienced much more major lag in the game since 
 moria came out, probably due to more people being on, which would actually be good. As far as now, 
 this is the only glitch i've noticed in the game. 
  And now that good old question all reviewers are asked: LOTRO or WOW, i pick LOTRO all the way, 
 the epic storyline quests, the great PVP, and the beautiful graphics are something WOW just plain 
 can't live up to. i hope i helped you, and i recommend this game to anyone who loves fantasy MMORPG's 
 or fans of lord of the rings! 
  
  Character name: Thrandlasa, and Finrosh
  World: Meneldor
  See you in game, goodbye ;-) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
