-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/middleearthonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Quest-oriented gameplay is enjoyable and accessible.
 Monster play is a unique take on the player-versus-player formula.
 Story-based quests are rewarding and immersive.
 Pretty graphics and superb sound really flesh out Middle-earth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited race and class choices compared to most MMOGs.
 Crafting and solo combat are limited in scope.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.7, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 4,403 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Apr 24, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Lord of the Rings Online is a fun and accessible online role-playing game that does just enough 
 to distinguish itself from its high-profile competition. 

  With a license as lucrative as Lord of the Rings, Turbine Entertainment could have simply created 
 a World of Warcraft clone with Middle-earth nomenclature on it and called it a day. That The Lord 
 of the Rings Online is such an accessible experience is bound to draw comparisons to the genre's 
 leading title, but that it's so enjoyable to play is a testament to its great design. Its inventive 
 aspects are peripheral, but they  are  there, and combined with slick and engaging questing, the 
 package makes for plenty of appealing exploration.  

          The raven says 'caw.'     

  Tolkien fans won't be left in the lurch, either. The game is brimming with well-known characters 
 and name-dropping galore, as well as familiar races that should please anyone acquainted with the 
 LOTR universe. Men, dwarves, hobbits, and elves are all represented, along with seven total classes 
 being up for grabs. For massively multiplayer game veterans, though, this doesn't make for a lot 
 of choices when games like EverQuest 2 offer so many more combinations, particularly if you plan 
 on playing multiple characters. On the other hand, there is a good variety of gameplay styles from 
 which to choose within those limitations. Classes like the pet-handling lore-master and the stealthy 
 burglar play much differently, and all of them have a role to play within a group of adventurers. 
 Significantly, all of them are viable solo classes as well.  

  With narrative-focused MMOGs like Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online and Asheron's Call 2 under Turbine's 
 belt, it should come as no surprise that a group of story quests thread together your adventures. 
 Completing each one rewards you with a high-quality cutscene, and it's in these moments that the 
 license shines most. In your early adventures, it's tough to shake the feeling that you've seen 
 most of these types of quests before in other fantasy RPGs. Once the story quests kick in, though, 
 the immersion factor rises and the world's unique qualities come more clearly into focus.  

  It helps that Middle-earth is beautiful to look at and brimming with touches that distinguish 
 it from other fantasy settings. Seeing petite hobbit holes or the House of Elrond for the first 
 time are gleeful moments for fans. The Lord of the Rings Online does not feature the most technically 
 proficient visuals, with occasionally simple geometry and relatively lackluster character models. 
 On the other hand, the environments are simply breathtaking, featuring plenty of rolling hills 
 covered with lush, colorful foliage and detailed architecture. Even the more barren reaches of 
 Middle-earth look impressive -- like the mountains of the Ettenmoors, where dead trees and torn flags 
 litter the landscape. The game engine runs smoothly and has few frame-rate jitters on even more 
 modest systems, so performance issues are not likely to stand in the way of your escapades.  

 
          Don't let the wolf-tamer title fool you: You get it by killing them, not turning them 
 into pets.     

  The sound design is even better, starting with a striking and varied soundtrack that transitions 
 seamlessly from one locale to the next. The tribal music that you hear when entering the Old Forest 
 is exciting and bound to get your heart pounding, and the occasional orchestral swooping of Ered 
 Luin is well attuned to the visuals. Voice-overs are top notch as well, though most non-player 
 characters aren't all that chatty anyway. It's harder for an online RPG to distinguish its sound 
 effects, but they are all quite good in The Lord of the Rings Online, from the growls of wargs 
 to the caws of pet ravens.  

  The game's greatest asset is that there's simply so much to do. World of Warcraft may be the king 
 of quest-based MMOGs, but The Lord of the Rings Online is no slouch, and in fact, you may find 
 yourself with so much to do that you reach the 40-quest limit in your quest log more often than 
 you would expect. The upside is that you'll never be stuck grinding because there's nothing else 
 to do. The quests require you to roam about a good deal, which makes for some occasionally leisurely 
 travel but gives exploration types plenty to see. Aside from the story quests, they mostly boil 
 down to the usual go-there-kill-that missions. On the other hand, some of them are clever and fit 
 well with their locale, such as the Shire quests in which you deliver food while avoiding the noses 
 of hungry hobbits.     

  Some of it is standard content to be sure, but there's enough here that's different to distinguish 
 Lord of the Rings Online from other quest-focused online RPGs. The deed system is one of those 
 differences. Deeds involve anything from completing a series of quests to exploring a succession 
 of areas, and once you fulfill the deed requirement, you earn rewards like titles and traits. Traits 
 are skills and bonuses that you can equip by visiting a bard, while titles bestow your avatar with 
 such designations as "orc-slayer" or "defender of the halls."  

          Even the murky waters of the marshes are nice to look at.     

  Another distinguishing 
 hallmark is monster play. Once your hero character hits level 10, you can create a secondary monster 
 avatar that's already at the maximum level of 50. For better or worse, you can't play as a full-fledged 
 evil character. However, you can create a monster and enter the Ettenmoors, where a separate set 
 of quests and advancement mechanics await you. This is also where The Lord of the Rings Online's 
 main player-versus-player component comes into play, as hero characters at level 40 and higher 
 can head out there and engage the player-controlled monstrosities. It's a fairly clever system, 
 yet at this stage in the game where few hero characters have hit the necessary level, it's hard 
 to say how successful monster play will be in the long run. At the very least, it gives lower-level 
 players a chance to experience high-level PVP and raid content at an early stage.  

  Grouping is a major component of any online RPG, and The Lord of the Rings Online is no exception. 
 Temporary groups are found in the guise of fellowships, while guilds are represented by kinships. 
 Fellowships are necessary for group quest completion, but joining one has its own gameplay reward: 
 fellowship maneuvers. While in combat, you can trigger a fellowship maneuver, which brings up a 
 set of icons on your screen that represent these temporary skills. These skills can be both offensive 
 and defensive, and they come in mighty handy while in the midst of combat. You can also plug in 
 a headset and communicate with your fellowship via voice chat, though it would have been nice to 
 have a kinship voice-chat option as well.  

          Over the river and through the woods, to grandmother's house we go.     

  Gameplay 
 basics like standard combat and crafting are par for the course in the genre. They are streamlined 
 and pleasant enough, but they're missing a certain oomph found in other MMOGs. Crafting skills 
 are combined into groups of three abilities called vocations. You can't pick and choose your skills -- only 
 take one of the preassigned vocations -- which keeps your professions relevant to each other but 
 still feels unnecessarily limiting. Thankfully, crafted items are relevant right away, often producing 
 better items than those dropped from monsters or earned as quest rewards, and certainly superior 
 to those found at NPC vendors. The fundamental combat is quick and fun, but it sometimes feels 
 as though there is a dearth of new skills and spells to learn as you advance, so gaining levels 
 doesn't always bring as much excitement as you would hope.  

  All the nitpicks don't detract from The Lord of the Rings Online's greatest asset: It's fun to 
 play. And it's not often you can make such an unequivocal statement about an MMOG. It is also incredibly 
 stable, so playing is never a struggle, and you can put all your effort into killing monsters and 
 bashing hobbits rather than fiddling with settings or relogging. With plenty of familiar landmarks 
 as well as a few original to the game, it's got plenty of fan service without ever resting on the 
 laurels of a famous franchise. If you're looking for a new online RPG, The Lord of the Rings Online 
 is a great choice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (358 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  iv played over 100hrs so far and i must say,.. there is a ton of things to do in this game. im not 
 even half way through all the content yet. This is the best LOTR game that has came out that has 
 the story, great story telling, and that gives the best LOTR feeling. I would say that WOW is better, although 
 iv never played it, but LOTRO keeps changing and morphing and releasing FREE content all the time. If 
 you want to delve into the World Of .. The lord of the rings, get this game. You'll visit many places 
 the Fellowship went and meet them along the way. This game mainly surrounds being around a fun group 
 adventure game but offers tons of solo stuff, but being in a group is very good. And Suprisingly, this 
 game has great music too! The graphics are way better than the toonish WOW which lends a lot to 
 great adventuring. If i were to reccomend a MMo to someone, it would be the LOTRO even though WOW 
 is more popular. The creators are dedicated and are constantly shelling out new FREE stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Lord of The Rings Online is one of the best online mmorpgs out in the current market. With not 
 as big a community as WoW, thats a good thing and bad thing. There is less annoying snobs but also 
 less players for instances and raids.
  
  The games graphics are really pretty. With many different enviroments and 1000's of customizable 
 possibilities for your character, you'll feel very immersed in this game.
  
  The sound quality of this game is also very good with good voice acting and great sound effects. 
 You'll know if your walking or dirt or water and when swords hit you target, you hear the sound.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is very good. Like any mmo, its easy to get a grasp of and quite difficult 
 to master. Their are the normal guardian [tank] minestral [healer] hunter [nuker] etc but each as 
 a very different feel for them. Their is also 4 different races and tons of customizable for their 
 apperance. You play by choosing your race and class and use moves you select by clicking on their 
 icon or pressing the button you assign them too. You can for example put an offensive ability on 
 your #1 key and then a heal or whatever you'd like on #2. 
  
  The quests and combat are of the normal mmo, quest, kill, loot, repeat but Lotro differentiates 
 itself with a deed system and many solo instances. The deed system is in which you go and kill 
 a certain monster a certain amount of times and then you will get a title. A title is just something 
 like spider-foe in front of your name but it is fun to try and get these deeds. Now the instances 
 in this game are very unique in which most are soloable and their is much interaction between you 
 and the npc's. These are very fun and memorable moments that you will very much enjoy.
  
  Well, this is proable not the best review but i hope it helped you get an idea of the game. See 
 you at the Shire's pub! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: house_elf_dobby
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  Lord Of The Rings Online is the Best game i have ever played! Sure its a bit irritating at first 
 when you die all the time, but once you get further in the game it is a very pleasurable game to 
 play. I love The Lord Of The Rings and the online version really is a Masterpiece! 
  
  You Create a Character and set off on your own adventure throughout Middle-Earth. Your character 
 can be of 4 races, a man, a dwarf, an elf, and a hobbit. You then have to chose a class from: Burglar 
 Captain, Champion, Guardian, Hunter, Loremaster, Minstrel, Rune-keeper or Warden. This will dictate 
 your characteristics during the game. Your character will have a house which if like Myself you 
 buy the Gold Edition then you will get a free welcome mat for your doorstep. 
  
  Throughout Lotro : Shadows of Angmar you will gain quests which will have low rewards or princely 
 rewards depending on the quest. You will also have to master a number of skills to thrive in Middle-Earth.
 
  
  100% amazing. The best online game ive ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themiddle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  It's easy to get lost in all the quests and killing of monsters over and over in a mmo. However, 
 this is were lotro shines above the rest! There are lots of quests, but there is a main story line 
 that can be followed through out the whole game. You could even wait to your character is leveled 
 out and do the whole story in one long chain. Although, lotro does have its downside... PVP. Lotro 
 just uses open world pvp or pvmp. (player vs. monster) This is different and ok, but where is team 
 death match and capture the flag? Why can't we seige and hold? Where are the leaderboards? I know 
 they have the money to do this and keep lotro around for a long time. They put out small bits of 
 new content regularly... which is a huge plus. Getting lost in middle earth is great and better 
 than most mmo's. With only a few raids and lack of some competitive pvp... lotro might not be that 
 wow killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 001Bigt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Down right awesome game. I should've played this game when it first came out! Wasted time with 
 vanguard. This game is amazing.. The quests are the best in any MMO out to date. I've played almost 
 every single MMO but for wow (wow is just too cartoonish for me) and this is my single best favorite 
 MMO to day especially with the new expansion pack mines of moria. Even better than EQ back in 1999, 
 and that is saying a lot. I would purchase the new mines of moria with the original game ASAP if 
 you have any doubts! Killer game and very very addictive! Quests are great, graphics are awesome, 
 community is fantastic, and engine runs smooth as silk. I have this game maxed out settings (and 
 yes, i mean everything) with 2.4 q6600 oc'd to 3.0 with evga 8800gts 512mb card. I got the mines 
 of moria for 15.00 bucks after price comp from CC @ BB. I would purchase and play ASAP! Stop thinking 
 about it and just do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cainrae
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Game Review.. so please, bare with me.
  
  I'm not normally a person who buys MMO's. Mostly i watch the reviews and think of them as another 
 "Yet another World of Warcraft wannabe" But when i heard of Lord of the Rings Online i thought 
 to myself "This might just be it" So i went to my local game store a purchased the game, got home, 
 installed and so fourth. 
  
  My first impression was "Gasp!" mostly because of the great graphics that i had lacked to see in 
 any of the other MMO's i have tried. The story already caught me from the very beginning of the 
 game, properly because i find the LOTR universe quite appealing and the movies we're some of my 
 favorites. 
  
  So i quickly jumped through the first quests, removed some wolfs, bandits and earned myself a few 
 titles. The titles did mean a great thing to me, simply because i tend to lean towards the Roleplaying 
 Servers and seeing as titles make something unique i think the titles are a great addition. 
  
  After reaching level 14 something happened that occurs to me every time i have tried an MMO. 
 The "Ugh.. do i have to kill 30 of these creatures again?" . The lack of unique quests as in a 
 lot of other MMO's really let me down and left me not getting any further than level 19. After 
 that i created some new characters to see if that could make any difference, but once i reached 
 the level 15-19 i found myself bored again. 
  
  Like a LOT of MMO's, LOTRO lacks some more exiting quests for the lower levels and maybe a faster 
 introduction instead of grinding your way from level 1 to 40 before you start getting the big EXP. 
 
  
  The Saving Grace of LOTRO for me is that even though i didn't pass level 19, the Roleplaying Community 
 was great. There is so many features for Roleplayers, so many outfits and a lot of planned events 
 that caught me subscribing for month's and month's. Sometimes i would eventually do some PVPing, 
 but PVP has never really caught my interest, not that the PVP in LOTRO is bad or anything, but 
 generaly it doesn't fit my taste.
  
  All in all LOTRO is a great gaming Experience, especially for the Roleplaying Community and the 
 Update support is just amazing. It wont be given a 10 mostly because it simply didn't capture my 
 attention in the "Leveling" part of the game, but the very pleasing Roleplaying Experiences i had 
 with the game really changed my opinion at the end. I Highly recommend this game for LOTR fans 
 and MMO players who are searching for a Roleplaying Game.
  
  A solid 9 for a great gaming experience, that just lacks a small detail in my personal oppinion
 
  
  
  -Cain
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialFury86
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online is one of those rare games that gets it all right. Great story, rich Lore, 
 and just plain fun. One of the best qualities with the game is all the "free" (you still have to 
 buy the original game and pay the subscription fee) content that the developers have given players 
 since launch: Two new zones, hundreds of new quests and items, reputation system, cosmetics system 
 (allows you to use the appearence of that cool helm without sacrificing the stats for the one you 
 just got) , emotes, and the four seasonal festivals. The support staff are mostly very helpful. 
 The exception being the Account Management Staff which are a total pain to deal with and are the 
 only reason I didn't give the game a 10. It is easily the best MMO currently on the market, and 
 one that has actually gotten better over the years. If you haven't played recently, you really 
 should try it out again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game is gorgeous, and many aspects are very easily understood. The crafting system requires 
 a little too much interaction with the other crafts meaning either spamming channels or camping 
 the auction hall after camping out some cash. The festivals add some outstanding "random" aspects, 
 but then again each festival has some of the same old thing for each (dancing... ugh) . The classes 
 seem balanced enough, and you can solo to some extent until higher levels where you are REQUIRED 
 to join fellowships to complete the quest or continue on. The ability for some crafts to "purchase" 
 some special drop items (such as Scholars, tiered out based on level requested) helps in a lot 
 of ways. Back to the festivals but adding crafting, the special crafting gained from some festivals 
 are very interesting, I just am not going to remember 3-6 months later to check on my farming field 
 from the last festival. The epic story line is challenging, and now they have added a more detail 
 to the amount of "power" (groups) needed helps keeping quests you can't do out of your limited 
 quest book. Housing has come a LONG way, in the beginning they may have had a multitude of options 
 available, houses still seemed pretty much the "same". I was very glad when they incorporated housing 
 trophies to drops (taxidermy) and festivals, this boost to available options can really make your 
 house stand out and have a personality. All in all, I continue to play and enjoy doing so, but 
 as I gain levels I am getting less and less able to solo (Lore-Master) . I understand that at the 
 very high end facing the evil of the lands can't be handled by one person, I shouldn't be punished 
 so early for being a solo casual gamer. I was just extremely lucky that my guild created a shard 
 on the server, so now things have opened up for me. If you plan to go solo be prepared, but if 
 you have some buddies or guild going in with you then options are unlimited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vispyr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  LOTRO combines epic storytelling, stunning visuals and a seemless world with shallow class and 
 skill systems, frustrating quests and a shamefully weak pvp system.
  
  On the surface, Lotro is a very stable, polished game. However it really suffers from lack of endgame 
 and depth. Charactor customization is very weak; it left me feeling as if everyone had the same 
 charactor. There are no spec lines or gear customization which allows you to tailor your toon.
 
  
  Graphically, LOTRO is ahead of the curve. The visuals blow away every other game on the market, 
 in both picture quality and the design of middle earth. For an avid Tolkien fan, the game is worth 
 playing even if it is just to admire the spectacular job that the art and animation team has done. 
 The world is designed exactly as tolkien described it, which is a major accomplishment.
  
  However despite its visual prowess, lotro fails horribly in bringing pvp to middle earth. PvMP 
 (player vs monster player) allows players to wage war against monster players (pre-leveled bad-guy 
 toons) , but with no real playable evil realm, monster play just feels empty and un-rewarding.
 
  
  Ultimately, Lotro brings some good ideas and a great world to the table, but because of its shortcomings, 
 lotro will not appeal to the larger portion of MMO gamers. Not a Tolkien fan? Try somthing else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibokem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  An amazingly detailed world with breathtaking landscapes and gorgeous background music make it 
 easy to immerse oneself in Tolkien lore. The amount of research and attention to detail Turbine 
 put into this game, and what they were able to implement, is truly astounding. 
  The main quest-line, and most side quests are artfully told, and presented in such a way that one 
 quickly gets the feeling that something big is happening in the world, and you want to be a part 
 of it.
  While many other mmo's tend to have scenery that's decoration only... not meant to be explored and 
 often blocked off... everything I have come across so far I've been able to get up to and run around 
 in. Ruins don't have that "randomly placed there" feel, but rather have a feeling of historical 
 belonging, of purpose long lost in time.
  A couple of the negatives for me are that the UI is a bit awkward at first, and crafting can be 
 a bit confusing for beginners.
  The community is top-notch, being the most helpful and mature I've come across.
  Were Tolkien 
 not so against modern technology, I would think he'd be pleased with this portrayal of his creation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobzfamily
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review, so please tell me how I do.
  
  Lord of the Rings Online (LOTRO) is Turbine's (Asheron's Call, DDO) newest addition to their MMO's. 
 The game ahs been out for around 18 months now, so my review may be a little late but I wanted 
 to get it in before the Mines of Moria expansion pack is released.
  
  Anyways, let's start off with how I play it. I made my first character in January 2008, I got it 
 up to level 36 but midway through my third month I had some real life issues which severly limited 
 my playing time. Recently I've come back to the game and am now playing a level 30 Captain.
  
  In LOTRO you play one of the many heroes fighting against the dark forces of Sauron during 
 the Third Age of Middle-earth. You choose either a Human, Hobbit, Dwarf, or Elf and then one of 
 the game's seven classes. The story isn't anything amazing although I did find myself getting caught 
 up in the main quest lines at more than one point.
  
  Class balance in the game is good. The classes are pretty general so you have your typical nuke, 
 summoner, tank, healer etc. However there are some differences, for example the Guardian class. 
 Many were worried on release that the class would be like any other tank class, rather bland and 
 pretty much being the guy with big armour that takes all the damage. This is partially true, however 
 players using this class have special skills activated after a parry or block, creating a bit of 
 a new twist in the gameplay.
  
  I'll be quick with the crafting system. It's nothing special, in fact the materials often cost 
 more than the final recipe. However, this is the most fun crafting system I've played so far in 
 any game period. 
  
  Graphics are overall great. Not many bugs and the system requirements aren't too high, the game 
 looks good on almost any computer. I'm also a big fan of the series by JRR Tolkien. The game portrays 
 the world he created well. I actually find myself taking time out of my levelling to just explore 
 the world around me a little bit. Sound in the game is pretty MMO generic, but it ties in with 
 some of the enviroments.
  
  PvP (Player vs Player) is interesting. This is a mostly PvE (Player vs Enviroment) game so the 
 PvP aspect isn't as important to LOTRO as it is to, say, Dark Age of Camelot. When you reach level 
 10 on your main chaarcter you are able to create a monster character. There are six different classes 
 of this, ranging from the Orc Defiler to the Warg Stalker. The Monster characters (commonly called 
 creeps) fight in a reigon called the Ettenmoors against PvE characters who have a level 40 or higher. 
 PvP is not very well balanced and should be bigger for the people who like this aspect of the game. 
 This is where LOTRO falls short the most.
  
  Now for the things that make LOTRO unique. The deed system is the thing that most comes to mind. 
 You are pretty much given completely optional missions (different from quests, because you get 
 no money or item rewards, a s well as there being no quest givers) which you earn traits or titles 
 from. These traits can be used to customize your character, giving you bonuses to your stats or 
 the ability to increase the effectiveness of certain skills. This feature is very good, albeit 
 a little hard to explain.
  
  In conclusion, I give LOTRO an 8.5. It won't revolutionize MMORPG's the way World of Warcraft did, 
 but the game is solid on nearly all level. I can see it lasting a long time and will probably be 
 playing it 'till the end.
  
  I give it an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebusJM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing LOTRO for just over a year now, and I LOVE it. WoW got boring fast, SWG was empty 
 and Warhammer is to repetitive. With the expansion at my doorstep, I've been playing the game non-stop. 
 It's very addicting, but in a way where you can stop playing when you need to. The problem I had 
 with WoW, is that I had to commit myself to 12 hour raids - which was stupid. I couldn't get off 
 the computer without teenage kids screaming at me.
  
  So I switched over to LOTRO, and now that I have, I'm hooked. No stupidly long raids, the epic 
 gear is still epic even after updates, great lore and great graphics. People call LOTRO a rip-off 
 of WoW. It isn't. LOTRO is based off the a fantasy story written almost a century ago.
  
  Before you judge this game, play it. You will be surprised at how good it is. It has it's flaws, 
 but they're basically invisible if you focus on the game like most people do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The best part about this game is the one time fee of $199 to play. That is a good deal for people 
 who plan on playing this a lot. The option to pay $9.99 a month may also attract some.
  
  That being said, this type of game is nothing new execpt for the fact that it is set in the world 
 of The Lord of the Rings. Quest are the typical: go here, kill X number of enemies or collect X 
 number of this, return. In short the quests are boring unless you follow the LOTR lore.
  
  Crafting is limited in that once you choose a profession, the main, secondary and a third is chosen 
 for you. You have no freedom in choosing the three professions.
  
  Graphically, this game is not great. Character animation is terrible, character modelling is also 
 terrible. The Elves look really, really stupid.
  
  However, content update is free and happens quite frequently. But then again, unless you are familiar 
 with the LOTR setting, it's kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwiefman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game. Just started last weekend. at first the side quests and the prologue may make the 
 game look like any other mmo. like go kill 10 wolves and il give you a new sword. but once you 
 get into the main story it all starts to kick. I just started book 1 last night and when i saw 
 aragorn and the ring wraiths , i pretty much concluded that this game is the best mmo. i like that 
 is uses a story the average person has been exposed to either from the books or movies. the story 
 really distingiushes itself from games like WoW with the generic fantasy orcs and elfs concept. 
 the graphics are also a really good point to. its very realistic, the environment is breath taking 
 and nothing looks childish and cartoonish like in WoW. I reccomend this game. its worth 15 bucks 
 a month. Ive only been playing since last friday and im hooked and already pre-purchased the expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddeweese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Well after installing, the one thing I did enjoy about this game, was playing the external side 
 quests (lore I believe) and getting leveled up in areas as a result of that. I guess that the crafting 
 system was really unexplained near the beginning and there a lot of people were just running amok, 
 but I never got past lvl 15 so I can't honestly give the game a good/bad review. I enjoyed it, 
 but wished it was more social than what it was upon release. One thing I did like was the "lifetime" 
 subscription that i really wish blizzard would have implemented, instead of this monthly bill i 
 could just pay one time, and be done with it.
  
  I dont know how the game has progressed, I'm sure, like all other games, it's made leaps and bounds 
 since release, which is when everyone chomps at the bit, but for now, first impressions are the 
 lasting impression 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yalejock
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  To be honest, LOTRO does have many shortcomings: poorly developed (for most players - nonexistent) 
 PVP, somewhat boring gear, and too many instanced dungeons that can last for more than 12 hours 
 each. Yet, the game's environments are stupendously beautiful in a way that draws you in and never 
 lets go. The titles one earns along the way are a great addition to the MMO genre (wish Undying 
 wasn't the last title one can get for never succumbing to the foes in the battle) . Also, the classes 
 are well balanced and most group quests require efficient cooperation by players and ability to 
 utilize the fellowship skills well in order to complete the quests in a particular instance. In 
 the end, LOTRO it the MMO I keep going back to after the disappointment of a shallow, yet beautiful 
 world of AoC, and a mess of Warhammer Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anterys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  The game plays very similarly to EQ2 in most ways. I'm having fun with it simply due to the fact 
 that I am such a big fan of the movies and books. The world is very large, as is the case with 
 most of these MMO's. It is beautiful. The game is very stable. I don't see many people in the game, 
 but that could be any number of factors. Some other cool aspects are that you really get a feel 
 that you are in Middle Earth. The online Lorebook is very comprehensive. It is fun to simply read 
 through the history as some of it is familiar from the books and movies. Another aspect that is 
 neat is that main epic quest you progress through in the game. It is tied to the Fellowship quest 
 of Frodo, Sam, Aragorn, and others. To my knowledge, it will lead you through up until when the 
 Fellowship leaves Rivendell. I can only assume the addition of the Mines of Moria expansion will 
 further progress this. At least I hope so. I did read where you get to see the Balrog, but essentially 
 just run away as this is the biggest and baddest mob in the game... essentially unkillable. In summary, 
 lots of fun for certain people. They offer a 14 day free trial so you really can't lose by giving 
 it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Just so you know this is a long review, Lord of the rings online is a HUGE game with many features 
 not found in other MMOS so I will do my best to keep it short but there is an awful lot to talk 
 about :)
  
  Lord of the Rings Online is in my mind, the biggest counter to the WoW mentality. In WoW the general 
 idea is grind quests to hell and back in a attempt to get to 70 where "the real fun begins" Lord 
 of the Rings takes a different approach that involves story driven quests, a great community and 
 beautiful visuals.
  
  Ill start with graphics and sound/voice acting. LoTR has a increadably broad spectrum of Graphic 
 settings. The lowest settings look like it would run on a computer 15 years old that also ran Duke 
 Nukem, while the highest level of graphics supports DX10 Shadows and other AMAZING bloom features 
 and the cleanest models I have ever seen in a MMO. That said the high end graphics do take a fairly 
 powerful machine, but computer that is sold now adays is pretty much mid range unless it cost under 
 $500. Voice acting in this game is great, while im pretty sure they did not get the guys from the 
 movie to do the voice acting All of the cut sceans are superbly acted. 
  
  Now to gameplay. The game itself is much like WoW or any other MMO you pick a race (Man, Hobbit, 
 Dwarf, Elf) Pick a gender *Dwarf only has male* and pick a Class *Ill talk about in a bit*. The 
 classes are a refreshing break from the standard WoW class system. All Classes can effectively 
 Solo, but all classes bring something valuable to a group. Which is good because the game really 
 encourages group play. In my experiance it was never difficult to find a group to quest with or 
 do anything for that matter. combat is the basic attack with special attacks lining your action 
 bar style. To keep that from getting repetitive the Devs instituted a reward system for using combos 
 or defeating enemies in any given way. Granted it usually requires me to hit a baddy with my "savage 
 stroke" 500 times but then Im rewarded with a trait that boosts all damage with my sword and gives 
 me a cool title. Its not a deal breaker but if sure helps break up the normalcy that plagues MMO's.
 
  
  Another huge part of the game is the use of Kinships AkA Guilds. The kinships get a chance to buy 
 a kin hall which can be decorated and given all sorts of items some useful, some just for show. 
 Fellowships are the equivalently of parties and function as you would expect except that there 
 is a combat fellowship maneuver. Basicly if a enemy is stunned or otherwise opened to attack the 
 entire team has a chance to preform a special attack, there are literally dozens of attacks that 
 can be done, as each party member chooses how to contribute, and they all add up to a super combo 
 like attack. effects range from brute damage, to Damage over time to healing abilities for the 
 party. Overall the use of fellowships and Kinships is a welcome addition to the game.
  
  Now for the classes. Classes are all a semi Hybrid. Thus if one member goes down its probably that 
 you will have an off tank or off healer or off nuker or what not. There is the Guardian, who wears 
 heavy armor and who guards his allies *Tank*, there is the Champion who lives to deal massive area 
 of effect damage and wear heavy armor*DPS and off tanking* there is the burglar who sneaks around 
 and debuffs baddies and dps, The captain who Buffs his buddies and can also off tank or dps to 
 an extent, a lore master who uses lore of old to throw fire balls at their enemies and control 
 massive groups of baddies *He does NOT use magic though, he is more a master of trickery* There 
 is also the minsteral which sounds like the disaster from the star wars MMO which only existed 
 for people on crack. In LoTRO the minstril is actually fun, you essentually use your music to heal 
 and buff you friends and use it to debuff badddies. Its weird I know but it works. Finally there 
 is the Hunter, who deals the best DPS that I know of with a bow. They dont last long in hand to 
 hand but they will really ruin someones day from afar. 
  
  Crafting: ill keep this short. Crafting is very useful, Items made by people generally are better 
 than Items given by quests *not always but usually* of the same level.
  
  End game, I do not currently have and end game character so I cant really speak from experience 
 but from what I know the devs are continuously pumping new content into the game such as new areas, 
 items, quests and instances into the game for the high level people, also the Monster play is REALLY 
 fun. Once one of your characters hits 10 you have the option of creating a baddy from the forces 
 of evil. then you take your baddy and do battle in a living battle ground in the Entmoors in east 
 middle earth. lvl 45 good guys can group together and do battle with other players who are the 
 baddies to try to control keeps and even an instance that can only be run by the controlling side. 
 It is very streamlined and very well balanced. Its like playing a whole new game!
  
  I realize this has been a longer review so ill recap and be done here. LoTRO is a very deep MMO 
 as far as story goes, it has a very good user base with plenty of mature players that wont nagg 
 your ear off with "L33T S3Ak" Everything In LoTRO is balanced not through Nerfing but by Enhancement 
 its a great system that works and is an over all addictive game just like WoW. I prefer this over 
 WoW because you have fun all the way though the game... not just once you have reached the end game.
 
  
  If you have Questions feel free to shoot me a message or try the 14 day trial at the home page. 
 just do a search for LOTRO and it will pop up. *note, the game takes about 2 days to download the 
 game from the web and all the patches* the patch system they have running is a very poor design 
 so be prepared to leave your comp running over night or something just to get it patched*
  
  If your a fan of lord of the rings this is a MUST try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russellt28
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  While searching for a good deal on videocards to get for warhammer online i somehow got tired and 
 stumbled upon the LOTRO free trial. I am not sure if it was the "free" part that made me download 
 the game but i can tell you this people the game is simply great.
  
  Personally i love the Warhammer universe however i started getting a little dismayed when i read 
 that the PVE is dull. I love questing in groups especially and WOW left me really depressed at 
 getting too easy, and too dull. with no story to go by i finally gave up on WOW as well.
  
  onto the review:
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and they run well on my modest card. the sound 
 is fantastic and is not over done which is a big problem for most RPGs today. there are no insane 
 horns and drums when entering bree but just a nice rustic melody which feels more real than anything 
 else. you easily get immersed in this world due to the music and graphics along with the wide breadth 
 of land.
  
  scattered across the lands is a gazillion quests which play out as the simple get this and that, 
 to long-term quests that either involve charachters from the book or just people fighting against 
 the shadow.
  
  I want to say that the leveling content is a downside (in terms of lack of skills) but at the same 
 time because i dont feel rushed to go up in levels im okay with it. plus the deed system is incredible. 
 it keeps you going and trying to reach achivements which can later be traded for a truly individual 
 charachter of your choosing.
  
  this game has only two problems that i can think off.
  the worst has to be the economy. riding from town-town makes no sense as it can cost 5 silver to 
 ride to a village nearby and 1 silver to ride to a totally different zone. 
  
  dying hurts alot too. not that that is a bad thing but it costs so damn much. it costs too much 
 money and its already pretty hard to get rich in the game off looting alone. 
  
  the other downside is gathering groups as always. not enough kinships to join. and everyone is 
 always doing their own thing. but thats usually the way it is with MMORPGS
  
  9-graphics
  10-sound
  10-story and gameplay
  8.5-community 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonBong
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I never got into the whole MMORPG thing. Until my buddy brought me a Pirates of the Burning Sea 
 buddy code. It was fun, but barren and dying. 
  
  So I looked for another mmo, and found everything I read here about lotro pointed to a polished 
 and populated mmorpg. Let me tell you it is every bit of both. I have played for almost 100 hrs 
 and never had one crash. The visuals and game world are stunning and dynamic. The toons look really 
 good, my Rohan Captain is the bomb. I really love the orcs look in this game. It seems in other 
 MMORPG screen shots the ors and toons dont look real, they look like comic book orcs and people. 
 Bottom line the visuals are awesome.
  
  Now to population. Everyone is great and pretty much mature. Every Zone has people too join with 
 and complete MP quests. Most important, the economics work.
  
  The only thing I did not like was that toons and monsters dont collide with each other so I removed 
 one point. But from what I read this is not the case in any MMO except the new Warhammer. And I 
 wont touch that for at least a year so they can work out their bugs.
  
  I have not tried PvMP yet but look forward to it. PvP is not high on my criteria for a RPG. If 
 I want to Pwn someone (whatever that stupidity means) I will play COD4 or Fifa 08 on the 360.
  
  Anyway I bought this game based on reviews here by my now fellow free people of Middle Earth. 
 I am so glad I did. With Mines of Moria coming out, and a planned expansion every year till Mordor 
 this game looks to hold my attention for many years. Plus Tubine just got a boat load of capital 
 to keep creating, I read.
  
  So to anyone else on the fence about WOW, AOC, WAR etc...
  I bid you to get this game and to take this great story driven journey throught Middle Earth, the 
 original lands of magic and Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ublaga
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  you should try it is a wonderful game and is a tribute of Tolkien it follows middle earth and gets 
 you involved in it and is addictive world of war craft move over because this game rocks should 
 try the new one too lord of the rings is the best fantasy books and games in the world the movies 
 are decent but need more but i love this game and you will too because it is sweet this game should 
 be played more and you need to support the lord of the rings community help i need somebody help 
 not just anybody help i need someone help (a beetles song) :) jjnvnovneuvnevlbvip uqenviebdvihbevpifbveqfb 
 vqeibhvoqebveob fvqeobvqoehb voehbovutbrouebq vuhvbpqe vqevqhe bpvberubver ubvebveibvequ bvgeuynhgqtequ 
 bvqiefnqcqwnmic wmsmosa xmqojv noidnvwe fbvuehuvoqe bfguebgvoe hbvoe hwiufdjvwi iuhfwibfwib woihfwqohfcw 
 wcwubiwb nwcivbwi nhwidbcnw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElderonWise
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  I've been playing LOTRO since April 2007, on the release date and the 1st day I played it, I simply 
 loved it, the storyline above all is the best. You begin as either a dwarf, elf, hobbit or man, men+hobbits 
 start in Archet and dwarves and elves start at Thorins Gate (Prologue only) . As you progress through 
 the storyline, the books in my opinion get better and book 14: chapter 15 being my favourite at 
 the moment :) .
  
  Monster play is also another nice little feature (PVP) , I love my monster player as well as my Free 
 People character, though both sides argue that theres an unfair advantage on their side, but then 
 people always love to be the best i suppose.
  
  The areas of Eriador (soon to be expanded to Moria) are also a very interesting place, each territory 
 seems to be unique in itself which gives a good atmosphere. Some creatures only seem to be in certain 
 areas of Eriador too, which is also nice i suppose.
  
  There is different music for different places too, including instances+regions, very unique and maybe 
 not a huge feature, but pushes the quality of the game up in my opinion.
  
  In my opinion, a good, solid game that will hopefully be around for many years. If you can afford 
 the 10 a month fee, I'd recommend getting it :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  It's clear that the developers has had their eyes at WoW when they made this. Better graphics, 
 more of an epic feeling and the Middle Earth setting are the big differences. The possibility to 
 meet Frodo, Gandalf or any other of the well known characters puts some extra spice in to the pot, 
 but when you start to play it's the normal questing. Naturally there's some differences when it 
 comes to races, classes and professions but if you've played WoW it's more recognisable than not. 
 It's mostly beautiful but then you open the map and get really disappointed, you have to look hard 
 to find a more crude an difficult to read representation of a fictitious world.
  
  I've got a feeling that LoTR is for the little bit more mature players though. More cooperation 
 and understanding for family reasons are some good indicators of this. 
  
  So if you've leveled to level 70 in WoW and wan't something new but not all to different then LoTR 
 On-line is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  A refreshing change from other MMORGS. You really feel part of the main story which gives you a 
 real incentive to keep on playing. Turbine have also learnt from other MMORGS and done a great 
 job in easing the grind by introducing traits that you accumulate after killing so many of a certain 
 type of mob. The pace is also much more relaxed than I've experienced in any other MMORG: gear 
 isn't the be all and end all. You can even dismount when you choose to when using the paid horse 
 travel service - which is nice:) As for the graphics, they're the best I've yet to come across 
 in an MMORG by far, and the animations are all very nicely done. When you start to tailor something 
 for expamle a desk suddenly appears right infornt of you, which your avatar then starts to work 
 on. The PVP is also there if you want it, but LOTR Online is more about the story and PVE. Turbine 
 have really done the books justice with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Einherjan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Now, before I review the game in it's entirety, let me tell you I have only played the trial. Unlike 
 World of Warcraft there is no limited functionality with the trial. This is a major plus to me.
 
  
  Lord of the Rings Online is a great game. Those saying that it looks like World of Warcraft I kind 
 of want to laugh at. Why is it? Just because the action bars and maybe the interface look the same? 
 First of all, I don't believe the graphics look anything like World of Warcraft's graphics. They 
 look like all the other Lord of the Rings games' graphics. Bright when they can be, but dark when 
 they have to be. Also have to remember that Lord of the Rings has a much older story than World 
 of Warcraft. Even World of Warcraft got many of their story ideas from Warhammer. With that being 
 said LOTRO is a very unique game in itself.
  
  With all the great features such as a fellowship and special title such as "Einherjan of Rohan" 
 or my favorite "Rohen of Rohan", though Rohen plays World of Warcraft with me, I enjoy making fun 
 of his name. Like I was saying there there a lot great features that make LOTRO a very unique game 
 worth playing. I have been playing World of Warcraft since Closed Beta and Open Beta and I must 
 say LOTRO is an entirely different MMO. I have played a lot of MMOs and beta tested for a lot of 
 them and I get tired of them fast. Not with LOTRO (or WoW) . The main reason for that is because 
 LOTRO is a story I somewhat grew up on so I actually know about. Unlike some of these other MMOs 
 that are out there that are entirely new which take a whole lot more to get into them (excluding 
 WoW, Age of Conan, and Warhammer Online) .
  
  The graphics of LOTRO are crisp as hell. That is if you get the High Resolution client, although 
 the Low Resolution client on a lower end computer looks great as well. Now for those who play WoW, 
 Low Resolution looks good because it looks just like if you turn all the graphics down in WoW. 
 You can still tell what the armor is but all the intricate details are gone. My only gripe with 
 LOTRO's graphics are that some of the animations look akward, but you can look past that.
  
  My main love about the game is the story. Which I grew up on for the most part. I never read 
 the stories (though I plan too) . I have seen all the movies made. From the animate Hobbit movie 
 to the live action films. It's a great story, and I am not going to bore you with with me trying 
 to explain the story, since I think if you are interested with this game you already know the story. 
 If not, then I suggest you read the stories or see the movies. One tidbit of information though. 
 The books were written during the Cold War and their are a lot analogies within the story likening 
 the situations in the books to real life events (ie. Communism) . Great story if you ask me. I suggest 
 being over the age of 16 to actually understand it all.
  
  I suggest trying the game before you actually buy it  
 The game is made by Turbine, who if you don't know made Asheron's Call. A great MMO, and one of 
 the firsts I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosborja1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game, good graphics ( alot better than World of Warcraft) , but it is very clear that 
 they were trying to make this like World of Warcraft. World of Warcraft is much deeper, World of 
 Warcraft's PvP is amazing compared to Lord of the ring Online's monster play, when you reach the 
 max level in LOTRO there is very little end-game content, and there is much less to choose from 
 when it comes to races and classes. so if you want a simple version of World of Warcraft that has 
 better graphics and worst gameplay then get this... otherwise if you want the better game get World 
 of Warcraft. If you really enjoyed the Lord of the Rings movies and books then you will be pleased 
 with this game because of the story in the game, it stays true to the original story. If you have 
 played World of Warcraft and want a break from it then i'd say get this, it is alot more casual 
 than World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnonymousDX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  * Stunning Visuals and sound effects - Great in game atmosphere- The Middle earth is very well 
 "replicated" - Monster play is quite fun
  
  The Bad
  *Not much race and class variety - PVP could have been better
  
  Just the fact of running free 
 in Middle Earth and fighting orcs gives this game an atmosphere that distinguishes it from any 
 other MMO, and all that energie is revitalized by outsanding visual design and and brilliant sound 
 effects. Really so far no other game might rival this one in its visual design but Age of Conan: 
 Hyborian Adventures, and still LOTRO's mind-blowing sound effects leave any competition in the 
 dust.
  Anyone who has ever read the book or love the movies has probably dreamed of entering Tolkien's 
 world of magic, and this MMORPG defenitevly does the trick. "So why should it be better than any 
 other? World of Warcraft probably has more features..." May the undecided reply. And my answers 
 is.. no, WoW does not have a lot more features than LOTRO. LOTRO has hobbies (like fishing etc.) 
 horse riding, auction halls... it does not lack anything that any other MMO may have in advance, 
 and if it does, the first expansion entitled Mines of Moria is on its way, so this game is at its 
 best in every way possible. Although the game does not have much focus on PVP but the monster play 
 sort of makes up for it, in its own way.
  What you should expect to see in LOTRO (Lord of the Rings Online) is an exact copy of the Middle-Earth 
 as described in the books. The storyline is an interesting one as you explore a "side" of the story 
 that you did not see in the movies or read on the books. It's like if your character was cooperating 
 and helping the Fellowship destroying the one Ring. You should expect a game so well acomplished 
 that it can incentivate you to read the books. If you have seen the LOTR (I'm not explaning this 
 abrev, go figure) movies over and over again and read the books and whatnot you are certain to 
 like this game and explore middle earth and all it's stories your way (unless you don't like games, 
 but then again, why would you be reading this?) .
  This game is ambitions and well acomplished, defenitevely a must have for fans and anyone else 
 who is a fan of MMO's. If you are not still convinced try the 14 days trial (that's right 14 days) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is one of the better MMos that are out there in this expanding field. there are many people 
 complaning that Eriador is the only available loacation to explore, but so what!
  
  If the whole of middle earth was open for all player, do you really think that anybody would stay 
 in the Shire or hang around in the Green Dragon? no i dont think so.
  
  They would all aim for Minas Morgul, Minas Tirith and even, for some crazy players, The Black Gates.
 
  
  and so would i, but since it aint there your encouraged to explore the rest too! You are given 
 quests leading to the other side of the game world, such as The Road To Rivendell, i still aint 
 gotten there yet.
  
  and do most other MMOs let you own a house which you can decorate any way you want, have music 
 playing, in its own neighbourhood full of other playerss houses with gardens that can also be decorated.
 
  
  I have a small house thats gothic inside, with two statures of Elven heroes in my garden, with 
 a doormat too! oh and my Kinship (or guild) has its own private mansion too, accessable by only 
 the kinships members.
  
  Also the titles you can earn are also a good thing, i am know as Halfend, A Light In The Darkness, 
 or sumthing like that.
  
  So put aside the petty things wrong with this game, ocassional sound bug, less ocasional graphical 
 errors, and you got yourself a great MMO to play for ages.
  
  oh and dont forget about Monsert Play, now that just rules over the rest for me! control an Uruk 
 'Hai and do quests, now that is fun!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm bored. Really bored. It's actually a bit sad when you think about it. Basically, I'm waiting 
 for WAR.
  
  While I wait I ply through the ever unending possibilities of time wasting demos available online. 
 My attention has recently turned to LOTR Online and the vast universe of game play promised within. 
 
  
  The game looks great. Really great. And it is indeed super stable so many players can just jack 
 up the details and enjoy that much at least. You can play all the races that appear in the LOTR 
 books in a small variety of different classes inside the lore of the series. That's about as much 
 appeal as this game offers. 
  
  At first, I was really confused. Things seemed to be so action packed from the very start. I played 
 a human captain and started, as one would, imprisoned by... some guys. There was a brief introduction 
 voice over which led me to believe I was captured by brigands in some sort of chance encounter 
 and I soon realized I was best friends with a ranger. Before I could even say "what the hell is 
 going on here" the brigands decided to have me eliminated. I had to fight my way though, oh, all 
 of four of them. And all one at a time. Lucky me for being a level one dude, I guess, that only 
 four of the weakest guards are hanging out in this relatively large prison. Well, as it turns out, 
 a Nazgul shows up and owns my ranger friend with basically one stroke, and runs off. I gained a 
 few hobbit allies in the meantime who have the special ability to open all the doors when I can't. 
 Apparently, I can't open doors at all, but hobbits can. They don't even need keys! Amazing.
  
  So, more confused than before, this brief instance ends and I've been transported to this town 
 where my ranger friend is recovering. I think to myself suddenly, "I don't even like you" and want 
 desperately just to leave him to die. But he's got a quest, maybe he'll be useful. And so the story 
 goes on.
  
  Now... let me get down to it. This may be the greatest PvE game on the market, but playing it made 
 me feel tired. The quests begin immediately in the most generic fashion, and moving on from there 
 to be the most boring crap of all time. Go pick berries, go pick flowers, defeat three of these 
 dudes that live six miles away then come back to me, defeat one of these things which is even further 
 away then come back to me, gather this thing, gather that thing... kill six of these. It's mind 
 numbing. 
  
  And I don't know if you got my point, but on top of being mind numbing, all the objectives for 
 the quests are MILES away from the quest giver which means a lot of running around FOREVER. And 
 quests are given to you in swarms from different people as far away from one another as possible. 
 It's terrible! And all the NPCs are too fat and lazy to go talk to one another apparently. There 
 are quests available where two NPCs are maybe yards away from one another and use you to run between 
 them and carry messages. "Tell her I love her" then "Tell him I don't want to marry him" then "Well, 
 ask her why" then "Because I'm and old hobbit who smells funny". Gimme a break. 
  
  The farming quests are the worst of all. In the beginning I was just hanging around killing wolves 
 to boost my level. Killed a bunch of wolves and collected a bunch of hides to sell. Then I get 
 a wolf quest to kill six more wolves. I ask, "what the hell do you think I've been doing all this 
 time?"
  
  Traits are even WORSE. Unique, so far, to LOTR online you can harvest certain mobs and get traits 
 and titles from it. Typically, there's a few levels. First 30 kill, then 60. You do this, you get 
 a trait which will increase your defense by .01% or something trivial like that. Farming these 
 creatures takes a lot of time as well and brings you away from whatever the hell you were doing 
 int he first place which was a trivial run-around task for some lazy hobbit. It's not worth it.
 
  
  All the while, all I kept thinking was, "I'd like to kill all these people. I hate them and their 
 trivial problems." Then one guy wouldn't give me a quest reward until I got him his poor little 
 hanky back. I wanted to strangle my computer! I don't care about your hanky you idiot dwarf! Go 
 get it yourself! "Oh, could you pick these berries for me? They're in a garden ten feet from me 
 and there's no apparent danger, I'm just glued to this spot with no interesting animations to speak 
 of." and then "Oh, someone stole the dirt I like to stand on. Can you get it for me?" Oh man, I 
 hope you get the point.
  
  The sounds of this game lack a bit as well. For example, I eventually crafted a nice heavy two 
 handed bronze axe for my captain and went out to trump some fools. I swung it, it LOOKED like i 
 hit the bandit I was trumping, but the sound effect was only a "whoosh" and not a "woosh/SPLAT!" 
 that an axe would have if you were to embed into someone's belly. And the battle shouts... oh man 
 they are TERRIBLE. You'd figure that a battle shout would be manly and intimidating, but not in 
 this game. Each battle shout makes a player sound like they are falling to their death in a spiked 
 pit, an endless well, or getting skewered through by a pike. There was a few times when I was playing, 
 even after I got "used" to this terrible sound effect that I turned my head to watch TV for two 
 seconds while toggling the battle shout, got frightened that I had died, and sharply turned back 
 to find out that, no, I was just battle shouting. Awful stuff. A battle shout should imitate the 
 feeling of falling dred.
  
  There's no blood in this game. I don't know how I feel about that.
  
  All the characters look 
 basically generic. Most of all in the beginning where everyone is wearing leather armor. It's all 
 the same kind of leather armor, and even where the are tiers of leather armor you upgrade and it 
 all looks exactly the same, just a little darker or lighter. There is no variety at the early stages. 
 That's upsetting for a guy like me. I didn't stand out nor did the level 50s who walked by wearing 
 a cloak and robe only a different color than the ones being worn by the level 10s. WTH??? Plus 
 it bothered me that everyone is super well rounded, like ROUND features, which are generally boring. 
 
  
  There are some things that come directly out of WoW like mining ore. The veins of ore look EXACTLY 
 the same as the veins of ore in WoW- big piles of ore in the middle of nowhere. You know the one's 
 I'm talking about. Same thing. There's boars and wolves in the starting area for humans just like 
 WoW, groups are just fellowships now , the hearth stone has become a map, griffin riding has become 
 horse riding, gold pieces are now silver pieces, and the plot is generally existing in a hazy background. 
 
  
  I missed a lot of the plot too. Sometimes because simply, while participating in the single player 
 instances, I ran too far ahead of my text-speaking NPC ally and didn't see at all what the hell 
 he/she said. And those SP instances are terrible. It didn't get any harder after the first four 
 brigands I killed. The next instance was maybe six guys while the town brunt down around me, and 
 then a boss fight I didn't really participate in. After that, in a cave under a waterfall, still 
 maybe eight dudes to kill and one boss while an old lady NPC walked behind me slower than poop 
 going up hill. It's terrible. 
  
  Merchants are useless. Useless save for the fact that they will buy all of the junk you sell to 
 them. Don't ever bother buying armor or weapons from them as better stuff will be available in 
 quest rewards if you have the tolerance to live through them. Terrible. 
  
  I wish the demo had given em access to the auction house. I would have crafted a whole bunch of 
 cool things, but no...
  
  All the classes are very lacking too. Yeah this review is pretty negative isn''t it? I mean, there's 
 one tank. One. A few different damage dealers who can buff or debuff, and one healer class. Woopee! 
 All the tanks have the same skills, all the captains have the same skills, all the healers have 
 the same heals. No specializations at all save for the traits which are a pain in the ass and don't 
 provide much help anyway. 
  
  You can play music. I don't know why, but you can. Most of the time I sat around in the middle 
 of groups of people and played one note until they got annoyed.
  
  I just really wanted to kill all the other players. I wanted to be the bad guy and destroy the 
 happy little PvE friendly town they were hanging out in. I want to burn their houses to the ground!!! 
 But no. The only bad guys you can play are generic ones that get owned seconds after leaving their 
 base in something lame called "Monster Play" which sets you up with five or six different skills 
 and a weapon that you can run out of the base with and be killed by much more skilled players who 
 have WAY better items. There's no point.
  
  I don't like this game and I'm bored so I'm getting infuriated with it. If you're an experienced 
 MMO player, avoid this. 
  
  Waiting for WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This had the potential to be the best mmorpg ever made... here are but soe of the problems with 
 the game... to begin, it took me 30 hours to Download the patches (Which are required) , then i find 
 out its not even middle earth, u play in. all of middle earth isnt even available, all there is 
 is eriador.. that means, u cant visit ur favorite places.. such as mirkwood, rohan, gondor, mordor. nope 
 NONOE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT PLACES IN THE BOOKS. the furthest u can get is to the misty mountains, 
 where gollum lives. its fun to play, dont get me wrong, i love this game, but im also VERY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Upon release Turbine Entertainment offered a special Founder's package that allowed you free game 
 play forever for $199. Now, being a sucker for a good deal I snapped it up and entered Middle Earth. 
 Unfortunately, I didn't stick. I felt that although it was stunningly beautiful, it was chronically 
 slow. Most of this resulted from slow run times and expensive horse routes.
  
  So on the shelf it went while I indulged myself in Burning Crusade until I woke up one day and 
 realized that World of Warcraft had degenerated into nothing more than a farming game with no hope 
 for interesting storyline without employing 25 other people. I decided since I didn't have to pay 
 for monthly play on LOTRO, I might as well give it a whirl.
  
  Let me say, I'm glad I did. The storylines haven't changed for the lower levels much but there 
 is a strange immersive quality that begins setting in after the midway point of a character's life. 
 The stories broaden, the lore begins to make sense and the dangers increase exponentially. 
  
  On the outset, the game is beautiful. Breathtaking is an understatement. The landscape looks 
 real and far off mountain ranges begin to take form as you approach them closer. The character 
 models for both enemy and player made aren't overly intricate but there is enough definition to 
 keep from seeing clones of you around every corner.
  
  The music in this world shines. It befits the world nicely but still has a bit of a contemporary 
 folk style to it, filled with mandolins, flutes, piccolos, lutes and other assorted varieties. 
 Moreover, the music isn't limited to the prepackaged out-of-the-box tunes but also a wide variety 
 of player controlled instruments.
  
  However, none of these things matters much if the game isn't fun and for my end, LOTRO is fun. 
 The first thing evident is there are more quests then you could ever hope to finish. There are 
 thousands of quests, some the standard FedEx variety, some with involved stories, some with long 
 quest lines ending in instance based group situations. Regardless of the quests chosen, there is 
 some kind of story behind them.
  
  In the long run of course, the play will eventually involve the main characters, Gandalf, Elrond 
 and the entire fellowship, that most that play are so acquainted with and Turbine delivers. The 
 best news is that they don't exploit them but rather leave them static with the story coming to 
 them and not the other way around. In fact, the story is an actual snapshot in time of the first 
 book, The Fellowship of the Ring, where each member of the fellowship has reached Rivendell prior 
 to the fateful to the fateful forming of the fellowship.
  
  The towns and hamlets look as though they should. The lands of man (the word human is never referred 
 to in Tolkien's world) with a sort of Swiss architecture, Hobbiton with the inside the hill hutches, 
 elf lands with their ornamental designs all blend into the general feeling the environment.
  
  Of course, all else fails if the character's are feeble and LOTRO does a respectable job in 
 this arena. It's not awe-inspiring but it's adequate. There are enough variation in the classes; 
 burglar, champion, guardian, lore-master, minstrel, captain and hunter which to some extent does 
 depart from traditional warrior, mage, archer that you see in most mmorpgs and they are broken 
 up between the races of Hobbit, Man, Dwarf and Elf.
  
  These classes work on a sliding skill scale where you gain skills that don't necessarily overpower 
 a character but rather gives the player more attack and control options. They also are quite different 
 from one class to the next which provides variety. This becomes more apparent in the monster play 
 which is the only pvp option offered. 
  
  Unfortunately, for rapid pvp fans, it's easily not the emphasis in LOTRO at all and to some this 
 will come as a relief and others a disappointment. The exciting thing about monster play is any 
 character that reaches level 10 can create a monster character already leveled to 50 with regular 
 players being able to enter the Ettenmoors at level 40. 
  
  Most of ranking and advancement in monster play is based on a ranking system in which kills and 
 quests contribute to a wallet of destiny points that can be spent on various options for strengthening 
 monster characters. One other intriguing option is spending destiny points on a player's regular 
 character.
  
  It is clear to see that Turbine is an expert on content additions as they were with their forerunning 
 game Asheron's Call and LOTRO is no exception. The follow-on content has included new, expansive 
 areas and player housing with each account being limited to one homestead that they can decorate 
 how they choose. 
  
  The options for decorating are innumerable with player created furnishings available through private 
 trade or an auction house. Whereas crafting has always seemed to take a backseat in most mmorpgs 
 or becomes staggeringly time-consuming, LOTRO does an excellent job of balancing quality with quantity. 
 
  
  Players can begin creating usable items at the outset and the craft system is intricately created 
 to entice players to work together. For example, each craft, called a profession has three sub-categories 
 and for the more potent items, a player may need a component from some other profession. This allows 
 a free market economy which is realized through the game's auction house.
  
  In conclusion, there are numerous elements put together tautly that make Lord of the Rings Online 
 a pleasant and engaging experience. If you're looking for massive multiplayer pvp then you'll be 
 disappointed by it but if you are looking for engaging storylines, majestic environments and a 
 game that has many player social options then this is THE game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbh185
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  LOTR online is not too far out make believe with larger than life features like most fantasy based 
 games. It is way better than WOW by far which I left a long time ago. All around great MMO game. 
 Balanced game play with lots of updates that could have been bundled as an expansion. Cannot believe 
 people still play WOW with the quest quality of LOTR online. The quests are for the majority always 
 interesting and fun and do not seem like chores or boring like WOW quests. I think that LOTR online 
 has one of the best story lines of any story ever told. One of my favorite games of all time. I 
 recommend this game to any gamer I know or run into. The landscape of the game is also an added 
 plus for outdoor types like myself. I think that it is a great all around MMO game because I am 
 usually tired of a MMO game after playing it for a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll-killer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best lord of the rings-themed game i have ever played. huge open-ended world, great 
 graphics and excellent sound and music. successful quest-based game play. great variety of skills, perfect 
 customization and very good raid. i like and the fellowship quest very much... now, the bad things: only 
 the good side of middle earth (the players that would like to play as the bad races of middle earth 
 won't like it very much .if there was the bad side of middle-earth the p-v-p could be perfect) , there 
 aren't enough classes (i would like to be a ranger. there are hunters that are good with bow and 
 with one-handed weapons, but i think there are not enough classes) and the worst of all: the game 
 doesn't show you the quest locations on the map and sometimes it's too hard!
  even it has some bad things it's a great game that every lord of the rings-fan will like!!!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I quit World of Warcraft (WoW) after 2 years and had looked for a good MMO for a year. Then, I finally 
 took a risk and purchased Lord of The Rings Online (LOTRO) . At first, it looked like EverQuest 
 2 (EQ2) but with everything EQ2 and WoW had to offer, only done much better. But that was only 
 what it appeared to be: Read on as I break it down. Note: the reason I'm comparing it to WoW a lot 
 is because most people look at this game after quitting WoW. I don't like WoW anymore, and I don't 
 like LOTRO anymore, so don't worry about any personal bias. I only compare it to EQ2 because EQ2 
 and WoW are, quite honestly, the same thing.
  
  Presentation: The game basically conveys the entire LOTRO story/universe seen in the movies. The 
 best feature here is the quests actually make you care. Whereas in WoW, I would skip all the text 
 because I didn't care for the poorly-done "story", but in LOTRO, I would read every single quest 
 and every word every NPC said, because the story and characters were so well done. One of the beginning 
 quests, in particular, showcases a simple tale of a farmer trying to get a girl whose husband died 
 recently. Though it may appear to be generic at first, soon enough I got so engrossed into this 
 short quest chain I cared about the poor little farmer and how the woman was destroying him on 
 the inside. So, yes, the story is very well executed. The AI is basic MMO AI, the stuff you've 
 seen in WoW and EQ2. UI and interface are well done... but that's because it's basically the WoW 
 interface. Production values are high, and the fact its in the LOTRO universe is always a big plus. 
 Box art is alright, manual isn't that good. The big plus here is that the community is WONDERFUL! 
 Fresh from the terrible, atrocious, little-kid riddled communities of games like WoW and Maplestory, 
 this wonderful community was a godsend. Almost everyone is willing to help you out, and everybody 
 is so mature, it's a wonder how this game has a better community than Age of Conan, when it's rated 
 T. There's still an area akin to Barrens where the community goes to die, but other than that, 
 it's great, because Turbine isn't trying desperately to attract little kids like Blizzard. 9.5/10
 
  
  Graphics: Very good. Ditching WoW's cartoony low-spec design (That's right, Turbine isn't trying 
 to get all the kids with crap computers to play THIS MMO, thank goodness) for very good graphics, 
 it's a mixed bag. The specs are pretty high for an MMO made in 2006, and therein lies the problem. 
 Whereas WoW is easy to run thanks to how it's more concerned about your internet connection and 
 not computer specs, LOTRO doesen't give a hoot about what connection your internet is, it just 
 requires a very good computer to run it. It is a HUGE resource hog, so be aware. Don't be fooled 
 by the minimum requirements: I ran this on my old computer, and I did fine on low outside of cities. 
 But when I got to Bree, the game's main city, I threw my CD into the trash can out of total insanity. 
 I couldn't even move. If you want to run this game with minimum lag, you must SURPASS the recommended 
 requirements, mainly having a very good graphics card, and at least 512mb of RAM to spare after 
 the initial reqs. The servers are terrible, however. I play on a self-built rig (4gb ram, 8800 
 GT video card, 3.2GHz AMD A64 XT etc) which is a comp that runs Crysis on very high with everything 
 turned on perfectly. Yet, I found myself lagging, and in some cases, even disconecting randomly. 
 The servers really need to be fixed. However, once you turn it up on very high, with everything 
 enabled, the graphics are wonderful eye candy, with character models, background, textures, and 
 palettes all looking amazing. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: The music in the game is good. Unlike WoW's, it isn't the same boring drumming or overused 
 classic tunes in every last area, it's LOTR and fantasy style music that fits well with the environment. 
 The little voice acting that's in the game is done well. Sound effects aren't exactly believeable, 
 but they get the job done. The humanoid enemy grunts can really, really irritate you after a while 
 though. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: The game falls here. I'll spare you all the details: here's all you need to know. This 
 is World of Warcraft. That's it. There are some welcome changes, but honestly, its another carbon 
 copy of WoW. Here's the changes worth mentioning. Everything I'm purposely leaving out, assume 
 its WoW. The game discourages grinding: It MAKES you do quests unless you want to spend 3 hours 
 getting from lvl 1-2. Monsters give nearly no xp, so you quest or you quit. This is weird, seeing 
 as how titles and deeds, which are basically an inventive and cool version of the talent tree, 
 actually encourages HUGE, and I mean HUGE amounts of grinding. After you grind, you get small bonuses... 
 so small, they barely matter until the high-end ones. This is basically an annoying version of 
 the talent tree that basically makes you use skills and kill certain monsters an enormous amount 
 of times. It makes you do this so much, that it's totally worthless to bother until you hit max 
 level and have nothing to do. Why do you have nothing to do at max level? Because there are only 
 2 raids, and the system of pvp (called MPvp, which has monsters fighting players in the ettenmoors) 
 is absolutely terrible and feels like something they added at the last second in fear of people 
 not playing due to lack of PvP. So at max level, all you can really do is get your deeds and titles, 
 do the 2 boring raids, work on the (actually very well done) profession system, and do MPvP, which 
 you likely won't be able to stand, because it's totally broken. So aside from these minor changes, 
 basically, everything else I haven't mentioned is the same stuff you've seen in WoW and EQ2. 5/10
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: Maybe you can stand to play this game to the max level, 50. I don't know. If you 
 quit WoW and went to this game, good luck reaching 20. If this is your first MMO, you will probably 
 love it and hit 50 eventually. LOTR fans will play this just because it has the words Lord of The 
 Rings in it. Once you get to 50 (which took me all of 3 weeks) , all you can really do that's even 
 slightly fun is finish extra quests, grind for deeds/titles, work on the great profession system, 
 and help other players. After doing pretty much everything on this game, I can say it lasted me 
 around 2 months on-and-off. 7.5/10
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a new game after WoW, this isn't the one. And neither is Age of 
 Conan, Guild Wars, EverQuest 2, or Warhammer: Age of Reckoning, I'm afraid. They're all copies of 
 the originals, WoW and EQ2. So I guess we're stuck waiting for the next innovative MMO that isnt 
 World of Warcraft... lets just hope Warhammer gets the job done, because although I'm confident 
 its WoW 2.0, it's the only hope left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing for about 2 months now. The community of the game is friendly and very willing 
 to help in most cases. Full of mature people u never here the word newb unless ur talking about 
 yourself because your new. Always welcome new players. The game has so much to do but they make 
 very easy to learn. This game is no push over either there plenty of things that can kill u. You 
 must use strategy and u skill to complete the quests. There are no loads from region to region 
 u just walk through and u in a new region. I think that in it self show how well the developers 
 work hard to make the game right. Only loads in game is when u teleport, go in a door, and some 
 caves or dungeons and they last literally 5 secs max. When i go in a door loads in 1 sec no load 
 screen or anything. The story is amazing it caters to diehard and new fans alike trust me youll 
 like it. Even if it didnt have the lord of the rings title youll love it. Play a full 14 day trial 
 and im sure you will be hooked. You can get stuff done rather u play for 15 mins or 15 7hours. 
 You can get to lvl 50 soloing. It has thousands of quest divided up into category of solo, small 
 fellowship, fellowship, and raid in lvl 45+.
  
  Each class can hold its own on here and the skills are amazing. Not saying u want need to put ur 
 skills together for fellowship quest but u dont have too to do those quest if u dont want too. 
 All the quest are up to u. You can even skip the epic quests that are called books each of the 
 books has like 7 or quest to complete before u complete the book. The are 13 books now available 
 and youll be lvl 50 before u complete all of them because they are fun and challenging u usually 
 need a fellowship at some point to finish a book. Plus book 7 and up is for lvl 40+ which gives 
 player even at high levels a lot to do. There are so many unique quest you think who in the world 
 has all this time to make all these good quest and write a story to them. Of course u dont really 
 have to read the story at all just the objective of the quest and where to go to get it done. Theres 
 a tracker on the side that u can have up to six quest showing on it to remind u what u what ur 
 trying to do at that time. Most time u can do 3 or more quest at a time then come back to the quest 
 giver and turn it in. Ive done 12 quest at one time b4 then came back and got my xp and reward 
 items and leveled. Each quest giver which there are hundreds of them usually gives u 2 or more 
 quest u can do.
  
  
  The gameplay is nothing less than perfect. They dont dumb down ur class on here either like some 
 mmo for being to strong because they have it already all even out. You character has so much talented 
 u would think is this cheating for have so many skills from one class. Then your get put in your 
 place by the fellowship quest even solo quest will kill u sometime if u make a mistake and dont 
 strategize but dont worry u shouldnt have no problem getting to level 50 even with the challenge. 
 Ive never been stuck on a level. Age range Ive seen has been anything from 16 to 60 so many people 
 play on here. They are almost always helpful and respectful.
  
  The game has so many titles u can earn. For example if my character is Eldo and i kill so many 
 wargs in one of the higher level area such as Angmar. I will earn this title and have this show 
 to everyone. Eldo "Lord of Fangs". You can choose a crafting profession where u can make armor, 
 make food, make potion, weapons etc. depending on what u choose. 
  
  Graphics on the game looks real good and u can run it on a low end , middle, or high end computer. 
 Even on low setting the graphic look pretty good but on high they are incredible. I run the game 
 on a regular lap top and it works just fine. Even tweak the settings and my graphics card to where 
 i can run it on mostly high settings.
  
  So much more I can say about the game but I wanted to give it justification since a lot WoW players 
 will try to bash it. Thats my point exactly why do u have to bash something and compare it to something 
 u like if its not good. And the bashing we are not bashing u. See the community difference right 
 there. I think both game can be really good depending but I like the community on here better. 
 I have a great kinship who I know them just like family we are very helpful and courteous.
  
  So what are u waiting for download the 14 day free trial and start playing u got nothing to 
 lose. Finish the trial and youll think me later. 
  
  Last but not least (to whom it applies too) . IF YOU CALL ANYONE A NEWB YOU WHERE ONCE NEW TOO. 
 HOW WOULD THAT MAKE U FEEL. ALSO HOW MUCH RESPECT FOR YOURSELF DO YOU HAVE FOR YOURSELF FOR BASHING 
 SOMEONE FOR WHAT YOU ONCE WAS" lol and most the time you not as great as u think their is always 
 someone better than you. Whats even sadder lol its just a game man. 
  
  New players if u need help with anything or got any questions send me a message on here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supershaft777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I think the MMO genre as it stands, is fundamentally flawed. The gameplay of 'grind easy 
 kills' to gain power in a very time-consuming way takes all the merit out of gaming, turning it 
 more into a drug. People who are addicted to MMO's also find solace in the 'social' interaction 
 that they don't get in real life.
  
  I could never play everquest or any of the games similar to it. I found them purely unplayable. 
 
  
  Then WoW came along, a genius, revolutionary game which somehow transcended the mmo formula because 
 it oozes style and has some exciting pvp. 
  
  Eventually, WoW reached its declined after the disappointment of 'endgame corporate exploitation' 
 through heroics and arenas, game mechanics which favor quantity over quality. WoW as amazing as 
 it was, left many fans like myself disillusioned through its endgame and evolution, with the offhand 
 'give em more grinds and sandbox arena pvp for mad epic lootz, to hell with quality world pvp as 
 long as we keep making mad money' vivendi ways so we eventually quit and overcame our mmo addiction, 
 moving on to our endeavors in RL. 
  
  In the same way the Lakers ARE the NBA, WoW IS the MMO genre. Which is why I've talked about it 
 so much. If LOTRO could dismantle it I would talk about that. And now I'll give my honest review 
 for LOTRO.
  
  Recently while surfing the web, I came upon a 'TRY THIS AWESOME MMO LORD OF THE RINGS ONLINE FOR 
 ****FREE****" so I said, why the hell not?
  
  I downloaded it, fired up the game. I saw the character creation screen and I thought "sweeeeet" 
 because character creation seems to be my favorite part in RPG's. 
  
  I entered the world, half paying attention to same crappy introduction story involving Gimli and 
 Gandalf. First qualm: I don't even wanna see these characters! I'm so freakin sick of them! LOTR 
 is a MOVIE and every spinoff seems like some sellout method of milking the cash cow.
  
  Second thing I noticed, WOW this is exactly like WoW. It SHAMELESSLY steals nearly every idea, 
 good or bad, that WoW introduced. The good: a polished, user-friendly, smooth interface. Bad: the 
 mindless grinding style, stupid quest briefings, and stupid, mindless, pathetic quests. 
  
  So I'm supposed to run around and be a b! tch doing quests for this guy and that guy. Just like 
 in WoW. However WoW had more style verve and addictive power. As much of a waste of time as it 
 was, there was something you could just love about that game. The pvp, most of all.
  
  LOTR has NO pvp. It's like WoW, with pretty graphics but derivative, cheesy ripoff lore (they shouldn't 
 be making games based on lotr at all) and far less style and character. Like everquest 2 this game 
 seems so DRY. Give me WoW's exciting cartoonish, old graphics over boring realistic new graphics. 
 
  
  And yes , this game is nothing more than cheap clone of WoW. It plays just as smoothly but has 
 none of the flair and pvp that made WoW so great.
  
  Why are people so afraid to make the next innovative MMO? If anyone wants to reach the vaunted 
 'dethroner of WoW' position they will have to get rid the 'get silly quests and go kill wandering 
 mobs easily' timesink aspect. Give me a more challenging, brain-stimulating pve game or make it 
 purely about pvp.
  
  As it stands, I'm done trying out new MMO's because I've played world of warcraft to death and 
 as fun as my pvp times were, im sick and tired of grinding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The Good - mature and friendly community, easy to pick up game play, great graphics on even your 
 average PC, easy to customize UI, story rich and driven MMO. Instances are not multi-hour treks. 
 No need to buy bags at the start of the game.
  
  The bad - until the expansion comes out later this year; too few classes. end game is lacking, 
 melee animation is lacking at best. most players prefer to solo so grouping is not always easy. 
 small communities do not help grouping, guilds, or auction houses. Too much armor looks all the 
 same as do the race toons. You can not upgrade your bags. Inventory graphics are too small. 
  
  The Ugly - traveling is a chore until you get your mount. You will need to buy several rides 
 to get from one location to another which can result in loss of decent coin to a mid-level character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antezecevic1
Rating: 4
Date: May 28, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Too bad that game with this much potential is done on so bad way. Starting with graphics, only 
 thing i can say is that i never saw so bad looking animations of characters. Even on highest settings 
 i had feeling like i am controlling a doll.
  Sound is just fine, nothing spectacular. 
  System requirements are great cos i played it on max with RADEONx1950pro and 768 MB ram so i think 
 developers made good job with this one.
  Worst part of this game is fighting and controlling your character because i never felt like i 
 was doing something i want , i felt like character was doing something he wants. For example, when 
 i press some spell , one time it responds instantly, next time it takes 3 sec to respond.... etc.
 
  One more thing that caught my eye is imbalance of classes, but it's normal for this type of games.
 
  
  I really had big expectations for this game but after few hours of play (trial version) i got back 
 to WOW , where everything responds how i want, not in some weird way which game chooses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 28, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I love Lord of the Rings, but this game is not up to snuff. 
  
  Graphic wise, it's pretty nice. Buggy and laggy really drops the fun part of it down. Equipment 
 looks ok, but not spectacular like one would expect at higher levels. Skill wise too, it sucks.
 
  
  Theres nothing really crazy or new to the mmorpg recipe here. I think the best part of this game 
 is the trait and titles component. Upon completing say, killing 50 spiders, you get a new title 
 "Bain of spiders" (or something like it) and are rewarded with a trait that gives +3% to stamina. 
 Kill 100 spiders and a new title and trait are unlocked. Find 5 old statues scattered about? New 
 title and trait! Bake 50 muffins? New title and trait. Traits are fun and very useful, at times 
 it's hard to pick which ones to use. 
  
  The sound/music are very good as well in this game.
  
  So overall, it's worth a try ( I tried 
 it 3 times now since launch to see the new features, and am sill not impressed) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiala
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  The game is great. The difficulty is just right, the beginning isn't too hard to get a grip of 
 the game, but you can find challenge in the game, especially if you look for it. Gladly the fights 
 are not just tank and spank, and the large scale PvP is well made, if you have a machine that won't 
 stop working the moment a large fight starts. Monster play is a good way to have mass PvP fit to 
 Tolkien's lore, and the game follows the lore as much as possible elsewhere too. fit The epic quests 
 form a nice primary storyline, but a bit too many of the quests are just run to place A and then 
 back to place B. Also, there is too little end-game content, only two raids and some one-team instances. 
 But suppose that leaves room for improvement in the upcoming patches and the expansion that is 
 planned for release this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapYou
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Game is cool. There are 4 races and 7 classes. Once u get to level 10 u unlock monster play where 
 u can play as monster against the free people (dwarf, elf, hobbit and man) . Level cap is 50 soon 
 60 when the expansion comes out. Turbine the producer of the every moth releases free content update. 
 The crafting system is amazing. Also the story line is good it crosses sometimes with the fellowship 
 like aragorn, legolas and other. I recommend either silverlode server or windolfa server the best 
 two servers in the game. The free contents updates are really good they add a lot of new things 
 like territories, deeds and hobbies. I one level 50 char and one going to be level 50 char the 
 game is really cool even is u have one level char. The game never gets boring for me. World of 
 Warcraft is nothing compared to this game i played both games and lord of the rings online shadow 
 of angmar is way better. World of warcraft is junk bad graphics just wack game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This Tolkien masterpiece offers every Lord of The Rings fans an addictive and enjoyable Role-Playing 
 Game that any person can love. Once you start to play the game, the intro cinematics already capture 
 you attention and causes a certain type of anxiety to spring forth awaiting the loading time to 
 finish. 
  
  The game have graphics that are rendered superbly. Excellent environment effects, decent shadow 
 effects as well as a splendid landscape. The sound on the other hand causes you to feel true sincerity 
 of the Tolkien world. 
  
  The game is based a horde of quests that are informational as well enjoyable that truly allows 
 players to interact with one another, joining forces to defeat the forces of evil. Unlike many 
 other RPG's that I have played this one truly focuses on group playing. It is quite easy to find 
 a group to join and complete the tasks at hand.
  
  There are 5 classes to choose from, Burglar, Captain, Minstrel, Lore-Master, Champion, Guardian 
 each with there own unquiet abilities; and 4 races to play from, Man, Elf, Dwarf, Hobbit each with 
 there own skills. 
  
  The last thing that I would like to comment on, is a feature that I have never seen before which 
 is Conjunction. A Conjunction or Fellowship Maneuver is a Fellowship-based group attack that offers 
 a powerful effect if played correctly. The excellent aspect is there are different ordered contribution 
 combinations will result in different Conjunctions. This group based attacks forces groups to coordinated 
 attacks and plan before venturing forth into the wild and dangerous lands of Middle-Earth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosberg
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  first off my expectations for games are prety high so posting a good review is a complement in 
 itself.
  
  when released IMO was 100% complete and stable,, as in developers could have walked away for 6 
 months and things were fine kind of stable and complete! 
  most games are shoved out the door in a "paybeta" mode at about 75% (SEED was released at below 
 10% boo!)
  
  the graphics and visuals are high and at points spectacular, I am still amazed at being able to 
 see the distances seeming 5 miles or more.
  
  the lore is so exceptional non game books and atlases are usefull 
  
  quests are prety standard 
 but seem well written wish they had more things other than quests to do 
  crafting is a bit tedious as the economy is totally borked with copper costing as much as 600s 
 (thats alot)
  music and soud effects are acceptable, not nearly enough voiceovers.
  
  for the most part the game developers have been reliable and have made mostly good steps with on 
 time expasnions and patches 
  the class types are for the most part good and effective you really cant go wrong with any class.
 
  
  in the last year they have added 2 major new zones evendim and last month forochel and allready 
 have anounced a box expansion (mines of moria) due out this fall (which Im allready expecting to 
 order)
  the world is opening up walls and cliffs are falling away to open accessability 
  
  ok thats some of the good stuff here are a few bad things in the game.
  
  its prety standard 
 game play too few suprises.
  NO BOATS evendim has a huge lake, and forochel has a huge bay right in the middle of them and the 
 developers seem to have some huge fear or hate of boats!
  charactor design is a bit limited some part of the game still feel over controled houses (a new 
 addition) you can place a bed by the wall it must be in the middle of the room, I fully expect 
 developers to make improvements in the housing areas in later patches.
  
  no siege weapons dead, endgame no collections or public works projects when I completed the quests 
 in forochel there was nothing more the regon had to offer.
  the new fishing hobby is infantile devs fumbled this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Gaming has not, it has to be said, been kind to Tolkein's literary masterpiece. When it's not salvaging 
 ideas left right and centre from the Lord of the Rings, it's making some generally rubbish videogames 
 based on the books. Notable examples include EA's flawed-if-fun adaptations of The Two Towers and 
 Return of the King, and the poorly handled Third Age, not to mention the shockingly bad Fellowship 
 of the Ring by Surreal Software and the weird Lord of the Rings back in the days of the SNES, which 
 saw Frodo and Sam battling wolves around the Shire for the first part of the game. Oh, and going 
 back even further, there were the text adventures. Players of those will no doubt remember having 
 their skulls cleaved in a myriad of unfortunate circumstances.
  
  With the Lord of the Rings Online, then, Turbine have set themselves a massive challenge. Formerly 
 Middle Earth Online and developed by Sierra, Turbine pretty much scrapped everything at started 
 again, in the process taking on the seemingly impossible tasks: Make a Lord of the Rings game that 
 isn't forgettable pap, and make an online RPG that can compete with the behemoth World of Warcraft.
 
  
  Perhaps the most shocking thing, then, is that Turbine seem to have done just that. At its most 
 simple level, Lord Of The Rings Online: The Shadows of Angmar is a refined, well crafted experience 
 that stands up on its own in either right. But the real strength of the game lies when you consider 
 it as a whole, and just what it manages to do.
  
  First off, you will need to create your character. LOTRO: SOA gives you the chance to play as Men, 
 Elves, Hobbits, or Dwarfs, each of the main races of Middle Earth. All are available in male or 
 female forms, with the exception of Dwarves- no bearded ladies here. You can choose from one of 
 7 classes, each of which has its own abilities and role to play, from the aggressive melee Champion 
 to the stealthy Burglar, from the inspirational leadership abilities of the Captain to the animal 
 control and spellcasting abilities of the Loremaster. Not all classes are open to all of the races- 
 you can't be a Dwarfen Loremaster, and the race of Men are the only class who can lead others as 
 a Captain- but there are a good selection available for each race. You can customise your character's 
 hair, facial features, build and suchlike, and of course you'll need to give him or her a name. 
 We created Berelain, an elf Champion from Lothlorien, so if you're ever around the Evernight server 
 come and say hello. LOTRO then drops you into a tutorial introduction for your character which 
 takes place before the game. These short, instanced quests set the tone for much of the game, whilst 
 also instructing you in how to play. The Elf introduction we played took place in Edhelion, a good 
 time before the Lord of the Rings story, where we found ourselves defending the Elven city from 
 Goblins and Trolls under the leadership of an evil dwarf, fighting alongside Elrond. Other racial 
 intro quests offer similar cameos; humans characters rescue a Sackville-Baggins who is being hunted 
 by a Black Rider, and Dwarfs find themselves with Gimli at the farewell party for Thorin Oakenshield's 
 party as they head to the Shire at the beginning of events in the Hobbit. The intro's are welcome, 
 and set up story threads that are developed later on in the game.
  
  The game proper begins around the time Frodo and his companions set out from the Shire. Your first 
 five or so levels take place in a larger area with other new characters, again serving as an introduction 
 to the way the game plays and some of its mechanics. It becomes clear from these early sections 
 that the game places a heavy emphasis on questing and exploration rather than fighting; quests 
 are abundant, even in introductory areas, and offer much greater rewards than can be gained from 
 fighting enemies. Only after you have completed this story driven section are you allowed into 
 the full world of Middle Earth, although you can chose to skip the intro and tutorial if you wish 
 (be warned, though: you'll wind up starting the game with less experience and equipment if you 
 do!) . From there, you're free to explore as you wish and pick up further quests as you go along, 
 and the quests are thankfully just as free flowing as the game progresses. Quest givers are highlighted 
 on your map and in the game world with a golden ring symbol, making them easy to spot. The quests 
 themselves run the gamut of typical 'hunt X monsters' or 'find X items' to more interesting and 
 quite engaging explorations into ancient ruins, investigating old artefacts, and even delivering 
 post to nearby towns whilst avoiding nosey hobbits. Most quests are linked in chains, and have 
 their own story arcs.
  
  Working in conjunction with the rest of the game though is the Epic Storyline. Yes, Storyline. 
 LOTRO is fairly unique amongst MMORPGs in that the focus of the game is squarely on the epic storyline 
 which your characters will experience. This storyline is divided into various Books, each of which 
 will see you through a series of linked quests dealing with a major threat to Middle Earth. Many 
 of these quests take place in private, instanced dungeons, either for you or a party of adventurers 
 (more on those later) , and are often woven around the events of the Lord of the Rings story. The 
 first book, for instance, has you venturing into the Old Forest in Bree-land and seeking the assistance 
 of Tom Bombadil to battle the Wights of the Barrow Downs after their awakening by the Fellowship. 
 Other Books see you aiding Radagast the Brown to defeat a Wight who has arisen in the Trollshaws, 
 and venturing into the ruins of the ruined Dunedain capital of Annuminas which has been overtaken 
 by goblins and Angmarim.
  
  Now, if those names don't mean much to you, don't worry. Whilst much of the game is squarely catered 
 for fans of the books -and of the world in general- the well-written quest descriptions do a good 
 job of explaining the situation to you and giving you a sense of involvement in the events which 
 are taking place.
  
  The other real innovation the game offers is in its Fellowship mechanic. Whilst the majority of 
 the game plays similarly to most other MMO's on the market- 3rd person camera, auto attack combat, 
 and an array of skills to use against your opponents- the Fellowship system differs slightly. Fellowships 
 are what the game calls groups of players that have banded together, allowing them to share their 
 abilities and take on much tougher opponents. Where LOTRO's strength in this area lies is in the 
 way the different classes work together. A successful Fellowship will need to pool the abilities 
 of all of its members, making especial use of the Guardian's ability to focus enemies' attention 
 on himself and absorb huge amounts of damage and the minstrel's healing abilities, for instance. 
 But this is nothing unusual- most MMO's have a similar mechanic. But LOTRO offers two things that 
 set it apart- Traits and Conjunctions.
  
  Traits are abilities that you can equip your character with once you have unlocked them. Traits 
 have varied effects, from increasing the amount of damage you deal or reducing the amount you receive, 
 to giving you new abilities and powers normally reserved for specific classes. This means that 
 no two characters need ever be the same, and group members can take on roles that would normally 
 not be suited to their characters- a Champion, for instance, might take on a defensive role using 
 the right mixture of Traits. These Traits affect solo play as well, of course, and give you new 
 abilities to use against your opponents, too.
  
  More important than Traits, though, are the Fellowship Conjunctions. In a system that might be 
 familiar to EverQuest 2 players, certain moves - and random chances- can trigger Conjunctions to 
 take place. During a conjunction, combat pauses for a moment to give each player the chance to 
 pick from one of four coloured buttons. Each button has different effects; green gives you a morale 
 boost (LOTRO's term for health) , red inflicts damage, blue recovers your power, and yellow deals 
 damage over time. But not only does it matter which colours you chose- but also which order you 
 chose them in, in a somewhat poker-like experience where getting the right mix of colours at the 
 right time results in some exceptional effects. Of course, in order to pull this off, you'll need 
 to work pretty closely together as a group...
  
  Which brings us neatly to the community of the game. For some reason best known only to itself, 
 LOTRO's community seems to be one of the finest yet to grace an MMO. Equal parts social , funny, 
 and helpful to newcomers, the LOTRO user base appears to be made up of mature gamers who are just 
 there to have fun, not to grind their way to the top of the pile or make fun of 'n00bs'. This is 
 highlighted by the wide range of social options the game gives players; from a beautifully realised 
 player housing system that lets you have your own neighbourhoods and visit friend's houses to a 
 system that lets any character play a musical instrument and give impromptu concerts to other players. 
 In fact, a concert was being held just the other weekend outside the Prancing Pony in Bree, with 
 hobbits dancing and everything. It's like the towns of the world are some sort of glorified avatar 
 chatroom, and the rest of the game sometimes gets forgotten in the wake of the entertaining social 
 quests- such as the fantastic Shire pub run, which has you racing from tavern to tavern across 
 the Shire, getting progressively more drunk as you down several drinks in each one.
  
  What else is there? The list is endless. The game world is large, and beautifully realised, full 
 of intricate details and places to explore. What's more, the game rewards you for doing so, with 
 a great Deed system that grants you new Traits and Titles for completing tasks such as visiting 
 all the ruins in an area, discovering a series of markers, or slaying an amount of enemies. These 
 Deeds vary by area, and remain unobtrusive, yet at the same time offering encouragement to see 
 more of what the game world has to offer. LOTRO offers a crafting system similar to WoWs, but again 
 stressing co-operation with other players, since no one crafting profession allows you to gather 
 all the items you need by yourself. Free updates released every 2-3 months offer an abundance of 
 new features, ranging from entire new regions (two such areas, Evendim and Forochel, have already 
 been added) , new Books in the Epic quest line, and new features such as the recently added Outfit 
 system, which lets you wear different outfits but keep the same benefits from your armour. Even 
 the player housing was added in a post-release content update. There is also a small Player versus 
 Player section, which allows players over level 40 to participate in battles with other characters 
 (of any level) who take the role of monsters such as Orcs and Wargs, although this PvP is limited 
 to a confined region so as not to spill out into the rest of the game world. The emphasis of LOTRO 
 is squarely on Player vs Environment, but in a setting such as Middle Earth, this design is a sensible 
 choice.
  
  The actually look and feel of LOTRO is exceptional. The game engine scales wonderfully, and offers 
 breathtaking vistas and well crafted locales no matter how good a machine you are running it on. 
 Of course, with all the graphical bells and whistles turned on you can expect to see a beautiful 
 looking game, full of exquisite detail. Special note must be paid to the art design, for whilst 
 the game does not have a license for Peter Jackson's films, the art design is every bit as competent, 
 bringing the world of Middle Earth to life convincingly and believably. Famous locations from the 
 books, such as the Prancing Pony in Bree Town, the Old Forest, The Hobbt-houses of the Shire and 
 the vale of Rivendell are clearly inspired from the artwork of Alan Lee and his contemporaries, 
 and even the designs of weapons, armour and clothing all fit into the feel of the world. Musically, 
 the game boasts a well crafted soundtrack, though it's probably not anything you would chose to 
 listen to when not playing the game, and after a while you might just decide to turn it off and 
 have some other music playing instead (might I recommend the Lord of the Rings soundtrack by Howard 
 Shore...) . Character voices and sound effects are serviceable, if not exceptional, but do the job 
 just fine.
  
  Really, there is so much to LOTRO that it is difficult to fit it all into one review. It's not 
 a game that will appeal to everyone- in focussing on storytelling, socialising and conveying an 
 atmosphere, it won't appeal to those who like to have the most powerful characters with the most 
 powerful weapons, but thats no bad thing. Although the regions of the world might initially seem 
 quite limiting, new areas are being added, and the first paid expansion, the Mines of Moria, promises 
 to add almost a third again to the game world. For all of its surface similarities to World of 
 Warcraft, LOTRO is a very different beast, and one that has its own very distinct niche and very 
 distinct way of doing things. There is a free trial available, which is a good way to introduce 
 yourself to the world if you're not sure, but Lord of the Rings Online: The Shadows of Angmar is 
 by any standards a truly exceptional game that is far better than it has any right to be. LOTRO 
 is a finely crafted and refined experience that offers everything fans of the genre- and fans of 
 the books- could want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stricot
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 7, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have a very bad memory of Asheron's Call my first non-free MMORPG. This one seriously reminds 
 me of that game: It feels empty, cold, dead. Screenshots here are a bit biased, the crappy animation 
 and the low polygon count make it visually average at beast. Well, it feels like WoW had never 
 existed and that we were back 5 years ago. And quests are as boring as ever in mmorpgs, i. e. go 
 there and kill a ton of this, then bring that to me. It is really, really a shame that such a license 
 is so poorly exploited. You never really feel like you are part of a story and a history that are 
 reminiscent of the famous LotR saga. This is definitely something that will die quickly after the 
 next few ambitious mmorpgs to come, especially Age of Conan.
  Well this one definitely does not deserve that you spend a significant part of your life in front 
 of your monitor. Go back to the real life for a while, before enjoy the next-gen games that will 
 come soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  
  If there is one universal truth in the world of MMOs, it is that an MMO lives and dies 
  by two principle attributes. The first is the stability of its launch, and the second
  is how 
 it evolves over time to truly make it a different experience from the competition.
  
  By any standard, Lord of the Rings Online has been a resounding success in both areas. The
  open 
 beta was one of the smoothest and well run beta experiences in recent memory, and really
  felt like one last stress test of a COMPLETE game. The launch was without any major hitch, and 
 
  Middle Earth was soon alive and thriving.
  
  Turbine is known for their long term support of successful franchises. LoTRO not only illustrates
 
  their superb skill to run the game in its live phases, but their ability to add compelling features
 
  and quests on a nearly monthly basis. The new 'Books' (major update phases) have added incredible 
 
  amounts of content that competing MMOs charge as an 'expansion' / stand alone add on. Again, these 
 
  are free of charge.
  
  To give an idea, two of the books (over time) added two new regions to explore, these are MASSIVE
 
  areas, adding hundreds of quests, new items, people to meet and things to explore. They truly 
 are
  worth getting excited about every time they are announced.
  
  The new areas alone would be enough, but Turbine takes it further by adding some major features
 
  and fixing long standing issues. They didn't take the first year of their game and simply try
 
  to balance classes, they were pretty well balanced on release. While they have made tweaks and
 
  fixes to adjust concerns, they always seem more concerned with adding things new, fun and refreshing
 
  to the experience.
  
  Book 11 saw the release of Player owned housing. The feature was well thought out, creative, and
 
  kept original with the idea of instanced neighborhoods. Book 12 saw major features and fixes added
 
  per class.
  
  As if all the free books and add ons weren't enough, Turbine has been very good about providing
 
  live events related to seasons and festivals (the spring festival and summer harvests are some
 
  of my fondest memories in an MMO, period) . 
  
  With the first pay expansion on the horizon promising massive additions to the game that players
 
  can scarcely imagine, it truly gives the player base something to look forward to. 
  
  LoTRO has provided something for everyone with every update, be it new storylines and quests to 
 
  undertake, new items/armor and features... the game continually provides the experience of a 
 
  royal feast. Just when you think you are about to clean your plate, new and different foods get
 
  piled on for you to enjoy.
  
  After a year, it truly is an experience that has to be played to be believed. If you've played 
 before 
  and moved on, or if you've been on the fence as to whether or not to try it out, now is as good 
 a time
  as ever. Discounted subscription prices celebrate the one year anniversery, and if you're really
 
  loving the game, you can get the Lifetime subscription at a discounted $199 until June. One time
 
  payment and never pay a monthly fee for the life of the product again.
  
  When it comes down to it all, LoTRO is an incredibly fun and detailed experience. Those eager to
 
  live the Tolkein lore would be overjoyed with the attention to detail here. It never ceases to 
 be
  enjoyable, and the community at large is still (after a year) one of the friendliest and most fun
 
  out there.
  
  A shadow rises in the east, and the witch king's armies are on the move in Angmar... will you 
 
  pick up your sword and defend your home and the free peoples of middle earth? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minkis18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  well I actually wasn't that impressed with the game once I stopped drooling at the fact that an 
 MMO actually has good graphics. the game is extremely easy to start regardless of your gaming experience, 
 and the community site has great forums and a game info database. 
  
  eye candy: the game looks spectacular! not even my geforce9600GT can smoothly run the game on ultra 
 high settings. graphics take a MAJOR framerate hit when more than 30 people are in a small area, 
 but there are settings that pertain specifically to large group performance. 
  
  combat: combat system is bland, and if you are out of range you'l have to correct your situation 
 and re-enable the skill. also the patch finding for NPCs is HORRIBLE! if you go behind a tree, 
 the mob will run the other way and around by about 3 feet to get to you. 
  
  pvp: well actually in LOTRO it's referred to as Player versus Monster Player (pvmp) . the monster-player 
 classes, all starting at lvl 50, are roughly as powerful as a lvl 40 regular character. other than 
 the 'gankers' all pvmp combat is raid versus raid.
  
  community: like any online game, there's all sorts of people. the lore-crazy, the 13-year-old elitists, 
 and the adult gamers who refuse to give up the joy of gaming. the general populous on the forums 
 however is mature and thoughtful.
  
  travel: travel is easy and fairly cheap, with lower-level travel points charging less money than 
 higher level ones. a horse can be purchased at lvl 30, but taking damage while mounted will knock 
 you off (it won't always be a 1-hit knockoff, the travel bar will show you how close you are to 
 being dismounted)
  
  leveling: leveling can seem slow, but Turbine is constantly making it easier to solo quests for 
 leveling, specifically in the mid 30s and mid 40s range (see book 13 for 44-50 leveling zone and 
 new quests) . Deeds encourage farming and/or grinding, but there are enough quests to quest your 
 way solo from 1-50. 
  
  that's about it from me. and for reference, i have roughly 2 years of MMO experience in WoW as 
 a healer, tank, dps (melee and ranged) , pvp junkie, and crowd controller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Lord of The Rings Online is a great MMO for those who don't look towards PVP. This MMO has 5 races 
 and 7 classes. Although these numbers seem small compared to Everquest, the game is great. Since 
 there is no PVP, every class is useful in a group, and is fun to play none-the-less. The questing 
 always directs you in the right way, all around Middle Earth. The shire is pretty cool to see, 
 because it is just like in the movie. 
  The crafting in this game is great. As you level, you go up in proficiency, and you are able to 
 make your items better, by "critting" on them. When you crit, you make a much better version of 
 the item. There is just a small chance to crit, but as you level you can find items that increase 
 your crit chance greatly.
  As of right now, there is not much to do in the end game, because the developers are currently 
 working on the famous spots like Rohan, but there are some raid guilds, at least the server I was 
 on.
  Overall this MMO was fun to play, but with the growth of World of Warcraft, and the talk of those 
 inside the LOTRO game, it seems it might be dieing out, as content isn't put forth as much as the 
 WoW developers do it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohalo3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I played this game since private beta, all the way up to the end of 2007. Although I haven't played 
 in 4 months, I am actually going to go back to it. This game was a lot of fun, so to be short, 
 I will give some pros and cons:
  
  Pros:
  Cool races
  Good crafting system
  Good community (players)
  Lots of quests
  A cool story line
  Good beginner tutorials
  Player 
 houses
  Follows the actual lotr books really precisely 
  
  Cons:
  PvP lacks... read more at the bottom
  No really good healer or mage class
  The world is not 
 as big as WoW (not close even, but eventually it will be)
  Its a grind from 40 - 50
  Instances seem to drag on (but they all do don't they?)
  Once you get to level 40ish, you run 
 out of places to go to get to level 50 (just pretty much gotta grind)
  Because of the lotr guidelines, it restricts the different skills of some classes (the mages in 
 lotr suck!)
  
  The biggest disappointment to me in this game is pvp. Its cool how u can just play as a mob at 
 level 10, and run around as a level 50 orc, but honestly it doesn't work very well for the high 
 level players. You work your way up to level 40, to be able to go into the pvmp area... and you 
 will get completely dominated by noobs until you actually get closer to 50. By the time I had stopped 
 playing, the pvmp had gotten so outta wack, that the monster players owned all of the fortresses 
 and were completely destroying the players. This was actually having an effect on the lotro economy 
 too, because there are many places to mine and cut wood up there that aren't anywhere else. When 
 the monster players have all the bases, it is almost impossible to get those things, and because 
 of supply and demand, the prices of armor and weapons went way up. Anyways, I might as well put 
 in a conclusion that people will actually read.
  
  Oh and just so you guys know heres what I think about wow vs lotro:
  
  WoW has great pvp (or 
 so I am told) , but its difficult to get to level 70 if you do not know what you are doing, and 
 it can definatly be a grind to get there.
  
  Lotro on the other hand, is really great getting from those lower levels to higher ones. The PvE 
 in that game is really amazing. Overall, I prefer lotro over wow.
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  LOTRO is a really great game, if you do not NEED pvp. It is very addicting and very fun and I recommend 
 that you at least try this game. If they straiten out the pvp, I think that this game would have 
 a chance of being able to compete with wow.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings online. If your a traditional mmo player, you've probably seen the lands 
 of WoW, saved the world in CoH, or ruined it in CoV. Found the force in SWG, or a number of other 
 things. 
  
  Finally however, there came one epic story to the world of gaming. An mmo that portraits a legendary 
 story known throughout the world. A story filled with magic, mayhem, and short people with hairy 
 feet. Turbine has created an MMO of The Lord of the Rings.
  
  At first glance, veterans of Everquest, or SWg will right away notice the games lack of a large 
 number of playable races. It is restricted to Four: Men/Women (Humans) Elves, (The fair, pointed 
 ear folk) Dwarves ( The short, but stout bearded Folk) and Hobbits, loves of food everywhere! Despite 
 the fact that there are only four races, each one is very diverse with unique racial abilities 
 and traits that not only do you start with, but many many more add on as you progress through the 
 game; having your race play a median in certain areas of the game. Added onto this is a unique 
 starting area for each race, with quite diverse quests.
  
  
  The second thing noticed in LOTRO (Lord of the rings online) would be its lack of many classes. 
 Despite there only being 7 playable classes, their roles fulfill what is desired in a playable 
 avatar.
  
  After creating an avatar, you are embarked straight into an epic story line through Instances that 
 have you interacting with epic figures like Nazgul, or Gandalf! Famous figures from the Books and 
 Movies. The storyline in the game is endorsed with grand feats of grandeur. Overall I believe the 
 story line of the game was the greatest aspect. Not only did you feel like you were in Middle-Earth, 
 but it made you feel like you were making a difference. You were no small character in a sea of 
 MMO-er's. You were a hero... in due time anyway. Whether it be fighting A nest of Giants, or even 
 The witch king himself, the story remains true to the lore, and yet unique as well!
  
  I'd like to hit upon the actualy gameplay however, as it was unique as well!
  
  Besides the 
 traditional UI settings and the whole, do quests, level, train, routine, Lotro had a few unique 
 things going for it, The graphics in the game have a large range for your convienence. Have a laggy 
 comp? the graphics go down to settle that dispute. Have a lust for beauty? They go so far up you 
 won't believe your staring into your reflection... on the floor. Yay for floor polish.
  
  Overall however, the gameplay is fun and exciting. Your great span of unique skills and abilities 
 keep combat interesting as you learn exactly how you want to play your class. All classes have 
 certain skills and abilities that set them apart from others. You want to be a tank who holds aggroe 
 by wailing on enemies with a giant sword? Go for it. Want to do Dps but use a shield as well? Do 
 it! Want to be a mage, but dual wield a Sword and a Staff? Its there. The diversity isn't exactly 
 Age of Conan material, but its enough to keep you from being dissapointed. As well unto this, the 
 game has a unique trait system which, depending on what you've done in the game, whether your known 
 for your miraculous goblin hunting skills, or your prowess at delivering pies for hobbits, you 
 will get virtues that dramatically help you out! As well as certain Race aligned traits, and Class 
 aligned traits. Ultimately up to your Legendary traits, which grant you feats of heroic porportion, 
 but require deeds of great skill to acquire! The character customization in this game makes your 
 character really feel like she/he is really, well, Your character!. The only downside to all of 
 this is that a lack of many Hair styles has you running into people who go to the same barbersharp 
 every sunday as you do.
  
  LOTRO is great for people who are new to mmos and veterans alike. Its difficulty is rather easy, 
 but can suck you in to playing it for many many months. Even years. I've played the game for over 
 a year myself now, and can honestly say that turbine is Very ontop of new content, almost every 
 month, and ensure that the public gets what they want. With max level only being 50, you can go 
 through the game multiple times and build up you classes, the replay value is pretty good as there 
 are a diverse # of quests and isntances to do that you aren't required to do all of it, so your 
 2nd and 3rd trips through the game can be quite different.
  
  End game content includes PVPing in a designated area, or raiding Two of the raid instances. One 
 a 12 man, the other 24 man raid. With tons of set items, a unique crafting system, and all the 
 epic drops, gear is definitly unique in look, and find. 
  
  The big downsides to the game however, are that they have a tendency to bring many bugs into the 
 game, which eventually get taken care of
  
  And that the game is definitly too short. Also being taken care of with new content coming out 
 every month or so, and with an expansion coming out in the fall.
  
  All in all, LOTRO is the most fun MMO I've ever played. The community is great, and tight knit 
 among the higher levels, which don't take too aweful long to get to. Before you know it you will 
 be among the games greatest players if you so wish.
  
  Or if you want to get challenging you can try becoming a high ranking PVP-er. The pvp in lotro 
 is quite difficult to rank up in until late. With a total of 15 pvp ranks, the highest so far, 
 in about a year to a year and a half, is 10. Across all servers. The game is fairly new, but is 
 definitly a great relief from the same old World of Warcraft that has seduced many, including myself 
 at one time :P
  
  LOTRO isn't the best MMO, but it is definitly up there with great graphics, and a unique World 
 to take part in.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: utah_husker
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Most MMO's have a target audience of 15-24 year old Males. The first thing I noticed is the abundance 
 of seemingly mature players. Believe it or not, this goes a long way in creating a good game experience 
 for me in an MMO setting. 
  
  The game play is actually well thought out with solo and group quests that generally explore the 
 Middle Earth Universe. Turbine spent a lot of time creating additional background for areas that 
 may not have been explored in Tolkein's classics. This rich detail enhances the gameplay and you 
 really do feel like you're in middle earth.
  
  The crafting abilities that each player has creates a dynamic marketplace in which you can create 
 and sell goods. Because you have to work with other players to get the components you need, the 
 interaction of this MMO is enhanced.
  
  Graphics are great, few bugs if any and constant updates from Turbine make this one of the funnest 
 games I've played in a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer71693
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is an incredibly fun game. I stopped playing because my computer was not capable of handling 
 a game with those specs because my computer is out of date. However, if I could, I would play that 
 game for a long time because it is a great game for LOTR fans and really gets you in Middle-Earth. 
 When I play this game, I feel like an elf, man, dwarf, or hobbit. (i'd like to point out dwarves 
 are really fun to play as) . I wouldn't say this game is better than World of Warcraft, but it comes 
 incredibly close. It is one of the finest MMORPG's I have ever played. The game is still relatively 
 new, and areas like Gondor and Rohan are not yet playable, but you can still explore areas like 
 the Shire, Bree, and visit important places like Bag End, the Prancing Pony, and Weathertop. For 
 you people who love fantasy MMORPG's, but are tired of playing World of Warcraft, i would suggest 
 going out and purchasing Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar. I give this game a an 8.5 
 out of 10. If your not sure, go to lotro. com/trial and plat the 7-day trial! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Matty
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Really nice game really enjoy playing it :D Tho what I think would be brilliant is that the use 
 the actor's voices and faces and stuff. Kinda strange to see Aragorn without a beard or Gandalf 
 with a very different voice. just doesn't make sense if u have seen the movies. But then again 
 there are some much cool stuff and more will come... I hope :D And one of the coolest thing about 
 the game is that u done have to be a very serious gamer to play. You can play when you like and 
 have a good time with some from your own Kinship (If you got one course) . And Monster play is awsome. 
 A lvl 50 from the start :D Brilliant. And last cool thing is definitely the traits deeds and titles. 
 :D Great game :D Just need to look a bit more like the movie if u ask me :D If anyone feel the 
 same way, then please write me a comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I started playing in May of last year. Since that time I've had a chance to play through many of 
 the character types, visit many of the areas, and experience many of the quests and crafting trades. 
 My play time has been exclusively on the Gladden server.
  
  Before playing LOTRO I played Wow for about 6 months, getting my character up to lvl 25. I've also 
 played other online games, with my first being Ultima Online. I've also played Anarchy online, 
 and Guild wars for quite a stretch as well. This has helped me appreciate some of the features 
 included in LOTRO even more.
  
  With all that in mind, I can say that LOTRO is a fun game to play. All of the components are there 
 and work well. This includes the questing component, auction house component, crafting component, 
 group questing componenet, etc... (you get the idea) . Everything just works as you would expect 
 it to. There have been numerous tweaks over time, but as far as everything goes it works as it 
 should. There's no annoying bugs or quirks and there's nothing that makes me wish they'd change 
 it. For a system that I've used at least 5 hours a week, usually more, for almost a year that says 
 a lot.
  
  The quests themselves are interesting and varied and sometimes it's fun just to explore the different 
 areas looking for new quests and NPCs. The atmosphere (ambient sound, graphics, details) and scenery 
 make simply travelling through the world fun. Each area is distinct and feels like it should. From 
 the forest area of the Trollshaws or the snow covered hills in the Misty Mountains, they all feel 
 like real places.
  
  Of course I'll admit I'm a glass half full person when it comes to this game. Like anything else 
 if you want to hate or like it you can find a way. There's certainly some down sides, but these 
 are not show stoppers or major annoyances. For example, many of the quests are just impossible 
 to do on your own, limiting solo questing somewhat. However, if you are looking for fun you should 
 have no trouble finding it. Whether it's questing, crafting, going group adventures, or just socializing, 
 there's a decent system in place to handle all of this. It's not a revolutionary game, but it is 
 quite polished and it's maturity makes playing it day after day fun even after all this time.
 
  
  I think all in all, LOTRO can be fun for any MMORPG player. If you come from another game and think 
 that game is king, or if you don't like MMORPGs, then you should stay away. Otherwise, if you are 
 looking for fun you will find it here.
  
  -=T
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I will start off with the negitive side of the game. Installation takes forever, so i suggest starting 
 it before going to bed, then after work the next day you can play. But that is a fleeing complaint 
 because you only have to do it once. The next big problem with the game is that there are too many 
 servers for the size of the player base. I found it difficult at the middle levels to find people 
 to fellowship up with. If they advertised the game a bit more or lowered the pay to play cost they 
 may get some WoW converts to come to LOTR. Now for the good parts of the game. I really liked the 
 experiance system, playing WoW before this game i was use to mindless grinding and frivolous quests 
 to lvl up, but in lotr the quests are more goal oriented and grinding is useless because the exp 
 from a mob kill is very low and quest rewards are very high. There are also many quests to do at 
 each level so you dont have to search elsewhere for your exp. The enviroment is also amazing if 
 you are fimiliar with the books or movies you will reconize many landmarks and locations. They 
 developers took much care for detail with creating the landscape. The PvP system is a little odd 
 at first. At lvl 10 you can begin what is called monster play, inwhich you log into the world as 
 a mob in the entmoores and you try to kill real players. There are also many faces in the game 
 you will reconize (spoiler) you will meet such characters as gandolf, aragorn, Tom Bombidail, and 
 many others. THe UI is what i consider perfect, it has all the neccicary addons from wow already 
 incorperated into it such as breakable bottom bar, CT, and decursive. The crafting system is also 
 very nice. Each occupation has three elements to it and you can lvl them all up or just focus on 
 one aspect of your craft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I might as well start by saying I have been playing World of Warcraft since the beta back in October 
 of 2004, and have tried other MMO's along the way, such as Everquest, EQ2, and other free and pay-to-play 
 games. None of them have measured up to WoW, and though a few kept me playing through my free trial, 
 I always returned to WoW, and I'm not even a huge raid or PvP player, I stick with PvE, crafting 
 and questing most of the time. So when LOTRO was released, I didn't hold much hope for it dethroning 
 the king of MMO's, and I chose to wait for the free trial to be released (which wasn't until almost 
 6 months later) .
  
  When I downloaded it and gave it a 7-day run, I was impressed with how accessible it was for newbies, 
 and how well the tutorials put you right in the game and didn't set you off on your own until you 
 knew enough to get yourself in trouble. But let's go back and start with the character creation. 
 The one complaint many had with WoW was the similarities between characters of the same race, or 
 in other words, not enough customization. I kind of feel the same way about LOTRO, however with 
 the more "realistic" look of the graphics, I think the differences are even less pronounced. All 
 the female elf characters have mouths and eyes that remind me of Liv Tyler as Arwen from the movies, 
 and the humans seem to have similar issues. However, the player models look really good and are 
 fun to play around with to get started.
  
  Once in the game, I noticed the stiffness of some of the animations, particularly the running. 
 The combat looks good, some actions are great while others are only so-so, but it doesn't deter 
 much from the enjoyment. The environments, especially the architecture of the ruins and cities 
 are very "Tolkein-esque", and I really appreciated the look and feel of the world. None of the 
 areas feel too empty, and some maybe a little too full, but the challenge is appreciated. Shrubs, 
 monsters, creatures, mountains, etc. all look great, and the higher your computer power the better 
 you can make it look. I was able to run it on three different computers with different levels of 
 hardware with no problem at all, simply by scaling the look. Even on lower setting the world still 
 looks good and doesn't detract from the experience much.
  
  The sounds are appropriate as well, and the voice acting from NPC's is pretty good. The guy that 
 voices Gandalf in the cutscenes sounds so close to Ian McKellan, at first I thought it was him! 
 Definitely a Gandalf feel to him. The elves are breezy and use appropriate elven words here and 
 there, and other races fit as well. Some of the combat sounds (and grunts and groans) get a bit 
 old, and I found myself wishing for a bit more variety, but the swords, bows, etc., sound good 
 and I didn't mind it too much. The music is excellent, and being a huge fan of the Howard Shore 
 movie soundtrack, I was worried that this wouldn't measure up, but it definitely held its own and 
 I enjoy listening to it.
  
  So on to the gameplay. Questing in the game is easy and intuitive, and most don't stray too far 
 from the norm for this kind of game, i. e. killing a certain number of creature X or gathering ingredient 
 Y, but adding in the need to do this to save a ranger that is working with Aragorn adds that much 
 more zing to the feeling of necessity; I feel like I'm working for the good guys and want to complete 
 the quests. Money comes in through the quests though probably not as much as you'd expect for some 
 of the early difficult ones. Other than that, the rewards are appropriate and I haven't found them 
 too unreasonable yet, though some of the "Crafting" quests could have been skipped.
  
  Speaking of crafting, it can take some work and it seems like a lot of materials are required to 
 make one thing. For example, you need two hides to make one boiled leather, and two boiled leather 
 to make one leather binding and two more for a leather pad. Then you need one of each to make any 
 cloth item, and one of each along with another boiled leather for any light leather item. You also 
 need to buy some basic reagents that will help you make the items you need, and they can be pricey 
 for a beginner. I wasn't too careful and found I didn't have any money to buy my next skills because 
 I had spent it all on materials! That said, I like the crafting mechanism and find myself excited 
 when I find materials I need while out questing.
  
  Combat is well executed and follows the same sort of mechanism that other MMO's do, that is, skills 
 with timed attacks and cooldowns. So far I have started four different classes of characters and 
 have found their styles very different and enjoyable. Some high level monsters are appropriately 
 difficult to defeat and the game color codes the monster names for you to help you decide if you're 
 a match for them or not. I have been impressed so far with the new skills I've earned at every 
 level and want to level just to see what powerful new skill I learn next.
  
  I'm not sure what more to add to this, but technically it is a very solid game. I have run in to 
 a few issues where the dead body of my foe is lootable, but when I click on it, it says "too far 
 away", and once a party member of mine and I were using the public transit horses and both got 
 stuck with both horses bumping into each other to the point where we had to dismount and waste 
 the 5 silver we paid. I also had server glitch that prevented me from logging in with my main character 
 for two days, it kept telling me it was still saving my character. When I finally did log in, I 
 had lost all the materials and items that I had gained from the last two or three hours I had played. 
 These issues exist in most MMO's, I've had WoW fail in these ways before, so I can't hold it against 
 Turbine too much. 
  
  Overall, I may have a challenge trying to work my gaming time between two excellent MMO's, but 
 since I've played WoW to death, I think I'll stay in Tolkein's world for a while. Thank you Turbine! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comamber
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Going from WoW -  Lotro is an easier conversion than i thought, now 4months of gameplay under my 
 belt and i have to say it kicks WoW in the face when it comes to graphics and player friendliness! 
 Added features in Lotro give it its own unique face, although most of them were only just added 
 with the Book12 patch!
  
  Classes are new but can be considered similar to most MMORPG's, but the fact is, there can only 
 be so much originality. But this is a good thing, as when you are trying to lure 4million wow players 
 to the same thing but only different, it helps to have some common ground. A few things people 
 will relate between the 2 big mmo's and WoW (captain-paladin, lore-master-mage, minstrel-priest, 
 guardian-warrior, champion-dpswarrior, burglar-rogue)
  
  I like lotro (explains the 4months) , i suggest anyone who hasn't played an MMORPG before to start 
 with lotro as it has a relaxed atmosphere about it, and 3 great 4hr movies to go with it! But i 
 also suggest that WoW players, try out the 10-day trial at least!
  
  Peace-out,
  
  //comamber
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavobotto
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  This is a very unique MMORPG, using dx10 they could made a very imersive world with amazing places 
 that you can find yourself many times stopped in some place just looking and enjoying the view. 
 And the good notice that it work very well with dx9, make you stop at the same way just to look 
 the view.
  
  Its a game that make you realy enjoy to play it, because you dont have to became a slave of the 
 game to be a good player, you could lvl cap til maximum lvl with a very enjoyable game and you 
 dont have to spend a stop you whole life to do it. Lvl 50 is the maximum lvl.
  
  There is a very efficient craft system, that you can use to get many good itens to use in your 
 character.
  
  They have so many instances and raids with 12 and 24 players that you always have something to 
 do, objectives to acomplish, or itens to get. Using the barter system to get your sets you dont 
 have to wait for the right drop that sometimes never come for the bosses that you kill, so in this 
 game all bosses drop itens that any class can change for the correspondent item.
  
  There is also 7 classes, burglar (kind of rogue/assassin) , captain (kind of paladin) , champion (kind 
 of warrior) , hunter, loremaster, (kind of mage mixed with druid) , guardian (tank) , ministrel (healer) , 
 and 4 races (hoobit, human, elf, dwarfs) that you can play, and they made it that all class is 
 very usefull in the groups, so you dont have to use more some class than others.
  
  
  And there is a pvp system where you can play like free people or mosnter where you can battle for 
 keeps and faction instances.
  
  And finally there is a unique house system where you can own a house, a kinship house (guild house) 
 and a unique costumizations system tahat you can use item for cosmetics and make you charater and 
 his armos look better and more real.
  
  One of the best things in thes game is that its always moving like the lotr history, you can see 
 it happen, make part pf the history, play beside aragorn, gandalf, legolas, gimli, frodo and all 
 others charaters in the original book, for this they are all making expasions that are always free 
 til now. So thats a game that keep moving and you to make you live a real adventure.
  
  Try it , you will love it like me!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I was just done with WoW when this game came out, I took a look at some screenshots and videos. 
 I didn't liked it at all. So I started to play other games.
  
  Then some months ago I started to look for a new MMO and I came back to LOTRO. Still I was not 
 sure if this was good or bad. But I took the 7 days free trail and just after some minuts I started 
 to like this game.
  
  If you was playing SWG in the good old days, then you know my feeling. It's great. I enjoy every 
 minut.
  
  The population is not that big like in WoW, but you are not alone in the world. You see people 
 all the time.
  
  The bad part is that you can only play the "good" guys. The game have "Monster play", but I still 
 think it would be better with both sides being play able. And the Creeps are way too weak. That 
 kills the PvP for me and will lower the score.
  
  The game is also very realistic in many ways, but still it have stars and other light effects when 
 you fight. Here I would like blood. But thats me.
  
  And some more character creation options would have been nice.
  
  Anyway it's a very good MMO. 
 It look great, it's fun and the world is huge. Even the instances are big.
  
  I say try it out. It's NOT a WoW copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW at a very hardcore level all the way to defeating the Twin Emps in AQ40, and attempting 
 to defeat C'thun. We also downed the first 5 bosses in Naxx. Note that my guild was what you would 
 consider 'hardcore' in the sense that we spent 5 hours a night raiding. We were also attempting 
 this encounters right behind the front-running guilds. I quit the game around this time, for many 
 a reason. Mostly because our guild was falling apart due to pure leadership and my boredom with 
 'cookie cutter' encounters.
  
  I did however come back when Burning Crusade was released, to see what was new. I personally wasn't 
 impressed. I got through Karazan, and Gruul's lair, and the attempts at Magtheridon... however, 
 very quickly realized.... this is the same thing, rehashed.
  
  With that said, I hadn't played an MMO for about a year. Until I tried Lord of the Rings Online. 
 
  
  Why? Age of Conan got delayed, so I needed something to play.
  
  All I can say is. This game is very impressive. Now, mind you, I have only leveled to 10, but the 
 game reminds me of how I felt when I first got WoW. The adventure of searching through new lands 
 for the first time, not knowing what is beyond the uncharted maps is just so much fun. This is 
 mostly due to the very impressive graphics, and the sheer scale of the world. When I first downloaded 
 the game, I thought this game was simply an attempt to cash into the LOTRs licence - when the truth 
 is, it is a very solid MMO.
  
  For those of you bored with World of Warcraft. For those of you who remember the sheer fun of leveling 
 from 1-60 for the first time. Get this game, you will not regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online
  
  (chars built: GRD (lv50) , LRM (lv50) , BRG (lv43) , CHP (lv37) , MNS (lv15) )
  (Craft GM: Jeweller, 
 Scholar, Armorer, Weaponsmith)
  
  What's to like:
  - Beautiful world
  - Feels like you are in the movies
  - Short but good story CGs
  - Crafting is easy
  - Houses
 
  - Fun scripted instances
  - Friendly community
  - Frequent updates
  
  What you may not like:
  - Unpolished, uninspired character models
  - Ugly equipment
  - No 
 unique items (Static loot table - stats are not random)
  - No significant end-game content
  - No class balance for PVP
  - Not many performance-driven players
  
  
  Story - Shadows 
 of Angmar
  
  The Lord of the Nazgul has sent his armies to invade Eriador from the north, and you have been 
 asked to help the Free People of Middle Earth to push them back. Though, you won't participate 
 directly in the main story that we all know, you will still interact with the main characters: 
 Aragorn, Frodo and the others. 
  
  The setting of this first release goes up to the meeting of Elrond, so the region is limited to 
 Eriador, which holds Bree, the Shire and Rivendell.
  
  It will take you around 3 to 6 months (normal work schedule) to get to level 50 and experience 
 most of what LOTRO has to offer. Excluding its PVP.
  
  
  Game - Solo or group, it's all good. 
  
  Epic Quests
  
  Most of the game content can be 
 done solo if desired. The Epic quests (referred as books) , which actually allow you to advance 
 in the story, require a group. What's great about those missions is that they are scripted. So 
 your enemies will talk to you and special events will occur. This is a nice touch compared to the 
 mindless dungeon clearing. Most of them are quite challenging too and will require some good group 
 coordination. Overall, they are great to experience and fun to do. 
  
  
  Combat
  
  The combat system is a mix of doing your job (tank, heal, dps or support) and conjunctions. Conjunctions 
 are like Renkeis in FFXI or if you are unfamiliar with those, they are special group attacks that 
 allow the Fellowship (party) to do extra damage or restore some morale (HP) . A cool looking animation 
 occurs each time the party successfully triggers one.
  
  
  Classes
  
  There is the Guardian (tank) who relies on reactive skills to keep the aggro. The Champion, who 
 excels at hitting multiple enemies (dps) . The Hunter, who specializes in single targets (dps) . 
 The Lore Master who leads in ranged crowd control and buffs. The Burglar who can debuff opponents, 
 do melee crowd control and trigger Conjunctions. The Captain who is the master of party buffs and 
 finally, the Minstrel who restores morale (HP) to the troops by playing music (Healer) .
  
  
  Dying
  
  There is no penalty to dying other than a repair bill and being warped to the 
 closest graveyard. Obviously, this hurts significantly the tank class (Guardian) because of its 
 heavy armor while it matters little for the other classes. Dying is a good way to "teleport" back 
 to a town. It is worth to note that Turbine, the makers of the game, try constantly to balance 
 those repair costs that can become quite a burden in the very last stages of the game.
  
  
  Equipment upgrades
  
  There is usually little need to "shop" at the Auction house or even 
 from the NPC vendors for upgrades since the quest rewards are usually more than enough to go through 
 everything in the game up to the end-game content. It would have been nicer if the equipment, armors 
 and weapons, would have been better modeled. At the time of this review, they are definitely missing 
 the 'umph' in both looks and properties. Too many weapons and armors are just about the same.
 
  
  
  End Content
  
  Once you've reached the maximum level (50) , you will need to find a Kinship (guild) in order to 
 experience the 'end game content'. This content requires groups of 12 or more (depending on the 
 dungeon to raid) . They are very challenging and will require even more coordination than the normal 
 epic books. All in all, if you don't plan on joining a kinship or do PVP once you've reached the 
 maximum level, there is very little you can do other than restarting a new character, turn your 
 crafting into a full time profession or just complete traits (useful repetitive quests to boost 
 your stats) .
  
  
  LOTRO Engine
  
  Let's get one thing straight: the world is beautiful. The water is close to reality and the landscape 
 views are breathtaking. The Shire is probably the prettiest area to explore while the other areas 
 range from "standard RPG look" to pretty dry and boring toward the end (Angmar) .
  
  The game has been stable since launch and performance issues are isolated. This is quite an accomplishment 
 for a new MMORPG.
  
  
  Conclusion - Worth playing
  
  Just to be able to walk Middle-Earth makes it worth it to go from 1 to 50. The casual community, 
 the Epic quests and the groups dynamic undeniably contributes in the success of Lord of the Ring 
 Online and with a free expansion coming every few months, it can only get better. 
  
  8.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardboiled15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  This game is based on Tolkiens popular fantasy books lord of the rings not the movies and that 
 means that the music from the movie is not in the game but when Turbine have made excelent music 
 themself its really cool. The graphics looks awesome and runs well for me on my Pentium 4 and my 
 geforce 7950 GT the watter effects are the best in any game ever. The level cap is lvl 50 and the 
 leveling is quite fast but plz dont powerlevel in this game you will ruin the hole idea with the 
 game to live the books. The game got a good story that has something to do with the story of the 
 books/movies and the story in the game is about fighting the witchking of Angmar and you will find 
 great instances that will make you start wondering. Is this really a mmo game? And in the book 
 11 update you can now own a house and no its not instanced other players are able to see your house 
 and if you let them to go in and look you can buy furniture to your house and alot of other stuff 
 its really fun. There is alot of quests in this game (like 1700 right now) so you will have planty 
 to do and in the book 13 update a big new area will be unlocked and they will open player barber 
 shops so then you can change your hair and facialhair how much you want! And the service of the 
 devs are just amazing alot of the things in the updates is things people have asked for in the 
 Dec chat. The only thing thats not so good in this game is the pvp its not free like on wow but 
 there is a big pvp area called Ettenmors when your real char is lvl 10 you can make a monsterplayer 
 and you will start at lvl 50 and if you want to go to Ettenmors with your real char then you have 
 to be lvl 40+. In Ettenmors you can raid and have some fun pvp but its not free the pvp is only 
 free when you are in Ettenmors. If you like lord of the rings you must play this game if you like 
 mmorpg games you most play this game if you have a pc you must at least try this game im now off 
 for some nice questing in Angmar Gharlo the Dragonslayer is back!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for many reasons. Solid gameplay, an awesome story that unfolds as you play, 
 a chance to actually experience the world of middle earth, the best music of any MMO out there, 
 the game is expertly crafted and complete and the list goes on. This is a refreshing change from 
 most MMO games out there today. Most of what you will find is stuff you can already do in other 
 games out there but they have taken what I feel are the best qualities of each and combined them 
 into one game. Probably the single best feature of the game is the way Turbine has listened to 
 the feedback from the players. The customer service is top notch and all the issues I have had 
 have been professionally addressed in a timely manner so far. This game is still rather new so 
 I have hope that once I hit the top they will continue to develop the story and open new areas 
 in future expansions. Truly a great start for a new game with exciting things ahead in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halogamb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Most people usually call this a WoW clone..... sadly mistaken. This game brings forth to the table 
 a fun questline and Middle-Earth world that you can dive right in to. WoW was simply..... grind 
 grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind grind 
 grind grind with no replay value. This game adds on a great graphics scheme that topples WoW's 
 graphics which look like someone shoved a crayon up their ass and squatted over a piece of paper. 
 Sadly, the ones who compare this as a bad WoW clone probably haven't spent the time to go beneath 
 the Introductory quests, which are boring for every MMO out there.
  The few problems this game has is that, as with all MMOs, it has a very slow beginning. In order 
 to get the full experience, you have to spend more than an hour playing and get through the Introduction 
 and beginning. Once you get through it, a whole new game opens up. This game offers a questline 
 that you can dive right in to but you need to get there first.
  The second problem is that in order to fully experience everything the graphics and sound engines 
 have to offer, you have to own a monster super computer. Without something like this, you will 
 only be experiencing a dulled down version of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlogman
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I played LOTRO for about 4 months, leveling a few characters - one of which all the way to 50 (the 
 max level) . I joined a kinship, worked on reputations and crafting. I tried the PVP. 
  
  The 0-50 experience of LOTRO is a lot of fun. I would say it is a little more difficult to get 
 the hang of all the different aspects of the game initially than WoW, but once you get them down 
 it is quite easy. 
  
  The problems are more pronounced when you get to level 50. As you can see by the above reference 
 to WoW that I'm using that as a benchmark for evaluating the LOTRO experience. One thing I really 
 enjoyed about WoW was the EXTENSIVE instance options available even after you reach end-game. There 
 are tons of objectives to work on, which all have clearly useful objectives (reputation rewards, 
 heroic difficulty badge rewards, boss drop upgrades, etc.) . In LOTRO this is simply not the case. 
 There are a very few dungeons to choose from, and simply doing the dungeons is either pathetically 
 easy or unimaginably tedious. In many cases you need to kill upwards of 30-45 minutes of trash 
 just to get to the instance portal. And if you die? If you don't have a class alive in your group 
 that can resurrect you, then your whole group usually needs to regroup outside and do the outside 
 trash again, just to get back in. You can imagine how often the group simply breaks up due to this.
 
  
  But more importantly, the game is simply exceedingly boring at level 50. The PVP is one-dimensional 
 and not even worth the effort. 
  
  All in all, it was an extremely disappointing effort from Turbine. The Lord of the Rings moniker 
 deserved much much more than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjaSam
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  + Awesome graphics!
  + Good solo content
  + Good group content
  + Overall great gaming experience
  + Good for people who dont have time to play 6h a day. You 
 can get alot done in an hour or two.
  + Lots of content
  + Great community
  + Price (bought the game for just 16 Dollars)
  + Characters/skills etc.
  + Only one game crash 
 so far. (Vista DX10 beta)
  
  -Player physics/movement (Whats up with the running animation and a few others? Drunk "devs"???
 
  
  Tried this game way back in beta. Did not like it at all. Now i love it!
  
  Other MMO i have played.
  -Wow
  -Vanguard SoH (Ignore the good grade i gave to that game. Thought 
 they would fix the game in future patches but its still broken. It could have been great.)
  -EVE
  
  Alot of updates coming to LOTRO soon! Still growing and getting better! Next big mmo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I kept putting this game off becuase of the pay per month thing, but as i was a lord of the rings 
 fan i eventually bought it. the only game i could ever comapre this with is guild wars because 
 thats the only other mo ive played. but actually its very different. for me its the type of game 
 i can pick up and play , do a few quests and turn it off, this reason is because each quest can 
 take quite a while and there is alot of running around between the huge maps. 
  my first character is a hobbit, i could not believe the sheer amount of quests there was for me 
 to do , in the shire alone! now i understand why people are paying monthly for games like this. 
 overall its been a good purchase and cant wait to get further into the game.
  my bad points about the game is the slight stuttering you get when running around, even on any 
 graphics setting, i usually play very high on 1024 x 768 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azlaroth
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  This MMO has taken all the best qualities of single player RPG's (aka. FF-X) and implemented it 
 in a MMO. Perfect feel
  
  This is a wonderful MMORPG for those who actually want a story and a superbly ritch environment. 
 The attention to detail is just plain mind boggling. From the stars in the sky to the little anecdote 
 quotes of the NPC's it's just out there.
  
  However if you are a serious hardcore PvPer or griever you need not apply. LotRo is not for you. 
 But if you are a social gamer and in to Cooperative play then join the adventure and keep baddies 
 away from the fellowship.
  
  Although still in it's infant stages the world is fleshed out rather well and there is absolutely 
 no need to rush to that Highest level you can get. 
  
  Crafting however needs to be tweaked slightly, even if you are a casual gamer you can very easily 
 out grow your equipment and there just is not enough crafted items to keep one healthy. Other then 
 that a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanwhite2005
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! Addictive! Beautiful! Fun! This game is absolutely superb! I have played WOW and i think 
 that this is amazing in comparison. The quests are much better, they dont feel pointless. The story 
 quests are really interesting and fresh. The graphics are just amazing for an MMORPG. 
  
  When i used to play WOW i got bored of the quests, there was just no direction. You went round 
 doing whatever you wanted, which was fun for the first 20 hours or so but then just got boring. 
 Lord of the rings feels like an updated version of WOW, correcting all the boring parts of WOW 
 and making them much better.
  
  Im playing it with 2gb ram, q6600 processor, and 8800GT's in SLI and it looks amazing in direct 
 x 10 on the highest settings. This is deffinitly one of the best games in the past year.
  
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkas2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Lotro, is set between the Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers. Immerse thineself in a land 
 of wonder, excitement, danger. The character creation is full of options to choose from, yet it 
 has things many mmo's have gone before it have. Such as: a new twist to PvP, a game mode where you 
 can make a evil creature of sauron and battle against players (such as yourself) in this new and 
 exciting PvP mode. New crafting system called Vocations, where depending on what you choose, u can 
 make various items to sell in the auction house or maybe just use for yourself. This new system 
 of vocations make the economy in the game more stable, like if you are an Armsman, (a crafter who 
 makes blades and spears) you have the prospecting skill (mining) a weaponsmith skill, and a Woodsman 
 skill. Now, the prospecting and weaponsmithing combo can get the supplies you need for weapons, 
 but, u still need wood for making bows and spears. Thats were another player comes in, he can sell 
 you the wood for profit and then you can make bows for possibly even more profit. So in the end, 
 everyone is needed. Classes, consist of the role-playing stereotypes, the warrior, paladin, priest, 
 rogue, hunter, mage. But don't let that discourage you. The game content may not be that big, but 
 in the future it will be introducing a new level cap, new raids, spells, or maybe even new lands 
 to traverse, such as the horse land Rohan or the royal city of Gondor. Or maybe even the black gates 
 themselves, whatever you like in an MMO, I'm sure you will find something here. Try the trial, world 
 of warcraft isn't the only MMO out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  As a kid, I loved the 70s cartoon movie "The Hobbit." But between that time and my college years, 
 I always thought of Lord of the Rings readers as (at least) one level of nerd below me. ok, more 
 like tens of levels of nerd below me Phil, I'm talking to you... all excited when our high school 
 band was playing "The Lord of the Rings Symphony." 
  It wasn't until I was in college that I decided to read The Hobbit. Although it was written for 
 children, it was a great read (even better than the cartoon movie) . After reading that, it was 
 only natural that I read The Lord of the Rings. Since that time, I have not only re-read the books, 
 but also picked up The Silmarillion, Unfinished Tales, and The Atlas of Middle Earth.
  
  
  
  Nerd Alert: using the information in all of the books, as well as the appendices, I have 
 constructed family trees, time-lines, and descriptions for every family, group, and era.
  
  Don't even get me started on the movies. I saw those suckers at least three times in the theaters, 
 and own the extended editions (each with about 30 minutes more footage) .
  
  Now comes along Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmaar. 
  After four years of development 
 (and several name changes, from Middle Earth Online, all the way to today) . I was lucky enough 
 to be involved in the testing process since the beginning of beta 1, and watched this game shape 
 up over a long period of time.
  
  When I began testing, not all of the features were in place, and as a result, I didn't think it 
 would sell well. Most people knock new MMOs as World of Warcraft clones, and I saw this game as 
 only one that would appeal to other Tolkien fanboys. However, as the game progressed beautifully 
 from beta 1 to beta 2, and all the way to open beta, I saw this game flourish with features and 
 fun, and get polished to a fine sheen.
  
  The kickass features. While not all of these are unique, they do help make this game as fantastic 
 as it is.
  Lord of the Rings Storyline - there is an actual storyline that is unravelled while you play this 
 MMORPG. While this helps create greater immersion, I can't figure out what the developers are going 
 to do once the storyline is over. Hell, in one month, the developers are already at the party meets 
 in Rivendell, and Aragon is going to re-forge the blade of Narsil moment.
  
  Monster Play - because PvP wouldn't make sense with all of the players being on the side of Light, 
 one can temporarily become an agent of evil through special scrying pools littered about the land.
 
  
  Detail - the development team spent years pouring over every novel of Tolkien's, and it's paid 
 off. Locales that were only mentioned in a passing sentence are fleshed out in detail. Elf cities 
 share similar architecture, as do dwarven cities, cities of men, etc.
  
  Exploration - As mentioned above, every square inch of Middle Earth has been well-planned. Exploration 
 of new areas has always been a staple in MMORPG games, but games like Everquest II tend to be very 
 flat. As a result, exploration doesn't involve discovering what's around the next bend so much 
 as it involves seeing a building from 10 miles away, and simply running to it.
  
  "New" ****s - This game doesn't use traditional ****s lifted from Dungeons and Dragons. Some of 
 the ****s are the same (rogue and burgular, bard and mistral) , but some (the captain) require deep 
 thinking in order to use properly.
  
  Badges - the game tracks the way you play the game. As you kill more wolves, you earn the title 
 "Wolf Hunter." Again, this is not unique to LOTRO (it's done in EQ2, City of Heroes and Planetside) , 
 but I've never seen so many different badges fleshed out from the beginning.
  
  Business Model - the publishers reward those who pre-ordered the game by not only guaranteeing 
 them a place in the open beta, but also promising them a lower subscription price: either $10 a 
 month (as opposed to $15) , or $200 for the life of the game. That's one of the smartest things 
 I've ever seen a publisher do for the launch of a MMORPG.
  
  Instanced Dramatic Sequences - whenever a pivotal moment in the storyline occurs, you and/or your 
 party are in an instace. This way, it feels like you're a critical cog in the storytelling wheel.
 
  My guild, Sturmgrenadier has made a home on the Brandywine server. 
  
  Overall, this is the best MMORPG that I have ever played. Everquest 2 and City of Heroes/Villains 
 may just get pushed out of the way for awhile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobalt1365
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Before the proper review starts, let me say that I've been playing Lord of the Rings Online since 
 closed beta. I have also never played an MMO before (I take that back, I played WoW for about 20 
 minutes almost four years ago.) So bear in mind that this is the only real MMO experience that 
 I've had to date and as such can't really compare it to any others.
  
  
  The reason I really got this game was not specifically for the Online experience, but rather for 
 the Lord of the Rings experience. The opportunity to freely explore Middle-Earth was an offer I 
 just couldn't refuse. I was anticipating a very authentic story and setting, but at the same time 
 if it was just an excuse to cash in on the LOTR title, I was going to be very put off.
  
  Turbine did not disappoint.
  At first, beyond references to the Nazgul and Strider, I did not 
 see much correlation between the books and LOTRO (the game is actually licensed from the books 
 themselves, not the New Line movies) . But that's because it's told from a different perspective. 
 You're just a regular Joe or Jane from the land of Eriador (North-Eastern Middle-Earth) , and not 
 originally involved with the story at all. But the devs did a great job filling in the blanks (indeed 
 there are many, as the most current update, Book Eleven, only covers up to the first half of The 
 Fellowship of the Ring) . As such, there are a lot of extra sub-story lines in order to drastically 
 create the content. I would say that 75% of the main quests are not alluded to at all in the books, 
 but where they do reference book material they get it right. For example, minor references to the 
 wars of the kingdoms of Arthedain, Cardolan and Rhudaur become major plotlines. The settings are 
 authentic, which makes you really believe you are in Middle-Earth, not just some fantasyland with 
 some coinciding names.
  
  While I can't compare it to Everquest, World of Warcraft or Star Wars Galaxies, I can say that 
 the gameplay is very fun. The mostly point-and-click controls are simple and easy to pick up, if 
 not completely intuitive. It took quite a while to get used to the idea of an economy, crafting 
 system, and such a deep role-play experience in a game, but I guess that's what comes with the 
 MMO territory. For a more nuts-and-bolts review of the gameplay mechanics I would refer to you 
 to the Gamespot review.
  
  The graphics are outstanding for an MMO. While it's nothing like Crysis, that would be comparing 
 apples to oranges. The amount of visual detail is amazing. Fields are filled with individually 
 mapped grass and flowers, birds flutter in the distance, major landmarks can be seen from a mile 
 away. The character models are the real stars of the game, though. zooming in very close on high 
 settings reveal birthmarks, scars, and other detail not present in most other games. The armor 
 and clothing are all well-designed and colorful, but at the lower more linear levels, sometimes 
 too colorful (yellow pants, purple gloves and green shoes don't really work for me, especially 
 when worn together) . The lighting, especially with the recent Directx 10 patch looks excellent. 
 Day and night effects are amazing, and on a clear night, one can look up and find real constellations 
 and watch the moon crawl across the sky. The clouds and water look absolutely magnificent, almost 
 photorealistic. Unfortunately I can't say the same for the rapids and waterfalls, which look like 
 throwbacks from games from the beginning of this decade. If your machine and internet connection 
 can handle the load, this game looks amazing. It still looks good, especially the atmospheric effects, 
 at low levels, however textures take a huge hit from the graphical downgrades.
  
  I guess what I'm trying to say is...
  Play this game. It's fun, looks great, and draws on great 
 source material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexandru04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  If you loved the movies, red the books, you will love to be in there, and find certain places and 
 characters. There is a main quest line takes you through the story and levels, and it has connections 
 with the main characters like Aragon, Gandalf and others. Its a great game to explore, go in to 
 instances your fellowship. LOTR Online took some nice things from other games, like mounts, auction 
 house, crafting, that are similar to WoW system, but also some new things that sets it apart from 
 other mmorpg.
  Its interface is easy to understand and use, having a bar for ability icons, a map and you and 
 your enemy's portrait with health and mana.
  If you loved the movies, you will love the game to.. im glad it turned out as id did ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akabeth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Having spent a good portion of my free-time this summer with this game up-till mid October, I can 
 say a lot of things with this game.
  
  
  Here are some
  
  Good:
  -Immersive world
  -Great community
  -Combat is quite fun; lots of aspects to it --  combo-ing
 
  -Story is very intriguing; lot of aspects stay true to the "actual novel"
  -GFx is very good especially on mid to high-end cards
  -There are two *very* populated servers 
 (Brandywine and Landroval) where you will have no difficulty finding PvE questing partners
  -AFK message is the best thing about this game ;) fellow PvP players know what's so good about 
 it =P
  
  Bad:
  -Lots of bugs in raids
  -Crafting is way too easy especially on higher-end items; the high-end item market in game is broken, 
 everyone runs around with epics
  -LOTS of Grind; and I mean it. This game will make you grind a good amount of hours to get to level 
 50 (current cap) ; questing can become very repetitive
  -Not enough customization options; by the time I stopped playing I had all epic gear set and decked 
 out traits but even by the amount of hours I spent in game there are so many people running around 
 in epics (epic tier items is not of epic rarity in this game) plus a lot of these armor pieces 
 cosmetically looks almost identical
  -The absolute worst part of this game (and the reason I quit) is the PvP. I can not say enough 
 just how unbalanced the mechanics are. The addition of trolls and rangers can make an even battlefield 
 (although only by the bidding of players) . 
  Burglars+Wargs (stealth) and hunters+blackarrows (ranged) are over-used and melee fighters are 
 almost useless without a good party with healer; I've had times were 3 full freep raids weren't 
 enough to turn the tide of battle due to overwhelming amount of creeps; it's not enjoyable because 
 one side always dominates the other depending on time of day and situation of kinships (both freep 
 and creep side)
  Also the idea that you play both side may have been creative, but it's so exploitable that it doesn't 
 help the PvP cause.
  
  
  Overall:
  Good game if you enjoy the grind. The community is awesome! I think this game can compete with 
 near-future big names; namely Age of Conan and Warhammer. PvP must be fixed for this game to survive... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWGruler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the game is amazing, tons of immersion into the Lord of the Rings stories told 
 by Tolkein. You can advance through quests that are for the most part related to the fellowship, 
 and sometimes you take part in quests directly related to the Fellowship in instances and those 
 are especially fun. 
  
  The Good:
  -Beginning is great and realy lets you have a feel for the game.
  -MonsterPlay is really fun 
 especially as more good players reach 50
  -Graphics are wonderful and even better when set on very high
  -Music was nicely composed
  
 -Hundreds of quests that are mostly unique
  -Book Quests are very fun 
  -Dungeons/instances are great, especially Fornost and Angmar end dung.
  
  Bad:
  -No Housing 
 at beginning (recent update added limited housing)
  -Economy is not well structured, needs a lot of improvement
  -Quests get less innovative as game 
 moves on, kill x becomes common
  -Not much uniqueness between players in skill or clothing
  -Quests are usually improperly rated on their lvl and many times rewards are too low quality for 
 difficulty of quest
  -Not much to do besides Quests
  
  Overall I think the game is great but needs some improvement, I'm still playing it and its getting 
 a lot better. The Turbine Dev team is obviously devoted to the improvement of the game. An example 
 is the free update of Evendim, a huge zone which was nicely done except for the killer aggro deer. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Chonks
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Still graphics
  Good sounds
  
  Cons:
  Shallow storyline
  Disappointing graphics whilst in motion
  Not competitive
  
  Don't get me wrong... this is 
 a decent game, but if you're going to pay monthly for an MMORPG, you might as well spend a little 
 more for World of Warcraft before buying this. Or, at the very least, download the 7-day trial 
 before committing to this.
  
  Pros:
  The graphics are good when they don't move. Comparable with the graphics of Gun or Fable, even.
 
  They mastered the use of 3D effects, making more relevant than, say, The Sims 2 for PC.
  
  Cons:
  I'll use the example from the elves storyline to begin:
  You start out fighting against 
 a nasty dwarf and some goblins trying to steal relics from the elves. Then, the leader of the revolt 
 is killed, but hundreds of years later (apparently you did no training in that amount of time) 
 some dwarves are returning to their old ways. Stop them. Not very exciting to me.
  I mentioned the good graphics at rest; however, when in motion, movements are somewhat choppy, 
 but at least it appears as though you are "hitting" the target, whereas in World of Warcraft the 
 motion is flawless, but it looks like it's swatting the air rather than the target.
  It's simply not competitive. I really don't know what to add to this. Paying for World of Warcraft 
 feels like a real pocket drainer, but when you're at home playing, you feel like it's worth it! 
 When you play this, you just... watch... and wait... and hope that eventually something exciting 
 comes along.
  
  Moral of story:
  The cheap way is not always the best way; you pay for quality, and in this case, if you're going 
 to play an MMORPG, you should stick with WoW or Vendetta1923 or oGame or something.
  If you're considering getting it, do yourself a favour... download the 7-day trial from their site 
 first. If you hate it, you lose no money. If you love it, hey, you got 7 days free.
  
  Have a nice day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldsoulco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  So its been around 7 months since launch. What have the added to keep this game going? Well we 
 had our first free expansion a, month ago. It included content, tweaks and nerfs, Housing, story 
 additions, bug fixes... and the list goes on. 
  
  the game play mechanics are the same as every other MMo out there. A few differences, like fellowship 
 conjunctions. This allows the group to perform one coordinated attack. Deeds that allow you to 
 increase your stats. 
  
  recently they have added DirectX 10 support, that makes the game look all the nicer to look at. 
 Frame rates go down, but not by much. 
  Housing was introduced, it's a good way to store extra items and have a personal space. 
  You 
 can Solo most of the content in this game, even some group quests if you choose the right class 
 to play. ie. Burglar. I've only grouped on the major story quests and endings of quest chains. 
 
  
  The leveling is a balance between fast and rewarding. Its not so fast that you max out in a few 
 months, but you can move along and accomplish something even if you play for an hour or so. the 
 quest rewards are usually useful to you . whether you get a crafting piece or armor.
  
  this is a great competitor to WoW. it has the 2nd most subscribers out of any MMo today. if your 
 looking for a different game than WoW and love LOTR this is for you. Its fun to just run around 
 and see all the places you read about for years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am not a fan of Lord of the Rings. For this reason, it makes my reviews objective. 
 Though LOTRO is from EA. com (one of the loathsome companies) , I am still glad to see this new MMORPG 
 coming out. LOTRO has amazing graphics and excellent scenes. Grahpics of Lord of the Rings Online 
 is much better than World of Warcraft, LOL.
  
  Lord of the Rings Online has good storyline and quests. Music is excellent and it's better than 
 WoW. Maybe that's why I just like LOTRO. Is there any flaw in LOTRO? Sure, I just complain the style 
 of melee combat is a bit clumsy. And there is no 40 VS 40 PVP like battlegrounds of WoW. But honestly, both 
 flaws are slight. And maybe they will be improved soon. People in LOTRO is more friendly than WoW. 
 You won't meet some suckers there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayoliver
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  As a start everyone must enjoy this game. There are lots of solo quests and places to discover. 
 But as the game progresses you learn to depend more on your teammates and your kinship. If you 
 want to be able to solo your way easily to the highest level, which is something some people have 
 complained about, this is not the game. But then again, it is a mmorpg. You are supposed to enjoy 
 working with others! Otherwise.. get yourself a copy of Oblivion!
  
  The graphics in the game are really good. You wont get bored running around in the beginning just 
 lookin' at the environment! And the first time you walk your way to Rivendell, the view from the 
 mountains is beautiful!
  
  In most games I play, after a while, I get bored with the music in the game and start to have my 
 own music going in the background instead. But not in this game! The strings, flutes and drums 
 really hit the spot in every way!
  
  As for armor and jewelery I'm still a bit disappointed. There aren't enough good items in the game 
 yet. All the good high levels where the same armour and "bling". In the future I would like to 
 see more rare, really good, items and more different stuff of what now is the best.
  
  If you want to play a good looking RPG online, where you can/and have to, work with other players 
 as a solid group to survive the many quests that awaits you. Go get a copy of this game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeX01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I have played LOTRO for a month now and I can say it is really a fun game. I take to task that 
 the editor who gave LOTRO an equal graphics score than burning crusade. That is insane and unfair. 
 LOTRO blows WOW graphics away. Hands down. Music is also better. Very much captures a cinema feel. 
 What limits LOTRO is content. First, yes I agree LOTRO is not really doing anything original quests 
 and killing. But why should WOW get any points for that or credit. They ripped from EQ and EQ ripped 
 from the ones before that. The content limitations that I don't like is that there are limits to 
 the monsters and races based on the original story. There are no tinkering gnomes. There are no 
 mages, only the Lore Master which is pretty close. There are no priests that heal hp only minstrels 
 that heal morale. This is nice idea in practice and concept. There is LOTR done amazing well. For 
 gamespot to give an equal score to LOTRO to Burning crusade makes me want to re-think gamespots 
 opinions because it makes no sense unless they can't afford a new graphics card. I really would 
 give this a 9.1 however, it is either 9.0 or 9.5 and I chose to give LOTRO more credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4emic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I still remember playing WoW a few weeks ago. It was mandatory to check in on the guild forum, 
 participate in most events and discuss with every other asshat that had found his way into his 
 parents wallet. I then stopped playing and I got recommended to try out LOTRO. Or rather, I was 
 practically raped over and over till' I downloaded the free 14-day trial.
  
  Sure, the 7GB was a real pain and the amount of 'paperwork' was considerably large but when I finally 
 got the game going, I have only been sinking deeper and deeper into the world of middle earth.
 
  The character creation is rather simple and head-on without offering you too many advanced options 
 which gets you started.
  Time is running short and I'll make a long story short.
  I got started with my human champion which is supposedly a secondary AOE / DPS / tank melee fighter. 
 LOTRO offers the traditional classes as every MMO does but at least they didn't use the fefault 
 names such as warrior, priest, wizard, assassin and ****
  Anyway, I entered the world and played the intro which works very well not only as a story-telling 
 element, but also as a tutorial to new players. The graphics were shiny and the combat system was 
 easy to master.
  After a few hours of playing, I realized that the game offered something that most other MMOs considers 
 as tabu - forced groups. You don't group, you don't get any further. Even though this seems tricky, 
 it works quite well. People are polite and willingly teams up if you ask them before inviting them.
 
  
  Moving on to PVP, LOTRO offers what they call PVMP (Player versus MonsterPlayer) which essentially 
 works by placing an alternative faction in a high-level area (Don't worry, monster players starts 
 at max level) and have them fight occasional raids from the free people of middle earth and vise 
 versa. It's a stunning experience to see 25-30 monsters engage their adversaries regardless of 
 whether or not that you win. The only problematic part about PVMP is that it can be a real pain 
 in the ass to get an invite to a raiding party which eventually inspires people to start their 
 own group and work individually of the other group which can be a major tactical disadvantage. 
 Still, the players are considerably more grown up and talkative than in most other MMOs.
  
  Oh, did I mention that this game is not just another MMO? It's a MMORPG and it actually deserves 
 the last three capital letters. Character leveling is fantastic and you don't have to train the 
 same skill to the next level over and over as they automatically increase with you level. Furthermore, 
 roleplay is a common sight in the larger cities among other players.
  
  Go give it a try, you might just like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captian-james
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  i think it is a good game with lots to do. but i think if some one like me who has played and got 
 to lvl 70 in wow will think it is a very short game. never the less a very fun game with lots of 
 nice things in it like the fellowship is good and the way you can do some quest with the mane characters 
 like frodo and gimli. there is not enough race and it is a shame u can not be an orc or troll, 
 ecepted for the monster play. the way it has book is very nice so u dont have to buy the extention 
 u can just down load a new place and quest. i think this is a game that some one should play if 
 they like a very easy going MMORPG because it is easy to get in to and is very easy to lvl up and 
 get good at the game. the music side is very nice the way u can just play music with your friend. 
 the emotion are very nice like the dances and the way u can just smoke. if u are thinking of geting 
 this game i would download the 7 day trial frist so u can see if it is to your tast. i hope this 
 is usful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragdrazi
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When one goes to play a Lord of the Rings game, one expects you, know, Tolkien. And an MMO Lord 
 of the Rings, with a living Middle Earth is an idea with a lot of potential. Unfortunately, what 
 we have here is not Tolkien but Turbine. While there was a real chance of trying something different 
 here, this game chooses to rip off of the same old meaningless, money making formula of WoW. Its 
 almost a reskinning, with horses for gryphons, rings for exclamation points. This game thinks the 
 same, acts the same, plays the same. It is the same. It even has a somewhat toned down version 
 of WoWs  art design, rejecting Peter Jacksons gritty realism 
 almost entirely. One wonders why the game would take this route. It didn't need the help. The Lord 
 of the Rings its own deep appeal. The game does make some attempt to address some of WoWs failings, 
 for instance, not every quest has WoWs click past the text, get the experience meaninglessness; 
 and things are ready for new players to do right off the bat, with you grinding only if you want 
 to. And while that would seem to open up the door for new players, the game trips itself up by 
 bandying about MMO terms like debuffer and cooldown throughout gameplay, and features a hard to 
 navigate help system. The game traps itself into itd derivative box and rarely tries to get out. 
 And, unfortunately, its never going to be able to compete with the game it incessantly apes, because 
 it isnt able to offer the sort of social-life free, self-esteem crutch of pwning fellow players. 
 Not only does it limit PvP to a monster character, with the only possible benefit being minor short 
 term benefits to ones main character, but theres a general lack of higher level quests. So, the 
 game trips itself up MMO vets, as well as new players. But still, its Lord of the Rings, and there 
 are times when it pulls out Tolkieny thrills. The first time you see the living trees in the Old 
 Forest, or the giant statue at the mouth of Lake Nenuial you shiver with wonder. But, unfortunately, 
 you can see that statue by taking a ten minute swim up the Brandywine River from the Shire, a trip 
 that is supposed to be about a hundred miles. The game makes almost no attempt to cultivate the 
 illusion of Middle Earth as some huge land. It feels like the Fellowship could have made the whole 
 journey in a couple of hours if theyd hurried. A fan of the books looking to step into the world 
 of Middle Earth will find that the game feels small. And the game makes choices that underscore 
 that feeling. For instance, the music stays far away from the epic coral sounds of the movies, 
 choosing instead to emphasize the same single folksy guitar throughout. And the game lights everything 
 the same incessantly bright hazy way. Thats not amber light flowing through trees, its a flat 
 sepiatone matte laid on everything, making it all seem as small as a model on your computer can. 
 Thats not to say the music or the graphics are bad. In fact the quality of the music is far and 
 above traditional MMO fare, and its even enjoyable just to watch the rain fall. But it just seems 
 strange that they would take these great tools, and not give Middle Earth the grandeur it deserves. 
 That's if this game presents anything like Middle Earth. The final nail in the coffin for fans 
 of the book, this game takes liberties with Tolkiens map. That sets even my limited nerd-dom gage 
 into deep red and about breaks the needle off. So this game disappoints everyone: new players, 
 those just looking to play an MMO, and with those looking to live out the ultimate dork dream of 
 fighting on next to Gandalf. So, why would anyone want to play this game at all? Well, its not 
 surprising that Turbine has really emphasized the community in its advertising. Making PvP peripheral 
 to the MMO experience makes people actually want to work together. Watching hilariously random 
 conversations pop up on your screen between your next assault on the nest of giant spiders really 
 makes the experience of the game much more entertaining, and even seems to fulfill some of social 
 promise of MMOs, so diverted by WoWs constant one-upsmanship. Still, the over all effect of the 
 game is tepid. Why Turbine would choose follow the same old stale MMO path with this project is 
 beyond me. Promise, completely wasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is just... worth playing.
  It is mostly because in my opinion it is a clone of WoW but it is LOTR. It is fun I won't lie all 
 the quests are kill this kill this and oh yeah kill this. It gets boring after a while. The models 
 are also very bad. Some of the races walk and run very weird. The classes are also very boring. 
 The only good one I found that was even fun was the Hunter. I would personally go buy WoW before 
 you would buy this. But if you are a hard core LOTR fan than I would go buy this because it may 
 be more for you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I dont know where to begin this is one of the best games ever! I mean the graphics kicks WOW and 
 has better gameplay than most MMORPG's.
  The amount of possibilities to create a character and the amazing detail of the land and people 
 and misc. It is just a great and addicting game that you could get stuck to. The only thing that 
 is bad to me is elf selection all of them look like girls i have to try to make them look like 
 a guy. But the hints they give ya can help ya for the noobs (yes i was one too) . And unlike WOW 
 you start out finding out wat is goin on and it shows ya a story line and WOW ya start out kill, 
 quest , kill , travel, ore, land....
  Its just this boreing cycle that ya go thru every second in WOW, but on this ya get many stroylines 
 thats links to another story and just the BEST mmorpg out there, a total masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javapookers
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I must say initially I had given this game a higher score. The areas seemed diverse and was hoping 
 to see a greater variety of landscapes and original quests. MInd you 6 months have passed and I 
 must say I'm bored of this game already and have been bored for almost 2 months already. Limited 
 areas to explore , poor drop rates and the bleakness of the end game area has made LOTRO very bland 
 and tedious. The quest contents are all too familiar to many other MMO's (IE WOW) Collect this, 
 Kill 5 of those etc. Nothing ground breaking i must say. Quest rewards from the end game areas 
 have already been exceeded by turbine's brilliant idea of upping some of craft items such as rings, armbands 
 , weapons etc and has made alot of the quest items obsolete which in turn has made motivation lvl's 
 for some players to finish the quests very low. This is very evident in the class lvl 39 quest 
 rewards.
  
  The new rep area to me is a weak feeble attempt to prolong one's gaming experience which I believe 
 has done the opposite. Useless rewards and boring repetitive gameplay has made LOTRO seem all to 
 familiar. And after 6 months when I look back at it, this game is just a condensed version of WOW 
 with nothing left to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I played this game through all beta phases as well as the first 2 months of public release. I just 
 returned at the end of October 07 and I have to say that they have really polished and fine tuned 
 this game. It has changed so much that I had to erase my original (relatively negative) review as 
 it was no longer accurate.
  
  This game is well worth a re-visit if you played in beta or have taken off from it for an extended 
 period.
  
  If you've never picked it up, try it. If you're a seasoned gamer who always likes to have an MMO 
 to jump in on and you're burnt on your current game, here's the title you are looking for. If you're 
 like me and you don't like WOW, here is a wonderful alternative. I bring up the comparison because 
 there are some parallels. It is a more realistic (graphically) setting with a more mature user 
 base. There is a decent housing system (add 10/07) , crafting, directX 10 graphics (currently in 
 beta form as of Oct 07) , as well as a slew of other features.
  
  The customization options at character creation are still terribly lacking. There are not enough 
 options for changing a race's physical features. Also, every person of a particular race starts 
 off with the same exact statistics (might/agility/etc) . There is no point allocation system that 
 you'd normally see during creation in other MMOs (or some kind of stat customization) .
  
  You are able to customize through another method by swapping out deeds and traits... this does not 
 come into play until 8th lvl + (which can be earned in about 3 - 5 hours) . You really don't get 
 to make your character your own until 30th level + when you have a wider variety of choices to 
 make.
  
  The game is quite beautiful graphically, and one of the best when compared to other MMOs that are 
 out right now. I am sure the next gen MMOs will unseat it in this regard, but it's still worth 
 noting.
  
  For 29.99 you get the entire game, all content updates, as well as a 30 day pass. You should give 
 it a try, it is certainly an excellent value. Even if you get burnt on it after a month or two, 
 you will get 100s of hours of enjoyment for a very reasonable price.
  
  If you're on the fence you should just grab this title and give it a spin. You won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy994
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  this game was amzing and i will always remember how goo dit was. i will also remember the pron 
 virus i got from it and now i get some sex tape advertisement every five minutes on my computer. 
 u should buy this game but before get qa amazing firewall lol. it was really fun and way better 
 then WoW and i reccommend it to everyone but right now i am waiting for tabula rasa and age of 
 conan o and warhammer online plz take this review to ur advantage so u dont get sex tape advertisements. 
 Also i prefer the guardian as the best calss i was having a blast playing it star out with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bootsakah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  It is unavoidable to not compare this game to WoW for anyone that has been playing WoW since its 
 release. I played and enjoyed everything about WoW, but quit playing about 6 months ago, looking 
 back I really must say it is an outstanding gaming package all around. Feeling the mmo but again 
 and not wanting to step back into WoW again, I decided to give LOTRO a chance. Having played WoW 
 so much I have to compare it. At present I have played a Minstrel to level 32 (50 being the max) .
 
  
  Graphics - LOTRO is excellent in this department and honestly I think WoW was as well, although 
 WoW was a bit more cartoony as people say, however I feel the animations and characters looked 
 better. Also the distance that you can see characters moving still as well as mobs was better in 
 WoW. I have my settings to the max for viewable distances. The models for the man characters look 
 ok in LOTRO, they could have been done much better. Dwarf and hobbit are ok, elves could be done 
 better as well. Water looks awesome at the high setting. Day/night cycle is about every 2 hours. 
 Occasional weather changes are nice. Crafting - I feel like the crafting in WoW was much more indepth, 
 its similar in LOTRO, just the items that you can make and use in WoW were more in number and variety. 
 Crafting in LOTRO is much more dependent on other carfters making items, but its still fun.
  
  Instances - LOTRO has around 9 instances that you can return to with groups. The first one 
 being around lvl 20-25, another for lvl 30-35, one for lvl 35-40, and 6 for lvl 45-50. Personally 
 Im a big fan of running instances to gain experience and level. Especially as a healer this is 
 good because you are gimped on damage output (and the healer in LOTRO is bigtime) . But unfortunately 
 there are a limited number of instances available especially at lower levels. There are lots of 
 mini quest type instances that you get as you go up thru the levels that you do with groups, but 
 I really like the big ones full of elites that take a full group, just wish there were more in 
 LOTRO.
  
  In game costs - The in game costs for LOTRO for mount rides between towns and especially repair 
 costs are very high. I have found it hard to get ahead on money unless i go out and grind because 
 of the high cost to repair and travel. Level up costs are high also, but unlike wow you dont have 
 to keep buying multiple ranks of spells or abilities, once you get it you have it and it goes up 
 automatically each level. So as a result I have been having a hard time getting ahead with the 
 in game money. I shall see if this changes as I level more.
  
  Classes - Im playing the minstrel which is the key healer class, its good fun but after playing 
 a hunter im wondering why they love that class so much. The hunter not only is probably the highest 
 damage class, they also get a run speed bonus early on and quick teleport travel options. The difference 
 in leveling up a healer class and dmg dealer is huge, all the while they hook up the hunters with 
 neat perks. I have never understood why game developers gimp the low dmg output key classes such 
 as healers and tanks and then never give them any perks. Why not give the lower dps classes a slight 
 bonus to xp gained? Sound - Sound and music in LOTRO is good, they just need more. For instance 
 none of the emotes have any sounds, I like how in wow there is at least some sounds along with 
 it. Also some of the sound effects for when you are in battle are just not obvious enough in LOTRO, 
 its hard to tell when youre using an ability sometimes on some classes. Also in WoW every time 
 a mob would aggro to you it would make an audible que, this isnt the case in LOTRO, small things 
 but they add to gameplay.
  
  Class skills - There are some neat abilities you pick up for the different classes in LOTRO, but 
 they seem to be about half as many as you get in WoW. I liked how in WoW my mage had featherfall, 
 aoe's, cast time damage spells, instant casts, blink, etc. Lots of fun tricks and things to do, 
 LOTRO seems to be more straightup with getting just what you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  LOTRO.
  
  So, I guess I have to start of with naming all the rpg's and mmorpg's I played so this review looks 
 valid. Well, I'm not, because I don't think this page can hold so much text: P
  
  LOTRO is a GREAT mmorpg, IF you are looking for a story-driven, lore-based mmorpg. Some people 
 are calling it WoW-lite, and I would love to make sure those people would never be able to log 
 into another mmorpg again! Why? All mmorpg's set in a fantasy-world look a like. Period. It's just 
 that WoW has a lot more options and possibilities, where LOTRO has more story and lore. It's about 
 personal opinion here, not quality of a game, because they are both great. People saying otherwise 
 are called fanboy's. And I know a few-.-
  
  Graphics:
  On low-medium this game looks terrible. Blurry textures and the interface becomes blurry aswell! 
 Put it on high+ (very high/ultra high pref) and you will be amazed. It looks awesome! If you heared 
 people say otherwise, trust me, they just didn't have a proper PC.... or know how to find graphical 
 ADVANCED options. Lol (yes I'm refering to someone stupid I know: P)
  
  Sound:
  The music is terrific if you ask me. Melo-drama fantasy/lotr style. Combat sounds are good, but 
 not a relevation in sound quality.
  
  Gameplay:
  Here we are, the thing that makes a mmorpg a proper one. It plays well. I can't say it in any other 
 way. Buttons are responsive in combat, classes are nice and true to the lotr lore, raids could 
 be bigger, but the fellowship feel is way more authentic to lotr lore if you ask me, so I didn't 
 miss it. Comparing this game to any other mmorpg isn't a stupid thing to do, just make sure you 
 understand that lotro plays a story, you play the story. It's not about farming HK's in BG's and 
 haveing tons of options.
  
  I started of with the conclusion, because I know most people only read those^^
  Nene: P
  
 
  Seeya online.
  
  ZeroDemo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_gamespot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  After playing WoW for 2 1/2 years, I was looking to LOTRO to break the WoW addiction. It did. But 
 then it also broke the LOTRO addiction before it even got started.
  
  There isn't enough of a change from WoW to keep me interested. I found I was doing much of the 
 same WoW activities but in a different body with far superior graphics. Deed system is okay, but 
 I'd rather find them than for them to be presented to me.
  
  I didn't find I was challenged enough. Combat was very similar and maybe I was looking for more 
 variety, more difficulty -- using the characters attributes in combinations depending on the mob; 
 but found the same combination worked against just about everybody. WoW is a better game, but LOTRO 
 has better players ... more mature. WoW is a game filled with kids and some mature players. Take 
 your pick.
  
  The biggest drawback with WoW is it's size. As a casual player, you may never make it to the end 
 of the game. But in LOTRO, the end is possible, but then what? A lot of 50's (the game's current 
 cap) have found there isn't much else to do ... same problem WoW had before end-game was introduced. 
 Take your pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteDragonES
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  This is the only MMORPG that has held my attention for more than a month. I've been playing this 
 game since Open Beta and have loved every minute of it. Perhaps I adore it so much because of the 
 detail Turbine has included. They have taken Tolkien's descriptions and made them a reality. The 
 Prancing Pony was created exactly how the books describe, along with everything else. I have waited 
 for someone to create something about Tolkien's work that is actually how it is supposed to be. 
 This game does this. The combat isn't much different from other MMORPGs, though I seem to enjoy 
 it more. The visuals are great, as are the sounds. Lord of the Rings Online has a background and 
 a history that no other MMORPG can even hope to achieve. As their slogan goes: One Game to Rule 
 Them All. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor11293
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings Online: The Shadows of Angmar is a fantastic game. It has all the qualities 
 an MMO should have, including replayability, enjoyability, user-friendliness, great customer support, 
 frequent updates and patches, excellent gameplay, and much, much more.
  
  Section 1: Gameplay
  LOTRO has many enjoyable gameplay facets. Quests, while occasionally repetive 
 (post-office and farming quests are not uncommon) , are often presented in a comical or exciting 
 style. There is also an epic quest line, a first in the MMO universe. The Monster Play PvMP is 
 very enjoyable. Level 40-50 players can play as heroes in a specific zone, fighting both NPCs (such 
 as uruk-hai and goblins) as well as players who choose to play as monsters. The selection of classes 
 is well rounded, with each class having a solid, individual role (such as healer or tank) , but 
 able to perform secondary roles as well. Money is not particularly hard to acquire, but quest rewards 
 are poor compared to crafted and rare drop rewards. Crafting is enjoyable and offers many short- 
 and long- term rewards. Guilds can also be formed. Raids are enjoyable, and there's lots of end-game 
 content.
  
  Section 2: Graphics and Compatability
  LOTRO is compatible with a variety of hardware. It requires XP or Vista to play, but plays well 
 on most hardware that is no older than two years old. For maximum value, I recommend at least a 
 GeForce 7800 with an Intel Core 2 Duo Processor, and at least 1 GB of RAM. Running a disk defrag 
 and increasing video RAM can dramatically increase performance, as can lowering the default settings 
 by one level of graphical power (eg. Medium --Low) . The graphics are very nice, and frame rates 
 are usually good. However, it can bog down during raids and PvMP, when large numbers of players 
 are in the same general area.
  
  Section 3: User Friendliness
  Turbine has a great support option, and there are innumerable help/fansites. There is an official 
 user forum, and all sorts of ways to report bugs. Unlike WoW, for instance, in-game GMs are usually 
 prompt and helpful, and bugs are usually resolved in bi-weekly patches. Massive updates (such as 
 the Evendim content pack last spring) are common and free. Prices are average for a monthly, tri-monthly, 
 or yearly subscription, but free trials and lifetime subscriptions are readily available.
  
  In conclusion, The Lord of the Rings online is an excellent game, well worth your time and 
 money. I wholeheartedly recommend buying the game, and I invite you to our free trial. If you do 
 decide to join and would like to contact me in-game, please feel free to do so. I play on the Silverlode 
 server, and my character is Raiberthelion. The free trial can be found at http://www. lotro. com/trial. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Background: I've played 10 MMORPG's although my staples were DAoC and Guild Wars for 2 years each. 
 The rest I dropped pretty quick.
  
  Lets get the LOTRO cons put out of the way first shall we?
  
  Cons:
  
  - Forced grouping 
 to progress in epic story line. - Few things to differentiate you from your fellow players of your 
 class.
  - Need a relatively powerful PC to appreciate it to the fullest (this isn't a con for me, as I 
 have a screamer of a PC, but it is an issue for some people)
  
  Pros:
  
  - Stunning graphics
  - Stunning music
  - Tolkien (literary, thank god!) Lore
  - Unique Fellowship 
 (group) coordinated attacks/abilites, nearly endless combos
  - Downtime: player composed music and deep crafting system
  - Excellent charachter creation/customization
 
  - Takes the good from a handful of successful MMO's (WoW, AC, EQ, DAoC) and leaves the crap behind. 
 - MASSIVE FREE content. In 6 months Turbine will have over 3 patches: 1. Expanded the game's landmass 
 by 20% 2. Added Instances and a raid 3. Expanded Monster Play 4. Introduced a optional reputation 
 system 5. Revamped crafting to make it equal to any raid drop 6. PLAYER HOUSING!!! 7. 3 class balances 
 8. added two books (epic quest lines) to the main story arc. Yes this game has a story in which 
 you are part of. The game has a point, purpose and story. This game is #2 in North America for 
 a reason. Don't listen to the nay-sayers. Give it a try for yourself and see what you're missing. 
 One quick tip: the movies are not what you are going to recognize in-game. It's all based on the 
 books. Yes books, those paper things you open and imagine what goes on by reading the words inside! 
 Enjoy!!!!
  
  P. S Landroval is a decently populated and excellent community server. See you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game could not exist without World of Warcraft, as it's almost an exact clone of WoW with 
 some design features from other games merged in as well. This is a great thing for the ex-WoW player 
 looking for something different, since you can pick this game up and not have to worry about learning 
 too much that's new to get started.
  
  The game is of course set in the world of Middle Earth, however your interaction with the Tolkien 
 story plots is decidedly limited, so in the end I don't find that the Middle Earth connection makes 
 that much difference to me. Tolkien's world has been expanded a great deal and if you're a fan 
 of the books or even the movies you just won't find that much that's familliar.
  
  Ultimately I think the LOTR franchise license will be limiting in that the developers will not 
 be free to add anything to the world that doesn't make sense according to the lore. As a result 
 much of the world seems similar and there are a limited number of different monster types.
  
  The game's best feature may be it's crafting system.
  
  I've been playing for a couple 
 months now, but at some point I'll likely move on to something new or go back to WoW if things 
 like Warhammer and Conan don't turn out better.
  
  G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWBgHz
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Bored of the Rings Online.
  
  Nothing much to say - mass market, pop MMO with little challenge and less of interest. While a 
 quality product it just isn't interesting as the characters are little more than pre-made characters 
 the players unlock roaming around with tactically and skill deficient combat to occupy their time. 
 The game is extremely linear and feels more like an RPG than an MMO as their is little way to do 
 anything to make your character any different than any character of similar level and class.
  
  All in all Lord of the Rings Online is the most well made but boring MMO I have ever come across. 
 While deserving credit for being nicely polished it really is of little value if it isn't fun to 
 play and doesn't challenge the player to learn skills and tactics to succeed, or challenge the 
 player to create a unique experience in the virtual space with character development and progression. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigD6997
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  the game is complicated without having to much to get confusing. It isn't cartoony and lame like 
 WoW instead it relates to the lore of LOTR and if you have read the book, and or, like the movies 
 then this is a a mmo you can easily get into. i have never liked mmo's but this one is an exception. 
 i love it
  
  the races to choose from have there own unique characteristics that fit very well into certain 
 classes... like elves are god with bow, while men and dwarves rock the sword, hobbits are great 
 theifs and minstrils, and men and elves can be great lore-masters.
  
  the only downside is the directions for quests are sometimes off and it could take a while to find 
 the place you need to go to..
  
  grade A game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsDaughter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  'LotRo is like WoW' and 'LotRo is much worse than WoW' is what I heard the most and I can say I 
 do not agree.
  
  For the Good things:
  
  Of course, and like any other mmorpg you will find, it has similarities to the most famous games. 
 As mentioned before, it has a set of standard classes and a limited amount of races to play but 
 I don't consider this as a negative thing since each class has to be learnt and to be mastered. 
 The graphics, sounds and music add immensely to the atmosphere and make it quite enjoyable. Of 
 course, if you have been to the same region for the 100 time, you tend to just go off and do something 
 else while you travel but in the long run it remains a beautiful place to roam around.
  
  The variety in outfits, armor and weapons are a major plus for me. Once you get over the first 
 10 levels the outfits and armors your character will be able to make and or get ,through quests 
 and other crafters, armor that looks awesome and quite realistic. I know that as a female player 
 I might be one among few that actually enjoys the fact that armors for female characters are still 
 actually armor and protective and do not look like either a chainmail bikini or plate lingerie. 
 The weapons are in a realistic size and color and add a lot to the atmosphere as well. This is 
 but one thing where it differes from games like WoW where your weapons tend to look like they were 
 made for someone twice your height or are colored as if they came out of a bad sci-fi movie. Additionally 
 you are able to recolor your armor to some extend and adds even more variety to the looks. Another 
 thing that I considered a lot of fun are the deeds. You run through Bree-Land and suddenly you 
 hear a little 'ding' and see you have a new deed. So you start running around, trying to find all 
 the ruins to complete this deed and add another trait to your list. These traits add as well to 
 the variety since they are picked by personal likes and dislikes. But besides the traits you will 
 also receive titles that you can attach to your displayed name and make them visible for everyone 
 else. If you want to be so-and-so of Rohan, Gondor, Lorien, Mirkwood or if you prefer to be so-and-so, 
 Warg-Hunter, Bane of the Barrows, Watcher of Roads and so on is absolutely up to you and can add 
 quite a bit of real roleplaying flavor to the game.
  
  While some people complain about the crafting system, I cannot. You get to choose one profession 
 among 7 and to each of these trees belong 2 sub professions. I suppose you can say that it is a 
 positive and a negative aspect that the professions and connected quite strongly to each other. 
 As an example, if you take the Tree: Weaponsmith you will get mining, woodworking and weaponcrafting. 
 So you can get your own ore and can smelt and refine it but you will need someone with the forester 
 profession to cut and treat the wood or boil the leather. Every profession is depending on another 
 and it adds to the realism. There are two steps in the professions, the Proficiency and the Mastery. 
 Once you have completed the pro. in a certain profession, you have to craft a bit more to complete 
 the mastery. Once you have done so you will unlock the so called mastery options. This means that 
 you have a default chance of 5% to craft either 3 instead of 1 item or you have the chance to craft 
 an item that is simply a lot better than the original one. The crit chance can be increased by 
 higher quality tools and also by extra, somewhat rare ingredients. Very nice idea.
  
  There are many quest... maybe even a bit too many quests but on the other side you can still get 
 nice xp and progression if you do not finish them all. Some quests you will simply forget about 
 until they will give you no xp anymore but you can either still finish them or help someone else 
 who needs them anyway or you can disband them. However one thing that should be mentioned is the 
 very good describtion of how how to get to your destination.
  Traveling is indeed similiar to WoW but different from what was mentioned before, you will be able 
 to travel to the major cities and even some additional once without having been there before. One 
 thing however, and most WoW players will know why I enjoy this so, is the 'Dismount' button while 
 you travel on the generic way. Yes, if you ride up the road and have nothing to do and you suddenly 
 see ore or a quest mob you have been looking for you can simply click 'dismount' and you will stop 
 your travels.
  
  Also the LookingForGroup system is quite nice. You can simply get into the fellowship panel, note 
 down what quests you want to do, you can allow or deny certain classes and levels and hit Update. 
 From there on you will be up in the list and everyone who is looking for someone to do the same 
 quests will ask to join your fellowship.
  
  For the Bad things:
  
  Some things could have been solved better. The chat options are sometimes quite confusing and takes 
 a while getting used to it. There are not too many regions open yet and you return to old regions 
 over and over again. Travelling does take quite some time and could have been shortened a bit. 
 Only three types of colors for horses are available at the moment... but I am hoping for more once 
 Rohan is opened. Mastery rare items do not have a tooltip or describtion for what it can be used, 
 so you tend to keep 50 different things in the bank, not knowing if you might need it in the future. 
 From a certain level you will get a lot of group quests and might find yourself stuck if you don't 
 find a fellowship.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall I am very happy I bought the game. It is fun, offers a lot to explore and things to find 
 out about and has a great atmosphere. More content and regions have been promised and I simply 
 can't wait to ride over the plains of Rohan. But... there is 7-days free trial... so download it 
 and try it yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailoc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I am a casual MMORPG player usually playing less than 6 hours a week. LOTRO is definitely for the 
 person who is strapped for time. The game is very solo friendly. I have reached LVL 21 and I am 
 loving every minute of it. The story line quests are awesome. They make you feel like you are a 
 part of the fellowship in the books. Another good thing is the community. I have never been happier 
 with my fellow players. People are always willing to help. Finding people to create fellowships 
 with is always easy. People are also very polite. The graphics are awesome. Tons of detail was 
 put into this game. Just walking through the regions is fun just to see the sights. As far as gameplay 
 goes this is the most fun I have ever had playing a MMORPG. Quests are fun and rewarding. And every 
 quest has a story attached to it, giving you motivation to complete quests. Now that the 7 day 
 trial is out come and check this game out. You will love it and it will only get better once more 
 content is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catcher6250
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Good combat animations, armor detail, voices, combat in general, graphics.
  
  The Bad: Similarity to WoW. Controls are the same to WoW, even the 'dressing room' aspect. No factions, 
 everyone is good. Let me just say this:
  
  When I first stepped into the world of LotR: Online it truly made me appreciate the greatness of 
 WoW. Also I was pretty amazed how unhelpful it was for new players compared to WoW. When I was 
 choosing a class for my character, the description of, for example, the Champion, was damage per 
 second. Anyone who has never played an mmo has no idea what this means, as well as descriptions 
 such as crowd-control, buffer, debuffer etc. The map system is the same, but the questing system 
 does seem to be well made. Yes yes, this game isn't WoW, but that just shows how great WoW is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings online is one of those games that will get you interested in the story line but 
 at the same time disappoint you. When i first bought the game i thought it was going to literally 
 kill WoW but unfortanetly it does the exact opposite. I'm not saying the game is bad but its definitely 
 not the best MMO ever created. Alot of the quests will have you delivering pies and messages while 
 trying to avoid getting caught by angry hobbits or the quests will have you killing X amount of 
 wolfs, bears, humanoids etc. The one thing that i found to be one of the games best features is 
 the fact that you have the Main story line and then all of the other story lines. The main storyline 
 takes you on a adventure through all sorts of environments and it definitely leads you to where 
 you want to go. For hobbits you start in a town and go through a quest line that leads you to the 
 shire.
  
  For man it leads you to the exact same town except it makes you stay in that exact same town that 
 eventually leads you out of the town to another place. You can venture off to the shire as a man 
 if you want but i recommend just following the quest lines. There are some differences that make 
 this MMO unique like that fact that Hunters do not have pets and there is no real warrior class 
 and talent tree but you will be happy to know the character customization is a lot better then 
 WoW. Overall i find this game lacks no real differences to other MMO's besides the fact of Monster 
 play which is definitely something you should look into. If you want a oblivion looking graphics 
 game with some unique game play features and a interesting storyline then go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjtr86
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  WoW clone with a lord of the rings touch up. Graphics aren't terrible in fact breath taking when 
 you visit Rivindell for the first time. Game play is basically exactly like WoW except they have 
 a huge line of quests called epic quests which is basically the story line, you can chose to follow 
 it or ignore it. Although some of the best armor and weapons will come from them. In my opinion 
 PvP is the most fun thing to do once you get to a high level or ,if you so chose, you can jump 
 to level 50 monster once you get a level 10 hero. The PvP is one of the things that differs from 
 WoW. In this game they have a vast amount of land called Ettenmoors. This Ettenmoors in huge and 
 you don't have to wait to jump right in to killing some monsters or roughing up some heroes. Personally 
 Lord of the Rings Online is in my top 3 MMORPGs. If you are getting tired of WoW i strongly recommend 
 you try this amazing masterpiece of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd4spdr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Being a LotR fan this game truly did NOT disappoint me.
  
  I don't like writing so I'll make this short since there are 260 other reviews. I just wanted to 
 rebuff some of the poor reviews.
  
  In response to this being a WoW ripoff I couldn't disagree more. I personally don't like WoW, it's 
 too much of a kids game for me, but LOTRO is definitely not a WoW ripoff. MMORPG's are more or 
 less all alike in certain aspects as are FPS and other like-genre games. If something works why 
 change it. The graphics are amazing, sound is great, game play is fun and easy to learn yet with 
 enough difficulty to remain fun and replayability is high. Even after you reach the current top 
 level of 50 there is PvMP to master. Plus the game holds extremely true to the LotR series.
  
  I highly recommend this game if you are an MMORPG player or LotR fan or a newcomer. I have 
 friends who never liked MMORPG's but are hooked on this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge LOTR fan this game truly disappointed me.
  
  The game itself stays true to the LOTR style and looks fantastic. The graphics are fantastic, for 
 some reason me and a friend of mine could boost all of the graphics settings to the max with little-no 
 framerate drop. The sound is once again awesome, very LOTRish, and the music system is the best 
 I have ever seen in an MMORPG, better than SWG and it makes all of the other MMORPGs /guitar /horn, 
 whatever look like garbage.
  
  The game-play is a complete ripoff of WoW, everything about this games game-play screams WoW ripoff. 
 Your can travel to other towns, only other towns that you have visited on a horse, it does nothing 
 but follow roads and it ends up being a boring, yet beautiful trip, but its not as good as WoWs 
 gryphon's, you really don't get to see a lot of the terrain from horseback.
  
  There is a Share Quest button, just like in Wow, you can jump and swim, just like in WoW, the quest 
 layout and skill system are the same as WoW's the only difference being this game has much cooler 
 skills to play with, WoW, SWG, CoH, GW, all have better class selection than this game. This game 
 only has 7 classes to choose from all of which have already been done before, by WoW.
  
  There are not alot of people playing this game, we were on the Brandywine server and only encountered 
 20-30 other players during our whole time playing, which is truly pathetic overall.
  
  Once again this game ends up coming out looking like another generic MMORPG that brings absolutely 
 nothing new to the table, except for the music system.
  
  Try the trial before you buy it and decide for yourself, I've already un-installed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  LOTRO is a very good MMO and is enjoyable for all ages.
  You can join kinships and quest to your hearts content.
  Of course there are the annoying collect 
 boar tusks but you can also have instances which are majour parts of the game and are a lot of 
 fun!
  
  The community is quite mature that is good and bad. Graphics are stunning and gameplay is Immence.
 
  
  One of the best out there. You will enjoy this game if you enjoy WoW etc.
  
  Visit some of the locations from the book and films and the world will grow and grow.
  Lots of 
 extras. (Housing, Famous locations, Pets for certain skills)
  
  An awsome gaming experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mypcpros
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you have to play for about 5 hours before it starts to grow on 
 you. As you move up in rank you'll find yourself more and more into it. I've had so much fun with 
 this - it's well worth the money you spend on it.
  I could see it getting old after you reach the top level but I'm nowhere near that now and it's 
 been a blast so far.
  If you like MMO games you'll like this one. This was my first MMO game and I'm glad I got it - 
 couldn't have picked a better one. I've now also played WoW and I still prefer LOTRO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Game gives you tons of interesting quests and missions from Level One - you don't have 
 to spend hours of tedious grinding to earn interesting things to do. Also, this game does not punish 
 soloists by forcing them to grind endlessly to level up enough to progress without help.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes you can get confused where to go to find something - which forces you to explore 
 more so it's only sort of bad. Also, there is a subscription fee after the first month.
  
  Finally, an MMO where soloists and group players can both have a rewarding experience. Unless most 
 other MMOs (Final Fantasy XI, Phantasy Star Universe spring to mind as the biggest offenders I'm 
 familiar with) , you aren't punished for solo play by being made to spend hours upon hours fighting 
 the same weak monsters and grinding just to level up so you can move onto something more interesting. 
 I NEVER felt like I was grinding in this game, and I never felt desperate to level up so I could 
 start having fun. This game gives you quests and missions from the moment your Level One character 
 begins playing. You always have a huge variety of quests to choose from. It's very easy to forget 
 about your level, and frankly, you don't need to go out of your way to grind AT ALL to level up, 
 because the quests alone are enough to take care of that. But unlike most other MMOs, it really 
 doesn't matter, because you have access to the interesting gameplay regardless of your level.
 
  
  Of course, if you prefer group play, that's obviously available here too. There are always people 
 looking for others to join, and the community seems fairly mature and considerate for the most 
 part.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Obviously, your experience will depend in part on your PC's capability, 
 but there are a lot of settings you can tweak to get the most out of your PC. With a modern gaming 
 pc the graphics are amazing. The sound is excellent, also. Good sound effects and excellent music 
 that sounds appropriate, is pleasant to listen to, and is not distracting.
  
  The world is huge and there is so much to explore. Fans of Lord of the Rings will drool over the 
 ability to visit their favorite places and people. And the more you play, the more addictive the 
 game gets, (not because you're dying to level up like other games!) because you want to explore 
 more of this facsinating world and it's people.
  
  I would note that in addition to storyline quests, side missions, and exploring there is also crafting, 
 adding yet another facet to the game and more to do. I've really enjoyed gathering supplies and 
 creating my own stuff,
  
  There is a subscription fee, but finally I feel like I'm paying an MMO fee that's worth it. I swear, 
 some MMOs I've played I felt like I was paying for the privilege to be bored to tears grinding 
 hour after hour fighting the same creatures in the same area desparately trying to level up so 
 I could start having fun. Those games really turned me off from MMOs but I'm so glad I gave Lord 
 of the Rings Online a chance, because it is nothing like those other games. I have had nothing 
 but good solid fun every minute I've played.
  
  I highly recommend Lord of the Rings Online, even for someone who's had a boring experience with 
 other MMOs in the past, or people like myself who prefer to solo when their own real-life friends 
 aren't playing, rather than play with total strangers. This game respects and seeks to satisy ALL 
 it's players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Shadows of Angmar, I was looking forward to this game a lot! It took the LoTR 
 series and made it in to an MMO! Awesome, right? Sort of.
  
  Gameplay: 6 The gameplay is the most essential part of the game. This game is seriously lacking 
 in this area. It is quite literally WoW but instead of exclamation points over the quest givers 
 heads, it's rings! Come on, where's the originality? Unlocking an Orc character at lvl 10 was pretty 
 interesting.. but not really. I loved the gameplay in WoW, but I don't want to play the exact same 
 again. The character movements are also extremely stiff. Battles are boring. Graphics: 7
  
  The graphics are one of this games strong points. Pretty armor and weapons are great, but everything 
 seems to be dull and lifeless, as if a grayish cloud is hanging over everything in the game. the 
 trees in the distance look like their made of cardboard. I will say this, the water was pretty.
 
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Good. Not much else to say, no negative, but nothing that really captures me.
  
  Value: 6
 
  
  This game didn't want me coming back. I had to force myself to play it as long as I did. I felt 
 no desire to level up or do the quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is good. It haves good graphics good quests and very helpful players. Only class 
 and race choice is limited but they are only races in tolkien world. The world in the game is not 
 so big but it haves lots of qs wich are very fun.
  
  The game could be mmo king if they added gondor and rohan and that stuff
  Because there is lots 
 of trilogy movies fans.
  
  I played beta and was good but laggy. I play it now too its awesome till lvl 20 than it becomes 
 boring because items lets say same ,and armors looks awufl.
  
  The game isnt what players wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henk_nijs
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I preordered the game and started playing and it was fun, i managed to buy a ltd collectors edition 
 so i would not have 2 pay the monthly fee.
  The first levels can be a pain , the repair costs are mare then u can earn.
  
  But at some 
 point in the game that changes and u will never have a money shortage (my minstel is lvl 50 and 
 has 14 Gold in his pocket and cant spend it on anything) The gameplay is fun , the quests are mostly 
 doable and the fellowship quests dont take hours to complete. The in game pvp is a joke , i tried 
 it for a few hours and i never going back there untill they make sure both sides play with same 
 ods.
  
  After reaching lvl 50 there is not much more 2 do, at lvl 45 u get class quests which need items 
 from lvl 50 instances so u need 2 go there a few times. So far there is one raid dungeon (24 ppl) 
 ,
  
  What i missed is the addiction factor, in wow it is exciting from minute one until very far in 
 the game but with lotro i have no trouble not playing 4 a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonka123456789
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Forget what WoW fanboys tell you, if you want a MMORPG this is the game for you.
  
  It has amazing visuals, a great community, and a great game interface. Infact this game is allmost 
 a perfect RPG (except for the PVMP with is awful) . Unlike many other competitors, LOTRO focuses 
 on group play, this is reflected in the char selection, as most of of the chars are weak in solo, 
 but all play important roles in group play (guardian for tanking, champion for doing damage, minstrel 
 for healing etc etc) . In this game waiting for a group for 20-30mins is worth it for the breath 
 taking 2-3 hour instances. There some small faults in the game, but these WILL be fixed in the 
 content updates in the future. I hope more people start playing this amazing game! The initutive 
 trait system gives everybody to make there char diffrent from anybody elses. So it persionalysis 
 your game play and gives diffrent classes the ability to perform diffrent roles (ie. a champion 
 has a trait that allows him to equip a heavy shield, so that he can perform the tanking role if 
 there are no guardians in the group.) . So this as this game is a group game these traits are very 
 usefull and make for a more persionalysed middle earth! See you in the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arc_salvo
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, I went into LOTRO hearing that it was a Tolkien-esque version of World of Warcraft with a 
 lot of similar elements and a much more mature/better communitiy, and I found the first part to 
 be true, but the second part to be less so. Yes Lord of the Rings Online is basically an off-clone 
 of World of Warcraftw ith a similar interface and very similar gameplay. However, the race/class 
 selection is much worse, and the classes especially feel more clunky, less fun, and felt more awkward 
 to play than the smoothly design, elegant classes in WOW. Also, unlike in WOW, soloing all the 
 time isn't actually an option, as group-quests are forced on you constantly, and the best rewards 
 come from these group quests, and sometimes solo quests dry up so quickly that you have to do these 
 group quests so that you don't have to endlessly grind monsters.
  
  I found the combat in this game to be much less stimulating and far more grindsome than in WOW, 
 and the combat animations and sounds to be considerably clunkier and less flashy. In fact, what 
 turned me off the most about LOTRO was the fact that the combat was much less fun to both watch 
 and participate in compared to WOW.
  
  LOTRO does do some things better than WOW however. The storyline in Lord of the Rings is quite 
 good, and there's actually a game-spanning chain of Epic quests that tell a coherent story from 
 level 1 to level 40-something, that actually involves you and your party mates helping out the 
 Fellowship of the Ring. The storyline works well and feels authentic, and especially so because 
 the game world is fleshed out quite accurately in regard to the way Tolkien described it in his 
 books. Tolkien fans (like myself, I suppose, although it's been a long time since I've read his 
 books) will really love the way everything's brought to life so well, and how Middle Earth really 
 looks and feels in the game.
  
  This is the best part of this game, imho, but I was disappointed by the fact that pretty much all 
 of the quests required you to group to finish them, which means that you were always stuck with 
 rushing partymates who'd never let you actually read what the NPC's were saying, because they'd 
 just skip the quest-box fluff/dialogue and click the continue option at the bottom.
  
  So ironically, unless you're with very nice friends or guildmates, the best part of this game isn't 
 really enjoyable, ironically enough, unless you find a website that posts all the quest dialogue 
 of the particular story quest you want to read up on.
  
  The second best part of this game was the gorgeous landscape. The scenery's quite nice to look 
 at (although perhaps not quite as artistically striking as the scenery in Guild Wars) and interesting 
 to adventure in, but it's also a little on the big side, and becomes a chore to wander through 
 endlessly.
  
  Crafting I found just -okay-, but not as fun as it is in World of Warcraft or Everequest 2. I like 
 crafting, but I was tempted not to do it in this game because it wasn't particularly stimulating, 
 and far more grindsome to do than it is in a game like World of Warcraft. More of a necessary evil 
 to engage in to get good gear than something to do for fun. On the positive side, the player-made 
 gear in this game is actually quite good, and competetive with or often better than many monster 
 drops.
  
  Lastly, although people are right in saying that the community is more friendly than in World of 
 Warcraft, it's not really true that the community's all that much better. It may be because I played 
 on RP servers in WOW, but I actually found people in LOTRO only to be marginally more friendly 
 than the ones I found in WOW, and ironically, I found them to be far worse and more exploitative 
 groupmates than in WOW. In World of Warcraft, I found only -1- person in my entire 2 years of playing 
 who rolled need instead of greed in parties for things they didn't need. That person turned out 
 to be a goldfarmer. In Lord of the Rings online, I found that happening almost -half- the goddamned 
 time! And only once did it happen with an ignorant newbie player. The rest of the time it happened 
 with greedy players who acted rude when confronted, then attempted to bribe me. And one of these 
 players was actually the group leader who was inviting people to help out with his quest, of all 
 things! All in all, LOTRO is a decent game, and a playable one for all gamers, and probably quite 
 a treat for hardcore Tolkien fans. But the combat isn't as fun as it is in WOW, the classes aren't 
 as interesting (imho) and if you like to solo like I do, you'll find that it's not nearly as easy 
 to do, and then when you do group up, that you'll really have to keep an eye on your friendly teammates, 
 because many of them are quite likely to be rolling need on everything, whether they need it or 
 not.
  
  Personally I found this game to be boring after a month's worth of play, and much less fun than 
 World of Warcraft, which I recently quit and am not going back to, so did not find it really worth 
 my time or money at all. If you're curious about this game, I suppose it's worth checking out, 
 but don't be surprised if you find out that it really doesn't live up to all the hype that it's 
 been getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay in LOTRO is at the beginning excellant, the tutorial is boring but does tell you alot 
 about the game (bare in mind the tutorial is about 10 minutes) after that you get transported to 
 the main lotro world where you must first engage in some intro quests and then will be aloud to 
 do whatever you want. The fighting is good but could be improved and sometimes gets repetative.
 
  The Gameplay is focused on quests around the world, both storyline quests and random quests activated 
 by talking to npc as you travel town to town.
  
  Graphics are very good, much better then games such as WOW, Runescape and even Everquest 2. Graphics 
 are probably one of the best parts of the game.
  
  I can't really judge the sounds because I just play Itunes over it, but from what i've been told 
 from friends both in and out of game the sounds are superb.
  
  This game is sort of half and half on value. Although you get alot of game time when you first 
 buy the game (1 month free) . You do then have to pay monthly fees of about 15euro or 12euro for 
 a subcription and if you can afford it theres a one off payment of 150 euro that lets you play 
 for life without having to worry about monthly fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for this game, switching over from a 2 year addiction to World of Warcraft, 
 and to tell you the truth, LOTRO can not accurately be called a WoW-copier. That's because, although 
 many ideas are blatantly ripped from the Everquest mmo model to create an experience that isn't 
 nearly as fresh as I hoped, LOTRO is in many ways less intriguing and intuitive than World of Warcraft. 
 In the next few paragraphs, I'll compare the two.
  
  
  Lord of the Rings Online unarguably has a better graphics engine than does World of Warcraft. There's 
 more undergrowth and grass, more detail, less texture clipping, and better lighting than WoW. However, 
 what LOTRO lacks over WoW is style. The game could have done a much better job with the LOTR license 
 than what it has. The locales are stagnant and colorless, and there's a lack of variety in the 
 environments as a whole. While in Blade's Edge Mountains I could be limping through a desert, flying 
 over spike-lined cliffs, fighting in forests, wading through caves, or running along open plains, 
 most of the areas in a given zone of LOTRO are exactly the same (with the North Downs being an 
 exception) . WoW's landscapes are vibrant, colorful, and imaginative, making them better than those 
 in LOTRO. On the topic of zones...
  
  
  Furthermore, while there's a quest for almost every area in WoW's world, quests in LOTRO are few 
 and far between (Especially evident in later zones such as the Trollshaws) . LOTRO tries to be a 
 game focused on questing and completing an epic storyline, but the rewards for most quests are 
 uncompelling, and there aren't enough quests as of release to satiate most people's leveling desires 
 from lvl 1 to the game's max level of 50. No, you will probably not be grinding like in WoW's infamous 
 levels 55 to 60, but at the late 30s, quests become annoyingly spread out and hard to come by if 
 you didn't complete every available quest from previous zones. And don't forget, whereas WoW has 
 two major factions, LOTRO only has ONE faction, with only two starting areas in total. You aren't 
 going to find much faction variety in this game, which eliminates a lot of the potential that makes 
 PvP-focused mmos such as WoW, DAoC, and the soon-to-be-released Warhammer Online so great.
  
  
  LOTRO uses your standard mmo combat and crafting system to produce lackluster gameplay. 
 While WoW made up for its bland gameplay with a high level of customization in the form of class 
 talent trees and different profession proficiencies such as hammersmith or dragonscale leatherworker, 
 LOTRO has very fixed and rigid systems of both combat and crafting. There are no talents in this 
 game, only deeds and virtues you gain over the course of the game, so members of every class are 
 going to have virtually the same virtues equipped and play the same exact way. Since LOTRO places 
 a heavier focus on class roles than WoW, it almost does away with one of the only reasons why WoW's 
 endgame remains fun after 2 and a half years: because of the existence of unique, hybrid character 
 builds for any class. As for crafting, LOTRO forces players to pick up a vocation containing a 
 fixed number of gathering and crafting professions, which highly limits the player and almost forces 
 them to participate in the craft of their choice. I personally find WoW's crafting system better, 
 although both game's systems are equally terrible from an outside point of view.
  
  Also, the balancing of classes atm is terrible in both PvE and PvP. With no true player versus 
 player world combat and a focus on individual class roles, it seems strange that there would be 
 problems with balancing in PvE, yet there are. Loremasters are underwhelming in solo'ing, grouping, 
 and instancing, and hunters do way more classes than other classes with the conveniency of power, 
 the game's equivalent of mana. And forget the PvM combat in the Ettenmoores... freeps, or the free 
 peoples of middle earth, have a tremendous advantage over player-controlled creeps in many aspects. 
 I quit the game a couple of weeks ago, so this imbalance may have changed with the release of the 
 Shaman (a healer) on the creep side, but imho the PvM combat is still flawed from the start.
  
  
  Well, those are most of the qualms I've had with LOTRO so far, besides the insane amount 
 of graphical and performance glitches I've come across over my 14 days /played. What I haven't 
 mentioned is the fact that WoW was also an incredibly unfinished and unbalanced product at its 
 release. However, LOTRO suffers from design flaws that won't be rectified by a couple of content 
 patches and an expansion pack: it's more of the same thing, and it doesn't build well enough on 
 the epic feel of the LOTR franchise. I suggest you try out this game before canceling your other 
 MMO accounts and throwing out your characters, like I did. This is a game that is, unfortunately, 
 not good enough for most people to dive right into.
  
  Looks like I'm back to WoW, again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcquAvivA78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The game look great, i only have a athlon 64 3000+ 2gb ati x800 on vista 64bits.. the game run 
 smoothly with all details. I dont see for now any kind of laging with my cable connection. i'll 
 want to spend more time into it to give you a beter review of it. ! But liked a said.. People dont 
 realy want to share in this game... I dont try WoW but i cant compare this game againts it. But 
 Everquest and... Entropia project to play with comunity are beter than this game.! If you want 
 sharing .. and not only your magic items.. i dont think is a game for you.. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  I played for 13 months in all. The first 4 months were fantastic as the story unfolded and were 
 definitely worth every penny of the sub.
  
  It tailed off in the later months - pitting myself against pre-programmed computer A. I. has limited 
 long-term appeal and there were a mounting list of small annoyances that commulatively became more 
 and more frustrating. Although they have gone some way to addressing these in recent months.
  
  Monster Play was the reason I stuck with it for more than half my subscription but that is 
 such a mess it's fun but only as a filler. I'm pretty sure that was it's original intention but 
 it's not a filler if you want to develop a viable Creep.
  
  But IMO Turbine shouldn't get an award for LOTRO unless it's the biggest missed opportunity.
 
  
  If they had properly integrated factional PvP from the start who knows how far this game could 
 have gone. It certainly could have made Blizzard worry. Lets face it, they had one of the best 
 IP's to do that with but they choose to take it in another direction. Shame really. Who knows - 
 maybe the wanted to but there was coding issues? PvE doesn't make the money that PvP does so there 
 has to be some reasoning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickr3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I have played since beta and Turbine has continued to improve and add to the game. I must for any 
 Tolkien fan or fantasy RPG player. The amount of content which always seems laking in other games 
 is tremendous. The content changes based on your profession and race. So if you get bored with 
 your elf hunter, then start a hobbit thief and its almost like you have another game. Turbine just 
 added a completely new area to the game with over 100 quests. I would definitely recommend the 
 game to anyone who is looking for a fantasy RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Visually the best I repeat BEST MMORPG to date. No contest. It looks great it sounds great and 
 well... what about the rest?
  
  Gameplay is fun an engaging. If you're sick of waiting around for an hour just to get into a party 
 that lasts 20minutes before somebody has to leave.. this could be the game for you. that's what 
 I thought at least. However, what you gain in not having as many group quests you lose in not having 
 as many group quests. Yes it is annoying to sit around finding a party but yes you do have WAY 
 more fun in a group. Too much of this game, at least lvl 30 and below, is spent doing about 90% 
 solo play and 10% group play. That 10 percent may be a generous estimate.
  
  Depending on others and having them depend on your really makes MMORPG what it is, MULTIPLAYER. 
 This is very nearly a Massively Solo Online Role Playing Game. The game is fun, don't get me wrong. 
 It's just that after a while you get bored of running all over the place by yourself. The group 
 quests are too few and far between. Surprisingly this does not make it that difficult to get into 
 a party when you need to. Also, the monster play has potential to be great, but too few are of 
 that level and so it's difficult to gague with any degree of accuracy if it will reach its full 
 potential. All in all this is a great game, just not for me. If you like having a close knit Guild, 
 Clan, Kinship or whatever other name they go by this game isn't for you. Talking over the chat 
 just doesn't make up for a good ole fashion big group beat down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krona90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  Like I said before, its a great game. As you play along, you meet the following players as Gandalf 
 &amp; Aragon. You have also the chans to join a fellowship and destroy all Evil. In the game there 
 is something that is called Title, this shows what you have done, what you are and etc. For example, 
 when I got to lvl 5 I got the title The Ward it means that I have reach lvl 5 without dying. On 
 every 5ft lvl you got a higher title. That was one of the many things in Lord of The Rings Online 
 that you can do. Many say that is a game copy of WoW, I cant say that. Because the environment 
 is diffrent and the world is alot bigger. Every character is different from WoW and that is what 
 it makes it so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is my Review of The Lord of the Rings Online, and from my personal playing, so results may 
 differ on different PC's, depending on how good/powerful they are compared to mine (which is a beast) .
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics (on Ultra High) are absalutly amazing, tho not as realistic as Guild Wars for instance, 
 and not as Cartoony as WoW (wow has great visuals btw, i luv the WC style) it finds a place in the 
 middle. The enviroments are beautiful, spanning over miles of land, the sky is awesome, and the 
 character models are nice to look at, and animate very well. With great effects, like Loremaster 
 spells written in Elvish once cast, and when you go near a Ring Wraith, just makes this one of 
 the high points of the game! WARNING: I have played this game on Low. and Very Low and Medium, 
 if your computer cannot run atleast HIGH you will get: Crappy NPC animation, blury textures, mob 
 pop ups, terrain pop ups, and many other things that just ruin the game, and i mean RUIN, games 
 arent made by graphics, but by gameplay, but this game is UNPLAYABLE at Low, medium is ok, but 
 having it on High is recomended, Very High and Ultra High is for the best of the best.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Easy, basical MMORPG controls, easy to pick up, and theres useful Tutorial tips 
 (which can be turned off)
  
  SOUND
  
  Sweet LotR sound tracks, gives you the feeling you are really there, and with the Musical Profession, 
 you can even play your own music by buying instruments, you can even form a band and travel the 
 World in search for people to listen to your ballads, and mabe even get payed.... mabe.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Excellent, at first it feels like a WoW, or any other MMORPG, but as you get into 
 it, it starts to drift away from this... rapidly. This game is basically a mix between Guild Wars 
 and WoW, as guildwars has story based Co-op missions, and WoW has... grinding missions and Intsances, 
 LotRo has all of these, it has you traveling middle earth with indepth missions, it has intances 
 and dungeons, and its free roaming and filled with things to do like crafting (you can have 3 crafting 
 professions, under helpful catagorys like Historian, or Armourer, Eg. Historian is Weaponsmith, 
 Farmer and Socolar in 1 profession) . You can get mounts, fight Cave Trolls, Balrogs, big things, 
 small things, PvP... which i haven done yet, but is very... Unique, and is different form all other 
 PvP iv ever played... or heard of.
  
  LETDOWNS!
  
  . Lack of classes and Races, people who like Guildwars wont care about the races, or classes, as 
 Guildwars doesnt have that many classes, and has only 1 race, but who cares! Guild wars owns... in 
 its own way. Those who played Everquest 2 or whatever, may feel restricted... but still a wide variety, 
 could have more (expansions pack mabe???)
  
  . Graphics!!! Although awesome, due to relativly high speck, many wont beable to play this awesome 
 game.
  
  . Only TWO starter areas! Hobbits and Humans go in 1, and Dwarves and Elves go in another, still 
 ok, but questing may get repetitive if u make a Human and a Hobbit of a similar class.
  
  . Ring Wraiths!!! You see them often enough, but i dont think you ever get to fight them : ( they 
 are bad ass mofo's, and i havent killed one yet... dammit lol, may beable to own them later on, 
 but u always got the Balrog to satisfy your thirst for destruction... lol
  
  . Cost... it costs &pound;9 a month, personally i don care, im not a hobo, im pretty well off, &pound;9 
 is nowt, but loads of people complain... nothing in life worth having is free! unless its guildwars, 
 thats worth having...
  
  OVERALL
  
  Excellent. A must buy if you got the computer power, if not, a miss, you WILL NOT enjoy this game 
 without the power... trust me, iv played it at a friends and i couldnt play it... at all...
  
  At &pound;17 from Play. com, it is a must buy... its a Bargin!
  
  IF YOU LIKE THIS PLAY WOW, 
 GUILDWARS OR EVEN ARCHLORD (ONLY IF YOUR DESPERATE, IT SUCKS)
  
  P. S. cant u tell i luv Guild Wars lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocolith
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, in light of my comment, the main reason why I say this is because the missions lead you to 
 the next towns where more missions await you, and there is more immersion factor, well, now on 
 to the review.
  
  Gameplay: Great. With 3 diffrent types of warriors, the usual healer and wizard, Ranger, and Misc. 
 character, theres nothing that you wouldn't expect from a RPG. Fights are great and missions are 
 sometimes creative, with you having to find certain characters or bringing an object to a point 
 while using stealth is pretty nice. PVP is ok.... but could have been a lot more than just guys 
 fighting monsters. (Although the addition of sparring makes up for it)
  
  Graphics: Excelent. Although there are mass diffrences in textures and depth on parts, You will 
 find nature awesome. The daffadils and tall grass are all seprete textures that move with the wind, 
 the sun is bright, the trees are shady, and nothing is lagging. You might stop for a minute just 
 to check the stuff around you.
  
  Sound: Its very well done. Gandalf sounds like a wise old men, hobbits sound like cheery folk that 
 are way too nice, the dwarfs have gruff voices, and the nature speaks to you, with birds, wind, 
 howls and many other assortments. It raises the immersion factor immensly.
  
  I know this review is short, but I'm tired (its 1:31 AM right now) and I kinda wanna get back to 
 playing. If you liked WoW, get it for a change in what your doing. If you didn't, like me, it might 
 be the MMORPG youv'e been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byubrent
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  As someone who is more of a first-person shooter type, my first MMOG, Lord of the Rings Online, 
 has been great. Quests pull you in and make you want to complete them. The soundtrack is great 
 and adds an extra dimension that lends each area a unique feel.
  
  If you like to play solo you'll have fun - if you like to work with others you will have more than 
 enough opportunity to do so. I like to do both, depending on my mood that day, so it has been a 
 great fit. There is always something new to do or an area to explore. Become rich, become powerful, 
 get the best gear, role play, wander, fool around, whatever you want to do you can find some of 
 it here in Middle Earth.
  
  Graphics are awesome. Absolutely no lag. I've read reports of bad graphics and lag but I can assure 
 you (as someone with a high end rig and a middle of the road rig) that those reports are from people 
 connecting with dial up or they are fanboys from another game. If you are tired of the raids in 
 other games come to Middle Earth and remember why playing an MMOG is fun. If you like the raids 
 in other games, then you may be best waiting a year until more are added to LOTRO. LOTRO has some 
 hard core 20 hour a day raiding groups online so you can find a place to fit in but it is definitely 
 more of a casual crowd.
  
  I just wish I could play at work too........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The good: Scenery, houses, trees and so... The bad: all the rest. Animation is clumsy and entirely 
 non realistic. You run and jump and so the NPC does and other players, but not one single move 
 look real... Models look chunky and it's quite painful to kill a mob you know in real life - like 
 a wolf... because it didn't look like one:)
  
  Ofc the game is a clone of WoW, but... I don't know... it's so far from it.
  
  
  The worst 
 thing about is that I read the beta testers opinion and I actually pay for this game... this hurt 
 the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  First of all, Lord of the Rings Online is a game that you should definitely skip. The first ten 
 levels of this game are pure fun, and if you have a friend to experience them with, like I did, 
 it's really a great time. But once we both hit level 13, we just suddenly completely lost interest. 
 This has happened on not one, but two of my characters. I just can't play past level 13. I know 
 I'm not alone in this, because I look at all my guild members, and half of them are level 12,13,14 
 and haven't been online in months. The graphics are amazing though. It's way up there with the 
 Oblivion graphics engine. I was running the game on a mid end machine, with an ATI X850, on the 
 highest settings, and my framerate was smooth all the way through, even in instances. The sound 
 however, is a real problem. Whenever the in-game music starts playing, the sound makes this annoying 
 crackling sound. I asked around, and it turns out it wasn't just my cheap sound card or my speakers. 
 People with top of the line 7.1 sound cards were getting this crackling too. Value gets a 4. Even 
 that rating seems generous in my eyes. This is just a straight conversion of WoW with a graphical 
 upgrade. As much as I hate to say this, you'd be better of playing World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welroon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  In the short span of about a week since I first brought LOTRO home and installed it on my computer, 
 I have come to realize that it is quite an expansive game with tons of places to explore and things 
 to do. Although it can get repetitve with a lot of the quests as do all other mmos, the storyline 
 and Tolkien universe keep it exciting and interesting. The character customization may not be as 
 flexible or intuitive as some other mmos out there but with character traits and deeds it doesn't 
 really need to be. It somehow takes the chore out of the typical grinding just to level since you 
 have other tangible goals than just the next level or a specific high level item to acquire. You 
 can gain titles by completing specific tasks and display your new title over your character as 
 you run around in the game. The visuals are very well done and if you a high end computer they 
 are simply breathtaking. Specifically the landscapes and various locations in the game. Even on 
 a medium setting they look quite nice. The sound is not the orchestrated sound you would expect 
 for a game of this magnitude but it does seem to fit the various locations and type of encounters 
 as you experience them. The community for the most part seems to be very friendly and helpful. 
 So far I have had nothing but good experiences fellow shipping with other players. All in all I 
 have to say this is a great game with lots of potential and it can only get better. I would recommend 
 this game to any rpg or mmo fan who loves to either explore and adventure on their own or fellowship 
 with others to live and experience Tolkien's epic masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  From the far corners of Middle-earth, new adventurers come forth to face the growing evil in the 
 East. The forces of Mordor are mobilizing as the Nazg&uuml; l hunt for the One Ring. The land itself 
 is now in peril and its fate lies in the hands of those who possess it. Adventuring alone or in 
 groups, join thousands of players online in the massive world that is Middle-earth. Support the 
 forces of good in an epic struggle to drive back the forces of Sauron. This is Middle-Earth Online, 
 your home in the world of Tolkien. Features personalized character advancement system including 
 Elves, Humans, Hobbits, Dwarves and more, a dynamic character alignment and customization system, 
 race-specific dwellings and the ability to ally with other players to form Fellowships and wage 
 war against the dark lord Sauron. The unique storyline expands the Fellowship's quest and takes 
 players to the far corners of Middle-earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadokahn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy the fact that this game is far more than just getting to max level as quick as possible 
 and then raiding non stop. So many ways to have fun... and eat up time.
  
  The ability to better your character via traits is a really nice change. Some folks can focus on 
 leveling, while others can spend time completing many deeds that increment the same trait from 
 various zones. I do think a lot of criticism about the game comes from WoW players who are use 
 to lvl + equipment = uber. Skill and planning plays a bigger role here in my opinion then in WoW.
 
  
  I gave up WoW after several years for this game.... no looking back for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  After an entire day of installing and updating, and finally, at 6 in the evening getting to log 
 on and play, I can tell you this game doesn't disappoint.
  
  Now I know it is wrong to compare the game to a product that has been on the shelves for two years 
 and is an effective clone of it, but Lord of the Rings online really holds a torch to World of 
 Warcraft. It really does. I have been playing Warcraft games for an age and have loved the lore. 
 I got 'WoW' at release and played it solidly for the next two years, watching it evolve. My patience 
 waned as time went on, feeling the developments were merely feeding addictions with the same old, 
 same old, and never really introducing any innovations that could have turned the gaming experience 
 around. Time went on and all I felt was Blizzard extracting a tenner from my account every month. 
 Oh dear, looks like I have strayed into World of Warcraft bashing time. But 'WoW' at release was 
 so far from the revered stage it stands at today... let's just see what 'lotro' is like 2 years 
 down the road. The developments planned really look like they will deliver.
  
  I admit, the first couple of hours playing 'lotro' was a real chore. The controls felt alien, the 
 ui felt alien, the whole gaming experience didn't sit right with me. After the first few levels 
 were over, I began to loosen up and get used to the change in the key map and sunk into the gaming 
 experience. Don't knock it till you've tried it... properly.
  
  One thing I really have to mention is the graphics. The graphics are stunning. I compared each 
 of the settings and even on the lowest setting, the graphics aren't too bad. Set to ultra high? 
 *whistles*. I realize that a real high end PC is needed to run it, but in a year or so, that sort 
 of hardware will be standard. I mean just look at the developments made from 2005-6. Got the image 
 in your head? Yeah, quite, things change fast. Lets look at another game. Oblivion. When the game 
 came out, people were blown over by the graphics, but lets be fair here, only elements were awesome. 
 The water was terrible and distant landscapes were poor too. 'Lotro' water and distant landscaping 
 is incredible. Every time I log on I am immersed and sometimes really feel like I could be there 
 (as I did with Oblivion on rare occasions - just look at Skingrad) . Some things could do with improvements, 
 but for the most part, they are amazing. Graphics arent everything, but if they were, lotro 
 would be one of the best games out today.
  
  The sound is pretty good, but orchestrated music would have been better then midi (Yes it is noticeable) . 
 It doesn't detract from the experience, by no means, but neither does it add to it.
  
  Game play took a little getting used to, but that's only because for two years I had been playing 
 'WoW'. It was sometime last year that I quit the game, but nevertheless, I still felt those controls!
 
  
  And heres the greatest thing of all...
  In 'WoW', all I felt was that addicting quality. The one where you are online with nothing really 
 productive to do, you are just online, running around Shattarath city because... well, just because. 
 I could have been offline on a bike ride, but there was always that need to be online, interacting 
 withno one. They must have put something in the food in-game 'cos I couldn't leave when it got 
 to that stage! Another reason for quitting. In 'lotro', I don't do that. If I have nothing to do, 
 I log off and go for a bike ride. There is no intrinsic desire to be online. Some would argue that's 
 a bad thing, but I really feel WoW was a bad thing in my life, one that I am better off without. 
 And I know I have resorted a lot to 'WoW' bashing, but hey, what you gonna do?
  
  I strongly recommend this game for people who are on a ridiculously long holiday ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  I had been playing LOTRO for a few weeks and let me tell ya, its not the game for the people. Most 
 of the quests involve retrieving somthing which gets really old. The charecters are cool but theres 
 no fast travel so it takes forever to get to the place you want to get to. Now, im sure many of 
 you are wondering, Do you get to see middle earth? 
  
  Answer: No
  
  The game just gets to annoying when trying to get money to get stuff. And trust me, YOU WILL LOSE 
 INTREST! The game is just not right for me but whos knows? Mabey it's right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  I have been playing MMO's for quite a few years now, starting with the grandaddy of them all, UO. 
 I have seen many different worlds and adventured online with thousands of people. But at the end 
 of the day it all came down to the same thing... you grind and grind and grind until you hit the 
 top level and then you continue grinding away.
  
  Everyone I played with and against were all trying to reach that next level or get that uber bit 
 of gear and nobody had much time to just sit about and chat and have a laugh or even just enjoy 
 the environment.
  
  All that has changed for me now since I started playing LOTRO. There is a real sense of community 
 with this game. Most players will take the time to chat and ask you questions or role play their 
 characters and it makes the whole experience much more fulfilling.
  
  Don't get me wrong now, in this game too there is an amount of questing that needs to be done to 
 advance you to the next level but in between those times you can find an Inn, grab a drink, light 
 your pipe and just talk with other friends, hatching new plots and plans or just re-telling stories 
 of the time you ventured into the Barrow Downs, just you and a hunter friend and came across a 
 Great Wight de da de da de da de da......
  
  Ok, enough sentiment, what is this game actually like then? Well to start with it looks awesome. 
 A lot of time and care has been taken in the creation of this world and it shows. Crank the video 
 settings right up and you will be amazed at the level of detail in the environments. In some places, 
 it is simply stunning and you can't help but to just stop and stare, drinking in the views and 
 wondering why other games could not look like this.
  
  Yes there is a bit of 'go here and get that' or 'go there and kill that' but the quests are all 
 little stories in themselves and they weave around the main storyline keeping everything flowing 
 along nicely. Every now and then you get a sweet little cut scene and a short movie plays showing 
 you the success you just achieved in a lot more detail.
  
  The world itself has all the major areas from the books (or a majority of them at the moment, I 
 understand that more will follow with new updates in the future) and they have been designed very 
 well. Rivendell for example, is exactly how I had pictured it after reading the books.
  
  Combat is basic but works well. Nothing new going on here apart from the fellowship skills that 
 everyone in a group can get involved in and when they work they deal out huge amounts of damage 
 or even group healing. It is a nice touch.
  
  Another nice feature is the skills and traits which are basically like quests but require you to 
 do no more than explore regions or kill a certain number of enemies. Once you have completed the 
 task you either get a special skill that you can activate to make you more effective or a new name 
 to display like Defender of Bree or Fly Swatter . These titles are appended to the end of your 
 display name so that everyone can see them as you run around the world.
  
  The crafting system is deep and intricate and very rewarding. You can make loads of stuff which 
 can be put up on the auction house to sell or used by yourself. There are hundreds of recipes available 
 and it adds an extra layer to the game.
  
  One of my favourite features is the music system. You can equip an instrument and then using the 
 number keys, play tunes on it. With a bit of practice you would be surprised at how good it can 
 sound.
  
  The above however only represents a small part of this great game. I have managed to get my character 
 to level 32 so far and still have another 18 levels to go before I max him out. I think I have 
 explored perhaps 20% of the game world and there are still loads of things to do.
  
  Both types of play have been catered for, there are a great deal of group quests available where 
 you need at least 6 people to complete them but there is also an equal number of solo content there 
 for when you just want to 'go it alone' so to speak.
  
  Oh, there is one more thing I need to mention, the monster play. This is just superb and makes 
 a nice distraction from the main game. here you can create a level 50 monster and then go off and 
 enjoy some PVP action. There is nothing as much fun as charging your Orc into the middle of a Hobbit 
 village and start causing chaos!
  
  Anyway, I can heartily recommend this game, it is great fun and something that will keep you coming 
 back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XinemoneyX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  While this game is a lot like its genre brother, World of Warcraft, but it adds a different aspect 
 to the genre and that is really good story. While WoW has RP servers, the amount of story and immersive 
 feeling you get from LOTRO far surpasses it and even more so if you are a fan of the books or the 
 movies. The pvp or PvMP is lackluster and with the current low player population of about 20,000 
 players the battle grounds can be desolate. Also the end-game quests and detail is unfinished as 
 can be expected, but the content patches are working on improving the content. Graphics are beautiful, 
 some of the best for the MMOs out there. and the audio is great suit the occasions well. Crafting 
 system can be slightly confusing and requires trade with others a lot of the time which can be 
 a hassle. The tools and functions of LOTRO are clones of WoW.
  
  In a nutshell LOTRO is WoW with an epic legendary story, excellent graphics and audio but with 
 a PvP system and an endgame that needs help. I'd say this game is a must buy or at least try for 
 all Tokien enthusiasts but I'd wait until the game has had time to grow in content and players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Blood
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  bueno yo soy de mexico, soy videojugador dedicado, y jugue esto cuando estaba la beta en linea... 
 lo unico de lo que me percate, aparte de que los graficos so buenos, y buen gameplay, es que... 
 este juego es exactamente igual que world of warcraft. se podria llamar world of warcraft presenta: 
 el se&ntilde; or de los anillos y nadie se daria cuenta, el tiempo que pase jugandolo solo me percate 
 de copia tras copia. empezando con la interfaz, en la cual solo cambiaron de lugar algunos objetos 
 y por lo demas! es igual, la forma de jugarlo tambien es identica.
  bueno por la gente que dice que es mejor que WoW, bueno eso es imposible, puesto que wow es el 
 original, y lord of the rings es su copia, por lo que no es posible que sea mejor, puesto que una 
 copia nunca podra hacer mejor lo que el original, pero bueno, igual y es una buena copia, asi que 
 de cualquier forma es divertido, pero si ya jugaste wow, y lo disfrutaste, entonces quedate con 
 el, no encontraras nada nuevo en este juego, solo cliches y clones de lo que el wow tiene 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockfart07
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  As I played this game I realized many aspects of the game play were just like World of Warcraft. 
 Except many of the annoying things have been perfected. I remember the quests where it took hours 
 collecting objects from enemies. But in LOTRO it drops almost from every enemy. Although the PvP 
 aspect of the game needs improvement, the game just released and I am sure it will only get better. 
 Maybe they should make the orcs a playable race or some evil races. Because only 4 races just isnt 
 enough to most people. Although the character development seems very in-depth it needs some spark 
 something to make it different than the rest to make it absolutely outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbla
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  After two months of playing LOTRO, I cancelled my account because I got so bored with the game. 
 It was fun up until around level 40, then I just lost interest. Itemization in this game is terrible. 
 Crafting is a waste of time as you can't make anything really superior without farming for rare 
 items. I never really did like the choice of classes in the game and the combat skills were very 
 ho-hum. People are already leaving the game in droves. I don't think it will last more than a year 
 so if you're considering buying this game, keep that in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Let me just say first off that I never played an mmo that i didn't find something boring, or too 
 hard, or just not fun. Lotro changes that. It combines the best elements from all the previous 
 mmos and does them right while adding so many of its own features that are completely original! 
 I have played Eq2 and vanguard and a little of wow. Eq2 was good but the world zones were too small 
 and boxed in, you had to group to explore which is a major let down to me. Vanguard had a massive 
 world, with great graphics and cool unique features like crafting and diplomacy, but there was 
 no real story or lore to be found anywhere, and when the player population dropped it got boring 
 fast! Wow... well many people love it, i hate it, the cartoony graphics and easy mode get to level 
 70 in 2 weeks really bothers me, but not as much as wow's 1337 player community of 13 year old 
 kids who grief and spam the chat channels with there immature rantings and the game is packed with 
 them. Lotro fixes all those things that I hated about those games. The world is massive and flowing 
 like vanguard or wow. Its uses zones, but there is only a loading screen going into houses or story 
 instances. in the main world each zone is around the size of 5 eq2 zones, and they are borderless 
 between zones, so you don't have to go to a gate to get to the next zone, it is seamless like wow, 
 the only way you will even know you changed zones is by the chat channel telling you the region 
 chat changed and by looking on the world map. The world is so detailed and polished it puts every 
 other game to shame! Turbine did an excellent job bring middle-earth to life!
  
  Speaking of the graphics, they are beautiful. I remember being on the vanguard formus and people 
 were bashing lotro for its graphics and small world, and at the time I believed them, and I didn't 
 try lotro when it hit the shelves. I got bored of vanguard quickly and found lotro in the store, 
 and picked up a copy still apprehensive after hearing all the forum posts. I am glad I did, as 
 the graphics and atmoshpere top vanguard and any other game. Sure they don't use over the top normal 
 mapping, but the textures work and detail is astounding, the water is shaded perfectly and is deferent 
 depending on what type of body of water and the flow direction. Water falls look great too. They 
 didn't use speed tree for the trees so they look somewhat bland from the distance but they make 
 up for that with the variety of trees and fauna in the world that it makes it look great. The game 
 doesn't require massive system requirement either. Vanguard would crash every hour, lotro is so 
 stable you could play it for days without crashing. The fact that I play with maxed out settings 
 with 16x af and 8x aa and still get smooth fps is amazing to me!
  
  The story elements really bring you into the game. I love how the world reflects what you've done. 
 From the deeds titles, to the townspeople saying things about your deeds when you walk by, The 
 emote system in this game is phenomenal! You can smoke, and drink, faint, sit on furniture (you 
 actually sit in chairs not on top of them!) And you get drunker the more alcohol you drink, the 
 screen gets blurrier and your movement gets impaired to the point where you are so drunk you are 
 seeing double and the movement keys make you stumble like you really were drunk. The little touches 
 like this really make this a believable world. You see regular wildlife on the ground and birds 
 in the sky. I still can't get over the environments, and its only 1/4 of the world completed! Turbine 
 is pushing free content updates and expansions, not like wow where you had to wait 2 years for 
 a crappy grind fest expansion. The gameplay is excelent, so is the fighting mechanics and spell 
 effects. You never have trouble getting groups, but your not forced to group, there is plenty of 
 solo stuff, everywhere. I have never seen so many quests in one game before. Now threre isn't many 
 races or classes to choose from, only 4 races and 7 classes, but that is because its stays true 
 to the books. Its not that bad either, in other games I would get bored by the teens and usually 
 role up an alt. Not in lotro I am having so much fun with my main, I actually stick to playing 
 one class. In fact I just roled up my first alt the other day, after 3 weeks of playing. And you 
 level slowly, it actually means something, but you do get expearance point bonuses when you don't 
 play for a while so you can catch up to your friends levels easier.
  
  There is so much more to this game from the in depth player music system to meaningful crafting 
 thats not simple like wows craptastic crafting ( if you could even call it that) . The fact that 
 a lot of people in this game actually read the books, or at least they can read (not like the illiterate 
 spammers in wow) makes for a truly great gaming session. People are always helpful, not once has 
 a question of mine been ignored in the advice channel. There is also player vs monster play which 
 is lotros version of pvp. I haven't gotten into that too much but it looks cool, you to control 
 a high level monster as your secondary character and go against other players in a huge zone called 
 the ettenmoores, sorta like guildwars style pvp, but you are in your monster body, or your character, 
 but you have to be level 40+ as a regular character, but only level 10 to enter monster play, and 
 make your new level 50 monster. This game has so much, there is a lot I missed and I would get 
 tired of writing all of it, it would take pages of text to really describe all the wonders of this 
 game. All I can say is, that if you love mmos or rpgs, are a Tolkien fan, and like story lines 
 not just powerlevling and raids (which there are in this game, its just not the foucus, as there 
 is no end game its going to be expanded every couple of months) then give lotro a try! You will 
 not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online is a brand new MMORPG from Midway and Turbine. The game is based around 
 the Lord of the Rings book, as you take up a character in the world of Middle-Earth. As you progress 
 through the game, you are taken through the books story. The game does not only look very nice, 
 with great backgrounds and great characters models, but it also plays great, as there is much to 
 do and it is fun.
  
  Lord of the Rings plays like a lot of any other MMORPG games out there. But, it is able to distinguish 
 itself enough to be a fun and overall fresh experience. One of the things that created was a deed 
 system, in which as you kill things, do quests for certain people, etc., you get deeds or titles. 
 When you complete a deed, you can acquire a trait, you can equip and it will give you a boost. 
 For example, when you do enough quests in a certain area, you can get a trait that will increase 
 you will by 2, thereby increasing your power, or mana, by more.
  
  The Class system is also very deep and intriguing. With about 8 or 9 classes, it is very easy to 
 find a character that suits your needs. While the craft system isn't very fleshed out, the class 
 system and the Monster play seem to make up for it. Monster play is something that you can do at 
 level 10, which it allows you to become a Monster and fight against real people in PvP. While you 
 cannot start out as evil, Monster play is fun and exciting. It is also innovative enough to sepeaate 
 itself from other MMORPG's PvP's.
  
  The quest system is also very well done. While there are a lot of very generic quests, like go 
 from point A to point B or kill so many of these, there are tons of quests that gives a fresh experience. 
 Each person has there race's special quest line, or book . These books include very special quests 
 and when these quests are completed, you will be rewarded with a cut scene, and they all look great 
 and suck you deeper into the world. With all this new and fresh content, the gameplay never gets 
 old.
  
  The graphics of this game are very well done. The draw distance and backgrounds are probably the 
 best thing in this game. You can see, clearly, many mountains that you can actually go to. The 
 backgrounds are all stunning and they give you a sense of how big the world actually is. A lot 
 of the environments are also well done, as there is a huge range of environments, from the farms 
 of the shire to the the depths of Agramar, the environments all look great. The character models 
 are also beautiful. The characters look great, from their facial features down to their equipment. 
 One problem I have with the characters are some animations seem very labored and fake, but besides 
 from that, almost everything in this game looks perfectly.
  
  The sound in this game is also great. While there are almost no voice overs for NPC's, the sounds 
 from the enemies are clear and crisp. The music is also very enjoyable as they are very orchestral 
 and help pull you into the world. The sound effects are also well done. From a spell to the yell 
 of an attacking foe, the sound effects sound perfect. The sound helps add to the game, making it 
 an even more enjoyable experience.
  
  Lord of the Rings is one of the best MMO's to come out in a while. In fact, it's one of the best 
 games to come out in the last year. With it's innovative gameplay, beautiful graphics, and highly 
 developed orchestral sounding music, Lord of the Rings is a game no MMO fan should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torimo
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Hi their, their are allot of mixed comments out there regarding LOTRO Shadows of Agmar. I must 
 say, the more i play it, the better it is getting. Year it has a few things from other games, but 
 I don't think thats a bad thing! I like what it has done and on the plus side, it has many things 
 that no other MMO game has! Awesome story line to it, even if you are not a fan of LOTR, it is 
 just a good/great MMO game. I have recently stopped playing WoW (World of Warcraft) and for me 
 LOTRO is perfect. World of Warcraft is old, out dated and just not fun for me any more. LOTRO Shadows 
 of Angmar holds a new adventure and I am sure when there are many more high level characters it 
 will become much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaryk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been following the progress of this game from the Middle Earth Online days and have seen 
 it grow into what it is now. A great addition to the MMO genre. I had worried for awhile about 
 how they would create a game that takes place at the time of the fellowship's journey that would 
 make it seem like what you're doing is relevant to the outcome we all know is coming. What they 
 created was a wonderful quest system that will make everyone feel relevant when it comes to the 
 destruction of the ring.
  
  In addition to quests there is a nice deed and trait system. Basically you get special titles or 
 traits to improve your character though killing a certain number of monsters, or finding ruins 
 of ages past. This makes for something interesting to do when you're burnt out on questing for 
 awhile.
  
  Well, on to the main course...
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  I give gameplay a 9 simply because I've come across some minor problems that I can't give a 10 
 for. This could be different for everyone depending on your PC specs, but basically I get funny 
 little stutters now and then while in combat, and tremendous lag when entering a crowded area like 
 Bree. Though a recent patch helped by changing the way buildings and trees are rendered, but I 
 still get a little lag. Other than that, the combat system and controls are fun and easy to catch 
 on to.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  The best graphics I've ever seen in an MMO... period. There are no comparisons. This category, however, 
 will vary as well depending on your PC specs and what it can/can't handle.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  Great music, great sound effects, good voice acting... I'd elaborate, but that's 
 really all I can say! :)
  
  Value - 10/10 &amp; Tilt - 9/10
  
  Well, I scored these categories because I have to according to the list... I have no idea what they 
 mean. Value I gave a 10 basically because this game revived the gamer in me... I had been kinda 
 bored of games until I started this one in beta. I 'value' it as a 10 because I don't know what 
 I'd do without it! haha
  
  Tilt... I just gave it a 9 since I have no idea what it means and didn't think I should give it 
 a 10. :P
  
  Well, that's my first GS review, hope it was somewhat helpful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: Huge, vastly detailed game world that captures Middle Earth's feel; Questing is engaging, 
 fun, and easy to learn; finally an MMOG with a terrific back story to it; absolutley gorgeous visuals, 
 even on lower end PC's; terrific musical score; story based quests are clever and rewarding; monster 
 play is a great addition and exclusive to lower level players.
  
  The Bad: Gameplay is definately fun but not too orginal; Combat is not as fluid as some MMOG's; 
 Frame rate chugs on low PC's; Character customization and available races are not as deep as other 
 MMOG's.
  
  Lord of the Rings Online is a new Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing game made by Midway 
 and Turbine Inc. While the game borrows several elements from other MMOG's, and it lacks innovation 
 in spots, the game is so much fun to play that all of that is made up for.
  
  In Lord of the Rings Online, there are 4 available races, 7 classes, 10 professions, and 7 vocations. 
 The available races and classes are not as deep as other online games, but each class has mostly 
 varied abilities to them. The races in the game are made up of Men, Elves, Hobbits, and Dwarves. 
 Each race also has its own starting area, which makes each race unique in its own way. The only 
 problem with Dwarves is that female players won't be able to play as female dwarves. Oh... so sad....
 
  
  The classes in the game are made up of Burglar, Captain, Champion, Guardian, Hunter, Lore Master, 
 and Minstel. There are enough classes in the game to cover all of the parts in a group for tanking, 
 healing, support, what ever you can think of. The only problem is, the class system is not particularly 
 deep like in most MMOG's, which mostly have very deep class systems. The professions in the game 
 are pretty basic. You have crafting, blacksmithing, weapon forging, any of that sort. Vocations 
 though are a new thing though to new MMOG's. Vocations are what you can expect, or think of vocations 
 in real life, and you can see them in the game, if you get what i'm saying. You can be a cook, 
 farmer, weaponsmith, Forester, Scholar, etc. Each one is pretty unique and are sort of like a second 
 proffesion, only its not as rewarding or important.
  
  The graphics in the game are one of the greatest things about the game. On lower end PC's, the 
 game looks detailed and good, but on higher end PC's, and with really good graphics cards, the 
 game looks amazing. IN the distance you'll see rolling hills and grasslands, you'll see ugly and 
 dirty marshes, mountains, etc. The towns have their own little awsomeness to them. Each town looks 
 fantastic, and hobbit holes in the shire are also good to look at. The only problems with the graphics 
 are a few blemishes and odd looking character models. Overall the game looks fantastic, and has 
 a better feel to it with a more mature look.
  
  Lord of the Rings Online is definately a big quest based MMO. In fact, the game encourages you 
 to quest. This game is definately not a game for grinders though. The highest amount of xp you 
 get from monsters that are around your level or at your level is about 24-60. But if you quest, 
 once you get the quests done you get a lot more experience points. The questing in the game is 
 very fun, very engaging, and easy to learn. I even find this game's questing more fun than WOW's 
 to tell the truth. Whats best about the questing though are the story based quests, which are still 
 sort of like the regular quests, but have a certain twist to them, and some are quite clever. At 
 the end of each one there's a nice movie sequence to watch. Not to mention each story based quest 
 is rewarding.
  
  The game throws at you some pretty cool things though. Deeds are one of them. When you find a deed, 
 you can complete it by either exploring or killing x amount of beasts. After you complete them, 
 you get xp, obviously, and a new title and trait. Each thing is very rewarding and the deeds definately 
 put some spice into the game.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty top notch. The musical score in the game is nice and has a great 
 theme to it. The NPC voices are also not bad either, though they really don't say much in voice 
 from. The music in the game and the voices all add to a superb sound feeling, and its sort of immersive 
 as well.
  
  There are some problems in the game though. Combat for example is not as fluid as some other MMOG's 
 combat systems. The combat can also get laggy and you can easily screw up in spots, which can be 
 really annoying. Also some battles can be totally surprising, either you die all of the sudden 
 or you win even if you about to die. The frame rate also chugs on lower PC's, which can be irritating 
 too. Also, the core gameplay is fun, but its not too original. Since there have been so many elements 
 taken out of other games, the game feels fimiliar in spots too.
  
  One other really good thing about LOTRO is Monster Play. In monster play, you take control of a 
 type of orc, and then land in the Ettenmoors to do battle against other players fighting as their 
 own high level avatars. The thing is still not very populated, but in the future I am sure that 
 it will be flourishing with players.
  
  The best thing about LOTRO is that its fun to play, simple as that. If you are looking for a new 
 MMO to play, or you are a fan of the Lord of the Rings books, then you are likely to enjoy playing 
 through Lord of the Rings Online. With its enjoyable quests, fun gameplay, albeit unoriginal, and 
 terrific visuals, Lord of the Rings Online throws an enjoyable and competative Online Role-Playing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arfalax
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically World of Warcraft that costs less in the LoTR universe. The graphics aren't 
 too bad, but they sure aren't the best. Prettey easy to learn, but once you get started, it's prettey 
 much a bunch of quests that all feel the same. Then it's a bunch of killing random monsters to 
 level up for a while. I was dissapointed, it seemed like a really fun game, but now that I've played 
 it, I see that it's not that great. It's fun for about the first hour or so, but if you want a 
 better game, just play WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to get into LotR beta back in Aug 2006 so I really had a good opportunity to 
 go around the block (several times) with this game.
  In my opinion, its main strength is also part of its main weakness.... it doesn't do anything new. 
 If you could pick a logo to slap on the side of the box like a laundrie detergent, it would be 
 new and improved .
  Don't get me wrong, the game looks fantastic! Its is very well polished and Turbine is doing a 
 great job supporting it. However, let's face it, MMO releases in the past 2 years have stunk. Does 
 LotRs win by default simply because a dev team finally did some quality control before launch?
 
  What does it really bring new to the table? Not really a whole lot. It seems that the devs have 
 stepped back and looked at what has worked in MMO's up to this point and put it into LotR. Not 
 that there is anything wrong with that approach but after 10 years of repetitive fantasy grinders, 
 this one is riding into town a bit late.
  
  Gameplay - All in all it is very standard. All the staples of fantasy MMO's are present: drab kill 
 task to give the illusion of having lots to do, levels to grind out, a standard crafting system, 
 a very unimaginative basic class system ripped from the pages of generic fantasy game design 101 
 . Mechanically speaking, if you played any MMO, you have already played LotRs. Where LotRs does 
 make a difference is in its storyline quest. Now these are a LOT of fun, especially the higher 
 up go. Turbine does have a knack for making some great content for their games. They start out 
 fairly basic and easy (some you can do solo in the very early levels) but become lengthier, more 
 challenging and more difficult as time goes on. Its really worth putting in the time to do these 
 story driven quest. Another area that shows promise is the monster play, the LotR solution to PvP 
 where players can create a playable monster and fight with other players in a PvP zone with attackable 
 castles and such. . Although it has some issues (like players logging in a monster and deliberately 
 pulling aggro on a monster group or reporting were they are at to regular players) Its a very interesting 
 and unique feature. It doesn't require a mass amount of time to be able to get into monster play 
 and its pretty MMO light. Its like having an MMO character for your main MMO character. I'm not 
 sure how much of an issue balance is going to be in the future as monster start out relatively 
 weak comparred to players. We will need some more time to see how this plays out. I also like the 
 traits and deeds system they have. It does add a level of class/character customization but to 
 a basic, drab class system.
  
  Sound - not all to impressive in my opinion. MMOs generally do a very poor job at sound so its 
 not just LotR that is at fault here. There are virtually no voice overs so again you are in the 
 land of the MMO mutes who give a bunch of generic hello greets when you interact with them. Some 
 day, an MMO will come along that will do a decent job of voicing over the game. That day isn't 
 today. The music is ok but not enough variation. It doesn't even come close to the attention to 
 musical detail that a much older game, Lineage 2 has. The one thing I do like is my Dwarf's laughing 
 and battle yells while he fights. Other then that, fairly standard sound. You could transplant 
 any MMO's sounds into this one and end up with basically the same thing.
  
  Graphics - the world and level of detail is fantastic. LotR really is a above average here. As 
 an added bonus, you don't need a nuclear powered / cooled PC to run the game. Turbine learned a 
 great lesson from their peers who continually make MMOs far to technically demanding and have to 
 little gameplay payoff. (and devs wonder why MMO's are not doing better) They made the game with 
 very realistic system requirements.
  
  Value - given it is new at this point and the quality is very well worth it, it's box price is 
 justified. If you were lucky enough to get into the founders program at launch, you got a very 
 nice sub discount or lifetime pricing. If you are reading this trying to deside if you should get 
 it, you missed out on that program. Turbine has already proved they are fully supporting this title 
 while new content and have big plans for the future which include new countries (Rohan and Gondor) 
 and player housing. There is definitely room for growth in this game and the future is bright for 
 it.
  
  Given the state of todays MMO's, this one is well worth the time if you like that style of gaming. 
 Don't expect anything very different though. Its all standard features that any mmo would have 
 and very basic gameplay. Just do whatever the NPC tells you to do and everything will be ok .
 
  LotR real setback for an experienced MMO player is the fact that it is almost identical to everything 
 else out there with a few novel additions and pretty graphics. If you are new to MMO's definitely 
 start with this one. Set your standards high so that in the future more companies put out products 
 as well made as LotR. All in all, I like it, its a very well made game..... but its just not unique 
 enough to set off that MMO passion. So close............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeno89
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game has alot of potential to grow and thrive as one of the worlds best MMO's available. This 
 game has what most MMO's have to offer, satisfaction with your character. If you put the time and 
 effort into this game, like most MMO's you will be rewarded with an amazing character with the 
 best armor etc etc. This game has a new feature not seen in other MMO's, thats the Reflecting Pool, 
 this allows the player to go back and redo any instance missions for loot, experience or to help 
 another player.
  LOTRO has an decent character creation process, not the most detailed, but its still good. The graphics 
 on this game are superb however.
  This game is a must have for all you LOTR fans out there, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caitalian
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game when I heard about it last year. I was even lucky enough 
 I thought to get onto the beta. I was only able to tolerated the beta for about a month and it 
 was a struggle to to even want to turn it on most of the time. I stopped and went back to WoW. 
 Got hooked on that and then finally LOTR came out live. I figured hey it was the beta and I a really 
 big LOTR fan have read the books seen the moves blah blah blah. Unfortunately my enjoyment for 
 this game didnt go up. The characters in this game move so odd. They feel like they are floating 
 when they jump and flight. The three frames of animation for them running just looks retarded. 
 I have my computer on a 50 HD TV and there were times I could hardly see some of these mobs due 
 to the poor detail and lighting. I enjoyed the world of WoW it is so vibrant and alive in its color 
 schemes where LOTR it was to dark. The water effects and sections of area with flowers blowing 
 where great looking
  
  They basically ripped every idea from WoW and tried to put there own twist on it. Unfortunately 
 their twist was no good. Such as the travel system, going long distances you can take a horse and 
 be there in seconds. If you dont feel like running you can spend 5 min traveling to a near by 
 town on horse. So it takes 5 min to travel a couple miles and seconds to travel hundreds really 
 makes a lot of sense. If LOTR was just a game with no movies or books before it this game would 
 be a huge flop. Everyone would just be oh its rip of this and that game. Will it get better of 
 course it will. Will I play it again most likely not.
  
  Over all this game brings nothing new to the playing field. With games such as Gods and Heroes 
 coming out which are actually trying to create something new and fresh, LOTR is just old and rehashed 
 taking all the good ideas and regurgitating them into a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online is pretty standard when it comes to mmorpg features. You basically are 
 going to be doing the same things you do in most other mmos, creating your character, going on 
 quests, collecting items and wealth, etc.
  
  The added spark that this mmorpg has gotten from Turbine has everything to do with the setting 
 and lore of Middle Earth. Turbine has done an adequate job of turning the beloved story of the 
 Ring into a beautiful, fun and interesting online experience.
  
  I am somewhat biased, being a fan of Turbine and having played and enjoyed their last mmo (Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons Online) . So there are things I can easily overlook when writing this review that 
 others might have had a serious problem with and addressed if they were writing it.
  
  Graphics are top notch and surprisingly, do not impact the gameplay at all. Beautiful art, animation, 
 and scenery are not at the expense of PC power (if you have a PC that meets or exceeds recommended 
 specs) . It is a mmo that is easily immersive because of its attention to detail. It would have 
 been great to have even more detail, such as footprints left in the snow, but there is so much 
 to see and the gameworld seems so full of life and activity that it's hard to complain with what 
 Turbine has done in this respect.
  
  Sound is very good. I like the music that plays during the game. The biggest difference in this 
 mmo from all others is the ability of character to make their own music. Effects are often not 
 noticed, such as birdsong or the gust of wind, but when you listen for little things like this, 
 you'll probably smile in appreciation as I've done many times.
  
  Gameplay is probably where the game is more similar to other mmos. The questing isn't much different 
 from, say, World of Warcraft, only I think the stories told during the quests are done very well, 
 and may keep you interested through the repetition of slaying monsters and collecting items.
  
  Combat is very ordinary, but there are a lot of different skills and each class has different 
 ways of winning in battle, making for a lot of replayability when trying new character classes, 
 and also it adds to the fellowship aspect of the game.
  
  Fellowships are groups of characters. The game has a lot of solo content, but there are times when 
 a fellowship is necessary to accomplish certain tasks. Each class has something unique to add to 
 the fellowship. Then there are special manuevers that when performed correctly, can deal much greater 
 damage or heal the group - a nice idea. These are sometimes difficult to figure out, though, and 
 probably requires voice chat for coordination within the fellowship.
  
  The gameplay is broken up into chapters, much like a book, and quests takes you from one chapter 
 to the next, unravelling the story of Middle Earth that sort of parallels the books. Its done very 
 well, although I had some question marks above my head at times. Other times, I had a huge grin 
 and was thoroughly enjoying my time in Middle Earth.
  
  This mmo doesn't to anything new or revolutionary. If you're a Founder like me, it only costs $9.99 
 each month to subscribe. There is nothing groundbreaking here, but everthing that Turbine has done 
 adds up to one heck of a mmorpg, and it's Lord of the Rings, for petes sake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin9992
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online appears to be the MMO everyone has been wanting. The crafting system is 
 massive, but not mind-boggling massive. The graphics have a feel that everyone loves. The music 
 is created perfectly and sounds amazing. The UI is easy to pick up on and makes the game fit in 
 its nice little style, just how everyone wants it. Then why did I give it a mediocre rating? Heres 
 why:
  
  The graphics are amazing! It doesnt stand up to Everquest 2 but once you get into it, it seems 
 that that doesnt really matter.
  
  The music is incredible. I noticed myself standing in the Inn just listening to the music sometimes.
 
  
  This game only lacks one thing, and it is the single most important thing in a MMORPG that almost 
 seems invisible, and thats 'Drive'.
  In this game, while everything seems super perfect, along the way you feel like there's no point 
 in going any further. You feel like you can put the game down and never pick it back up and you 
 wont feel like you've lost anything.
  
  I tried so hard to slow my self down and give this game a chance, and though I still continue to 
 play it, it's not the Lord of the Ring Online game we all hoped it would be. I love this game to 
 death but also hate this thing with a fiery undying passion. If you think I'm a crazy reviewer, 
 then by all means pick it up, but I honestly think that about around level 10, you'll start to 
 lose the fondness for this game. Simply because once you've played it for 3 hours, you've pretty 
 much experienced what the game is, because there is really no change, the game consists on nothing 
 but repitition.
  
  If your the kind of person to pick up any new game, then please, try it, you might enjoy the crap 
 out of this game. But if your one, like me, to spend money wisely, I'd advise you take this into 
 serious consideration before deciding to make a commitment to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorgilt
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Something just seems missing.
  the water and skys are nicely done, player graphics are ok, crafts had a very recent overhaul. 
 But to me, it just seems as if it doesn't realy have much life. Beginner phase is overlong ( can 
 be skipped though) and you can easily solo to your early 20's, but after that it's pretty much 
 group or really slowly grind as combat exp is MUCH less than quest exp. Main storyline is mostly 
 group only with no warning if you need a group or you can expect to be able to solo quests. People 
 seem to be fairly well behaved, with the usual numbers of helper or annoying players. Character 
 replayability is a bit less than other MMORPGS, doing the same quests repeatedly just doesn't have 
 the same enjoyment factor as other games. Most players tend to keep one character and level up 
 rather than make a full roster and experiment. Very detailed lands ( as in Lord of the Rings topography) 
 and great detail spent on characters and features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and they finally released a game from the LOTR series that is a MMORPG. This was 
 quite exciting and this game was really good. I like creating my own character and choosing which 
 area he came from. The missions are similar to Guildwars, but the its also a lot like WoW. This 
 game made things finally less boring. I really liked the professions and the starting areas werent 
 horrible either. The transport system is cool too. Of course they should have made an Orc, Uruk, 
 Troll, Haradrim races too and make another PvP system. This game really suprised me when people 
 said it would beat WoW. In the end it missed by a couple of points, but otherwise this game did 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised that this game wasnt as good as it could have been. Alot of people are saying that 
 this game is better than WOW but, really, it isnt. There are way less things in the game to do. 
 Theres basic quests, PVP, and everything else you would see in any MMO. Also the game is very limited. 
 For an MMO, there should be alot of more here. There are only a couple of races which all of them 
 are a** ugly. The characters look really bad. The gameplay is probably the only good thing in the 
 game. The gameplay surprisingly is actually pretty solid. Though just not as good as other MMOs. 
 The interface is easier to understand than WOW but its pretty bland. The graphics are half bad 
 either. The levels look fairly good though the characters look uglier than ever. The lands are 
 detailed but i seen way better. The sound isnt all that good but its not terrible. The music is 
 pretty boring and just about everything else sounds decent at most. Now the fact that this game 
 costs 15 dollars to play, that really hurts replay value. Like i said, why pay 15 for this when 
 you can play other games that are way better than this for the same price if not less. Overall 
 LOTR online had potential but just quite didnt come out as good as it should have and as i thought. 
 If you are a hard core fan of LOTR you might like it but even if you are, you still might not like 
 it. Also the race balancing is plain horrible. All characters feel the same which really sucks 
 the fun out of the game. The quest arent too bad but can get repetitive after a while. Only hard 
 core fans of MMOs may like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polarskill
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game plays like every MMO wants to play like. In this game you actualy play the 
 character rather then level him up. The thousands of different combinations that can be made for 
 each is astounding. The simple fact that if you kill creaturs you can get feats skills and abilities 
 is insane ive never seen anything like it. The feature that made me holy C**P my pants was when 
 i saw the music system. In this game you can actualy play a song this being said i have seen full 
 length songs played by other people and played with them. I couldent think of a better game. Sure 
 as hell beats World of Warcrack's cartoon grafics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xGollumx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The game does follow Tolkien's lore for the most part. Viewing Eriador for the first time and visiting 
 familiar places is very exciting. There's no words to describe the feeling you get when you first 
 lay eyes on Bag End, or Weathertop. The environment is spectacular, and the views are something 
 that must be seen to be believed. Beyond that, however, the game itself has a ways to go before 
 it can really be something to brag about.
  
  First off, characters appearances are uninspired, and the gear they equip all looks like garbage. 
 Metal armor doesn't have an armor look to it at all. Everything looks like it's made out of cloth. 
 Shoes look ridiculous, approaching the appearance of traditional clogs straight out of Holland. 
 When I win an item from a difficult fight, the last thing I want is for it to not stand out in 
 a sea of other gear. Whoever was responsible for designing this stuff failed miserably.
  
  Next we move on to questing. Questing is about the only way to earn decent XP and advance a character. 
 Grinding is almost out of the question since fighting a mob results in very negligible gains in 
 XP. The problem here is questing almost always falls under the old stigma of FInd person X or Kill 
 X number of Y mobs. It gets old very fast. To make matters worse, you can wrap up one quest that 
 asked you to kill a mob over and over, only to complete the quest which unlocks another quest that 
 asks you to go right back and kill the same mob again, over and over. You can see where levels 
 of tedium will set in rather quickly.
  
  One of the few things that sets LotRO apart from other MMOs is the ability to play as a monster 
 on a zone specifically set aside for Monster Player vs. Player battles. It's truly an excellent 
 and fun concept. The only problem is it's horribly broken, and suffers from many bugs that have 
 lingered for multiple months without being fixed. The play is so imbalanced at this point that 
 unless you have 3 to 4 times the number of monsters versus the number of regular players, you'll 
 wind up being massacred.
  
  Monster Play vs. Player is one area where the game that could truly break out of the typical MMO 
 mold, yet falls flat on its face. I believe Turbine is banking that the end game community will 
 be satisfied with re-rolling another character to experience the game through leveling a different 
 job, as opposed to the challenge of facing another person in combat. Only time will tell if placing 
 their bets on PvE content will be a winner. It's just a shame the one of the most unique aspects 
 of the game has been ignored and (especially with the Evendim patch) ruined by poor balancing choices 
 on Turbine's part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevryn45
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The only decent MMO that came out of Turbine was Acheron's Call Darktide, that being said we have 
 to realize who and what the company has become after releasing their other failures.
  
  Lord of The Rings Online is a great concept, the only problem here is that Turbine did not release 
 Tolkien's world, what they put out dosent even have 1/10 of the MIddle earth in it. It's a small 
 world after all, yep this applies to LOTR because apparetly to Turbine crossing MIddle Earth takes 
 less then half an hour. The game is pretty much instanced, if you go to use an NPC and go into 
 a house that sells somehting you wil be instanced. The animations are terrible, the combat system 
 is probably the most boring thing in this game. THe only decent thing this game seems to have is 
 eye candy.
  
  Grats Turbine you released AC2 under the guise of LOTR. This game is not what I would call a long 
 lasting endevor, you will be bored here really quickly the shelf life on this game is around 3 
 weeks; and this is funny because I played single player role playing games that lasted longer then 
 this.
  
  Avoid This One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is more than fun. It is immersive. The game play (for me) is smooth, great graphics and 
 a well thought out interface that makes all of the many, many tasks and options Etc easy to get 
 to. It is intuitive.
  The good tie in with the Fellowship of the RIng time period makes for an imersive experience. I 
 do not feel a burning need to level up in this game, it just hapens. I also do not feel a need 
 to be in the game for hours on end but when I log in I find the hours pass quickly.
  So far I have not experienced a single glitch or crash.
  This is an update, I have now been playing 
 for many months. The game continues to interest and the updates have all been good. The DX-10 graphics 
 are excellent and the few glitches have gone away with the various patches. With a decient computer 
 the gameplay is very smooth. The graphics are also not cartoonish like WOW which is what made me 
 loose interest in WOW after a short time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok yea, it's a dumbed down MMO like WoW, and I'd rather have it be more like the original EQ but 
 who cares. People whine and complain, this is a copy of Wow wahhhh. Well Wow is basically a copy 
 of EQ and all other MMO's before it. People who complain about the graphics and gameplay running? 
 Ok, Bree lags your comp up if you have a mediocre computer, but when I go to my bro's house and 
 play his comp on Ultra High, this game is close to Oblivion beautiful. Compared to WoW's 90's cartoon 
 graphics? Haha. The gameplay is aswome and the pure fact that it's lord of the rings just makes 
 it even better. Ok haters, if your only excuse is it runs bad (ur comp stinks) or its a WoW copier 
 (Wow's a big copy already hipocrit) then your argeement is invalid find a better one. Those who 
 think there is no mass PvP. cry me a river not everythings perfect. Sparring is very fun especially 
 when Kinships hold tournaments and that's all the PvPing ive played. And monster play rocks too, 
 its basicaly like faction battles from GW only better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshamma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  The game starts off very well by allowing the player to feel as if they are part of the story. 
 This was the first MMO iv'e played that dropped a player into the story right away which was a 
 huge boost for me. Excellent game play is very important but to keep people playing a great story 
 always helps. Granted all LOTR fans know how the story ends up, this game allows you to play from 
 the standpoint of all the other people in the world doing what they can to help middle-earth. Although 
 full of its random quests for money and experience, it also contains the main story lines as Books 
 and Chapters. I felt this was well done in that it allows you to keep up with the story line and 
 know exactly which quests need to be completed in order to continue with the story, theres also 
 the nice feature of seeing all of the quest that were done in this particular quest line.
  
  Onto the gameplay, the game itself plays very well and is pretty balanced. With the exception 
 of the Lore-Master so far the game definitely uses the varying classes to its advantage. Also allowing 
 6 people per group giving it a nice ability to get a wide arrange of character combinations instead 
 of the few mandatory classes and everyone else fighting for what few slots remain. In all the game 
 is fun to play and is definitely worth trying out, if not from buying the game then in stealing 
 a friends 10day pass to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman4p
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I'm new to mmorpgs, i've never played on WOW and i probably never will, however i find this game 
 amazing. Whether it's killing Wights on the Barrow downs or wolves in Hobbiton this game gives 
 great fun and enjoyment no matter what you do.
  
  The Graphics are beautiful (especially the water effects) and i think this makes all the difference. 
 When choosing between wow and this you need to consider certain things.
  
  I'm not going to tell you which is best, i think it all depends on your personal taste, but for 
 me as a Tolkein fan i view this as a better investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  You know I was not actully going to get this game, I was in beta, and I was looking at ohtere RPG 
 I am so sick of paying monthly subcription fees. thats buttom line.
  
  I wish more OMMGs would, do what trubine has done, when you pre order the game you where given 
 option of a founders pricing, so pretty much life time membership fee for around 200$
  
  so you can play it for rest of your life for 200$ which is awesome, all those WOW players, who 
 are paying 14$ month end up paying $169 or around just for one year, ifyou play this game for 2 
 years based on life time membership fee, you got your moneys worth, I offical due to this life 
 time membership will never ever get anthere Massive online Role playing game period. why would 
 I now that i have a life time membership fee to this game.
  
  unless anthere game comes out offering life time membership fees like warrhammer, or warhammer 
 40,000 and that rome heros game.
  
  I may get anthere life time membership fee but if it dosnt happent hen like i said ill stick with 
 this game for rest of my life.
  
  its got all elments of a massive online role playing game good gfxs fun to play on top of that 
 and great price.
  
  they could did more actully with game play, like there doing with, connan but thats okay for ill 
 put up with redeuncy of the combat system for the price i paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kng_osiris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  It may be close to wow but it Changes with the setting i loved wow But im Addicted to LOTRO. The 
 Land is huge and will keep on getting bigger And u run into land marks and Heroes from the books 
 Just enough! The last thing i wanted to add was how Vibrant Middle Earth was even on low Graphics 
 setting Just plain beautiful.... I also would like to give a pat on the back to Turbine Great Work 
  
 Lol what els to say............
  im speechless ok well awsome game yada yada yada
  Way better then wow what els to say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I approached this game with a very positive attitude, with reasonable expectations. I came out 
 feeling dissatisfied .
  
  The character creation is very limited. It seemed cool at first with the mini cut-scenes, but thats 
 just flash. I found myself getting bored as things went on, and quests were uninteresting. Usually 
 I read the quests in a game like this, but with LoTRO you tend to just click 'accept' instantly. 
 and hope you can find where you want to go. The map is good, but its not easy to find where you 
 want to go for the quests. Graphics: the environments look very good. The character models and 
 mobs look poor.
  
  Gameplay: The controls arent too bad. The quick bar slot is very very bland and generic. Map is 
 good. Innovation: very very standard and poor. The deed system, however is excellent, where you 
 actually gain something by grinding regular mobs.
  
  I dont think old school MMO players will enjoy this. DAoC, EQ, EQ2, Vanguard, Anarchy online players 
 probably wont like this. WoW, guild wars, fans might like this. City of heroes fans its 50/50.
 
  
  races dont feel different. Classes are extremly limited and abilitys you get dont seem worth the 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: euriq
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting more off this game cause of the name it has, and even more since i actually waited 
 for the beta since i read the news here on Gamespot.
  
  My first bad impression were the few classes you could choose, since even a oldie game like Ragnarok 
 which i enjoyed long ago had many more. The music had mixed good with the ambient at the beginning 
 of the game, but at the following leveling area, it made me get sleepy.
  
  The graphics, i cant deny theres lots of eye candy, but the animations of the characters, specially 
 the battle ones are somewhat unnatural, choppy, slow?.
  
  I will confess I only played for like 3-5 hours, which was a lot of yawning and boredom since the 
 battle got repetitive very fast , which happened with the quests too. By fortune it is a online 
 game, and a big nice crunchy patch can solve all these issues, which hope they do, cause I don't 
 like Lord of the Rings name ruined like that as many others i bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projump2001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I loved FFXI but the graphix were outdated and the game had its issues. To much partying and to 
 much open bland landscapes but overall the real world type graphix were what i liked the most.
 
  WOW was a great game and still is I have a lvl 64 pally. at first i did not like the cartoon graphix 
 but then learned to love them with all the wonder colors and different terrains.
  D&amp; D had to low a lvl cap and to long per lvl made it kinda boreing, but i did not like the 
 fact that it was all instances and dungions that all looked kind of the same. So i stuck to playing 
 WOW longer then all the above ps. i had a lvl 44 in FFXI red mage.
  
  Before I talk about how awesome LOTRO is, i just want to say that WOWs cartoon graphix worked with 
 it, It was colorfull and it ran on most every system even at the 6x 24bit x 24 bit setting on high 
 res. well not all but most newish machines you get my point. But man if it was not so cartoonish 
 and colorfull it would be bad, just look at the pixcels on the mobs they were kinda boxy,
  
  What i would love would be a game with real world graphix with the colors of WOW and better 
 graphix then FFXI, Time passed.
  
  At walmart I was looking at the games when i saw LOTRO. I had no idea it was out or that they were 
 working on it for 4 years. Maybe because I was not a Lord of the rings fan for one.
  
  I got home and looked at the reviews and saw it got a 8.3 and I felt that was really good because 
 I know WOW is the standerd and they did not want to step on blizzards toes. So i know that 8.3 
 means alot in this market.
  
  Now about the LOTRO. I bought the game, and wow it was awesome. It had real world graphix like 
 FFXI but so much better and so much better then WOW graphix. I love real world graphix because 
 it makes you feel you are in a real world and I get more immused in the world due to that.
  
  Everything works well the movement the speed and the way it runs on my system that is 6 months 
 old with a 256 meg vdo card from walmart. The monsters look so nice and they fit with the world 
 they do not look they are cut and pasted on the grpund like in dark age of camalot. and the way 
 the avator moves is great unlike some games. I have my settings on high res and x2 filtering and 
 it looks great, when people say that the characters look not as good as the world that is only 
 because they have the filtering disabled but with x2 x4 x6 and you get a better system the game 
 will look even better. x2 alone makes everything smooth and if you can crank up the object detals 
 you can see the sticthes in the fibers of the cloths on characters as well as little wood grains 
 on tables and hair on animals crystal clear. The world is huge just because the map looks the same 
 size as a contenent and a half of WOWs world, It is bigger and i know this because instead of 3 
 zooms like wow had when you zoom out on the map this has 4 zoom levels and on the 1st the character 
 dot moves as fast as the character dot on the first zoom out map on wow. the world is larger i 
 would like to say easy as large as the WOW world and outland combined but i dont know how much 
 larger it could be a good amount, we do know that WOW is just about 150 sq miles and they say that 
 LOTRO is something like 50 million squir meters i think,. But trust me the world is bigger,
  
  The game is just amazing its like a FFXI on steroids with WOW interface with all the things 
 both left out
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're expecting World of WarCraft with a thin coat of Tolkien paint on it, you'll hate this 
 game. Likewise, if you are expecting a 24/7 Tolkien life-simulator you'll also be disappointed. 
 This is a fantasy MMORPG based on the Tolkien **books**, and designed by developers who try at 
 every turn to infuse a fantasy adventure game with the spirit and feel of Tolkien's world. If you 
 think that sounds like a welcome change from the usual generic fantasy shoot-and-loot of games 
 like WoW, EverQuest 2, and Ultima, then you'll probably like this game as much as I do.
  
  A lot of the design decisions in this game are **subtle** (a word most of the angry WoW Kiddies 
 posting here can't even spell, let alone understand) , but the subtleties work to evoke a fantasy 
 game-universe that actually makes sense, and has a genuine story behind it.
  
  On the downside, there are a LOT of fetch quests in this game, but I find the writing is so good, 
 that I never find them grinding or arbitrary. You actually have to **read** the quest text most 
 of the time (again, the emphasis is on storytelling) which is likely another reason the WoW Kiddies 
 hate it so vocally.
  
  Some have complained about lack of content, but I have to laugh. The game is not even a month old 
 as I write this. How long have WoW and the other major fantasy MMO games been out? How much content 
 did WoW and the rest actually have at launch? I remember. Please.
  
  New free content, including the new area of Evendim, is being added this month (June 07) along 
 with the game's first raid . This is an MMORPG, content gets added as it's ready.
  
  As above, if all you want is a standard fantasy MMORPG in a Tolkien T-shirt, you'll probably hate 
 this game, and you know what? That's fine. If all you want is to play an `eeeeevil badazzz Ooruk 
 Hi [sic] and budtchur hobbitz', go back to WoW before your parents discover you're up past your 
 bedtime on a school night, and that you've swiped their credit card -- again.
  
  If you want to try a fantasy adventure MMORPG that works to capture the spirit of Tolkien's Middle-Earth 
 and its story, this is a good place to start.
  
  Never mind the WoW Kiddies, once their free-month-with-purchase is up, they'll all be gone. As 
 dominus_tecum said in his review, the people who rant about how much they hate this game are not 
 people you want to play with, anyway ...
  
  Ultimately, this is a game you have to try for yourself to make a judgement call on; it has a very 
 distinct flavor to it, and it's not trying to be all things to all people. Only **you** can decide 
 if it's what you want.
  
  But, love it or hate it, the quality and care in the game design is there, for those with eyes 
 to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRecruit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  The game is truly an awesome permanent break from WoW. The graphics feel perfectly like the Lord 
 of the Rings world. The classes are all different. None are underpowered like in WoW, *cough*shamans*cough* 
 and none are overpowered like in WoW *cough*locks and rogues*cough*.
  
  The PvP is epic. 50 players charging in Ettenmoors against 50 other monsters controlled by players 
 doing PvP raids (killing other faction generals and etc.) and other smaller PvP quest. You thought 
 AV in WoW was epic? The is much better. The raiding looks fun. Living out old battles, they're 
 adding alot of content already unlike in WoW, the first raid to with epic sets. The Battle of Helegrod. 
 You don't just get rewarded gear from raiding, you get rewarded lore. And for those people that 
 can't raid and want gear, you can PvP and make your Orc or wolf or whatever monster you want stronger. 
 If you raid and want to pvp with your good gear, just pvp and kill other player controlled monsters 
 using your own character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drokens90
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun at first but after playing it for a while it will get very, very repetative. 
 I want to make it clear that I did play World of warcraft but I didn't like that game at all. My 
 favorite MMO I have played was SWG before sony destroyed it. Gameplay The gameplay was very fun 
 at first. It gave you many, many different quests to undertake. There have been many times where 
 I have been holding 30 different quests. Well, the only problem with these quests are a lot of 
 them are all the same. Aside from the epic quests of coarse. But most of them are very repetative 
 and can get very boring the longer you play the game. I've gotten to level 40 and I'm already bored 
 with the massive wave of quests that the game throws at you in every town. People say you never 
 grind in this game but your pretty much just grinding with objectives. Killing monsters over and 
 over so some guy doesn't have to do the hunting himself. How fun... One thing that I did find fun 
 was grouping in this game. There is a neat conjunction system that allows you to work with your 
 group to do massive dammage or massive heals. But you have to have a good group that is willing 
 to listen or this system is pointless... With the community so far this is hard to find. The combat 
 in this game is very fun. This is what kept me going for as long as I did. Some of the classes 
 (like burglar) are very tactical to play and knowing all of your skills really does help in this 
 game. I have no skills that are just useless. The combat also looks really great and smooth. Well, 
 there is a music system. But this music system doesn't really accomplish anything except showing 
 off. They could have made it so you heal people or put buffs on them by creating your own music. 
 But no, it just seems very pointless. Classes in this game are very simple and one lvl 40 burglar 
 and another lvl 40 burglar will likely do the same stuff and be just as good as each other. The 
 trait system tried to make players different in their abilities but the differences just aren't 
 big enough to even matter. I like having an awesome crafting system in my games and this game is 
 truly lacking that. Most of the items that you craft will be worse than the items you get in quests 
 or even off of monsters so the system just feels kind of pointless. Environment The environment 
 in ths game truly shines from other MMO's because oh matter where you are you won't feel that your 
 just traveling in fluff. Something that they just put together to fill space. Everywhere is truly 
 interesting. The downside to this is that the world is extremely small right now and places lose 
 their interest the more times you see them...
  
  Community I have no idea how all of these reviews are saying how mature the community is but this 
 is just as bad if not worse than the WoW community. The OOC is plagued with insults and swearing. 
 Every time you try to get a node one or more people will rush up to try to steal it. Nobody really 
 listens to anybody in groups. The community is just bad and can really take away from the gameplay. 
 Graphics The graphics for this game are great. The graphics totally blow games like SWG and WOW 
 out of the water. But they are older games so what else would you expect. Your computer does have 
 to be pretty nice to have the graphics tuned all the way up though so if you have a lower end system 
 they may not look as great as I'm giving them credit for. Sound Well... its the same as any other 
 MMO. I've played games where the music truly stands out and matters but this isn't one of those 
 games. I think it would have been really cool if they used the music from the movies but that music 
 isn't here. End game The endgame doesn't really give you much to do. But hey, this is a NEW MMO 
 and its likely that much more will be added for endgame in the future so if this is what you are 
 looking for you could just give it time. If not, I'd look into some new games coming out like Warhammer 
 or Age of Cohan. These games both promise very nice engame PVP. Which this game is missing badly. 
 I did try the monster play in this game but playing as a monster was horrible and it just seemed 
 kind of pointless to me. You didn't earn very much that was truly useful for your main. Value I 
 think creating an alt would be extremely boring in this game. The reason is because there is only 
 one place to do quests at a certain level. (Except for the starting areas of coarse.) So you'd 
 just be repeating the same of quests again for the second time. It would be truly boring. Final 
 thoughts So, I guess this game could be fun to some. People who love PVE and doing quests but if 
 anybody wants any more depth to their games I wouldn't really recommend this game. It's fun for 
 the first 20 levels or so but then it gets kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warghost2k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical of LoTRO when I first decided to try it. I figured it was just another MMO hoping 
 to cash in on a very popular franchise. I was pleasantly surprised when I first fired up the game.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed was the graphics. The game world is beautiful and stylized well. The 
 visuals are better than EQ2's, and yet the game runs amazingly well with no slowdown whatsoever. 
 The graphics engine performs flawlessly even when many players are onscreen at once. Turbine did 
 an amazing job of keeping everything looking great and still capable of running smoothly at 30fps.
 
  
  Another very impressive part of the game is how interactive it is. Most MMOs offer little in the 
 way of pulling the player into the game with scripted events. LoTRO does this very well, and even 
 the opening sequence is a mission that will have the player engaged in a scripted rescue mission 
 that works perfectly. There are more of these events throughout the game, and they do a great job 
 of immersing the player into the world.
  
  The sound is another area of the game that impressed me. The voiceover acting is very well done, 
 and the sound effects are top-notch. The wind howls and there are ambient sounds everywhere. The 
 surround sound system is flawless and will help those who prefer a first-person view, as you will 
 be able to hear the clanking of swords behind you, as well as grunts and groans of monsters approaching 
 from the rear. I also liked the titles available in the game. If you perform certain missions trees 
 you will recieve a moniker that will appear after your name for the rest of the game world to see. 
 There are also titles given for making it to level 5 and level 10 without dying. Of course, this 
 can also be disabled if you'd prefer not to show off your successes. It's little things like this 
 that make the game very rewarding, as well as keeping the players busy finding all of the extras 
 that are out there. Regarding the UI, it works perfectly. Some people have complained that it is 
 a WoW clone. I agree, yet disagree. It is extremely similar to WoW's interface, I am happy with 
 that. If a system works, then it should always be utilized! I don't think it's fair to complain 
 about Turbine deciding to replicate a design that has proven itself very popular and easy to use. 
 Besides, Blizzard definitely didn't invent WoW's UI either. Everquest was the first game to include 
 most of the UI enhancements that we all take for granted these days.
  
  The only concern that I have regarding LoTRO is the amount of content in the game. I have not seen 
 any shortage of content yet, but I am not top-level. Since the game is based on the LoTR novels, 
 I don't think it would be possible for Turbine to include many new areas to explore, since I find 
 it unlikely that they can invent new areas. There surely will never be an 'Outland' or 'Kingdom 
 of Sky' type of expansion, since those far-fetched ideas weren't in Tolkien's world. Also, there 
 will never be insanely-sized swords or shoulder armor made from humongous turtle shells. This may 
 put off some WoW fans, but this is LoTR and it's not supposed to be as far-fetched as that game. 
 The designs in this game are more realistic, for better or worse. The races available for play 
 are true to the novels, but I would have preferred to see more. I understand that this would probably 
 be impossible due to keeping the game true to the license, but it would have been nice to play 
 an orc or troll instead of only the good races. There is the Monster-play option, and it works 
 surprisingly well. However, these characters are not as unique as regular player's characters, 
 so it's not quite the same thing. Still, it's much better than only having four races available, 
 so I'm not going to complain much about it.
  
  The class system is very well done. There aren't as many classes available as in some other MMOs, 
 but the basics are covered. You won't find any Shadowknights or Shamen in this game, which was 
 disappointing to me, but again, that's the price that must be paid for playing a game based on 
 an already established franshice. One thing some people may not like is the Loremaster's magical 
 abilities, which are considerably less powerful than mages from other games. Don't get me wrong, 
 the LM's still very competent, but not quite as flashy as spell casters elsewhere. I am playing 
 a Blade Master and enjoying it greatly. I have always been a DPS spec'd Warrior in all MMO's I 
 have played, and the BM suits that style perfectly. Not able to take as much punishment as a Defender, 
 but the sheer amount of damage done by the BM makes up for it. Seeing the tide of a nasty battle 
 turn because of a Blade Master mowing down enemies is a great experience, and having one in the 
 party will definitely make most fights easier to handle.
  
  All in all, I was extremely impressed with Lord of The Rings Online. Considering that it is based 
 on an existing franshise, I was a little hesitant to pick up the game. I have always felt that 
 games based on franshise movies or books are of lesser quality, but that's not the case here. Yes, 
 there are a few limitations due to keeping with the Middle-Earth legacy, but there's still more 
 than enough game here to keep players busy for years, and I've heard that there's already plans 
 for an expansion. Hopefully then we'll finally get our Shadowknights! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings online is a MMORPG, its in the setting of Lord of the Rings, it has a few unique 
 twists in gameplay to make PvP and replay value bigger.
  
  Gameplay:
  7 diffrent classes, that are nothing compared to what other MMORPG's like Everyquest and Dofus 
 offer, buy they all are great in later levels (50 is the highest level) in diffrent ways, you are 
 able to ride horses and it has a dean system, which lets you get somekind of title or fame, like 
 when you kill alot of spiders, you'll become ''Master of Spider-slaying'' or something, the Dean-system 
 is almost the same as RuneScape's ''Slayer'' skill.
  
  Theres also a unique gameplay element when you reach level 10, you can upgrade yourself with a 
 second character, and you can switch to you're second character anytime you want, did I mention 
 the second char is a beast/animal? And its already lvl 50 for you? Thats kind of neat, the PVP 
 element comes in place here, as people from above lvl 40 are able to enter the realm the second 
 characters are, and can fight them.
  
  The main aspect of the game is: quests, there are incredibly many quests in the game, they vary 
 from Go-there-and-kill-something to clever ones, their enjoyable and don't really come in the same 
 style twice, which makes it fun to travel back to NPC's to get you're new quest.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning, alot of open spaces look great to look at, the world is also rather big, 
 and when you are traveling you'll take a moment to look other players ride their horse in and out 
 one of the towns that in the game.
  
  The characters design mostly look lacklusting, and the cinematics look great, theres a incredibly 
 amount of detail put everywhere, and theres hardly any lag, even with alot of players on-screen.
 
  
  Story:
  The story plays behind the LotR films if I can remember right, you are a new recruit in the world 
 that can join new guilds with other players to archieve succes, its your basic become the best 
 mmorpg titlle.
  
  Is it a good MMORPG:
  A great title that stands besides other great MMORPG's like WoW and Everyquest, the game has potention 
 and packs it out great, fans of online rpgs might want to look into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaz134
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Before i start i want to get a few things out of the way. I used to play WoW, now enough of that, 
 that game will not be mentioned for the remainder of this review. I have been a fan of LOTR since 
 i can remember so a bit of bias regarding the content and story is probably unavoidable but I would 
 probably be a lot harder on it than I perhaps should be for the same reason. anywho, on with the 
 reviewing part.... Lord of the Rings online opens in a very familiar way to other MMOs, the introduction 
 of your race in middle earth, using a prologue of sorts which is a kind of tutorial. this part 
 is the worst part of the game but I'm glad they got that out of the way early on because what follows 
 is an immersive and rewarding jaunt in a setting that millions will already identify with, Middle 
 Earth. for all of the LOTR buffs out there, the game as I see it is a wonderful interpretation 
 of the spellbinding world created by Tolkein which is based far more along the lines of the books 
 (all of them, from the Silmarilion through the book of lost tales ending in the third age) than 
 the movies. This will of course leave some movie folk scratching their heads at certain characters, 
 Tom Bombadil for example, but will not alienate them at all. Graphically it is sublime provided 
 you have a good enough rig to ramp up the settings. Being able to stare at weathertop from the 
 middle of midgewater is excellent, fighting looks smooth and is terrifically exciting when it should 
 be. The UI is brilliant, borrowing much from other games and tweeking it where necessary... For 
 me, the place where this game really, really shines is the depth provided through questing. You 
 will NEVER run out of things to do, whether your chasing deeds, finishing quests or suffering from 
 wanderlust you will have a wealth of options presented to you. Character progression is hardly 
 unique but is more freeform than prior games thanks to the Deeds. For those of you who are worried 
 about the size of the world, at present it takes about 2 hours to run from thorins gate to the 
 misty mountains (west and east extremes of the current map) and about the same time to go from 
 the barrow downs to the north of Angmar (South and North Extremes) . Given that we only have Eriador 
 to play around in at the moment, the world is going to increase to an unbelievable size. with the 
 introduction of Rovannion, Gondor, Modor and Rohan the world will be enormous. there are plenty 
 of other things I could cover in this review, but my advice is to go and check it out for yourself. 
 the final word: Definitely check it out. Fans of MMOs and Tolkein alike will undoubtedly find something 
 to love about this game and will more often than not, hang around to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominus_tecum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Good: Much better-behaved and mature community than in most mmo's. All games have nutjobs, 
 but decidely fewer here. Great graphics. Tanks are usually boring to play, but the tank here, the 
 Guardian class, is quite complex and interesting.
  
  The bad: Tries darn hard to remain faithful to the lore, but in the end, does not feel like Middle-Earh. 
 Mindless boar-hunting waiting for drops, grindy crafting with not much to show for it, and a mind-numbing 
 travelling system, means this title is indistinguishable from all the othe MMORPG's save for the 
 theme. After cancelling the subscription, I reinstalled Guild Wars, and even though it is older, 
 it was refreshing after all the silly time-sink things present in subscription games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewmerritt
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by saying that I had never played a Massively Multi-player Online game 
 before I picked up my copy of Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar. I've been a fan of role-playing 
 games for years, but something about the MMO genre has always made me a bit uneasy. Some of that 
 uneasiness had to do with the monthly fee to play online. Some of it rose from the need to rely 
 on potentially shaky servers in undisclosed locations across the country. Some of the reluctance 
 was created by the thought of players named Deeznuts and Scratchnsniff ruining the sense of immersion 
 in the game world. But regardless of my previous impression of MMORPGs, this one caught my attention, 
 and now I find it difficult to pull myself away from the incredible world that Turbine has brought 
 to life inside Tolkien's Middle Earth.
  
  I've been a Tolkien fan since I read The Hobbit in elementary school, and for years I've been eagerly 
 awaiting a computer game that could provide a realistic portrayal of the detailed world that he 
 created. Although I had read through the Lord of the Rings trilogy more than once prior to the 
 recent blockbuster movie releases, I'm not exactly what you might call a Tolkien super freak, as 
 I have not read any of his other books dealing with the history of Middle Earth. However, I do 
 count myself as a devoted fan of his work, and I think that I can speak for most Tolkien fans when 
 I say that Turbine has done an excellent job in bringing the region of Eriador to life. For those 
 who have not read a great deal about the game, Eriador is the region of Middle Earth that includes 
 locales such as the village of Bree, the Shire, Weathertop, Rivendell, and Ered Luin (the Blue 
 Mountains) . It is currently the only area of Middle Earth that is accessible to players.
  
  I'm extremely happy that Turbine chose to focus their efforts on smaller regions rather than trying 
 to tackle the whole of Middle Earth all at once. So far this strategy has allowed the development 
 team to create stunning detail in Eriador, and it helps to keep a nice population of players in 
 what should always remain as the busiest areas of the online world. The much anticipated Shores 
 of Evendim content update, scheduled for June 2007, is just the first taste of what expansion will 
 mean in this game. Honestly, I had never heard of Evendim before playing LOTRO, but I'm pumped 
 about getting to explore the lake region next month. I can only imagine the excitement leading 
 up to expansion into areas such as Rohan, Gondor, and Mordor. Now don't get me wrong, Eriador is 
 a massive, sprawling area that covers hundreds of square miles. So there should be no concern about 
 finding enough to keep busy as you get started, but the level of detail that has been poured into 
 this relatively small area is impressive.
  
  The gameplay is packed full of content, including solo quests, fellowship quests, social activities, 
 and crafting. Players will have the opportunity to create a character within a designated race 
 (human, elf, dwarf, or hobbit) , of a specific class (burglar, champion, guardian, captain, minstrel, 
 loremaster, or hunter) , and with a chosen vocation (armsman, armourer, explorer, woodsman, tinker, 
 historian, or yeoman) , each of which has access to three grouped professions (cook, forester, woodworker, 
 prospector, metalsmith, weaponsmith, scholar, jeweler, farmer, or tailor) . It's enough to be extremely 
 intriguing to some and slightly intimidating to others, but all in all, the depth makes for an 
 incredibly enjoyable and diverse experience.
  
  I went into the game with a serious interest in the crafting element, so I created a dwarf guardian 
 who is also an armourer. As the main tank class, his armor smithing skills contribute directly 
 to his guardian abilities. And being a dwarf, he has convenient access to some of the better forging 
 materials and facilities. As a member of the armourer vocation, he has access to the prospector, 
 tailor, and metalsmith professions. So he can mine for metal ores, he can do the appropriate smelting 
 and refining, and he has the ability to create cloth, leather and metal armor as the finished product. 
 However, the developers of the game wanted to make sure that there is some interdependence among 
 players in the online economy, so each vocation will be dependant on other players for certain 
 materials. In my case, my character is dependant on the forester profession to obtain processed 
 leather, which is used in all three types of armor. He literally cannot make any usable armor without 
 obtaining processed leather from a character with forester abilities. It can't be purchased from 
 NPCs or looted from the corpses of monsters. This element helps to foster mutually beneficial relationships 
 between players that can last for quite a long time.
  
  For those who are a bit reluctant to engage in a lot of PvP interaction, there are a significant 
 number of solo quests to satisfy the need for story-driven role play. In fact, it is possible to 
 advance several levels and experience hours upon hours of gameplay without ever speaking to, or 
 cooperating with, another player character. However, if you have any desire to pursue the quests 
 involved with the epic storyline of the game, you will have to team up with other players quite 
 frequently. The game is designed with fellowships in mind, and there are a lot of really cool quests 
 and game features that are only accessible when you are traveling through Middle Earth with a few 
 of your closest friends. Several online sources have agreed that the ultimate fellowship consists 
 of a guardian, a minstrel, a burglar, a captain, a hunter and a loremaster. But it's really interesting 
 to try different combinations in different situations as well. The champion class is definitely 
 no slouch.
  
  Much has been made of the music system in the game, but I have to say that I'm not all that impressed 
 with it at this stage. Players can choose to express themselves musically on either the clarinet, 
 the horn, the flute, the harp, or the lute. The game launched with a 24-note range, basically two 
 octaves with accidentals available on the lower octave. with which to compose musical masterpieces. 
 However, sustained notes are not possible, so player-created music sounds very plinky plunky. This 
 is generally alright for the lute and the harp, but playing a horn, clarinet, or flute without 
 the ability to hold longer notes makes a Middle Earth concert sound like the winding of a jack-in-the-box. 
 Although the music system has a scheduled expansion along with the update in June, Turbine needs 
 to make some serious improvements to make music a serious passtime in LOTRO.
  
  Other social activities provide a light-hearted element to the game. Players are able to enjoy 
 a drink with friends in a city's tavern. They can blow various special smoke rings, each shape 
 determined by the variety of pipe weed consumed. I've even heard rumors of pie-eating contests 
 and games of freeze-tag at the fairgrounds north of the town of Bree. Not to mention the long list 
 of emotes, or body motions, that can be performed for the amusement of others. Somewhat corny at 
 times, but generally a lot of fun, and useful for those who are serious about role play.
  
  So what is wrong with the game? One of the features that I would change if I had the opportunity 
 is the music system, because of the limitations I've already mentioned. Another item that is a 
 bit unrealistic is the massive population of wild animals in the areas around Bree. I realize that 
 there are a lot of Go kill that animal quests that are given in the area, but it's a bit ridiculous 
 at times to look across a small area of open field that is populated by three bears, four wild 
 pigs and two wolves. The respawn rate can also take away from the game experience at times. I'll 
 never forget the feeling of jogging half way across Eriador with a group of fellow adventurers 
 in order to kill a dreaded troll. We gave him everything we had and barely took him down with all 
 of our limbs intact. And as we gathered around to congratulate each other and decide which quest 
 to tackle next, we looked with pride upon our field of victory, only to see the beast materialize 
 out of thin air. I realize that the game designers are only trying to reduce the grinding associated 
 with commonly shared quests, but certain monsters could take a bit longer to respawn. After all, 
 this game is meant to maintain a feeling of epic accomplishment, right?
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game with a great future. As more and more players come online, and 
 as new regions of Middle Earth are opened for exploration, the immersion factor is bound to increase. 
 Activities like mass raids and Monster-play will become more and more frequent, and the game will 
 continue to evolve. I only wish I had gotten in early enough for that lifetime subscription. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game, in any stretch of the imagination is not a rip-off of 
 World of Warcraft. It is clearly a game of its own if you spend enough time on it to pass proper 
 judgement. Besides, every MMO shares genetic materials with each other. Reading many insightful 
 reviews and of course some silly reviews that are not even worth writing, I found myself perplexed 
 to try this game. Starting with the gameplay, it shines brightly closely resembling that of other 
 MMO RPG's. There are four classes including men, elves, dwarves and hobbits, all of which have 
 their own subsequent classes, seven to choose from. However unlike some other MMO's, each class 
 is designated for a single purpose, albeit tanking, healing, crowd-control or even damage-per-second. 
 There are trully no hybrid classes in the game, which can be both a good and a bad thing, pending 
 on point of view. Reading some reviews, I also spotted complaints of there being no evil side to 
 play. This IS a good thing because if you ever read the books or seen the film trilogies, you know 
 that the orcs will inevitably loose. However, there is a form of PvP in this game that allows you 
 to make your own character of evil. Once you hit level ten, you can create this monster avatar 
 for PvP and they start automatically at level fifty. There is also fairly good crafting in this 
 game, allowing you to create armor and amenities for yourself or friends, despite the fact that 
 it is not terribly in-depth.
  The quests in this game are both fun and worthwhile. And you can easily follow the epic story questline 
 that allows you to go hand-in-hand with the main storyline of the Lord of the Rigns universe. There 
 are also many unique features in this game to distinguish itself from others in its genre. You 
 can receive special titles for services and killings. An example of this is if you manage to hit 
 level five without becoming incapacitated, you receive the title the wary following your character 
 name. The graphics also deserve high praise. Like World of Warcraft, this game does not have high 
 system requirements and therefore is playable by nearly everyone. Playing the game on very high 
 graphics is definitely eye candy. Reflections of the water, to the animations of units and even 
 the environment will keep you happy. The lavishly detailed world is massive and worthy to explore.
 
  Another unique feature is the introduction of instruments in this game. Ranging from the lute 
 (guitar) to a flute and clarinet, you can have bands playing stairway to heaven among many other 
 popular songs. And if those melodies start to get on your nerve, they can be switched off.
  Although sharing many of its genetics with other MMO's of its time, Lord of the Rings Online definitely 
 deserves credit as its own game. And what a phenomenal game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_king65
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I thought it is a good game. It is really hard to lvl though. Elven Hunters are way over played. 
 I like it for it's gameplay, not graphics or sound. For a first shot at the godliness of online 
 gameplay for LOTR it is pretty good. All-in-all it is a pretty good game, not a waste of time at 
 all. It needs to have a better plot to it. I know loads of people expected to follow the story 
 of the original fellowship but were disappointed by the game. For the rest of us who didn't expect 
 anything, we got a handful of semi-good graphics, sound and awesome gameplay and addictivness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icky27
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  There have been too many reviews out there that just say either Awesome! or Totally sucks! So after 
 playing for about 2 weeks I thought that I'd weight in and give my unwanted 2 cents.
  
  First off the game looks and plays a lot like WoW, which isn't a bad thing considering the success 
 of WoW. If I were going to make a MMORPG you bet I'd base it off a game that has over 9 million 
 players, I mean duh! After a couple of days however the differences start to creep in. Like no 
 skill trees, instead you have traits that you go out and earn through doing various deeds (generally 
 of the kill x number of y or exploring a given area) . Crafting is different in that it's slightly 
 more complicated, you are given 3 occupations that come in a set and while 2 of them play off of 
 each other the third is generally needed by another profession, which is set up to promote trade 
 between players. The other large difference is that this game is much more group oriented than 
 wow, and while you can solo without any more difficultly than in wow, it's not nearly as efficient.
 
  
  Graphiclly if you have a high end machine than it just rocks. I play it on ultra high so the details 
 come through on the level of high end Oblivion. However if you have a low end machine you will 
 take a serious beating. I saw it on a friend of mine on low and it really looked bad. Besides for 
 that it's a matter of taste. The graphics and generally all of the game is a lot closer based in 
 reality as opposed to WoW, if you like the comic look and bright colors of WoW than you will be 
 disapointed here.
  
  Sound, honestly I don't care. I can hear it and it sounds fine. If you're fighting a mob with chain 
 armor you hear the clanking of the chain. Some people are all into sound, but really it's not my 
 deal. One nice feature is the intagrated voice chat that is really nice if you want to hook up 
 with friends. The need for vent or teamspeak is pretty much eliminated (thank goodness) .
  
  PVP - I haven't tried it out yet. It exists but not with our heros duking it out with each other 
 (you can spar with one another though) . Instead you get to create a monster for one of the high 
 end areas and then through killing the good guys off you earn points to further spec out your monster. 
 Interesting concept, I'd have like to have been able to level up a mob in each zone, but cap it 
 out so that it's never beyond hope for a player in a zone to take on.
  
  Group vs Solo - I'm a huge solo player and I loved that about WoW, that I could level all the way 
 to 70 without ever joining a group (I did group and was in a guild with a bunch of friends, but 
 I like that I had the option) . And let's face it in WoW it served you better to NOT group for the 
 solo quests as it would simply eat up your xp. In LOTR it's different in that your xp loss for 
 grouping is not very large and you really can accomplish a lot more in a group as opposed to running 
 solo. The epic quest line that takes you through the game does require you to group up as the elite 
 mobs in the (shorter) instances require it. It's not to say that you can't solo in the game, I've 
 done a lot of solo work, but it's much much much more efficient to group up. One last thing, the 
 fellowship combos that you get to pull off in a group are really cool to see happen.
  
  All in all it's a solid game. I think it's too early to say if it's a better game than WoW, but 
 it's a great change that is fresh and has the back drop of the LOTR books and movies. If you're 
 sick of WoW (and who isn't) I'd suggest giving it a shot and look for the minor differences in 
 the game yourself to really see where it shines (there are too many too mention, but fairly obvious 
 once you start playing) . Gameplay - 8 (nothing amazing but lots of fun and easy)
  Graphics - 9 (if you have the system for it, it's nice)
  Sound 8 - (Good, voice chat a nice plus)
 
  Value 7 - ($15 a month is a lot for any game)
  Tilt 9 - (I'm having fun with it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Stryker
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 28, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  *Caution, review is biased, but the game sucks, so who cares*
  
  As stated, there's nothing that really comprises new gameplay, just the same old recycled combat 
 system from every other game, only less of it, slower, laggy, and bugged (since a lot of the time 
 abilities won't even go off for no reason, it just decides to cancel itself) .
  
  There is nothing new or innovative that sets this game apart as worth buying. I remember the glory 
 days of MEO, reading leaked tidbits of info, or the dev diaries, hearing about all of these great 
 features that were to be included in the game, including one in particular: being able to play 
 the game without having to kill anything. That's right, a role-playing game where you can just, 
 well, role-play, and have fun doing it, with parts of the game actually enhancing that experience.
 
  
  Once Turbine took over and it turned into LOTRO, that was the turning point for me, as well as 
 a lot of others I'm sure. They must have looked at the game so far: creative, innovative, immersive, 
 enthralling; and thought too dangerous, lets just do the same thing everyone else did, but put 
 it in the LOTR universe! that way it doesn't even need to be fun and we can get tons of players! 
 . (players=money) .
  
  Unfortunately for the players, that's exactly what they did. You start the game with the character 
 selection screen, and feel pretty happy with it. Choice of race, class, and minor adjustments to 
 how you look (the fact that you can create characters that look nothing like they're supposed to 
 look like got some people really angry, I was just glad they put a bit of variety in) .
  
  Then the actual game starts, and right away you notice something horrible, the user interface. 
 It's so bland, ugly, and out of the way, yet somehow you can't get rid of it, that you almost want 
 to quit the game right there. Unfortunately I haven't stuck with it enough to know if they've changed 
 it yet, or if there are third party versions available, I'm speaking strictly from my position 
 in the betas, (even with how many different ones they had it, it felt like there should have been 
 more) .
  
  Next, lets take a look at the combat system... remind you of anything? Every other rpg? Not too 
 big of a deal, tried and true is a good direction sometimes. However, the fact that they blatantly 
 copied it from other games, without it being as good as in any of the games you might recognize 
 it from, does cheapen the idea, and show the developers lack of care for the final result of the 
 game they turned the once great MEO into.
  
  The items and buying system doesn't even deserve a rant, since they're the same old thing, only 
 uglier, more bland, and with a healthy compliment of bugs strewn about.
  
  What's left? Graphics. The one facet this game is riding on. I'll admit they are quite flashy, 
 and sometimes I'll even forget how horrid the combat, icons, chat display, character screen, and 
 the rest of the ui look, thanks to how great some environment looks. However, these brief respites 
 offer little to the overall playability of the game. Luckily most of the major glitches and bugs 
 I've grown used to seeing have vanished, so now I am able to see the game for what it truly is. 
 A big waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out slow, and the enemies seem tedious to kill. The story really does seem too 
 vague, but it does unfold after you play it for some time. So, if you give it a chance, here's 
 what you'll find.
  
  PROS: - Awesome looking graphics for the most part (if you have the machine to really prove it)
 
  - Awesome crafting / vocational options! One could spents months alone just having fun with this, 
 and making in-game money, and really neat weapons, lores, armor, food etc.. cause the LIST GOES 
 ON!
  - a reality sense to the lore series, both in costumes, and with weapons, armor, enemies, and beautiful 
 locations (cities, ruins, statues, etc)
  - The group of people that play on here are generally mature, and truly have FUN with the game, 
 and there's not a lot of immature bickering.
  - The fellowship system rocks, as it allows for temporary clans through which you can beat difficult 
 objectives, and gain a variety of good friends along the way.
  - Plenty of objectives with which to level up, if you want to do so in that manner... but if you 
 just want to grind, this option is open as well.
  
  CONS:
  - servers become choppy at times in crowded places (mostly related to the amount of other players/info. 
 download, as well as chat domains)
  - respawn times of some NPC's are too quick, and others are too slow - but on average - ok.
  
 - The option to truly design your own character's face and body attributes are simply too simple, 
 and not enough options; leading to very similar-looking players many times.
  - Not enough different NPC voices (example, when you speak to an in-game character for an objective, 
 they respond with the same answers often)
  - Voice chat needs to be enabled for kinships, and not only for Fellowships. The result is that 
 many of the kinships use Ventrilo instead.
  - horses need patching, as sometimes (but not always) there is a Crash to Desktop.
  
  All in 
 all, this is a very fun and addicting game, and players should refrain from comparing to other 
 MMORG's, as this one seems to take the best of those, and combine them to make this game truly 
 fun for most, if not all, players. There will always be room for improvement though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcaldwel
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 27, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I did the 10 day trial, and it was nothing amazing. I guess I have just played too many of these 
 games and WOW just made me tired. It seemed to be well made, but its not original and brings nothing 
 new to these types of games. Is there an ounce of originality out there?
  
  I am sure it will be around for some time, by name alone. Graphis look good, real good and the 
 game play seems smooth and intuitive. But it was just the same thing again, same classes, with 
 rock, paper, scissors type teamwork. Someone, anyone out there, forget about Ulitma Online and 
 Everquest and come up with a new idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDrake39
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 27, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I realize of course that since this IS LoTR the developers wanted/needed to make the characters 
 look suitable for this game. However, as is true for most games, the character models look dissapointedly 
 average. What developers always seem to forget is that players *want* their characters to look 
 like the heros they're supposed to be. The bodies, faces, clothing, and equipment in LoTR all look 
 mundane and unexciting. A well balanced game with good level progression, storylines, innovative 
 play, and good rewards, but if the characters themselves are mundane, who cares?
  
  Even worse than the average looking models is how they move. Having an awesome, high level character 
 that moves like a robot really ruins the enjoyment of getting them their. Its easy to see how games 
 like WoW, with good looking characters and decent animation survive and flourish while the competition 
 flounders and fails. Far too often, developers spend all their resources on creating a fantastic 
 world full of interactive storylines meant to draw players into it and keep them there, only to 
 severely neglect the whole idea of players creating a perfect hero... and perfect hero's don't 
 look like Jane Doe and walk like robots.
  
  OK, with that said, they've done a great job re-creating the world Tolkien dreamed up years and 
 years ago. Having read the books several times, I have to admit I felt like I was touching history 
 when I visited places like Hobbiton, Bree, and even Rivendell. I've spent most of my time in the 
 shire playing an elf and absolutely love the various quests and NPC's. They have certainly captured 
 the feel of Middle Earth's inhabitants.
  
  The actual gameplay is certainly acceptable, and even fun. Skills are level rewards you train and 
 become buttons to hammer on during combat. Nothing really new here, but still acceptable. Traits 
 are unique and help individualize your character outside of the normal skill tree. Crafting in 
 LoTR is the typical grind everyone has learned to expect with very little chance to make a name 
 for yourself as an exceptional crafter... the original Star Wars Galaxies nailed crafting when 
 they introduced quality to resources and thus to end products. A truely dedicated crafter could 
 indeed become the most sought after crafter on a server, which was great.
  
  Lastly, I'm really getting sick of NPC vendors who sell an item for 20 times what they will buy 
 it for. What possible reward is there to spend 20 silver on ingredients for an item you can make 
 and sell for 10. I realize they want players to sell to other players instead and thats all well 
 and good but... we must remember that crafting is grind based leveling so each player will produce 
 100 bows to say 5 players that may need them. Its this type of game economy that really makes crafting 
 in this and most games discouraging and not much fun. Surely, somebody can come up with a better 
 system of crafting than what all these developers seem to want to emulate.
  
  So all in all I'm of mixed opinion. I can see myself playing this game for maybe another month 
 because of the world itself they've created, but my eye will be out there for something different. 
 I love the world and the storylines, but hate the character models an animation, and am quickly 
 getting bored with crafting. My advice? Keep playing WoW until somebody comes up with something 
 better ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellos5
Rating: 1.3
Date: May 27, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  I was very excited to here there was going to be a LOTR MMO. However, after giving it a try I was 
 disappointed. This game appeals to a young (I mean young) generation. It is a carebear, level-based 
 MMO that is very softcore. That's alright if you like that sort of thing. However, we already have 
 one of those; it's called WoW. If you are 14 or younger I'm sure you will love the game. If you 
 are older or what I call an oldschool MMORPGer than you are wasting your time and money. Don't 
 believe me? Give it a try. If you are looking for a game such as this, then stick to WoW it is 
 still the best carebear, level-based game that exsists today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenderBox
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Soild game, great community once you get into your 20's. Like a fine wine, LOTRO wil get better 
 with age. Yep, you have the typical annoying GoldShire Gnomes. Clogging the chat with mindless 
 dribble and nine year old remarks. The good news, the Gnomes probably won't make it past lvl 10 
 in this game so don't worry about them. They'll just end up back in WoW dancing naked in the town 
 square (the village idiot home base) . Ok, enough said about the infiltration.
  
  Take your time with this game, don't be in a race to lvl. Stop and look at the scenery every once 
 in a while. If you have a good comp the graphics are outstanding. Smoke your pipe, learn to play 
 some music. I m not much into role-playing, but the other day a Mins was in the Green Dragon telling 
 a story. I actually stopped to listen and his story was fantastic.
  
  If your into the Lotr world you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: test65420
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 26, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  This games sucks.... absolutely sucks. No characters, to places, no mounts, no guilds, no spells.... who 
 is codemasters kidding? I mean wow is like ann oscar games comapred to it... higly discoourage everyone 
 form playing it. Here's an example.... you fight a beast and you think you have some awesome fireball 
 or a massive blizzard strike and all you really have is a guitar tune that makes you laugh. I mean 
 seriously, give us a break. This thing comapres to other massive multiplayer games... i dont think 
 so. Codemasters, try again. There is a very thin line between a good game and a b-rated game.... this 
 one s a b game.... and to think that it could compare to wow. Lets be real, wow is the master, but 
 has some flaws. This one is a kids game with a little twist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavintcw
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 24, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  While many of the reviews I have read here so far give kudos to the graphics, i hardly think that 
 is of concern. I stopped playing WoW 3 months after i bought the game, when i heard LOTR online 
 was coming out. I watched the video game plays, read the news on it countless times. Sadly enough 
 when i bought and installed the game, i had a little urge to suddenly turn back to the WoW universe. 
 The combat at the very least, is not even interesting. It looks more like something from Runescape, 
 dull numbers flying out of the monster you are attacking, bad animations, and the way captains/minstrels 
 scream in the game is almost embarrassing, how could they have gone through with such bad voice 
 acting? Even the intro movie was lacking, very bad sound effects in my opinion. I do agree with 
 other users here that you don't ever get to look epic or kick ass. I was amazed how cool the dwarf 
 looked at the character selection screen and i instantly thought, thats the one i want . Half an 
 hour into the game a level 47 champ runs past me, guess what, he looks just like me, a level 6. 
 No bulky shining armor, dull cloak and what more. Graphics will only look great on a darn good 
 pc, otherwise its more squares and bad edges for you my friend. To cut a long story short, save 
 your money and time for something better. RTS games FTW from now on.... i will not touch this game 
 again, its just that bad for me. A few other users have said to stick to the books and movies, 
 i suggest you follow their advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_Syko
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 23, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  These online mulitiplayer games are so similar, they are no different from one game to another. 
 If this genre is going to get better things need to change. Lord of the rings, Archlord and world 
 of warcraft -all disapointing. I expected better from the lord of the rings as it is set in j. r. 
 tolkeins world. The quest are all similar e. g. kill so many of these get this, collect so many 
 many of this get this, very very boring, after playing for about a day on it i found myself falling 
 asleep at the computer. The other thing that really really got on my nerves is the amount of lag 
 you get on the servers when playing, it is ridicolous and makes you want to burn your computer. 
 The only good thing to say is the grapics and sound are good, thats it..... really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZianGama
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I've, played a lot of MMO's in my time. Yes I have to much free time but that's besides the point 
 this game is just to boring run from point A to point B then run from point B to point C then point 
 C to A it's repetitive and stupid the choices for classes aren't great the combat is fluid but 
 horrible at the same time all in all I wouldn't recommend this game to anybody unless you have 
 nothing better to do. Gameplay 3/10- Horrible really no real sence of control over your character
 
  
  Graphics 8/10- The graphics are nice with an amazing PC but other than that nothing special Sound 
 3/10- Boring and Repetitive. . Ching. .Ching. .Ching. .Doo Daa DOo 
  
  Value 4/10- nothing really to say here =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmythe
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The three things about this game that make it better than WOW for me are the graphics, storyline 
 and the community. I like the more realistic graphics than the cartoony graphics. The writing in 
 the quests and storyline is excellent and the community is the nicest and most mature in any game 
 I've ever played.
  
  This is just a fun, casual, easy to play game with a lot of other people playing so it doesn't 
 feel like a ghost town. The combat is surprisingly strategic and fun although not quite as smooth 
 as WOW or EQ1. There are only seven classes but they each fulfill a distinct role. I have only 
 played the Loremaster and it is kind of like an EQ1 druid/enchanter hybrid which I enjoy playing. 
 This seems like the kind of game you play for six monrhs to get through the storyline and then 
 quit. It doesn't really have the depth to keep people for years IMO. The two things I don't like 
 about it so far is that killing monsters gives you hardly any experience. You can only really get 
 experience by doing quests. I also don't like running through the wilderness and getting attacked 
 by these annoying low level spiders and wolves that don't give any experience but you can usually 
 just outrun them so it's not that big of a deal.
  
  The MMORPG is a game genre that is no longer considered innovative and this game is not really 
 groundbreaking. I would say that for now WOW and this game are the only games in this genre worth 
 playing, having played them all but there is still a market clamoring for a more strategic, somewhat 
 hardcore game like EQ1 that has never emerged. Vanguard was supposed to fill this niche but it 
 is a buggy, seemingly empty debacle in it's current state.
  
  If you are anything like me, then you will probably play this game for six months and then see 
 if Vanguard has gotten better or try anything else that is coming down the pike in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric360
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  First I will start with I love this game. I enjoy grouping but there are times when people get 
 on my nerves and this game allows you to solo and still level at a reasonable pace. They made much 
 of the story line quests for groups only which to me is a bit of a disappointment. My only other 
 real gripe, which is being fixed in the big update, is that in the mid 30's you have very little 
 solo content. On the plus side grouping is easy. Skills can get dull becasue a character in a class 
 at lvl 40 is the the same as the next guy. The traits system is limited and quite honestly does 
 not allow enough customization in my opinion. Graphics are very nice espically if you have top 
 end hardware and can run the game at max settings. I upgraded just after this went live and with 
 a single 8800 gtx I run on max settings with no lag or slowdowns and find myself in some areas 
 just looking at the scenery. Sounds are ok but nothing to special. Music on the other hand is very 
 nice.
  
  Combat is interesting but repetitive as you would expect. Crafting is for the most part useless. 
 The items you can craft are usually lower than what you get for quest rewards and early on its 
 to easy to lvl so why bother with crafting lower lvl gear? Jewlers can't make some of the better 
 jewlery. There should be a system in palce that allows you to add a stat on the item but instead 
 you have a recipe that make item A with a +3 to agility or if you do a mastery version it may make 
 the same item with better armor and +9 to vitality. I personally don't like the system at all. 
 To make Mastery lvl items you have to get a rare drop from a named mob that everyone else is trying 
 to kill becasue 2 or more of the crafting professions use the same rare drop. Crafting is crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moon_breaker
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Amazing game,
  Very addictive, its even brought many players away from the precious World of Warcraft, :O
  
 
  Also it doesnt have the lame death penalty of finding your body thats still in a dungeon ready 
 to be killed AGAIN when you revive. its got a respawn that gives you something called 'Dread' which 
 take 10&amp; of your hatlh from you for 9minutes.
  
  It even outsold WoW within the week, even though WoW's been out for a good while.!
  
  It's 
 very addicted and has similar attributes to WoW but also has the book story line, many many more 
 things to do and amazing graphics for an MMORPG
  
  DEFFINATLY WORTH THE MONEY.
  
  If you like lord of the rings you will love this game it brings back the memories of the films, 
 but also places you in it to ( in a way )
  
  + whats made it even better, a FREE expansion in june :O: O :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettoxford
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive since it is based on Tolkien but it doesn't require much thought 
 or skill. If you can't kill a boss, level up or get more people. It works every time. The world 
 is HUGE and there is plenty to do but it doesn't seem to flow a lot. After you do an extremely 
 difficult fellowship quest, you then are asked to kill 10 bears or collect boar meat. There are 
 a lot of annoying quests where you have to shuttle messages back and forth several times to people 
 who are worlds apart. The Skills are somewhat sparse. You can go several levels without getting 
 a good skill. But., the game is beautiful and addictive just because there is so much to do. My 
 heart stills lies with Guild Wars though where levels are capped, which means you have to put together 
 a well thought out team and skill bar if you want to live, but at least in LOTR I don't spend all 
 day with 6th graders spamming nonsense and pulling Leeroy's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Note : this review is based on a character leveled up to 20, and won't include a vision of raiding 
 nor any high end content (excluding the monster play of course) .
  
  It's been said around the web that LotRO is a more or less of a rip-off of WoW, and for most parts 
 it is true. UI is very similar to WoW, and the easiness of basically everything seems familiar 
 as well. But while WoW is maybe more based on quick leveling and fancy looking stuff, LotRO could 
 be considered much more of a roleplaying game, especially if you compare it WoW. This is basically 
 due the fact that the lore of Lord of the Rings is quite a bit more well known than the lore of 
 WarCraft, thus resulting in familiar places and realistic storylines.
  
  Basically, LotRO isn't anything special as a game. You do quests, which often involve a) killing 
 monsters for certain number, b) collecting items from killed monsters until certain amount, c) 
 finding a place/item/etc on the ground from somewhere and d) talking with someone. Same old stuff 
 we've seen before, nothing new here. But, to offer something unique (more or less) , LotRO has an 
 epic-line of quests, that basically follow a plot throughout the game, which often include instants 
 with special events, such as meeting a Ringwraith and other Sauron's forces. These quests are a 
 nice addition to the roleplaying-kind of playing, since it virtually seems that you're battling 
 against something big here. Altough seeing Aragorn's room full with people when he's trying to 
 hide in there does hurt the illusion a bit, it's still better than nothing.
  
  There are (only) seven classes - Guardian who acts as a tank, Champion who's your primary DPS, 
 Burglar as your rogue-wannabe and debuffer, Captain as a buffer and a semi-healer, Minstrel as 
 a healer, Hunter as a nuker and Lore-Master as your ench... crowd controller. Basic stuff really, 
 nothing spectacularry new, except that in LotRO you don't actually heal, it's called raising morale 
 (so you won't ever die in the true meaning of the word, but more like you get beaten and your moral 
 is down. Same thing, different description) . Minstrel's can raise morale the best of'em all, naturally, 
 and Captain's can raise the morale after a killed opponent or casting a relatively small moral 
 raise to an ally.
  Only four race's exist; men, elf's, dwarfs and hobbits, and only dwarfs do not include females 
 at all.
  The lack of both race and class is pretty much explained due the lore and I can't personally say 
 I would be missing some particular standard class . Also all the players are good to the bone, 
 no really evil characters exist, which could be considered as a negative thing by someone, but 
 again, considering the lore, there's no good alternative here.
  
  While lack of races and classes is reasonable, I'd say the lack of skills is poor planning. While 
 the fights are still both intense and doable enough, they do sometimes get a bit boring, since 
 there isn't a whole lot of skills to use. Let's take my Captain for example : I have a pet, Herald 
 of War, who doesn't hit that much, but adds might (=strength) and agility. I have two skills to 
 help the pet and myself, called Mark's, but only one of'em has some proper use (adds higher possibility 
 to critical hits) , while the other is a small 10-14 point damage over time skill. Would have been 
 good at lvl 1, but at 20, when mobs have like 400-700 hp's, it's totally useless.
  Anyway, I pop the critical mark, and open with a war-cry, ranged attack that opens two skills. 
 Sadly, I can only use one of those two after everytime I use the war-cry skill, so only one of 
 those is usefull. Then, I have one pretty good melee attack, and one that is about as good as trying 
 to cut an oak with a herring. So, it's pretty much repeating war-cry -&gt; resulting hit -&gt; 
 pretty good melee attack -&gt; wait until you can use it again -&gt; pretty good melee attack. 
 Rinse and repeat and do your war-cry again asap, and that's about it. On the positive part, fights 
 usually won't last more than 20 seconds, so I get to use war-cry only once, etc.
  Other Captain skills included heals and some buffs. Weird enough, I can heal myself only using 
 Rallying Cry, that comes usable after I have killed an opponent, but it also has a 45 second re-use 
 timer. Or my Herald of War can heal me once, but 90 second re-use timer. I have a targeted heal, 
 but that doesn't work on myself, so while soloing, it's plain useless.
  
  Gladly the situation isn't as grim as it may seem. Yes, there isn't many skills to gain while you 
 level, but there is some additional stuff to gain along your travels, called Traits, which are 
 generally acquired by completing Deeds. Deeds are usually in the line of 'kill certain number of 
 this type of monster', which result usually to a title (such as Spider-Foe for killing spiders, 
 Protector of the Shire if you kill certain type of monster, and so on) , and then an advanced Deed 
 opens up. Upon completing this advanced Deed, a Trait is gained, which you can equip with a help 
 of an NPC Bard. Trait's give different kind of bonuses, like fear resistance, stat increases, higher 
 regeneration of power and morale, and so on. There are four different types of Traits. While the 
 most common type give some small bonuses, Class Trait's are gained via using certain skill usually 
 hundred's of times, resulting to a Trait that's usually reasonably good addition. I only have one 
 Race skill, Uppercut, which is a small additional attack that doesn't use any Power. There's also 
 Legendary Trait's, but I guess those will follow suite later.
  More slots open up to use Trait's as you level, but usually you end up having a whole lot more 
 trait's than you can actually use, which can somewhat spice up your playing style and needs.
  The whole trait thing isn't a big addition, but it's relatively interesting to gain more traits 
 in different area's, especially when there's so many of'em around. On graphics-department, I cannot 
 say there is anything new and fancy. Sure, the graphics do look nice and quite Middle-Earth'ish, 
 but it's still nothing we wouldn't have seen before. But still, don't get me wrong, graphics work 
 for the benefit of the game itself, and especially design of the towns are nice. Also LotRO isn't 
 very heavy, so you don't have to lend a computer from NASA this time around.
  Sounds are your basic MMORPG-sounds, but sometimes music is good, even excellent on occasions. 
 Inside Tom Bombadil's house really sounds something you could imagine hearing inside his house 
 and and theme's vary in different places. I guess it says something about the ambient background 
 music's, that LotRO is the first MMORPG I haven't turned the sounds off in at some point.
  
  While most of the game is more or less flawless at the moment, some oddities exist, of which 
 most of'em fall into the category of didn't think I'd see this kind of mistake done any more . 
 Basically just annoying stuff, like typing is stopped and deselected when a window pops open (for 
 looting, fellowship invitation, etc) , sometimes running locks up if you're both moving forward 
 and maneuvering with mouse only, linking an item to chat doesn't work with the familiar Shift+Click 
 but by dragging the item to the text-field which on some occasions has resulted to item destroying, 
 and so on. It's also weird that while the game is maybe the most roleplay-oriented MMORPG available, 
 the emote-library is next to pathetic really. Stuff that could be considered as standard emotes, 
 such as /applaud, /poke and /hug are missing, while we have four different dancing emotes. So like, 
 thanks WoW. But the weirdest thing? Some emotes exist as a codeline, but not as animation or even 
 a text-notification, meaning that they just haven't implemented'em all yet.
  Also, no macro's available. EQ had'em over 7 years ago, but for some reason one of the newest MMORPG's 
 doesn't. I don't mean to make massive macro's with automated skill using or anything, but when 
 you cannot make a macro with a pull message with the target's name in it, it's quite pish to be 
 honest. Somekind of a shortcut-keying is available , but only if you are familiar with pretty much 
 coding the buttons by yourself, so no easy 'click a button -&gt; type your command -&gt; button 
 ready' -feature as of yet, but maybe in the future.
  
  I almost forgot to mention about one quite unique factor - the monster play. Upon gaining lvl 10 
 with your character, you get the possibility to start your very own Sauron's minion (5 different 
 kind of'em) at lvl 50, and in perfect world at least, battle against lvl 40+ heroes. The monsters 
 come fully equipped, but you can buff'em up with using Destiny points, that enchance abilities, 
 add skills and so on. Monsters do not gain experience while doing quests and thus cannot level 
 (for the moment anyway) , but they gain more Destiny points, which can be used on your monster or 
 your hero-character to buff him up temporarily.
  The whole monster playing is a nifty addition, but only if there is constant battle between good 
 and evil in the future, and neither of the sides (especially heroes) gain the upper hand, because 
 that will drive off the players playing monsters and ruin the whole aspect. Good and interesting 
 idea, but future will show if it actually works.
  
  In the end, despite it's few innovations (that aren't completely unique but unique enough) , LotRO 
 is still quite easy and a game that takes no risks of anykind. This doesn't make the game bad, 
 but if it wouldn't happen in the world of Middle-Earth, there wouldn't be enough to interest people 
 to play it.
  
  So, if you're a roleplayer that is fond of Tolkien's world, Lord of the Rings Online is pretty 
 close to best you can get at the moment. But if you feel like roleplaying isn't your thing and 
 you'd rather just exp, amass wealth and raid, there's probably better games around as well for 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not an expert when it comes to MMORPG but I can tell you this game rocks! The questing is fun 
 as is the combat system. The interface is superb! I love the fact that you can position the content 
 windows where ever you want them. Although there are limited races to choose from this is not a 
 detractor from the overall gaming experience. The graphics are very good and represent the world 
 nicely. I would have liked foot prints while traveling however.
  
  Pros:
  Addictive
  Fun questing
  Combat system
  Character development
  Audio effects
  Fellowship groups
 
  
  Cons:
  Addictive
  Some travel distances are far to walk to and purchasing a horse only comes later in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  While this may not be a World of Warcraft killer; it does possess things that most games do that.
 
  
  As most people know soloing is down right difficult in some games, like that of EQ2, however in 
 LOTRO soloing is surprisingly easy and simple and with the main focus being questing you can get 
 several levels in one day, or even in one week.
  
  Being a hunter, soloing is easy to do as we have the range to engage a mob and sometimes even kill 
 it before it gets to us. However hunter isn't the only soloable class, having tried all the classes 
 myself and gotten all of them beyond ten just by soloing, I can easily claim this game being for 
 the soloist
  
  Although don't get me wrong - there are group quests in this game, commonly referred to as 'Fellowships' 
 and most of your epic quests which deal with behind the scene of LOTRO, they will be fellowships 
 and most likely you'll need help, but it doesn't hurt to group every once in awhile.
  
  Of course no evil classes exist in this game and it's quite obvious as to why - unlike EQ2's story 
 line which has several evil races, or Rising Force Online which has all three race's warring against 
 each other, or even Auto Assault which does the same thing in terms of three races - this game 
 is NOT about killing other players it's not fighting against that which threatens the world.
  
  Pvp DOES exist in this game in the form of a Monster vs Player type of combat, players can 
 take control of a monster character by going to certain pools in some of the cities and then go 
 after players. The monsters are automatically level 50 so you'll only be fighting against players 
 who have access to that zone.
  
  Overrall the community, at least on my server anyway, is very respectful and always willing to 
 help out new players. There isn't much in terms of the kiddie talk on the chat channels and most 
 of the players are mature, but you will always have that small group of players who are immature, 
 as I've seen in many other games, most notably WoW and RFO
  
  The game's graphics are pretty good, it's sound is even better than I've seen in other games. The 
 gameplay could use some improvement but other than that it's a soloists dream.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who need's a change from EQ2, WoW, or any other MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorlution
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  It gets tough nowadays to review these type of games now. There are so many to choose from and 
 everyone wants to see what new differences they offer over the competition. LOTRO doesnt offer 
 much from the other great MMO's out there, ie: WoW. But does that make Lotro a bad game? Honestly 
 No. Do I prefer to play WoW? Yes, but its nice to see the small differences that are offered in 
 compaarison.
  
  The first thing people will notice is how clean the graphics look, very solid build, no frame rate 
 issues to speak of, except in a slight few areas, but everything looks spot on. That is until you 
 ramp up the resolution to anything higher that 1200 x 900. What every other MMO does with its interface 
 is solid, Rings just screws up. Sure you can get different looking skins for your action bars and 
 such, but they forgot one minor tidbit, a SCALABLE INTERFACE!!
  
  This to me ruins the experience of the game at which I am unable to run at its highes resolution, 
 not because of framerate issues or graphical issues, but because they didnt bother to put in a 
 scalable interface.
  
  But lets digress, this may have ruined an otherwise great game for me, will it ruin it for you?? 
 Perhaps, but I still find myself going back for some reason. Turbine did so many things right, 
 and also copied the correct things from other MMO's. Its all flattery to me. So dont listen to 
 the fanboys.
  
  Quests are all the same, expect to run into your share of hobbits and some recognizable figures 
 from your favorite movies and books. Im not a huge fan of the series but learned quite a bit just 
 from the game itself.
  
  This game is solid from its inituitive storyline, and somewhat linear quests, if your looking for 
 something to play while on a hiatus from WoW, you wont be dissapointed. A solid build, with great 
 servers, and a decent set of players. Monster play is fun, but could use some work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankenfrag
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  First I must say that I have enjoyed reading the LOTR books and the movies. I would not call myself 
 a LOTR fanatic though. I just really love the lore and many games, including World of Warcraft, 
 owe their roots to LOTR (not LOTRO per say but LOTR the story and world) .
  
  That said I started playing this game in closed beta many, many monthes ago. I have enjoyed the 
 game since I first started playing it. I played WoW for about 18 months and I still occassionally 
 play it, because my son plays and we join up once and a while. But I like LOTRO better, which leads 
 most to the question of Why? .
  
  The biggest difference to me isn't the gameplay or graphics it is the maturity level of the players. 
 Not all WoW players are immature and rude but many are and it really takes away from what is probably 
 the single most defining game in the MMORPG genre to date. In LOTRO I have found a community of 
 gamers that enjoy playing with each other and don't talk a lot of trash or 'kid' talk. That makes 
 the game a 10 right there for me.
  
  Nonetheless the game still needs to be enjoyable and below is how I rated the game and why:
  
 
  Gameplay (8/10) : The game does play a lot like WoW, but I like the interface better (more sleak 
 and smaller) and I enjoy the quests far more. I've read others say the quests are boring and say 
 'go here and go there', but lets face it other MMORPGs do the same thing. I like the 'Book' concept 
 of questing and the feeling of being part of the lore. That makes the game play fun and exciting... 
 and expandable. The only draw back to me is the lack of mobs at times. The spawn rate on key mobs 
 can be lengthy and you will see from time to time a stack up of people waiting in one location 
 for a key mob. This seemed to happen more with LOTRO then other MMORPGs.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : I like the graphics. I've read others say they are to 'boxy' or don't look right 
 but in all honesty with the settings near max things look amazing to me and the performance is 
 still excellent.
  
  Sound (7/10) : The sound quality is good. The ambient sounds are quite nice. But mob sounds and 
 quest givers tend to get repetitive and old. I hate going to someone who is giving a quest and 
 having them ask in an annoyed voice What do you want? . There isn't much variety in what is said, 
 that is a big shortcoming to me.
  
  Value (9/10) : This game can be expanded on quite a bit and it can grow and expand the original 
 story and beyond. You can replay different classes and races. Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) : I like MMORPGs 
 and especially this one because the players are mature and polite unlike other MMORPGs. The story 
 is solid based on a well established lore and the developers did an excellent job of staying with 
 that lore rather then adding frills to attract a younger audience.
  
  If you are an LOTRO fan you will love it. If you are tired of the immature WoW crowd you will enjoy 
 it. If you want are a diehard WoW fan who thinks that PVP is a 'real' form of multiplayer competition, 
 you'll hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: presureone911
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have very little authority to write this review I just need to get that out of the way first. 
 I'm not saying this from an experience point of view, but from a I haven't been playing it all 
 that long. And with only a few level 20 and one level 30 character I really can't talk about higher 
 level content. With all that out of the way, here I go. I love this game. I can't stop playing 
 it. It scales extremely well to fit any PC (If it can run on mine it can run on yours) . It has 
 esentially killed grinding that stuffs all other MMO's even WOW. It does this by making very few 
 quests make you kill 50 pigs (even though those are still in there if you so choose, they can easily 
 be bypassed) . There story line makes it so that you never have to look for an area to quest in, 
 the story line always brings you to the proper areas where you should be. One of the main glaring 
 problems, mainly at lower levels is the out of whack economy. You barely make enough money to get 
 by with the price of skills and equips repair you will be poor for a very long time. The game is 
 fun in solo but truly shines in party play. The classes are unique and meld very well. It sticks 
 very close to the Nuke, tank, healer standard seen by so many other games but at the same time 
 breaths new life into it. The game lacks ant true PVP. instead supplementing it with PVMP. Player 
 verses monster play. At lvl 10 a player can make a lvl 50 monster to battle lvl 50 heroes. This 
 isn't realty working as of right now as not many people are lvl 50 to fight against. If you are 
 like me you may really dis-like the game at the outset. All the classes play very similar for the 
 first 4 or 5 lvls but after that things begin to get interesting, Keep an open mind and don't write 
 it off as another WOW clone, even if it is extremly similar in some aspects. It really gets its 
 hooks in you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 14, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm not your normal mmorpg player. I love to play them. I just don't like to team. I love to run 
 the single player quests, explore the world, and participate in the economy. I hate to team. I 
 just don't like team play, so already, none of the mmorpg's since UO have been catered to me. I've 
 played most of them, I love playing in the shared world, I just don't like playing with others. 
 At any rate. WOW has a bunch of single player content, my Rogue is 58, I've played in groups larger 
 than two fewer than 5 times.
  
  So, LOTRO comes along, I find it on sale for 35 bucks, and decide to give it a turn. Well, after 
 playing three characters up to level 10, I've had a great time, and will continue to play them 
 throughout the month. Still, at the end of the month, I'm probably going to try a new MMORPG or 
 finally give Burning Crusade a try.
  
  I've read The Hobbit, watched the movies, I like the story, but I'm not a diehard fan, you start 
 the game helping some characters from the stories by running quests as the game walks you through 
 some nice story scenes slightly catered to your character. Everything looks great, I have a mediocre 
 system and at the default settings everything runs fine. The music fits the tone of your surroundings 
 and situations, but I turned it off soon enough.
  
  The quests are nothing new, but are a bit more interesting than in WoW simply because they are 
 built around the storyline in the LOTR books, some tying directly into the main plotlines of the 
 story. At least early on, this is very well done. Still, I can't help but feel a little bit of 
 deja vu as I run out to kill boars and wolves, or carry messages back and forth between NPC's that 
 I'll never see again.
  
  The thing that will drive me back to WoW is the need for Turbine to punish me for dying by crippling 
 my abilities for 10 minutes everytime it happens. It's the deal breaker for me. I don't understand 
 the reasoning behind it, and it's the single most frustrating aspect of the game thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 14, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I am a very Addicted Lord Of The Rings Player But this game is not even that good i mean its pretty 
 fun and all they have more than 500 spells and everything but the Graphics are Not that good the 
 story line is just All a mess i cant belive that lord of the rings came out with this game they 
 should of put more toughs to it..... The sound is not that good neither i have a Gforce8000 and 
 i play COH and everything is perfect with that game but with this game the pshhh... the only cool 
 thing is that you can fallow the Good path to destroy the ring or you can Become a servent to the 
 witch king.. the other not good thing is that you dont got alot of selection to pick wat you want 
 to wear so every looks alike online... if you want something that will get you up ur feets and 
 have Great graphics and great Game Play Try Guild Of Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokotorgod
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay in LOTRO is like most mmos for sidequests but for the main quest its awhole 
 different story i mean u get to meet Aragorn and Gandolf plus there are some of the sweetest LOTR 
 creatures ever conceived for monsters and there are also tons of other players to help you with 
 quests or understading the stupid LOTR jokes
  
  Graphics - Min Requirments Recommended Xp Xp / Vista 1.8 GHZ 2.8 GHZ 512 Ram 1024 Ram Geforce 3 
 or ATI 8500 Geforce 6800 or ATI X850 7 Gigs HDDS 10 Gigs HDDS
  
  the requirments right there shoudl tell you that this game can be played by all people but can 
 also be played for the best graphics yet for an MMO
  
  Sound - it is the true LOTR music you no the hobbit, man, elf, and dwarf music plays for where 
 you are but the nicest thng about the sound is the abilite to make your own music with lutes and 
 other musical instruments
  
  Value - The game itself i believe is worth more along the lines of $30 - $40 but for the online 
 pay it is worth the $15 a month 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game was out I thought it wouldnt be good cause im not a fan of the Lord f The 
 Rings movies... Few days later I had money so I thought what the heck i'll try it. Then after i 
 started to play it I thought this game is good and you dont need to know or like the Lord of The 
 Rings movies and stuff to like or get into the game. Its addictive and FUN. Quests aren't boring 
 and shows a good storyline. Has basic races Dwarf , Hobbit , Elves , and Humans. The classes have 
 there own Unique skills and spells. Plus there so many different Titles you can earn (example i 
 got one from not dying and gettin to level 5 which is easy) so they could be earned by more then 
 quests. Also has great sound in the game (combat sounds are great) . Sofar the community in the game 
 has been good some bad eggs tho that call you noobs cause you ask them omthin even tho your the 
 same level.
  
  Quests - 10/10
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound - 9/10
  
  Community- 8/10
  
  Overall 9.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drluv
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Lotro is an amazing game. My main is currently lvl 30 and though I think WoW has an amazing end 
 game- this is the first MMORPG where I have actually fully enjoyed getting my character to the 
 end game. Though I have obviously not experienced the lotro endgame- the lead up to it is about 
 perfect. Here are a list of pluses and minuses compared to WoW (the gold standard of MMORPGs)
 
  
  ++ lotro is truely quest based (always something to do- and lvling by quests is WAY faster than 
 going out and grinding mobs) on top of that the quests are not a grind. You don't go to x place 
 to kill 50 wolves like in WoW- here you kill 8-16. Additionally if you need wolf pelts from place 
 x- 90-100% of wolves there will have them. This takes the grinding out of questing.
  
  + Graphics and Sound. I don't know what the reviewers were smoking giving an 8 on graphics- these 
 are the best graphics I have ever seen on a stable MMO. The scenery is breath taking- the dungeons 
 are awesome- the monsters and their effects are also amazing. I have a 7900gt and 2 gigs of ram 
 and play the game on Ultra with 4x AA and 16x AF and it runs smooooth. My friend with a x1600pro 
 and 2 gigs of ram plays on very high also running smooth and looking amazing. Granted- some people 
 like the cartoony look of WoW- but if you are into reality EQ type graphics- this is as good as 
 it gets for a MMO. The music and effects are also top notch.
  
  +++ Story Line. Lotro is great in that you have an actual goal besides becoming lvl 50 (the current 
 max lvl) - There are 8 epic books each with around 10 story line quests- which feature some of the 
 toughest and most fun instances I have played in any game. Chasing the witch king through the great 
 burrows, Killing off the Nazguls latest creation as Aragorn fends them off- and coming dang close 
 to death doing so makes the story quests real, fun, and intense. Each of these has a cutscene afterwords.
 
  
  + crafting -though slightly watered down- does produce some of the best weapons, armor etc. of 
 the game- making you actually want to become a master metalsmith/jewler/etc.
  
  Pluses of WoW that Lotro lacks
  
  -the talant system of WoW blows the trait system of LOTRO. 
 LOTRO will lack character diversity- with 4 races and 7 classes and the fact that all lvl 30 Dwarf 
 Champions are about the same. (though all LOTRO classes are very different to play)
  -LOTRO lacks a great mage class- because there aren't low lvl mages in the LOTR universe- hopefully 
 the LOTR lore will allow higher lvl loremasters (the mage class) some even cooler tricks. Right 
 now the Lore Master is fun- but not as fun as a Warlock, Mage, or Shaman.
  -Though I'm sure the end game of LOTRO will be fun I can't imagine it holding a candle to WoWs. 
 Though there will be fun Player vs. Monster Raids- I'll miss capture the flag, and other fun WoW 
 PvP games.
  
  Well there are the pluses and minuses. All in all LOTRO is a better fit for me than WoW or any 
 other MMORPG- but if you are a strict PvP guy- or way into player diversity this probably isn't 
 the game for you. Though people complain that this isn't origional- NEWS FLASH- neither was WoW. 
 Like WoW Lotro took an existing model -made a few tweaks to make it there own game. If you love 
 a great story, a beautiful world to explore, and quests that are no where near as tedious- this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I have many reactions to this attempt at a MMO based on lord of the rings. The game play and interface 
 is your typical MMO. So far there is no PvP to speak of in this game when you're at low levels. You 
 spend most of your time soloing and doing the main quest. Which is surprisingly fun. I cannot judge 
 the monster play yet. However, it seems like it will add a new feature to all this MMOs with the 
 same things over and over. So far the game is quite fun and runs fine. I have encountered many bugs. This 
 is of course normal for a new MMO. One of the bu gs is when you kill a monster and you are done 
 attacking it always says the target is dead. This may not be a bug but can be extremely annoying 
 with all the monster killing you do and it should be taken out immediately. That is about all I 
 have to say about this game its just more of the same really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 13, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Alright, so the heading more or less sums it up, but I'll elaborate a bit.
  
  First off, this game is by no means bad . In fact, it's quite good. It's jus as good, if not better 
 than WoW. And by that I mean that you can count on everything to have a good amount of polish and 
 dependability. Everything in the game is as it should be, and there is nothing about it that really 
 stands out and makes you say I hate this... .
  
  Gameplay
  
  Tried and trued - there is really nothing here that's going to make you feel like you're doing 
 something new. There are more quests than you can shake a stick at, true, but it's the same old 
 Go here and kill that. Now, my theory on this is that people aren't necessarily tired of doing 
 these sorts of quests. What they're tired of is being involved in a story-arc of any caliber that 
 has nothing to do with their character. Basically, you meet some NPC who needs help, and you do 
 their bullcrap. Then? That's it... as far as that NPC is concerned. You move on to the next. To 
 me, this is the most boring thing about MMO's, and it plagues all of them. So it's not fair to 
 hold this against LOTRO. In fact, LOTRO does a pretty decent job of allowing you to forget about 
 the monotiny.
  
  One really cool aspect that I will say is a major bonus is the fact that you sort of get mini-level 
 ups throughout your adventures. They're like bonus extras for your character. Kill a certain amount 
 of a certain badguy, and you get a Stat increase and/or Title. Find all the hidden easter eggs 
 of a zone, and you get another Stat Increase or special emote. Again, there's really nothing here 
 you've never done before, but it's sort of like playing a fighting game over and over again so 
 you can unlock all the characters - it's just fun to do.
  
  Graphics
  
  Everyone seems to have their own tastes on this topic, and I'm no different. I personally enjoy 
 this game emensely, graphically. The screenshots really don't do the game justice. I can see how 
 it might be lack-luster on the lowest settings, but if you think about it - all games are like 
 that. The best part about this is though, the game really doesn't need a serious super computer 
 to enjoy it on the highest settings.
  
  That being said, this is easily my most favorite part of the game - exploring the terrain and seeing 
 all the locales with the gorgeous art design and use of art assets. There are some instances where 
 things seem like they could use a little love, but again, every game is like that. For the most 
 part, and by most I mean 99.9%, the graphics are just cool. If I'm not mistaken, the game uses 
 the DDO engine which is cool. DDO was a crappy game, true, but no one can argue that it didn't 
 look good.
  
  The only thing I would say that really disappoints me here is that I sort of wish they had used 
 more art design strategies that we saw in the movies. They got as close as they could, but since 
 they didn't have they rights to those assets, I would say they did a fair job. I only bring this 
 up because it would help folks to really identify with things a lot better.
  
  Sound
  
  Some of it is really good. Most of it is passable . I think it's odd how usually, the really crappy 
 games overcompensate their lack of quality gameplay with awesome musical scores, and the more or 
 less great games have really dumbed down musical scores. Not that this is dumbed down, but it isn't 
 exactly Lineage 2's music either.
  
  Also, the sound effects are cool too. They sound better than most other MMO's I've heard, so it 
 gets browny points for that.
  
  Value
  
  It's a quality game. There aren't any gimmics here. There's nothing here that's really half-assed. 
 Everything in this game is just really solid. You'll get your money's worth.
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  
  Okay, so this is going to fall on whether or not one even likes Lord of the 
 Rings in the first place. Although, personally, I don't see how anyone can really despise it, unless 
 they just don't like fantasy in the first place. And if that's the case, then they really shouldn't 
 play an MMO.
  
  That being said, I like Lord of the Rings. The only complaint I have on this game is that it feels 
 a little foreign from what I came to accept as what Lord of the Rings looks like, almost to the 
 point of alienating. I really had wished to have seen a look and feel from the movies. Something 
 a little more down to earth and real, rather than slightly over exxagerated. In this sense, the 
 game portrays a cartoon to some degree, though not nearly as much as WoW (obviously) . I think they 
 could have acheieved this with better accuracy had they chosen to make the armor and weapons a 
 little less... elaborate. Though, this is a small matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameCRAZY101
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, the game is very well done. The Deed system gives the player something to do 
 while waiting for a fellowship to complete a quest. Storyline is in your face! It's like playing 
 a book if you get my meaning: the first set of story quests is called a prologue then Book 1, chapter 
 whatever, then Book 2, etc. You feel engulfed in the story, which is a very nice thing that not 
 a lot of MMOs have. Many of the quests are the usual kill this, collect that and sometimes those 
 objectives are combined. A new type of quest is the instanced quest. For example, I did a chain 
 of quests in the Lone-Lands and killed a ton of orcs, killed a specific mob (also did a neat quest 
 to kill a named orc warmaster) . After all this usual questing that is common I was told to get 
 a fellowship together and Retake Weathertop . This is great! I got a fellowship together and hit 
 Travel Now and was brought to the pre-summit of Weathertop to kill hordes of orcs and goblins while 
 protecting Candaith, a ranger of the north. After all this we came to the summit to find a Uruk-hai 
 with almost 10k health (alot of a lvl 20 elite, it was a 'superelite') . After we brought the uruk 
 down to 500 health which took almost all of our energy to maintain the fight (the two healers were 
 down to below a quarter) , the uruk said I've got a surprise for you! It ran over to a building 
 and brought out a massive mountain troll with another 13k health! By this time we were almost out 
 of energy and all we could do was whittle the thing away as the healers tried to conserve energy. 
 It's times like these that you know the high-end will be thrilling. The lower-end instanced quests 
 were great, and as you level a lot of them are NOT soloable. When you progress your character DOES 
 show it with the gear he/she wears. I saw a dwarf champion level 37 with the most awesome armor 
 I've seen yet. Hunters with hooded cloaks and cool looking bows are amazing. Another cool thing 
 about this game is the ability to compose your own music using a lute or clarinet. I don't see 
 a lot of reviews reveal this. You use the number keys 1-8 to compose music and use either CTRL 
 or Tab I think it is to tune the notes. This is great because you can just sit in town and /smoke 
 while listening to someone play very nice music in real-time. I think that adds to a sense of comunity 
 and RP, which is amazing. The last thing that is good I want to bring up is the water graphics 
 and the random bird flights into the sky. The water is prolly the best I've seen in a game. The 
 swamp water LOOKS like swamp water, it's covered in moss, etc. Stagnant water looks like stagnant 
 water. The water simply looks amazing, I was surprised. Then there is the random flights of like 
 fifty birds from areas in the game. While traveling in say.. Ered Luin you can see a flock of sparrows 
 fly into the distance and you begin to notice, wow this environment is amazing. Or say you're traveling 
 down a ruined road in the Lone-Lands and you see another flight of birds go up into the sky. You 
 appreciate how beautiful the panorama of the game really is. Other goods include monster play, 
 group voice-chat, combat is fun and quick, and the amount to do is just overwhelming sometimes. 
 The trait system also allows full customization of your character. The title system adds spice 
 and a sense of pride to a person (until they see the same title on another toon =X) . Penarian, 
 Champion of the Lone-Lands, ftw. The rewards from questing are very rewarding. The bads of the 
 game are quite bad, but only a slight turn off. The character models are shabby and lack any real 
 fling. Equipment looks ridiculous on your character sometimes. My hunter looks ridiculous sometimes, 
 but, for example, when I get a cool pair of boots that overlaps my leggings and then get a hooded 
 cloak and some really cool looking pair of gauntlets then I can say that the models look nice. 
 But the elf model compared to the man model, man wins a thousand times over in my opinon. Dwarves 
 look amazing: bouncing beards and thick plate armor (depending on class) with a big double-bladed 
 axe. But at times the models don't reach up to par with even models in WoW. Although smoking emote 
 is a great one ^^. Another bad is lack of any real crafting system. Although the crafted gear is 
 great, the process is grade-school. A tier below Vanguard crafting would have done it. Harvesting 
 is easy; crafting is even more simple. Farming , which was a much anticipated thing, fails at making 
 profit. It was supposed to be great and innovative, but came out short. I'm sure the devs will 
 fix it though. The lack of a mount until lvl 35 is a bit demoralizing, but is not as bad as it 
 seems. The lack of skills as you progress is a huge problem and hopefully the devs will take this 
 into consideration when the time comes for a huge content update (like this June) . The game is 
 quite small at the moment, but the game manual even says that the gameplay is meant to be evolving. 
 Eriador is not even fully completed. Rohan isn't open, nor is Gondor. Mordor is off limits. Rhovanion 
 (Mirkwood/Lorien, etc.) is not open. But just imagine the epicness of the game when these places 
 DO open. Leveling is WoWish. Soloing is boring (like usual) and the lack of grind is demoralizing 
 to some. There isn't a lack of grind, it's more of a lack of xp from grinding mobs =P. Questing 
 just gives more experience. To get back to the lack of skills; when you do level and are excited 
 about new skills, the training can take a pretty penny out of your coin purse! Although the game 
 is not even near complete (Almost 75% of Middle-earth IS NOT OPEN) this gives the promise of MORE 
 TO COME. And as you can see by the new content patch coming in June (Lands of Evendim) it will 
 be relatively short wait. In all the game is very well made. It is a great alternative to WoW if 
 you are bored with it. Character models and armor models suck at times, but CAN be amazing to look 
 at. Music composition gives a hint of RP and community. Lack of skills is a huge problem and a 
 huge demoralizer, not including the expensive costs of training. Trait, title, deed system is innovative 
 and original and gives even the soloist something to do. I suggest this game to anyone who wants 
 to leisurely play (a few hours a day) and progress at the same time; also to people looking for 
 a lasting MMO. Middle-earth will be humongous and will be legendary. Crafting/harvesting system 
 is sometimes profitable, but is grade-school. Bugless and seamless (cept for instances and zoning 
 into buildings) . Lag is mostly non-existant. Combat is fun and fast-paced. Some of the moves are 
 fun to look at. Lack of a mount till 35 is demoralizing. Environment is beautiful. High-end is 
 supposed to be well done (read that and was told that) . There is never nothing to do unless all 
 you have to do are group quests, then you'll have to wait a bit, but sometimes is short wait according 
 to area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acummuta
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, for those saying its populated by kids... that just hasn't been my case. For the most 
 part I've met a large number of mature, assumedly, adult players. Perhaps in the free Beta days, 
 yeah. Anyone will jump on something free. But I'm now part of the 'pay to play' group and I just 
 don't see it. Though it is unavoidable to find some young ones, they're not the majority.
  
  Alas the game is far too good looking to ignore when you have a PC that can be at high resolution. 
 I bought a new PC for just such a case and it made me feel like going back to WOW was a joke. Seriously. 
 I couldn't do it. I was only on WOW for a few months, so I'm not one of the 'I've played it all 
 my life and I'm bored now' people. No, I was enjoying myself. Casually exploring and leveling. 
 But Lord of the Rings Online is much more my cup of tea. You can't really appreciate it until you've 
 had a chance to see several locations. Not mention the fact that you're exploring Middle Earth 
 and we're only in the Fellowship setting...
  
  More great things to come!
  
  It has some of the pacing of FFXI, without the grinding. And it also brings a greater maturity 
 to it then WOW. I think it has really hit a sweet spot. Death is not a big deal, except on repairs 
 of your armour and weapons. Fellowships are easy to gather and are a ton of fun. I was on one quest 
 for over an hour the other night and it was great! And this is coming from a guy who loves to solo 
 and never wanted to group in the other MMOs.
  
  The log of quests are easy to follow and gauge what you can handle. If you're good at knowing your 
 limits you could take on quests that are a level or even two higher then yours on your own. But, 
 part of the joy of LOTRO is simply the exploring and taking in the landscape.
  
  There are some bugs, sure, but the game (at the point of this review) is not even a month old... so 
 give it time. Other MMOs have been out for years, so of course - comparitively - it's not going 
 to be fair. In a few months time the system will be humming along. For the most part its pretty 
 stable. I play on Vista and its a little less right now, but that could be Microsoft's fault for 
 all I know. Obviously not enough to deter me, since I'm giving this game a 9.5. It's worth it and 
 I know the game has a lot of depth and length to it for years to come. So I'm excited to see where 
 the wind takes us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfMorning
Rating: 1.4
Date: May 12, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Good god, is this what they can pass off these days? Tired of hearing, its no WOW, but can hold 
 its own . No it can not.
  
  Crafting is week, poor implimentation of PVP, no evil races, no new stand out classes, VERY poor 
 solo, did I miss anything? Oh yeah, when you get to higher levels, your character still looks drab. 
 You do not feel all powerful or look it either. They have brought nothing to new to the genre. 
 How about trying something than week version of PVP as somthing new?
  
  Sound is ok and graphics barely passing.
  
  What's the point of th is game? Save your money, 
 re-read the books and watch the DVD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 12, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  There will come a day when an MMORPG will come out that does not copy every MMORPG before it. There 
 will come a day when we will be wow'd (not to be confused with the game) by an MMORPG like we all 
 were with UO and Everquest when they were fresh and new. There will come a day when you do not 
 start an MMORPG with lame go here and tell this guy this, go here and collect 10 of this, go here 
 and kill this many of this quests. There will come a day when rabbits, boar, and wolves will be 
 safe from hordes of level 1 n00bs killing them over and over again, there will come a day when 
 someone gets it right again. There will come a day when the courage of men fai........ whoops, wrong 
 speech. Today is not that day.
  
  If you have played MMORPG's you already know what Lord of the Rings Online is. If you have an interest 
 in Tolkiens world you will no doubt have to step in and at least experience it, you can't help 
 yourself, brilliant marketing. So since you know what it is, let me tell you what it is not.
  
  This license was wasted, period. Turbine had a chance to make the best MMORPG to date with 
 the Lord of the Rings license, they squandered it with their own selfish vision. Good vs. Evil 
 pvp was being called for by fans since the announcement of this game, Turbine ignored this and 
 arrogantly refused. They had a chance to make an immersive world where Man, Elf, and Dwarf fought 
 Orc, Troll, and Goblin on an epic scale. They refused. Instead you get, monster play . Thanks Turbine. 
 I am sure that won't get old. Sigh. There could have been epic sieges, open land battles, between 
 player controlled good vs. evil armies. There could have been orc raids on human villages with 
 horns sounding alerting good players to the presence of the evil. It could have been so much more. 
 Instead you got another WoW clone. Grats Turbine, you managed to waste the license that had the 
 most potential to spare us this monotonous boredom that is the modern genre of MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  What can I say... The same old formula, the same crowd, the same time-wasting activities and race 
 to level. On it's own I guess the game is OK, but I don't see it breaking any records. The same 
 old come here, go there, take this do that.
  
  I didn't like the controls, the GUI, the graphics, the repetitive music and sound, the game play, 
 the community or the theme!
  
  I'm sure Lord of the Ring fanatics will adore the game, I didn't find anything I've not seen on 
 at least half a dozen other (BETTER) online games. Thank goodness for the free preview!
  
  Of all the MMORPG games I've played, I would go back to Dark Age of Camelot... because the crowd 
 that plays this crap is the same one that plays WoW. No thanks, I'll pass. I actually HAVE a life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Af1rockstar
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a great online game. The character design is one of the best, most indepth creators i have 
 ever seen. This game is not a World of Warcraft rip-off. But if you do play World of Warcraft, 
 you will find alot of similarities. And this is a good thing, because World of Warcraft is the 
 best MMO to date. One major flaw of LOTR online is that there is no wizard type character. But 
 there are still your healers, tanks, and damagers. Another plus is being able to have 40 quests 
 at once. If you are a fan of LOTR then you will have alot of fun finding famous characters from 
 the novels or movies. One very fun aspect of the game is being able to play different musical instruments. 
 If you are transfering from playing WoW to this, then you may have some difficulties getting used 
 to it, but it is still very enjoyable. It is wonderful that special items in the game have their 
 own descriptions about their creation.
  
  If you are an MMO RPG fan, then you need to at least try this game. It is well worth the $15 a 
 month. All Lord of the Rings fans will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 11, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Think of MMORPG's like a cake. The inside is basically the same, you create a character, do quests 
 and level up. They're all the same at their core except the icing on this cake is Lord of The Rings 
 content. When you get to the core its the same as any other MMORPG out there even copying directly 
 from WOW, Final Fantasy Online, Guildwars... just to name a few. They merely paint it with the 
 LOTR icing to hide that.
  
  This will be sure to attract rabid Lord of the Rings fanboys, and it sure did as I experienced 
 in beta. These idiots shot down any good idea to improve the game simply because it wasn't in the 
 books. That is aspects that could improve gameplay, which competitors already have that LOTRO does 
 not. You'll probably run into plenty of these loremonger roleplayers with names like LLEGOLLASS, 
 or AARAGORRNN... variations on the main characters.
  
  The other issue with this game is the group &amp; raid quests. In the early levels most newbs don't 
 know how to group effectively. So many of your raid quests will goto waste as you won't be able 
 to do them until you're high enough to solo. At which point the rewards are negligible and not 
 worth doing. Everyone seems to want to solo, that and people roll for items they don't actually 
 plan on using that are bind on pickup which proves to be frustrating.
  
  The graphics are very nice if you have a computer good enough to place the settings on high - very 
 high. If not it looks like Everquest from 1990, and you'll be chugging slowly through the landscape 
 or encounters with more then one npc and players, like bree for example. With a lower end machine 
 you'll experience a slow motion slide show trying to move through the city.
  
  The Pvp aspect touted as revolutionary is a joke. To get to Ettinmoors as a player you have to 
 be 40-50th. At this point in the game you'll most likely be involved with a guild, have good gear 
 and work with a group.
  
  On the other hand, monsters are primarily level 10 newbs who don't have a clue how to play. Their 
 monsters are substantially weaker then players of the same level. I've witnessed 50th lvl champions 
 taking out 5 monster players at once. So expect to be very frustrated if you try to play the afterthought 
 monsters, who in a few months time probably won't even be played unless they're buffed up or improved. 
 I'm not even sure if its changed since beta but the so called rewards you could purchase for your 
 main, after playing your monster for hours WERE ONLY TEMPORARY... what a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deceptikus
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Highly enjoyable for any LOTR fan, but this MMO also offers great and new experiences, unlike most 
 copycats. I have enjoyed my time in middle earth so far, and I am surely looking forward to the 
 end game content, of crafting and housing and the new FREE content patch in June, rumors of housing 
 are also closing in as well. I recommend this game to anyone looking for a NEW MMO besides WoW. 
 The music and visuals are breath-taking combat is nothing too unique but it is still just as enjoyable 
 . Its very easy to lose yourself in this game, you will find yourself only logging in to play for 
 30 minutes but 2 hours later your dying to see what is going to happen next.... Quest wise... The 
 quests are great and keep you focused on the game lore, Rather than hitting your next level, Which 
 makes leveling all that easier. Great game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blesst1
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  This game has truly great visuals, fun game play, and a vast environment. This game also features 
 an immense story line that will have you wanting to play every race just go see the new stories. 
 This game features a really nice item system and the abilities to craft many different items. This 
 is a great alternative to WoW. I personally favor this since the story line is more detailed and 
 the game features cut-scenes throughout the entire experience. This is definitely a must for any 
 MMO or Lord Of The Rings fan! Chalk up another classic for the production team Turbine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imonthelamb
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since closed beta and I was actually surprised how much I got into 
 the quests. I would gain 2 or 3 levels and not even realize it because I was trying to go finish 
 each quest. Unlike WoW or most MMO's the quests in this game usually carry on to be 3 or 4 quests 
 just from starting 1. This game does have some similarities to WoW and the now Cookie cutter form 
 every company takes to make a MMO but there are some great qualities that makes this one stand 
 out a little more than most. Monster play is one of these great qualities that makes this game 
 stand out. It will be like battle grounds but on a much larger scale with no player cap. If you 
 played WoW like me and grew bored of it after playing for 3 years this is a great game to try if 
 you like that style but want something a little more mature and some new things to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmasterflex3128
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is a decent MMO that really shouldve come with a free trial. While a lot of people say LOTRO 
 is a WoW rip-off this is simply not true. When it comes to the richness of the lore and story line, 
 WoW doesn't even stand a chance. With that said if you played WoW you will miss many different 
 modes of PvP WoW provides. LOTRO is a game the didn't fulfilled its full potential because the 
 developers tried TOO hard to keep the game true to the book. For example the class and races are 
 very limited. For example, 4 out of 7 classes are melee. Lore-Masters are the only form of casters 
 in the game, which is VERY disappointing since other MMOs have many different casting classes which 
 makes the classes interresting. Minstrels are the main healers in LOTRO: more like a priest or 
 a monk in other MMOs. But while in other MMOs healers cast their healing spells Minstrels play 
 a banjo in order to heal. So if you're a healer. while the rest of your party is next to you fighting 
 a mob of angry orcs, you will be on the side playing a banjo. This just looks very awkward.
  
  There are some technial issues here and there, but nothing major. In addition considering that 
 the game launched less than a month ago, it's quite impressive how little bugs are in this game. 
 Also if you're sick of dealing with immature kids from WoW, you'd be glad to know that LOTRO population 
 is very helpful and mature.
  
  Simply put, LOTRO is an above average MMO which is in some ways disappointing; but if you want 
 somthing different from WoW and are ready to soak yourself in the rich lore of Lord of the Rings, 
 then jump in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 10, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The games plays alot like WoW but feels alot different in the same time because it uses 
 different leveling and points system. Tho I didnt play long because I did not like it too much. 
 Its fairly easy to lvl almost too easy and you can solo too 27 no prob like I did. 7
  
  Graphics: Amazing, not quite as good as some other MMO's but still great. I love the enviroments. 
 9
  
  Sound: Itunes=BEST FRIEND. The music is good for a few hours but I need my metal!! 7
  
  Value: 
 It will last people who like it but I have been searching for a good mmo for awile and no luck. 
 5
  
  Tilt: I was hoping this would be good I love LOTR but this just falls a little short. 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _desert_hare
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 10, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings online is a solid title. It has the basic components you will find in an MMO. 
 As per the usual, the races are Humans, Elves, Dwarves, and some kind of halfling (hobbits in this 
 case) ; the classes are lacking though. There are all the usual suspects, Lore-Master (Wizard) , 
 Minstrel (Priest) , Burglar (Rogue) , Champion (Barbarian) , Guardian (Warrior) .... but it would be 
 unfair to fault Turbine for the inclusion of so few classes (7 in all) , as they are taken straight 
 from Tolkien's Lore. Also present are the mundane tasks of take this to someone that is two towns 
 over for me, or go kill x amount of y type of creatures. But again, this is something found in 
 all mmo's and will likely always be included in them. Where I feel this game really shines is in 
 it's story. There is a linear story included in Lord of the Rings Online that is a departure from 
 the movies, as well as seperate from the rest of the game's quests. Sure there are iconic character's 
 included in the game, but their inclusion doesn't feel like a superimposition as it has felt with 
 other licensed LotR games. There are no movie clips bogging down the game play ever so often, but 
 they are replaced with actual game rendered story scenes that take the place of certain loading 
 screens. The graphics, which are often battered, really aren't that bad. Honestly is depends on 
 your hardware whether or not you have a good graphical experience. The sound isn't any better or 
 worse than any other mmo out there. The moral of the story is if you like mmo's and you like Tolkien, 
 give it a try. It has all the makings of a good mmo, and with a little work it could be another 
 great one. Turbine is already proving reliable as a free content patch is set to release in June 
 that includes a whole new territory and 60+ new quests. This one is one to keep an eye on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindless1987
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  good way to visit with and make new friends. although it takes alot of running, once you level 
 up and take on some badies it makes it all worth it. the auction hall system works great, and the 
 fessowship and kinship systems make joining a fight that much easier. the side quests are an essencial 
 part of the game, because if you try and follow the story line to fast it will soon defeat you 
 in levels, and that makes the game last much longer. the quests seem fairly balanced in variety, 
 so they arnt all just go and get this. over all a very satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I have absolutely have fallen in love with this game.
  
  The Lord of the Rings films were some of the best films ever made and now it's one of the best 
 games ever made.
  
  I'll try and sum it up .. this game has everything i look for in a game and to top it off .. you 
 don't need the latest hardware to run it well. I have a mid range AGP system and it runs smooth 
 and looks gorgeous!
  
  It's also a game that grows as you play. The more you play the more things you find out. It's fantastic.
 
  
  But ......................... BUT .......................... here is the problem
  
  It's TOO good. Yup ..... that's what i said ..... it's too good. Kiss goodbye to real life. I can't 
 stop playing it. After this review i shal be going back to Middle Earth. This game should have 
 come with a government health warning. I am boring my girl friend to tears about this game. I think 
 i may lose her this time ..... but hey .... at least she won't get in my way so i can get back 
 to the game!!!!
  
  Trust me ... if you love games, if you love the Lord of the Rings and if you have anything about 
 you at all ....... you must own this game. It will become a cult classic of a game as are the books.
 
  
  I wish i could meet the guy responsible for bringing us this game .. he has brought great joy to 
 my heart and deserves much praise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zafrod
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I am an old school Tolkien geek. Whenever I heard my young cousins, nieces and nephews talking 
 about how great Harry Potter is, I would buy them a copy of The Hobbit so they could read some 
 real fantasy literature. I know what the Silmarils are, and I loved Peter Jackson's movies almost 
 as much as the original books. I love Middle Earth and the lore Tolkien wove around it. So I really, 
 really looked forward to Lord of the Rings Online. I wanted to love it. And while it was great 
 to explore familiar locations and meet legendary figures from the stories, the gameplay was, to 
 my great dismay, dull and uninteresting.
  
  Don't misunderstand. There is a lot to like about LOTRO. Unfortunately, it just doesn't make up 
 for what went wrong. Some of it is simply limits of the license. 4 races and 7 classes just don't 
 make for a very interesting MMORPG. The lack of variety might not be so bad if the classes were 
 interesting and felt unique, but they don't... or at least, not in any reasonable amount of time. 
 Some classes, such as the crowd-controlling Lore-Masters, don't get even a low-powered skill in 
 their specialty until after level 10. Until then, 'caster' classes often feel like low-powered 
 fighters. Because magic is uncommon in Middle Earth, as compared with other fantasy settings, abilities 
 tend toward the mundane, and are further hampered by rather uninteresting animations.
  
  If the combat and class system don't bother you, you might very well enjoy LOTRO. The scripted 
 events are fun to take part in and feel epic, and the quests, while seldom engaging, will keep 
 you constantly busy and away from the grind. The graphics are certainly gorgeous, and there is 
 certainly something to be said for exploring the lands that basically gave birth to the fantasy 
 setting as we know it.
  
  Still, when all is said and done, what keeps me playing an MMORPG is the chance to play a powerful 
 character in a dynamic world, and I never got that sense in LOTRO. Fighting never felt like anything 
 besides  There was little opportunity to explore, and the fauna 
 was neither diverse nor particularly interesting. I wanted to like this game. I bought a copy for 
 my wife and myself, over $100 worth of game, sight unseen. I shouldn't have spent the money. Vanguard: 
 SOH has reclaimed our attention, and LOTRO will likely see little play, if any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdtragichero
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is the first MMO I've played, but I can't imagine leaving it for another. I began with the 
 open beta to see what the hubbub was about and was either playing it or thinking about it. I know 
 a video game is good when I find myself thinking about it in the shower, in the car, at work, and 
 wandering through the aisles in the store. This rarely happens to me. The only other games that 
 have grabbed me this severly are Rome: Total War, Civilization IV, and the Halo and Splinter Cell 
 games for XBOX. But now I'm afraid my XBOX 360 is getting lonely because I anticipate spending 
 many, many more hours on LOTRO. I've recently upgraded my rig (3 Gigs of RAM, GeForce 7950 video 
 card) , so I'm not sure how well the game functions on less extreme machines. It runs pretty smoothly 
 on mine -- only a few stutters for the first minute or two I'm online, then it's like butter. The 
 story is engaging and, unlike what I've heard about WoW, there aren't too many jerks running around 
 Middle Earth, and everyone seems, at least initially, to be about making playing this game a fun 
 and positive experience. Two thumbs way up for this game. WoW needs to watch out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccu4779
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Signed up for the open beta and started playing as soon as that opened. I enjoyed the game so much, 
 I went and preordered it. I find the game to be a lot of fun, and enjoy all the exploration also. 
 Lacking in PvP, but that's not a make or break issue for me. I'm not going to compare it to WoW, 
 other than to say that I enjoy LOTRO a lot more than I ever did WoW. I think the graphics are good, 
 the sound is good, and the gameplay is outstanding. The learning curve is fairly simple, even if 
 you've never played an MMO. I enjoy this game, and would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nullsubstance
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all i have to say i was a World of Warcraft player before start playing this game. 
 I start playing WOW 2mouth ago and i was enjoing the game, altouthg i at the end of some days i 
 had the filing that was missing something! The main story wasan't very clear, the quest all the 
 same, and the only thing you do with you're guild was raiding... still its a great game!
  Then i start playing LOTRO... in the begining had the impression the gameplay was a little hard 
 but then i see that when we really enter in the story and start understand the game we see is great!! The 
 felling i have, its that the game it's a big big improvement of the wow. evrything we had the felling 
 was missing in the WOW is in this game! it's obivious that the game isin't an innovation like WOW 
 but it's a great improvement worth playing!! The world look great, the caracther its good to, the 
 gameplay its easy to play once we understand, and the quest are always interestant... its worth 
 to try;) and you'll be suprise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fastcrap
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The best online cooperative game ever!
  
  For those sick of PVP, try Lord of the rings online.
  
  The environments are amazing, the gameplay 
 is simple but still challenging, the interface works very well, and the amount of content is simply 
 awesome.
  
  After playing so many mmogs and mmorpgs either sci-fi ones or medieval, there always seems to be 
 this problem with player-vs-players system setup, I know some ppl will say that the fact that LOTRO 
 has nearly no PVP is a bad thing, but to be honest, I think it's the best thing they could have 
 done.
  
  Because it was a gap in the market that HAD to filled and they filled it in a spectacular way.
 
  
  And this has a drastic effect of the gameplay, since there's generally no pvp, people are very 
 cooperative and helpful, because they have no reason to fear other players in any way at all.
 
  
  This has created a very high level of player interaction.
  
  Frankly I wish all mmogs and mmorpgs where this thoughtful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simulacra123
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  As it stands right now, LOTRO is a great game. The production values are as high as wow (and the 
 graphics are better) , and it really has a focus on story. You actually feel like your actions affect 
 the world, which I could never say about WoW (which was also a great game) . If you are a lotr fan 
 you have to pick it up, the immersive environment alone will grab you, and if your just a fan of 
 MMO's I would still definitely try it, with the future content packs eventually promising the whole 
 of Middle Earth, this could be one of the future MMO titans... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjun41
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  As much as I hate to compare any MMO's with WoW because it gets overdone, I have to admit, it is 
 considered a base of future MMO's. Therefore, this review may compare to WoW.
  
  One more before I begin. I believe, if someone can take an idea and improve them to make it better, 
 then I say WHY NOT? Music industry does it all the time. Some of the old musicians are not better 
 than modern days; however, IMO they are famous because they were the creator of that style. I believe 
 we all know which topic this goes with. Honestly, I am not a crazy fan of LOTRO; however, I have 
 been looking for a good MMO game to play. As a very casual player (2-4 hours a day max if I even 
 get a chance to play) , I wanted a game that had quick quests, easy to learn, and just good overall. 
 I believe LOTRO provides all that for me. Interface is easy to get used to. Like many MMO's, you 
 have your simple interface with 1-0 keys on the bottom along with other side stuff on the sides 
 (talent, items, options, etc.) Your health is on the top left and mini map is on the top right. 
 However, the game lacks to provide players with the way to customize the interface when it comes 
 to re-sizing. This often leaves your eye's to become blurry if you are the type who plays games 
 for the story as the primary reason. Graphics: Beginning graphics may leave the players thinking 
 boooo, or so I've heard. It did met my expectation when I first began playing the game. However, 
 as the game continued, my character eventually was released into the real world from tutorial area. 
 Although I don't have the top of the line computer, the graphics still looked amazing. Gameplay: 
 This is where many people either get into the game or gets out within few hours of gameplay. Quests 
 are quick and simple, most of them can be done within half an hour. Directions of where to go are 
 easy to follow (east, west, north, south, etc. from certain area) . Dungeons are easily soloable 
 if you are few levels above the recommended level. In addition, because most of the quests are 
 around the area of where it was given, running to the destination of the quest isn't all that bad 
 either. I never had a big wish to own a mount for now. With the use of minimap, you are easily 
 find quest givers, enders, and whatever materials you can acquire depending on your profession. 
 There are only few skills for you to learn. If you are an experienced player and knows exactly 
 what kind of character you want and what kind of skills will benefit you, then your available skills 
 to train becomes limited. However, the good part of the game is, you don't have to run back at 
 every certain level to learn the next level of your skills. As your character advances, your skills 
 advance as well. Crafting is simple and fun. Most ingredients tells you which profession the it 
 is used for under description. Those that doesn't say anything are scraps you can sell for extra 
 money.
  
  Kinship: As of now, there really isn't a big reason to be in a rush to join a Kinship besides making 
 few friends and being involved with a group. Some things I want to see added to game will be described 
 later.
  
  Few other things I want to mention which people who are looking into this game have asked are: 
 Yes there is a mount, yes there are stable masters that will get you from one area to the next 
 for a fee of course, information about instruments can easily be found on various websites such 
 as youtube. com (you can play some really crazy songs) , and the biggest question Is this game better 
 than WoW? Let me go into this very quickly. I stopped playing WoW after a year because of excessive 
 running (5 mins minimum from one town to another) , dungeons take forever to begin and it is so 
 hard to find good group if you are not in a guild or high level, instances can take up to few hours 
 to complete, and I constantly get killed by players that are 20+ levels higher than me. Some WoW 
 hardcore players may say then just go to role play server you NOOB if you dont want to get ganked. 
 LOTRO gives players a chance to play the game without distraction and when you are ready to PvP, 
 you can Monster Play. Unlike Battle Ground in WoW where you wait for a game to start and when it 
 does, its pretty much push and pull type of game with Capture the flag type of thing. Monster play 
 is another whole world where you can do quests, pvp, explore, etc. In addition, whatever you monster 
 acquires while playing Monster Play, you're character acquires those traits as well. I can't really 
 get into too much detail on this because I still need to play some more.
  
  Few things I want to see for improvements:
  Fighting sound seems like something I want improvements. 
 As I attack NPC's with skills, I seldomly get the feeling like I've actually HIT the mob. With 
 better slashing sound and an animation that slightly stops when the weapon gets in contact with 
 the mob, may make me feel as if I've actually done some damage without looking at the NPC's health 
 bar. World Map: I love how the world map marks stores, places, and other things on the map. However, 
 some things just gets too crowded. Without the ability to zoom in, it is near impossible to find 
 an NPC in a town when the marks are overlapped. Maybe a way to either Zoom in or if the icons can 
 move aside like CoH/V, it may be easier for some to find a certain NPC for training, crafting, 
 purchasing, selling, etc.
  
  Kinship: There isn't too much things to do with Kinship besides go on Monster play together, dungeons, 
 or whatever. Few things that I may want to see in the future are:
  
  1. A base for some of the leaders to be able to make furnitures or stuff with the ingredients we 
 collect throughout travel. 2. A bank for Kinship to share items (and again, leaders should be able 
 to tell who has access and not) . Probably even to take a step further, the leaders can decide the 
 levels of this bank; meaning, which section is for ALL players and which is for the leaders only.
 
  
  3. A store for the kinship where items are made by the Kinship members and the price is set cheaper 
 than other regular stores. This price should also be set by the leaders. The money earned can ONLY 
 be used for the Kinship.
  
  4. Kinship PvP with wages. With an agreement from both Kinship, they can wage from few silvers 
 all the way to their entire base. This must have limitation by the leaders such as max level and 
 players. ***I do want to mention, Some of these ideas are from CoH/V. Just wanted to give them 
 credit. Their guild system is very nicely done IMO. If LOTRO can improve upon them, I say YEY. 
 
  
  I know I haven't fully answered the question above regarding whether this game is better than WoW 
 or not. Honestly, I think its up to the players. As for me, I like this game better because as 
 I've mentioned before, i'm a VERY casual player and I do enjoy PvPing, So, I can play when i want 
 and PvP when i want without getting killed half the time im running to go do my quests.
  
  Hope this review helped for some. If I've offended anyone I apologize and this review is purely 
 from my perspective. I am not here to argue or anything because there is no particular winner in 
 argument.
  
  No one can persuade another to change. Each of us guards a gate to change that can only be opened 
 from the inside. We cannot open the gate of another, either by argument or by emotional appeal 
 -Marily Ferguson
  
  Thanx LOTRO developers and everyone affiliated with the development of the game. Keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrevere
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  I loved this game from day one and it only seems to get better. The graphics are great. It's amazing 
 that turbine recreated Middle Earth - the worlds are huge. I've had no problems with the interface. 
 One thing I haven't gotten into yet is the music system. Check out the you tube dust in the wind 
 video for LOTRO. I never thought there would be a WoW killer, but then again people thought Everquest 
 would rule forever and WoW proved them wrong. I've never been a fan of monthly fees (pay for play) , 
 but hopefully the free updates/add-ons will make up for that. I'll be playing this game for a very 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgguide
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings online is without a doubt an online RPG that has a lot of upside to it. I can't 
 speak for the end game content yet since my highest char is only 20 so far. But I think I have 
 seen enough of it to recommend it to you.
  
  For a game that is not breaking any new ground it still has a certain appeal that I think the casual 
 gamer will like and the hardcore gamer will get addicted to. You can almost think of this game 
 as the Middle Earth version of WOW. So it has a very good story to follow and places that will 
 be familar to fans of the books and movies. The developers have really given us the best of both 
 worlds in that there are plenty of areas to just run around and solo easy stuff for players that 
 like that type of experience but there are also a fair amount of tough areas and instances that 
 require teamwork to achieve your goal. The quest system is huge, one of the largest I've seen in 
 an MMO. I almost think there are too many quests because I have found myself just refusing to take 
 on any new ones until I finished some of the ones I've been ignoring. How many times have you ever 
 heard that about an MMO? Some of the quests are really tough and can be failed easily like when 
 you are given the task to protect a normal citizen while they journey through a dangerous area. 
 It can be very difficult to keep them alive and sometimes requires great teamwork to do it. Other 
 quests are simple like delivering a letter or killing X amount of creatures. But the only real 
 grinding I've done in the game is when I have chosen to finish off my current level quickly. Sometimes 
 the quest system will frustrate you because you think you have finished it and are about to get 
 the reward only to find out there is another step to completing it.
  
  Like I mentioned before the game was not really meant to break any new ground it was just meant 
 to be fun and whether you are into solo play, group play, tradeskills or just completing quests 
 this game has something for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick2222
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I'v been playing rpgs since the days of the original Dragon Warrior on the original NES. This game 
 has it all but a few small tweaks to make for it to be a perfect 10. We can all say the this game 
 is a blend of WOW and Guild Wars.
  
  JUST BUY IT!!!! its a great game that LOTR fans and RPG fans will really enjoy. Its got amazing 
 crisp graphics, a good storyline and plot, the missions are fun, the reward and experience system 
 is fair, the fellowship and kinship system is good, the maps are nice... plus plus plus... thats 
 for the good Improvements: - the only thing i would change is to be able to have the ability to 
 click and move using the mouse. instead of using the famous W, A, S, D keys. lol
  
  a little $$ to play online games... but what can you do, its fun and addictive
  
  Things to 
 lookout for:
  
  -If you're running on minimal requirements for your PC, it won't be that fun, due to lagging the 
 the cities... you'll honestly need a min of 1G of ram and a good 128mb video card at the least... for 
 the processor min 2.0ghz... if you have this then you'll have noooo problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Well this game took me by surprise. I did'nt expect LoTRO to even be as good as it is. If your 
 a longtime MMORPG fan and you want to get yourself involved with a new MMORPG, this is the game 
 where you can devote your time too. It needs some work, but this is definetly a winner.
  
  Its does have a story line which keeps you interested as you level. I would say that LoTRO is a 
 excellent casual MMORPG to play. Yeah, you got a lot of folks racing to 50, but getting there and 
 doing everything the game is giving you to do is a whole other thing.
  
  Dont be quick to judge this game, give it a chance, once you hit around level 20-25 then discuss 
 your thoughts. You will be surprised. (BETA does not count)
  
  ATTENTION: If you are highly involved in another MMORPG, dont even waste your time trying to play 
 this. You gotta go into this game with a clean thought and no distractions from another MMORPG 
 to compare it with, cause if you do, you will just be another critic saying .. Dont Believe the 
 Hype .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  I would have a hard time finding something wrong with this game. This is by far the most polished 
 and fun MMORPG at launch date. This game has great potential. The utilization of the Tolkien world 
 is brilliantly done. You follow the epic quest throughout your character's evolution: from tutorial 
 to the end. You get to meet all the important characters of the story and help them with side quests 
 of the main LOTR story. My only worry would be the end game (level 40+) . It remains to be seen 
 if the high level content with be sufficiant to maintain the player base. But, then again, they 
 still have some time before then. Already, they are giving at month 1 a huge content patch which 
 will include quests, monsters and a raid zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plainelmo
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  TLOTR: shadows of Angmar is an indredibly immersive well thought up MMORPG that challenges the 
 best in the business. World of warcraft to name a few, was the top contender for best MMORPG. Whilst, 
 just recently released, this game's depth and mechanics are simply amazing and comes in second 
 to none. The amount of detail and well thought up system brings all aspects from WOW and many from 
 RPG giant guildwars and rolls the concepts into one great enticing package. The combat system, 
 sports an exciting real-time engine that allows the player to move through the world battling minions, 
 levelling to the glory much like other RPG's. HOweer, a new implementation that makes the tedious 
 grind necessary much more appreciated is the introduction of the 'DEED' system. This system kicks 
 in once you farm a couple of mobs, and unlocks a new title for your character to achieve e. g 'Spider-Foe' 
 for killing a capped number of 30 spiders. Furthermore, the next level of the deed unlocks new 
 traits for the character that can be applied in towns. These traits act like character buffs, and 
 are interchangeable throughout the adventure.
  
  The graphics are amazing, they are simply unparallelled and definitely bring a new level to the 
 development of GFX in the online gaming industry. Chartacter models are finely detailed and highly 
 customizeable, including scars and eye shadow that add to the originality of the character which 
 you'll spend a lot of weary nights levelling and growing attached to. The environement details 
 are equally impressive with an intense climate system and very smart night and day scale. This 
 adds to the excitement and tickles your nerves when your on your last leg of the quest through 
 the marshes at night.
  
  Currently, the only issues I have had with the game are certain lag spikes that occur occasionally 
 in highly populated areas. However, given this is a new released online title the development team 
 will hopefully resolve this in due time.
  
  This title is definitely worth a look for those wanting more immersing entertainment than that 
 of WOW and GW. Or plainly for those looking for something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 8, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  ThePatinator gives an excellent review of what's wrong with this game - compared to benchmarks 
 like World of Warcraft. Please see that text for a good read, otherwise,
  I will add to that:
  
  -The button mashing interface for combat is very confusing/unreadable: 
 it is extremely hard to see what's on cooldown, what's not on cooldown (but not active: i. e. in 
 most cases it's time to mash it) , and what's active, but not on cooldown. World of Warcraft makes 
 it very clear. Here the gray transparency and icon colors chosen render very poorly. This is especially 
 true for weaving classes like the Minstrel. Given the vagueness of each action to begin with, one 
 ends up not caring at all what each action does: you just mash them in progression, until something 
 key (like a heal) is needed, and then you click that.
  
  -The sound effects, and music, are poorly constructed. They clip, they're out of place (for example, 
 the minstrel's scream, which I think they meant to sound non-human ... but coming from a human 
 actually sounds silly, not scarey) . The music score is forgettable, and doesn't have the level 
 of sophistication and variety, including live fade in/outs as Wolrd of Warcraft does.
  
  -The handful of LOTR in-game animation sequence inserts are nice, but not enough to salvage what 
 constitues the bulk of the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaNaDiaNBeeR
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Alot of people are flaming this game saying its not original.... well sure it has alot of ideas 
 and gameplay mechanics as other MMO's but hey.... if its not broke then don't fix it. Alot of people 
 forgot to mention all of the innovative things this game brings to the table.
  Gameplay: Well how can you give this a bad score... it plays similar to WoW and others in its Genre 
 (Plus I love the fellowship skills when grouping)
  Graphics : I run this game in 1680 x 1050 in ultra high graphics and all I can say is Niiiiice 
 (Still havent found a game to fully put my 8800GTX to the test yet though )
  Sound: Amazing job done on sound... feels almost like you are watching the movies all over.
  Value: 
 Well I guess it depends on how you look at it... paying per month for any MMO sucks but hey its 
 only 15 bucks a month.... and considering how smooth the launch went I have yet to run into any 
 real annoying bugs yet *cough* Vangaurd *cough* I don't really mind paying to play a game I really 
 enjoy.
  
  This is the first review I have ever written for any game but I felt I need to put in my 2 cents 
 because of all of the low scores I have been reading from other users. If you enjoy MMO's with 
 a great community, great graphics with some new innovation I suggest giving this one a try.... If 
 you already know someone with the game have them give you the 10 day buddy trial if you are uncertain.... I 
 guarantee you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_freak
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  While upon first glance, this game is just a clone of previously successfully MMORPG's, the game 
 doesn't glance up until the later levels. The unique functions such as traits, titles, deeds and 
 monster play, dont really have an impact on your hero until you reach the later levels.
  
  Overall, the game may seem uninspired. However, its features are so well polished that it does 
 what has been done before, but much better . The small features LotRO introduces to the genre are 
 hard to notice at first, but as with many other aspects of the game, they seem very well polished 
 and have been given much thought.
  
  Quests are mostly go there, kill that, gather my lost purse etc. However, when one takes the time 
 to read the story background on these quests and looks around himself while questing, one can only 
 come to the conclusion that this MMO is the first real story-driven MMORPG. The instances are nice, 
 though sometimes a bit hectic if you travel in big fellowships. Once again, the story ties in nice 
 to this.
  
  As this is a young MMO, there are still many issues and bugs. The main issue at the moment is the 
 economy: in the beta people had way too much money, but now - repair costs especially - the balance 
 is so that it is very hard for people to have enough money in their level 15-25 range.
  
  However, I am yet to see an MMO that is so polished at launch - its not really fair to compare 
 it to games such as WoW, which has had years to balance its economy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Translation:
  
  Oh my god, Lord of the Rings Online is Pretty Hot and Tempting.
  
  It's the real deal, a true heavy weight in the current generation of MMORPGS, it joins the ranks 
 of World of Warcraft, Everquest 2 and Guild Wars, arguably the top of the food chain in the current 
 MMORPG subscriber wars.
  
  I've played every mainstream MMORPG since the original launch of everquest (I did go back and play 
 some Ultima Online also) and after 15+ years of playing video games I know when something feels 
 right, and Lord of the Rings Online (LotRO) isnt perfect and wont rake in the uber millions of 
 customers like World of Warcraft, but its damn good, Better than Guild Wars and tied with Everquest 
 2, in this reviewers humble learned (smarter than you, just kidding) opinion.
  
  Graphics are lush, Sounds are magnificent, Gameplay is sound and yes mildly repetitive like all 
 MMORPGS but it keeps you on your toes pretty much doing away with the Default Attack, Oh Default 
 Attack is still there alright, but if you use only that against a monster of the same level as 
 you, you will most likely die, horribly. While this may not bode well for bots (thank god) it does 
 bode well for those who feel bored during combat, which I believe is the biggest problem an MMORPG 
 faces.
  
  Nerds er... Those intimate with the Tolkien work should feel right at home as its obvious people 
 went to great lengths to make the game feel genuinely like the Real-imaginary world of Middle Earth.
 
  
  From story telling movies, to instanced story missions or quests that you solo or group play through, 
 you meet famous characters, and maybe even led a helping hand here and there. (Thats a joke, theres 
 always a ton of quests to do.)
  
  If you've played all the current gen MMORPGS and feel a little bored and want something new, or 
 are just a fan of great games, I am happy to say its been years since I could more fully recommend 
 a game to you... This is it, it is the Lord of the Rings, and its a real deal MMORPG, Turbine - 
 I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Turbine has surprised me with a goodm high-quality game. After DDO, I did not think they were capable 
 of developing a product as well done as LotRO.
  
  Based on the released game (not Beta) , it is clear that there is still some balancing that needs 
 to be done and some minor shortcomings in game design that need to be corrected. The in-game economy 
 being the most obvious balance issue, there are also issues in crafting dependencies and utility 
 of crafted items, the extent to which different classes may solo content, especially at higher 
 levels (greater than level 30) , and PvE balancing of classes against monsters. Shortcomings in 
 the game include some graphic choppiness at higher display levels and GUI design problems resulting 
 from a lack of scaling algorithms as players use different resolutions than that for which a particular 
 GUI feature was designed as the baseline.
  
  Unless a player resorts to extended grinding, it is unlikely to ever reach a comfort zone between 
 expenses for crafting, expenses for repair of gear, expenses for training, and expenses for the 
 various traits that represent the only real distinction between players of the same class. Crafting, 
 in general, can not create enough revenue to even cover the costs of materials -- and there will 
 be material costs since professions will always be dependent on materials that can not be obtained 
 from simple gathering activities or drops from killed monsters. Alternatively, players are forced 
 to use alt's with the dependent professions, leveling them up simultaneously with leveling a main, 
 in order to get the necessary materials to make items -- items that generally do not sell for much 
 in the auction house. For the most part, items that can be crafted (until the higher crafting levels) 
 are of inferior quality to those that can be obtained by drops; thus the only reason to craft is 
 to raise the crafting level. There are a few exceptions where various quests require crafted items 
 and these may be sold for a minor loss in the auction house. There are, however, materials that 
 must be purchased from NPCs, essential for pretty much all items at some component level, and the 
 combined costs usually exceed the value a player can get for selling the resulting crafted items.
 
  
  The only activities making a profit in trade between players is the sale of basic materials from 
 gathering or killing mobs. Unfortunately, the price for these materials has inflated so much already 
 in the game that it is untenable to purchase them; their price is beyond the affordability of players 
 at the level where they are needed for crafting -- unless players put off crafting until they are 
 a much higher level than the corresponding items they can craft, an undesirable option at best.
 
  
  This stymies much of the crafting in the game. Combined with the lack of utility of many of the 
 items that can be made, the interdependence of crafting professions is a neat idea, but not implemented 
 in a fashion where it is balanced with the rate of drops or availability of foraging locations.
 
  
  The crafting approach is otherwise unique in how multiple professions are combined into a vocation 
 . The interdependencies between professions are not so severe as in some games, to the point where 
 they make crafting a chore instead of a game system, but are problematic at this point because 
 of a few game bugs and the economic balance problems noted above. The number of materials required 
 to make an item can be surprising since it is necessary to first make components and then combine 
 the components to make an item. A piece of armor, for instance, made by a metalsmith may require 
 two leather straps made by the tailoring profession (one of the professions paired with the metalsmith 
 profession, so it may be done by the same player, only at a different workstation) ; each strap 
 requires two pieces of boiled leather made by a forester (a dependency with a different vocation) 
 from raw hides collected by killing monsters; several different metal componenst (chains, plates, 
 braces, and ingots) made be needed, each requiring a couple of pieces of ore, possibly requiring 
 coal for conversion to different forms of ingots. As a rule of thumb, collection of materials seems 
 to require a 4-for-1 raw material-to-component item ratio for those materials that are typical 
 for dependencies and as much as an 12-for-1 ratio for making all profession components needed to 
 construct the end item for independently constructed components. Obviously, this makes procurement 
 of materials through the auction house extraordinarily expensive -- and out of reach for the low- 
 to mid-level player. Some materials in the auction house are so expensive that they have realistically 
 priced themselves out of theor market -- a only a few days since the release of the game.
  
  Most player classes can solo fairly easily up through level 15, provided they are careful on 
 their pulls. However, the number of group quests increases as a percentage of the total as players 
 become higher levels -- and group quests DO require a group unless a plyaer is willing to wait 
 5 or 6 levels to then solo the quest. The epic quest line -- a neat idea for creating a story line 
 that can be enjoyed as a player progresses in levels -- requires grouping. This becomes a liability, 
 not a strength of the game, since players end up without the time to read the storyline behind 
 a quest as the group clicks through . The story also becomes closed to those players who are unable 
 to get groups. Like most games of this genre, if a player is not enjoying the game with a close-knit 
 group of friends and/or is not guilded (called a kinship in LotRO) or is not in a reliable guild, 
 trying to find pick-up groups is difficult and, when such a group can be found, is often frustrating 
 in terms of player skill and behavior. This in itself is a problem in game design that no developer 
 has yet overcome; more and more players are casual, solo-ers, and playing at times of a day and 
 locations in game that are not consistent with other players' locations, or are playing at a comfortable 
 rate of content consumption that may be inconsistent with the local game population. Too many MMORPGs 
 being made today suffer still from the old arrogance of EQ in trying to force the game population 
 into a single stereotype -- how well a game developer overcomes that problem in accommodating multiple 
 playing styles without compromising player satisfaction and access to game content has much to 
 do with game longetivity (player loyalty) and population (attractiveness to more players) . World 
 of Warcraft did well in that regard (but had imbalances in itemization between raiders and casuals, 
 causing much of the game population to complain) ; Vanguard did very poorly in that regard (resulting 
 in its poor subscription retention rate) ; and LotRO is somewhere inbetween. It is likely that its 
 long term success will be dependent on which way the game finally leans.
  
  No classes appear more capable of soloing than others. Guardians have much more survivability -- 
 but hit like girls (in a relative sense; perhaps very big, mean, nasty girls... with beards) . Other 
 classes do much more damage to monsters in a fight -- but are less survivable. In general, different 
 classes seem to excel at soloing different kinds of monsters. Realistically, the ability to solo 
 with a class is dependent on a players comfort with using that type of class. Nominally, the hunter 
 seems to be more effective at soloing since it can attack at range, trap opponents, or run if it 
 has a bad pull when it attacks at range. The guardian is effective at soloing if it can avoid pulls 
 of more than a couple monsters -- presuming the guardian is at full health -- since the guardian 
 as a tank/close melee fighter will rarely escape a bad pull.
  
  The GUI does not have appropriate scaling if a player uses higher resolution graphics; this is 
 a significant problem since text fonts become too small and unreadable as resolution is increased 
 from the default (which appears to be 1024x768) . At the default resolution, the fonts are so large 
 as to obscure far too much of the game display. You're damned if you do and damned if you don't 
 use a higher resolution. However, fonts are not the only issue; some windows, such as loot rolls 
 (for group loot) end up behind other windows in certain resolution settings. This can prevent player 
 access at critical times (e. g., not able to roll on an item) .
  
  There is also a noticeable amount of hitching at higher resolutions; using a 2.8 GHz HyperThreading 
 CPU, 2Gb of memory, and an 8x AGP professional 512Mb graphics card for this review; running a straight 
 line through a zone (that is, no new mipmaps or textures should need to be loaded) , hitching was 
 noticeable every 3-10 seconds. This was not testing using a PCIExpress card for this review; it 
 is possible that the hitching results not from the amount of graphics objects required for display, 
 but on the degree of interaction required between the CPU and the GPU. Blame this at least partially 
 on Microsoft and the obese overhead in the current version of DirectX; however, the game probably 
 also needs some additional optimization.
  
  Graphics are otherwise superb; very high quality and the use of shaders, shadows, and other effects 
 is well done. The animations are quite good; there are some minor sequencing issues at this point 
 with the refresh of the action bars (event firing sequence in the engine) .
  
  Monster play is a unique way of introducing player versus player gaming without the usual problems 
 of ganking , class imbalance, jerk players , and gear discrepancies between PvE and PvP bneeds. 
 while monsters are not leveled up, the ability to spend special points earned in either regular 
 PvE play or the monster play, in order to enhance the monster's capabilities, provides a comparable 
 means of leveling the monster. Monsters have their own quests to perform in addition to fighting 
 regular players, adding another aspect to gameplay.
  
  There are other features of the game which are unique and give LotRO its own special flavor. Being 
 able to play music on an instrument -- albeit somewhat crudely (don't try stacatto or long notes) 
 -- smoke a pipe, change facial expressions, etc., add an environmental and personal touch to gameplay 
 not found anywhere else. While the term immersive is over-used, for those players who enjoy roleplaying 
 this game has many immersive features.
  
  Compared to the release of Vanguard, this game is far and away much more professionally done. Compared 
 to the release of World of Warcraft the game has fewer bugs. Compared to the disaster that was 
 (and is) DDO, the game has been well thought out by Turbine. It is fun, quite beautiful graphically, 
 and combined with a wonderful story that has become a classic in literature. Turbine has done well 
 here; the game does still have some refinement before it can be called complete, but it is probably 
 the smoothest release of an MMORPG in the last ten years. If the community develops into a solid 
 and tightly knit bunch of players -- willing to group with those that for whatever reason are not 
 part of a kinship (guild) -- and does not deteriorate into the sorts of communities that haunt 
 Vanguard and World of Warcraft -- LotRO should have a long and prosperous run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online is a definite improvement over the WOW approach. The interface did all 
 the things right that Blizzard got wrong, which is good because as far as I can tell, so far, you 
 cannot mod the client and must depend on the LOTRO staff to make necessary changes. Sure it will 
 take longer and be a bit less flexible but the game will be far more stable and less frustrating. 
 Having been a long time WOW player I was tired of the bad mod updates and the fact that they broke 
 every other day. Nuff on that. The quests are fairly good. There are some issues with the clarity 
 of the quests and the maps. This is where they learned nothing from WOW. Hint: Better maps people. 
 If your going to make reference to a name of a place then note that place on the map or MY HEAD 
 MAY EXPLODE. Anyway, the engine and graphics are awesome and put Vanguard to shame. They also pants 
 WOW but then WOW is far older at this point. The scale of the server is massive. This is really 
 way bigger than I expected. It also makes the playability much higher. Lastly, the characters and 
 approach to using Tolkiens world is true to form and very satisfying. I expect the game will get 
 even better over time. Overall its a great game with good promise. This is a must play for MMORPG 
 fans and is the first MMO I would compare directly to WOW and say that they have the potential 
 to be even better than WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jscherdell88
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Ive played many mmo's and this is by far the best one Ive played. It takes the best out of WoW 
 and GW. Most people that consider this a bad game are ones that are single minded and cant except 
 the fact they wasted there lives playing wow and didn't realize that there are better games. It 
 pwns! And all these nut heads out there saying vangaurd is better? Man thats why its getting 6 
 and 7's. Least Lotro has gotten 8 and 9's by other reviewers. Ill give you a hundred words  
 asjdkl ajsdl jalskd jlakjd lajdlka lakjd ladlk jalsdj lajsdl jasldkj lakjd lkajdl kjalksdj lakjdklasjd 
 kasjdjahfiahdfuiah lkad a. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadEye2003
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 7, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  It could of been alot better but its not good. Basically every quest or mission is the same. Your 
 usual go here kill this, go there talk to him nothing new here. Its just a step down from WoW. 
 I had to quit it about a week into it basicaly because I got sick of walking 20 mins to finish 
 a simple and stupid quest. Personally I'll still play Guild wars over this. Another turn off is 
 the attacks of your char don't match the enemy that takes damange. Im not sure if this is just 
 my comptuer or all around but when I swing there is a deley in the enemy's taking damange, could 
 be lag but i don'd think so just looks like poor codeing. Not much depth in char creation either 
 and not many vocations to chose from.
  
  In all, if you want a game that is just the same boring questing over and over again and powerleveling 
 over and over again then go all out. If not then save the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonp200
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me qualify my review a bit. Unlike some of the reviewers here, I have played 
 in both open and closed beta and have logged many hours in game.
  
  As a rule, I am not a power leveler and have played WOW, EQ 1 and 2, SWG, the Matrix Online, Vanguard 
 and others, so I feel I have a good basis of comparison.
  
  With that said, LOTR amazed me. Hats off to the developers for capturing the true spirit of JRR's 
 vision. The game looks fantastic. The environments are beautiful and the MOBs, NPCs, and structures 
 fit well in the genre.
  
  Like most great games, LOTR is accessible at an early level but offers more complex play when you 
 add party dynamics. The classes fit well together. Each have a defined purpose but there is some 
 flexibility as to how that is employed, i. e one reviewer stated only one class heals.. not true.. many 
 have healing (morale) effects; Captains group heal, Lore Masters heal others, Minstrals heal themselves 
 and others.
  
  I love the traits and feats system and the crafting system is simple yet enjoyable. Finally, here 
 is where my tilt score comes from. The game played great in beta and even better at launch. I am 
 running at high resolution and find it as stable as any MMO I have seem. I can not recall another 
 game launch this stable. I have seen many others launch but none this well. Mych credit again to 
 the developers for getting that right.
  
  Finally, the value is amazing. One can pay $199 one time for the founders offer and play forever, 
 or as low as $9.99 per month. That's pretty amazing.
  
  One criticism: Quests are a bit linear and follow the UPS/Fed Ex deliver model a bit. I expect 
 to see that improve as the game matures. Mind you not all are this way. Many are well thought out 
 and highly enjoyable. The game heavily favors questing vs. grinding which is just fine in my book. 
 Also, one can have fun in either solo or group (fellowship) play.
  
  This one is a winner. See you in Middle Earth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClovisMero
Rating: 5
Date: May 6, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings is stable but lacks content and many important and fundamental elements to 
 a MMORPG. I think it is more of an online adventure game designed for children, which is perfectly 
 acceptable. Now that Vanguard is undergoing and made a remarkable recovery, I think people that 
 want something more from a MMORPG should check there.
  
  Lord of the Rings are my favorite movies, and the title I think it what is attracting so much attention. 
 It is a very mindless adventure game, very forced and very linear gaming. The Quests in the game 
 are not Quests but the old task system of collect this, run here, kill ten of these things. I think 
 a true MMORPG will or should offer more to players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Me And My Buddy Rick
  
  
  When I first bought the game I wanted to play along with my buddy Rick. Rick doesn't really like 
 MMOs, because of all the hubub and leveling. He really loves interesting, story driven games. The 
 first place me and my buddy Rick went to was a place called Barrow-Downs . Its very scary, and 
 not for the light hearted. We got slaughtered numerous times, but ended up saving a woman who forgot 
 her cloak in a den of skeletons! Hobbits are so dim.
  
  
  
  That little rant was just to show exactly what kind of game Lord of the Rings is. Going into this 
 review I'm sure most of you have heard of, or are avid followers of Tolkien's tale. Through the 
 use of innovative story driven instances, great sound scores, and enthralling graphics the boys 
 at turbine were able to craft a brililant world.
  
  To begin, the first thing you are greeted by after making your character is a well scripted event 
 that eases you into the pacing of the game. The game itself, while open ended and providing a great 
 variety of quests, focuses heavily on instanced areas that provide a back drop for what evil shinanigans 
 are goin' down in Middle Earth. Even in the absence of spoken dialogue, the quality of the script 
 really shines.
  
  Inadvertantly, the developers were able to weave an amazing game thats extremely engaging through 
 the use of graphics and these plot devices. The graphics in the game are second to one. They are 
 extremely different from the Marvel feel of a game like World of Warcraft. Turbine decided to go 
 with the nitty gritty on this game. The game is well optimized, and will run on almost any modern 
 machine.
  
  Last but not least is the sound score. One would expect a novel performance in a game so richly 
 based on Tolkien lore. Don't be surprised when all your expectations are met. The composition and 
 music system are enough to give this game an amazingly enriching feel.
  
  In conclusion, the game is one of the most enriching, engaging experiences you will ever find. 
 Its story, graphics, and sound all create a tapestry to enjoy. The only set backs are that the 
 combat is somewhat overwhelming at first, and there are minor bugs. If you can look past the SMALL 
 isues, this is a great game for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morganlb5603
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  It's understandable why GameSpot's reviewers and virtually every other reputable gaming site have 
 yet to publish a review of this game. And it may be sort of unfair for me to write a review after 
 only seeing about half of the playable world. But I feel I am giving it a fair representation compared 
 to others. First of all, the graphics look pretty darn good; at least on my computer they do. People 
 who are bashing the graphics and calling the world ugly must be running a system that doesn't meet 
 the recommended system requirements. But if you have a high performance graphics card and a widescreen 
 display you are in for a treat with this game. Nothing wowed me at first like I remember being 
 instantly blown away the first time I loaded up WoW, but some of the screenshots I could've taken 
 in this game would blow away anything from WoW. Especially the views of the river from Duillond 
 in Ered Luin. Moving along, it is true, the gameplay is a lot like World of Warcraft's. I believe 
 there are a couple of plus sides to LOTRO's gameplay though. You will spend more time doing what 
 seem like meaningful quests than you will doing actual grinding. Also, the main story line in this 
 game is actually effective in drawing the players' attention! You want to know what is going to 
 happen next with the story rather than just getting your next set of gear. Another plus in the 
 gameplay area are the instances used at important parts of the main story line. No more waiting 
 for bosses to respawn and racing to get him first when he does.
  
  One other complaint from users that I will give some credit to is that some of the more interesting 
 parts of Middle Earth are not in this game. Although the world is still pretty big, and some of 
 the other regions don't seem like they will be needed by the time I get to lvl 50, I would like 
 to see some of areas farther to the east open up sometime. And it's hard to imagine that that wont 
 happen if I stick around with the game long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is a pretty straightforward game and anyone who has played WOW will be able to launch straight 
 into playing and will know exactly what to do. There is essentially little difference between this 
 and WOW in game playing style. It has been said before and I will say it again, this is a WOW clone. 
 There is nothing new here.
  
  The most annoying thing about LOTRO is the map which is pretty much useless. You will be running 
 around for ages (and running is quite slow given the size of the world) with no help from any map 
 markers to assist with quests. I also hate the combat system which again like WOW relies on clicking 
 on icons rather than clicking on the opponent itself. This is an area where the developer could 
 have really set LOTRO apart from other MMOs rather than relying on button mashing
  
  The game is also quite buggy with quests which cant be completed or quest objects which just arent 
 there. For example I am currently in a quest which involves killing 10 bears at a farm. I run for 
 20 minutes to get to the farm and guess what . No bears to be seen. Occasionally there are doors 
 that you can't go through and this is most annoying when it happens on the main quest line. The 
 community is also having lots of problems in logging into the game so some days you simply cant 
 play. The bugs are such that if you haven't bought this game yet I would wait a couple of months 
 until all the issues have been patched.
  
  I find character creation quite fun in games, but here the options are limited to eyes, hair, mouth 
 and face  not the sophisticated options that are available in the likes of Oblivion or FIFA 2006. 
 In fact options are so limited , it is quite common to run into your twin !
  
  Sound is a little below par than what I expected from a Lord of the Rings game and nothing particularly 
 worth mentioning here. Many of the combat sounds are the same as WOW but the game really lacks 
 an epic music score.
  
  Graphics are ok, nothing to write home about  substantially better than WOWTOON but this is certainly 
 no Oblivion. I was disappointed given the game trailers which sucked me into buying this Title. 
 The environment looks very good and water textures are great but the player models are incredibly 
 poor - there are no Guild Wars babes here, in fact the women are so ugly you want to kill 'em. 
 The environment is strange in that sometimes it looks really pretty with great hi-res textures 
 which makes you sit back and think OMG, then you can walk down the road and it starts to look a 
 little cartoony - it's like the game is half finished. The retail version comes with a high resolution 
 texture pack to install - well I have a high end rig (geforce 8800 &amp; 4gb ram ) and I cant play 
 with the ultra high texture pack enabled because it lags so much then crashes - I suspect you need 
 a NASA computer to play with this enabled.
  
  One of the best features is the auction house - Ebay that costs you nothing - bring plenty of fake 
 gold though !
  
  Many quests have to be completed in fellowships and this is great fun - much like being in a temporary 
 guild. The community is on the whole mature and willing to help. In my view this encourages the 
 addictiveness of the game.
  
  I like the fact that there are dedicated servers for role playing chat - I have tried this but 
 you must make a new character and go back to square 1 however it is much more fun when in RP MODE 
 but unfortunately a lot of players are too dumb to keep it up.
  
  PVP takes the form of monster play where you get to play as a baddie but hardly anyone is playing 
 this at the moment so there is little to report.
  
  This genre has been around for years and with a franchise like Lord of the Rings at their finger 
 tips, one would have expected the developer to take MMO type games by the scruff of the neck and 
 give it a damned good shake to bring out something new and interesting to take the community forward 
 rather than just copying and tweaking the (successful) but tired WOW framework. This is down to 
 either laziness on the developers part or an attempt to cash in on the successful WOW business 
 model. The only losers are the gamers however. Don't get me wrong, I am no big MMO gamer - i haven't 
 played WOW much so I'm certainly no fanboy and I have played guild wars for about 4 months, but 
 playing LOTRO for a week or so and it's patently obvious what could be done with the best licence 
 available to make the game better if not perfect.
  
  Fortunately there isn't too much grind in this game - just follow the story (if you don't mind 
 the quest bugs) and enjoy it - you will level up soon enough !
  
  The game has only been out a few weeks but in the 2 weeks I have been playing I have been enjoying 
 it more and more. Because its early days , Raids and The War haven't even started yet so be careful 
 of any bad reviews you read at the moment as its likely that the Lord of the Rings hasn't even 
 really started yet !
  
  This game will have massive longevity and will be played for years - much like WOW , it is highly 
 addictive and time consuming.
  
  I hope the above isnt too negative because LOTRO does have its fun moments particularly in Instancing 
 (special missions) but it is expensive to run at &pound;8 per month (hence my poor value rating) 
 and to be honest its nothing special  You can play Guild Wars for free and take the benefit of 
 better graphics. It's one of those games that takes patience and will grow on you - the first 10 
 hours in the game will suck but eventually you will get deeper and deeper involved. It's just a 
 shame Oblivion was never an MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 5, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Online is not as good as wow. There. I said it. In fact, it doesn't even come 
 remotely close, being tedious, flawed and not particularly engaging.
  
  So what's wrong with it you ask? Well, a lot. and to save myself a lot of writing, I'm just going 
 to use individual points to point out the pros and the cons (or, more accurately.
  
  Firstly, the good things: - The graphical effects: LotRO has possibly the best water effects ever 
 seen, the reflections being near perfect and looking very good. The same goes for flames, ect. 
 (character models also have a nice resolution and do look quite nice, if a little samey) - The 
 story driven instances: Though the actual fun levels in the instances varies from brilliant to 
 boring, the concept of the instances that break up the chapters are truely brilliant. Unfortunately, 
 the story that is holding them together is sometimes a bit spotty and they tend to be very, very 
 easy. - The concept: A story driven MMO in a very popular fantasy world? Sounds like a good thing.
 
  
  Now, the bad things: - Playable  The character creation/customisation 
 in LotRO is best described as uninspired and lackluster. Classes tend to have very limited roles 
 (only one class can heal, only one can tank, only one can caster dps) so basically, if you got 
 fed up with a play type, you have to start again (which I did twce) . What's more, the classes themselves 
 only learn about 20 skills a piece, with many being fairly useless. What this means is that the 
 combat boils down to a repetitive wait-for-cooldown fest. - The environment graphics: Square edges 
 on almost everything, looks downright ugly because of it. Problem is only made worse because of 
 the stark contrast between the base environment and any objects on it (which are very hi-res and 
 completelyt different. Lacks the brilliant simplicity of WoW. - The quests: Very frequent chains 
 of travel to X, talk to Y sometimes up to 5 times in one short chain. Only made worse by the horrifically 
 unreadable quest instructions which tend to give you the completely wrong directions anyway, or 
 tell you a very roundabout way of getting somewhere. Sure there may be a story behind some of the 
 quests, but odds are you really wont care why you have to collect half rotten pieces of wood. - 
 The story: Mostly unfollowable unless you're carefully reading every last bit of text you get, 
 as the quests don't really give much of a hint in their objectives. The story also feels quite 
 irrelevant to the LotR universe, and it doesn't really relate to the plot of the films or books 
 to much extent. It never really feels like you're under attack from the antagonists (given the 
 unchanging nature of MMO worlds) or that they're a threat to anyone else in the game world. Cameos 
 from some creatures and people of the films and books do not really make it work. - PvP: Playing 
 as monsters in some places with no real reasoning does not make MMO pvp. Why can't we play as orcs 
 as normal characters is ridiculous. and what is there as a second faction is way too disjointed 
 to be considered good.
  
  In summary, only play LotRO if you're a massive Tolkein fan, you've never played wow and you're 
 prepared to be bored half to death between breif fun areas. Its good parts are quite fun, but those 
 good parts are way to far spaced out to be any good, and are marred by various technical and design 
 shortfalls. Don't believe the hype, this isn't a scratch on WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmax161
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  UI is very familiar to MMO players, but the story and new tidbits like fellow maneuvers and deeds 
 make this game pure goodness. I absolutely love this game. The graphics are very scaleable. In 
 other words, you can play on a fairly low end machine, like I have. I'm looking forward to playing 
 on a newer machine to fully appreciate the graphic details, but it still looks good on very low 
 graphics settings. I recommend veterans of other MMO's to give this game a try. The only major 
 complaint is the economy is still screwy, but I'm sure that will stabilize as more characters reach 
 higher levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red259
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all. From the start you will see how it is very similar to WoW, which is not 
 necessarily a bad thing. What's the same as WoW?
  
  The interface is very similar and many quests can be of a similar nature. What's different from 
 WoW?
  
  Gone are the cartoony graphics that I found annoying. I much prefer the graphics in LOTR. While 
 some of the quests are like WoW there are many quests in LOTR, which are more story driven and 
 there are story arcs which are better developed than in WoW. I have found the player base in LOTR 
 to be much more mature whether this will remain so only time will tell.
  
  The use of instances I enjoy much more in LOTR than WoW. In fact after some instances the entire 
 world around you changes and the characters remember your deeds. The sound could be a bit better.
 
  
  One of the nice things about WoW was that when you used the transportation system there was no 
 load screens. However in LOTR if you rent a horse to take you somewhere it will show you riding 
 the horse and then you will run right into a loading screen. Little things like this take me out 
 of the experience.
  
  LOTR is not as big on PvP as WoW, but this doesn't really bother me as I prefer PvE.
  
  Summary
 
  
  Overall I have enjoyed the environment created by LOTR and I think with updates this game has real 
 potential for years to come. If your looking to take a break from WoW and to try something a bit 
 different yet still familiar I would fully recommend LOTR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vaergoth
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  If you've played World of Warcraft, with a few (important) exceptions, you've played Lord of the 
 Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar. That's not entirely a bad thing. Turbine just decided to copy 
 what has been done very, very well with WoW: the basic combat, leveling, questing, and loot mechanics. 
 They don't deserve criticism for not attempting to RE-reinvent the wheel.
  
  That said, if you haven't played WoW, trust me when I tell you that you won't need to worry about 
 those parts of the game. They're solid, the best in the genre.
  
  The most unique thing about the game is it's deed system. Basically, grinding monsters for hours 
 and hours on end now has a purpose beyond simple experience points and loot: each area has new 
 titles you get for exploration, monster slaying, and questing. Some of these titles and achievements 
 are just for show to other players, but most act as the method of specializing your character. 
 If you enjoy using your war cry ability, for example, use it 650 times (a feat that's not as hard 
 as it seems) and it'll power up, greatly increasing in effectiveness. Complete 15 quests in a zone 
 and receive a passive bonus to your health pool, avoidance, and melee damage. 15 quests in another 
 zone, or slaying 90 wolves will yield an entirely different set of bonuses. In this way, you have 
 incentive to explore the world.
  
  Monster play, the game's form of PvP, becomes available at level 10. This is a refreshing change 
 of pace, both from questing in LotRO, and from games which make you slog through 70+ levels to 
 get to PvP. There is a certain satisfaction gained from bowing down before the Dark Lord Sauron 
 to slaughter the free peoples of middle earth, the same ones you might have been questing with 
 10 minutes ago, with extreme prejudice.
  
  The best way to describe monster play is just that: you play as a monster, like you would on the 
 other side. There are 5 monster classes, mirrors of the player classes. You quest and level, and 
 gain new abilities, but the enemies you fight are actually other players! This works surprisingly 
 well.
  
  (Before you get any ideas, the PvP is 100% opt-in, opt-out.)
  
  The graphics, while good, are almost wholly unsupported by the art design. Outside of the shire, 
 the one graphically inspired area, generic structures repeat over and over, there is sparse vegetation, 
 and no zone seems to have a character or personality . That is to say, other that the shire, there's 
 no place you could look and instantly say That's _____! This was one of the things that WoW was 
 very, very good at, and it's disappointing to see here.
  
  I won't touch sound other than to say it was a serious oversight. Some of it even sounds like midi, 
 and it repeats often. Save us Jeremy Soule! You're our only hope!
  
  If you have been playing WoW for two years and are sick to death of it and looking desperately 
 for something else, don't look here. Everyone else, this is money well spent, and I encourage you 
 to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanderwielen
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Turbine has done a lovely job of bringing Middle-Earth to life. While clearly not deviating far 
 from the successful model brought forth by WoW, the use of instancing to create the feeling of 
 change in the world and advance the story-line is a welcome change from the simple plots and repetitive 
 grinds of WoW.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  No big new ground here. The interface and action is extremely similar to WoW, mostly watching cooldown 
 timers while autoattacking. The majority of the game world is PvE only, and players can only fight 
 one another in a special zone where some of them choose to play monsters. This is a good thing 
 if you like PvE, as it frees them from incessant tweaking and whining comparing one class to another 
 that characterizes WoW. The classes are clearly defined; nobody is going to roll the tank or healer 
 class and complain they can't do enough DPS. The trait system allows flexibility, and makes it 
 fairly easy to shift your character's strengths as often as you like. The group conjunctions (Fellowship 
 attacks) available in party add an interesting wrinkle to group combat. The game is extremely casual 
 and solo friendly. Tons of solo and small group content rather than the forced grouping that is 
 the hallmark of other MMOs like EQ, FFXI, and Vanguard.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  Perhaps the most visually stunning MMO ever. While the character models and gear are a little bland, 
 the landscapes are absolutely gorgeous and extremely detailed. Fields gently sway in the breeze. 
 Water captures the reflections of the night sky, nearby surrounding, and even your character if 
 you stand over it. The overall look is extremely reminiscent of the Peter Jackson movies - which 
 is a good thing, IMO, since those received multiple Academy Awards for their beautiful design. 
 Character and monster animations are smooth and detailed. Overall, sometimes I play just to see 
 the place, like the time I made the looooong run to Rivendell just to see the most beautiful valley 
 I have ever seen in a video game.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  Sound quality is good. Background music is appropriate to each area - the Shire is light, happy, 
 folksy music, the dwarf halls is deeper, somber, more matrial music, Rivendell is sweeping, beautiful 
 yet sad. Instruments sound like the ones that would be appropriate for the time - lutes, harps, 
 horns, flutes, etc. It's background music, and sets the appropriate tone without
  
  In fact, one of the cooler parts of this game is your player can PLAY music. You can train to play 
 certain instruments, buy one from a bard, and play songs using a keymapping system that allows 
 you to hit any note you like. Nobody will toss out their 88-key electronic piano-style keyboard 
 for their QWERY any time soon, but it allows players to bring passibly decent tunes to local taverns 
 and street corners. It also allows you to hear the less-talented (like me) massacring Row, Row 
 Your Boat - but hey.
  
  Voice acting is limited, but very good. Narration is provided by either Ian McKellan himself or 
 somebody who sounds exactly like the Gandalf from the movies. Similarly, many of the dwarves sound 
 very much like they were voiced by Jon Rhys-Davies (Gimli) . Aside from narration, it's only little 
 snippets from NPCs, but the tiny bit that's there is good.
  
  The one annoying part is the battle noises of some characters, specifically the yells of Captain 
 and Minstrel battle cries and the constant Gimli-like bellowing of dwarven fighters. Although other 
 battle sounds are excellent, these are so obnoxious I had to dock points.
  
  VALUE: There's a huge amount of content to explore at launch, with a free expansion already planned 
 for June. For a $50 up front and $10-15/month you get dozens of hours of play per week - no movie 
 or book matches that value. The experience is a blast for any Tolkien fan and the attention to 
 detail in plotting and game design make one look forward to the next part of your central epic 
 quest or next area to explore.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: A big question is are you a fan of Tolkien? If not, what you have is a beautiful, 
 casual friendly MMORPG that breaks little new ground. If yes, and obviously I am, then the value 
 of stepping inside Tolkien's grand vision is huge. There are so many ways in which this game could 
 have gone wrong and made the millions of Tolkien fans world-wide gnash their teeth. Instead, it 
 followed in the steps of the Peter Jackson movies in providing a stunning vision of Middle-Earth 
 that seemed to capture so much of the feel and look of Lord of the Rings. Even better, the game 
 has the full license to the LotR books, rather than the movies, and has been meticulously researched 
 to be accurate in every tiny bit of lore. The level of detail is what made the Lord of the Rings 
 so popular in the first place - never before (and perhaps never since) has one person so fully 
 fleshed out another entire world down to it's history, myths, sociology, and languages. With a 
 team of Tolkien lore researchers signing off on every detail, LotR Online gets it stunningly RIGHT. 
 That in itself is probably reason enough for a Tolkien fan to give it a try, but thankfully they 
 made the gameplay rich, interesting, and casual friendly enough to make it fun. It doesn't seem 
 to really cater to the power gamer or heavy PvP crowd, but that's okay. After all, WoW became the 
 most successful MMORPG in history by tossing many of the punishing principles of older MMORPGs 
 (heavy death penalties, endless grinds and camping) and focusing on fun first and quest based adventuring. 
 LotRO wisely follows in those footsteps, relying on the richness of the world it presents to make 
 the experience rewarding.
  
  I really can't say how pleasantly surprised with how well LotRO turned out. I wasn't particularly 
 dedicated to the development of it, as I have been busy playing WoW for over two years now and 
 was suspicious of the many potentials for LotRO to fail. In the end - well, like many online gamers 
 I have a guild of friends that keeps me playing WoW even when it gets to be a grind, but as a Tolkien 
 fan for 30 years, this is a stunning achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpaul01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Between the lore, the setting, and the graphics I have left WOW from open beta and could never 
 find my back to wow. After 3 weeks I cancelled my WOW account always thinking I would always go 
 back to wow, but I didn't. I belonged to a top raiding guild and had invested a lot of time into 
 my wow character. I was swayed by the graphics and the easy going nature of progressing in the 
 game. Everything just seems fun rather than work and I enjoy the quests rather than seeing them 
 merely as a means for advancement. Quests and lore are interesting and I don't have the feeling 
 of an item treadmill. Don't get me wrong, gear play a big part here, I just don't feel gimped if 
 I don't grind for gear all day -- enjoying the quests, and the lands/quests have become the game 
 versus lewt.
  
  Seems the population feels the same way... its very collaborative and I almost get the feeling everyone 
 feels they're in it together fighting against Sauron ---I know it sounds hokey but its out there...
 
  
  So, if you're on the fence and the game appeals to you vs a gear/rep grind, do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69sean
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  First I gotta say all games within a genre share things in common. MMORPG's always involve errand 
 quests and killing local wildlife, FPS games are always click-point-shoot, racing games always 
 involve something called a brake pedal (rarely used) , gas pedal and a steerring wheel, etc...
 
  
  My point is that if you as a reviewer have nothing better to say than 'it's the same old thing' 
 then you probably don't enjoy the genre and it wouldn't make the least bit of difference how good 
 the game is. I don't review FPS games because I don't really enjoy them no matter how great they 
 are - get the point?
  
  In terms of difficulty LOTRO seems about on par with WoW, maybe a bit harder soloing depending 
 on your class. Vanguard is hands-down a more difficult game to play geared towards experienced 
 MMO players.
  
  I was pretty skepticall of LOTRO but it's been a pleasant surprise. The game is just flat out beautiful 
 to look at and it runs great on PC's made in the present day (unlike Vanguard built for PC's that 
 won't exist for 2 years) .
  WoW isn't even worth the comparison in terms of graphics.
  
  If you're bored of WoW and/or disappointed with Vanguard give LOTRO a try. Personally, I've leveled 
 2 toons to 70 on WoW in a short period of time and got bored quickly. Vanguard has potential but 
 too many problems to recommend at this time. End-game content is the big unknown in LOTRO but I 
 plan on re-joining my guild in Vanguard in a few months once the game is improved anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEEDtheFEED
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 3, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  *rubs eyes* Okay. This was pathetic. You start the game in a tutorial that is the same despite 
 your class or race, it just takes place in a differant location:
  
  A renown character from the books needs your help. You rune outside and have to kill 5-6 low level 
 enemies. Then, a large enemy attacks. You are stunned and an even MORE renown character kills it.
 
  
  Then, when you think this torture is over, the game starts. Every quest, task, and assignment is 
 EXACTLY THE SAME! Kill certain monsters in a certain area and take the hides. Just playing it, 
 you can feel how much they wanted to make another World of Warcraft. Do your a computer a favor 
 and don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I have played more than a half-dozen MMO's since 2000. I played some for six months and I played 
 some for two years. I've seen this genre of gaming through it's entire infancy and childhood and 
 now I see it come into maturity. I feel that Lord of the Rings Online is the culmination of nearly 
 a decade of learning, progress, innovation and invention by skilled artists, programmers and producers.
 
  
  LotRO brings together solo play and team play, seemlessly allowing a gamer to do either at any 
 point in the life of his avatar and not be held back by a need to do the other. Previous games 
 always seemed to center more heavily on one than the other to the point of losing a large chunk 
 of players early on.
  
  You can progress your LotRO character through combat-based progress or quest-based progress. Some 
 of you will remember the old days of Asheron's Call and Everquest and Anarchy Online. There was 
 a love/hate relationship with character progress in those titles, but endlessly killing monster 
 after monster somehow never got old.
  
  Asheron's Call 2 and World of Warcraft brought us quest-based progress. To many of us this was 
 a huge relief. I personally still enjoy killing as many monsters as I can though.
  
  LotRO brings both of these together in a much more well thought out way. In current MMO's involving 
 quest-based progression, more than 80% of the quests are far too simple, merely listing how many 
 of X mob should be defeated before returning for your reward. This helps pass the time but in the 
 end it is still far too similar to combat-based progression, or grinding. With LotRO, there are 
 these kill X monster quests but to a much much smaller degree and those that are in the game are 
 somehow more engaging. You seem almost more sympathetic to the NPC asking you to kill spiders for 
 him. The quests that are not kill X monster also work to progress your avatar by the same amount 
 as if you had been out killing monster X. For example, a romp around the Shire helping the Quick 
 Post to get caught up on mail deliveries will result in just as much xp and cash reward as going 
 out to the marsh to hunt slugs and toads. Maybe even more so.
  
  Finally we have graphics. Earlier in MMO's many developers tried to make their worlds life-like 
 using lots of bump-mapping and such. Star Wars Galaxies and Everquest 2 for instance. Then the 
 engines for these games were built to scale meaning max settings wouldn't be possible for years. 
 I don't know about you but that really irked me. Then comes World of Warcraft. That game is very 
 beautiful and has always been very easy to play on most mid to high end systems. Some called it 
 cartoonish though and you could tell it was mostly a bunch of polygons with art rendered onto them.
 
  
  LotRO, and pardon me for not having a degree in graphics engine design, seems to take a little 
 of both worlds. The wonderous graphics are both life-like, requiring slightly more powerful computers 
 to play, but also fun and simple like WoW meaning you won't have to wait years to be able to play 
 on max settings. In fact, anyone with a fairly mid level CPU and graphics card will really appreciate 
 how beautiful the game is with the very high settings.
  
  All in all, Lord of the Rings Online shows what can be done when one of the industry's originators 
 and innovators comes back in a later generation to show what it has learned not only from its own 
 previous experiences but from those experiences of the entire industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronzeman77
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 3, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Other reviewers here have mentioned the problems with UI, questing system, lack of class choices 
 etc so I won't go into those. These are problems that can be fixed and improved with patches over 
 time. The biggest drawback for me with this game is that it gets boring and repetitive very quickly. 
 You will find yourself doing the same things over and over, killing the same kind of mobs at each 
 and every level. At lvl 1 you are killing wolves, pigs and spiders. At lvl 20 you are killing wolves, 
 pigs and spiders. There are very few variations and eventually I felt what is the point in levelling. 
 The main quest line itself is kinda interesting but this will only occupy a very small portion 
 of your time online.
  
  Another problem for me is that the game doesn't feel epic enough. The characters you play never 
 really evolve into mighty heroes with fantastic combat moves. And the game areas themselves become 
 really boring and samey, even if they are beautiful to see for the first time. Some may say that 
 LOTRO is going for something more realistic - fair enough, but for me gaming should be more about 
 fantasy - something other than real life that lets you slip into the persona of your favourite 
 superheroes. If I want real life I don't need games.
  
  All in all, not a bad game - just not very good either. Hopefully it will improve as time goes 
 on but for now it is rather bland, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_Analyst
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 2, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings is well renowned for it's wonderful story, intriguing characters, and an ability 
 to make the reader or viewer feel truly one with the world they are engaged with. With recent gamers 
 flocking to various Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMORPG) , namely World of Warcraft 
 and Maple Story, is it a surprise that Lord of the Rings has a new MMORPG of it's own? In an answer, 
 no. Take one very popular title, and one very popular game genre, and you've got a product that 
 should attract thousands to millions of buyers within the year. However, the success of an MMORPG 
 is moreso based on how well people can interact with the game at hand. There are many many components 
 that go into these type of games, and it takes the proper mix of elements to truly accomplish a 
 noteworthy game. While LOTR: Online offers various nuances to the genre, it fails to truly immerse 
 you in the game world.
  
  Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing games are pretty run of the mill these days. You simply 
 create a character, pick the looks that define you, load him into a world, and level. Each level 
 unlocks more abilities and spells, which you of course use to become the most powerful person (or 
 at least feel that way) in the game world. Lord of the Rings offers a variety of starting characters 
 to choose from, specifically a dwarf, human, elf, or the loveable hobbit. It is dissapointing that 
 users cannot choose Orcs, goblins, evil humans, etc. but this game is simply tailored to putting 
 everyone on one side fighting for a common cause - to stop evil. While the 4 character choices 
 are true to the lore (in that these were only in the stories/movies) , it is still lacking for strictly 
 game purposes. While many people would be upset that the LOTR 'lore' was not followed - quite a 
 few will simply not care, and wish for more classes. Choosing a character is typically one of the 
 most important features of any MMORPG. It allows the player to truly display his/her personal tastes 
 and preferences. Lord of the Rings early on fails to create a certain warmth from this process. 
 The choices of your character are rather generic and lack personality. Characters seem very serious, 
 are not graphically appealing, and the overall options to give your character are lacking. Aside 
 from choosing the looks of your character you will also pick a class. The game offers your usual 
 ranged class (hunters) , healers (minstrel) , tanks (guardian) , rogue (burglar) , primary dps (champion) , 
 pseudo mage (lore-master albeit not a mage but the closest you'll get) , and a sort of commander 
 (captain) . While the game does not offer as many options in terms of flexibilty (in that there 
 is no specific BUILD) , it does take these classes to a different level that is usually not offered 
 in other games. Minstrels are healers, but they play an instrument to do their healing. Guardians 
 are the premiere tanks and specialize in drawing a monsters attention. Lore-master is somewhat 
 like a mage but offers more in terms of crowd control and debuffs to enemys. While it is impossible 
 to negate some cookie cutter class ideas, LOTR: Online gives classes a fresh approach in how players 
 utilize the respective skills in parties and solo play.
  
  In terms of actual gameplay, LOTR: Online shines in some areas, and is dull in others. LOTR: Online 
 is largely based on quests instead of grinding endless enemies for experience. Each quest rewards 
 the player with significantly more experience than grinding. Typical quests are worth 300-400xp 
 early on, whereas monsters would be worth 20-30. It is obvious that Turbine wishes you to experience 
 the storyline instead of grinding your way through the game. However, similar to the character 
 choices available, this limits your choice in the game. You are simply forced to quest, even though 
 you may find them repetitive, dull, or simply prefer to grind to good music. It simply forces you 
 down a more linear path than various MMORPGs on the market. Giving players the option is a much 
 more preferred method in games these days. In any event, LOTR: Online compares mostly to Guild 
 Wars in terms of how you will level. Some of these quests are fun and engaging, while others are 
 just flat out boring. At times you will be required to collect materials that only a certain person 
 can make (due to professions) . Therefore, you have to obtain it via trade. This makes the process 
 annoying since you must rely on someone else and player set prices for these goods. Other quests 
 simply require you to collect items or kill monsters. Nothing quite revolutionary in terms of how 
 quest leveling is done. Although not an MMORPG, Guild Wars did a wonderful job with implementing 
 a unique questing/mission system.
  
  The combat in LOTR: Online seems to be stale. While every MMORPG usually has you spam the same 
 attacks over and over, LOTR seems to approach it in a more tedious fashion. Character animation 
 seems rather slow when attacking, and you will often spam every form of attack button or spell 
 in your arsenal to kill a monster. Your mana and health regenerate quite quickly out of combat 
 and rarely diminish in one on one fights. This reduces the overall strategy in these forms of battle. 
 Simply put, the damage output seems rather low. It seems like you'll take forever to kill a monster. 
 This was obviously done to discourage grinding, but it again limits your enjoyment in combat. You 
 will not 2-shot anything your level and at times you feel like your progress in killing a monster 
 is nill. Often times combat will lag, in that you click a skill and it takes a while to act. Generally 
 your auto-attack is going a mile a minute and you feel like you have to spam your spells to get 
 a quick interuption in. In any event, the game seems to lack exciting spells that deal noticable 
 damage in a fun and enticing way. You feel like you're more or less the product of a system that 
 limits your interaction with combat. Your character generally stands still, goes nuts with auto-attack, 
 while you try to spam in some spells that 'look good.' It's a rather dull event.
  
  One very interesting feature in LOTR: Online is the use of deeds and titles. For example, should 
 you kill a certain number of wolves, you will be a wolfslayer in which case your damage to wolves 
 may be boosted (or other similar effects) . This adds an interesting and different element to a 
 MMORPG. Users can focus on these deeds at any given time to boost their stats. Additionally, the 
 player may earn titles which they can add to their name. If you were to survive to level 10 without 
 dying, you can add The undefeated to the end of your name. It's a different concept that adds more 
 personality to your character. The downside to this is that deeds will most likely be a grindfest 
 late game where you move from area to area and kill a number of enemies in an effort to obtain/upgrade 
 your deed. In any event, this is a noteworthy and well implemented feature of the game.
  
  Like many MMORPGs, your character can also choose professions. These professions contain certains 
 skills such as tailoring, blacksmithing, forestry, or farming. While your character can have 3 
 skills at any given time, you are simply given one option to choose. When you decide to choose 
 a profession, you are given a bundle of 3. So you cannot be a tailor and a weaponsmith for example. 
 This again limits you to what you can do within the game. Some of these professions seem rather 
 useful, while others such as scholar seem to have no real use. Collecting the items based on your 
 profession is pretty straightforward as you attempt to level up.
  
  PVP is offered in Lord of the Rings: Online although it is not in the form of the 2004 Game of 
 the Year WOW, or the upcoming Warhammer Online. Players can not fight each other freely in Lord 
 of the Rings, but they can duel and experience monster play. Monster play is a mode in the game 
 where a user can create a level 50 (max level) monster (usually an animal of some kind) and take 
 it to an isolated battleground and fight actual players. This is exciting for people that wish 
 to PVP. You can earn destiny points by doing this form of PVP which you can spend on your main 
 character or to upgrade your monster. However, the fact that this form of PVP is isolated from 
 the main world destroys any hopes of raiding a town or seeing certain areas from the view of a 
 monster. Although clearly not the focus of the game, Turbine implements a form of PVP which should 
 keep users engaged for a while.
  
  From a pure user interaction standpoint, LOTR: Online is not what a typical user would like to 
 call friendly. Upon loading the game, you are required to enter your user name and password, which 
 brings you to a server list - this is simply a splash page on your desktop. You choose a server 
 and it verifies to make sure you're good to go. The game loads up and you go through multiple advertisement, 
 brand name, and logo screens before you get to the main screen. From there you can choose your 
 character, but it is simply a process to get there. Once in the game, maps, overhead names, chat 
 boxes, and other garbage is ALL over your screen. You can barely enjoy your character or any form 
 of graphics because text and a lackluster UI is all over the screen. You can adjust these settings 
 in the options portion of the menu, but it is simply unnecessary. The in game map is rather horrid 
 as well. It is confusing to see how some areas link together, and since the quests often warp you, 
 you will sometimes get lost at what direction you've gone. In addition, your mini map shows you 
 were people are to turn in quests. This is displayed by little gold rings above peoples' names 
 as well as a ring on your minimap. However, at times you won't know whether or not a ring is to 
 turn in a quest or to pick one up. The problem with this is that there are MANY quests that say, 
 Talk to 'x' . So then you are running around trying to find out where 'x' is. It can all be very 
 confusing with a poor map system. Furthermore, Lord of the Rings: Online uses quite a few loading 
 screens. Entering a building prompts a loading screen, leaving an instance prompts one, teleporting 
 via horse gives you one. While this may have had to be done for graphical purposes, it takes away 
 TONS of depth and feel to the game. For this reviewer, it was not a problem with load times and/or 
 choppiness/lag, but rather just feeling taken out of what I was really into. Loading screens are 
 a thing of the past in these kind of games - as Metroid Prime set the bar for the GameCube/X-Box/pre 
 next gen consoles/systems. They only diminish the overall experience one has in game.
  
  Graphically LOTR: Online is a love or hate atmosphere. While the graphics are beautiful on max 
 details, they are nothing special outside of it. Unless you are sporting 1.5-2 gigs of RAM and 
 a 7000+ series GeForce (256+ mb) you will not be playing on ultra. The lag entering towns without 
 a killer rig is atrocious. Therefore, many users will play on medium to very high settings. The 
 graphics are far from out-dated even at these settings, but do not create a warm feel that was 
 seen in even the most simple of games such as Albatross18 or Maple Story. The towns appear somewhat 
 plastic, character models do not look that great, and key figures such as Gimli, Gandalf and Elrond 
 do not look anything like their movie counterparts (although they were clearly intended to) . The 
 environments are decent, but every area feels generic. Little details that would be expected are 
 not in game such as footprints in snow. The game does use a real time clock system so day and night 
 are featured which is a nice touch. On a more personal and side note, horses in the game look absolutely 
 awful and resemble a disfigured animal with an eating disorder that seems to frolic rather than 
 gallop. It's a simply horrifying area of the game to witness.
  
  Sound in LOTR: Online again appears to shine in some areas and fall down in others. The background 
 music is nothing memorable, and while many say it follows the lore or Lord of the Rings genre, 
 I fail to notice it. The sound seems quiet, uninspired, and sounds more like you're playing Heroes 
 of Might and Magic II or something. One very neat ability of the game is for users to play music 
 on instruments using their keypad. This is without question one of the most interactive and superb 
 implementations I have seen in game. However, it appears that you can macro what you are playing 
 so often you do not have to really hit anything on the keyboard. This takes away some of the distinguished 
 feeling of being able to play really good - becauseif you were able to, everyone would most likely 
 just argue that you have your music macro'd. It's a waste of a very neat idea that is exclusive 
 to this game. Other than music, combat sounds are laughable. Women sound like they are in heat, 
 and men need to take karate lessons. Goblins and enemies sound decent, but wolves constantly sound 
 like they are 'farting' when attacking - which is more embarassing than it is funny. Various townspeople 
 are all Irish for some reason and sound like drunkards so go figure.
  
  The community in Lord of the Rings is no different from any other community. You have your elitists, 
 the people begging for help, and the other ones bashing the game or comparing it to World of Warcraft 
 24/7. While the game did start out very mature in beta, it is simply gone. The community is not 
 bad, but don't expect a more mature or self disciplined one in this game. Some people help you 
 or care about your character, others flat out don't and will be happy to pawn the monster attacking 
 them off on you - killing you in the process. But no harm done, they survived right? Their are 
 various auction houses and trade channels but the trade system appears to be rather confusing, 
 and most goods are flat out overpriced at this point in the game - due to players in beta keeping 
 their characters after obtaining mass amounts of money. The community here is average and it shows 
 - but this should not drive players away from the game.
  
  Lord of the Rings: Online has very nice features, but nearly all of them are negated by a letdown 
 in that same component. Graphically the game is beautiful, but require a behemoth computer to experience 
 the TRUE breathtaking graphics - even then some areas look awful. The game introduces unique classes, 
 but combat is dull. The use of instruments is great, but the fact that many can probably download 
 these after time is a letdown. Everything in Lord of the Rings needs polishing. There is not one 
 area of the game you can technically say is 100% right on. That being said, Lord of the Rings Online 
 MAY fail to attract and more importantly retain a large amount of the MMORPG population. Lord of 
 the Rings: Online is a mediocre addition to the genre that adds in revolutionary ideas and concepts, 
 with lackluster implementation.
  
  *This reviewer has not experienced end game and some features of Lord of the Rings: Online - thus 
 not all areas of the game were addressed which may or may not affect your game experience* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RScamaro327
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 2, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game does need some extra work. The quest are long and dragged out and get very boring after 
 some time. The sound is not the greatest but with the exspansion coming out in May its suppose 
 to improve it. It takes hour upon hours to gain lvls. With the quest giving little xp and the monsters 
 giving less it takes alot of time. One thing this game has going for it is its amazing graphics 
 and there smooth and do not look like cartoons like other MMO's. Overall not a bad game at all. 
 Hopefully with this new exspansion this game will be wut most people wanted it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrybflying
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 2, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The game world that they have created is incredible to see. However the game play gets old very 
 fast. Your quest is either to kill something or retrieve something. How many times can you do that 
 before you get bored. Just not my style of game. Also, when given a quest, I've found that the 
 directions to where you need to go are wrong or inaccurate. There were a few times that I never 
 found the item, or person I was looking for because they weren't located in the area I was sent 
 to. And I had also found some items in where they weren't suppose to be. I was told some mine I 
 needed to go to was in the southeast when it actually was in the northwest. Kind of frustrating 
 when dealing with maps of this size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  For those of us with experience in MMO's, we can easily tell when a game is up to snuff.
  
  Ultimately, LOTRO lacks in several areas that would make it an otherwise fairly decent MMO.
  
 
  Firstly: Its middle earth, why is it so ugly and boring? This is a land that is supposed to be 
 interesting and vibrant and fun, but instead walking from point to point is a pain. On top of that, 
 the map system is from Satan himself, and its possible to spend upwards of twenty minutes looking 
 for a quest giver. For a game comprised mainly on fans of its geography, it feels like a diservice 
 to make it so gosh darn unattractive and ugly. Even with high resolution, max graphical settings, 
 the game offends.
  
  Secondly: Crafting. Or more accurately, the lack there of. Right now the entire crafting system 
 seems arbitrary and useless, and this really needs to be built upon.
  
  Thirdly: The look. Character models look nice enough with decent equipment, but for the majority 
 of the game, you will look ugly as sin. On top of that, different resolutions distort the models 
 even further. This game has merely average visuals, and rather poor draw distances. Cities look 
 ugly, and fail to capture the look that they should. Ontop of that, an inability to find any thing 
 with the clunky, ugly, unhelpful UI add to this. WoW had a basic UI at best, and it worked perfectly. 
 The UI in LOTRO feels dated, archaic, and it works against the player. Fourth: Gameplay. This is, 
 for all intents and purposes, a grind-fest if you are unable to accomplish obnoxious quests. Most 
 quest givers are longwinded chains, and some missions require night/day time to complete. Animations 
 are ugly, character abilities are recycled, uninteresting, and bland. Characters have too few abilities. 
 No clear class definitions. It feels like the champion should be the main melee DPS but that doesn't 
 always work.
  
  So, in conclusion: The game is too fractured, broken, and butchered to be playable at this point. 
 If it weren't for the title Lord of the Rings it would be an entirely forgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriddle89
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  To get straight to the point, this game has great graphics, although I cant really compare so well 
 against WoW because they seem like different styles, which I really liked...
  
  The gameplay is like any other MMO so if you are an experienced player, you will know what you 
 are doing within the first 5 seconds of the game, but even if you arent experienced in MMO's, the 
 gameplay is rather simple to pick up, even in its complexity so have no worries.
  
  Classes and races seem great, although I am playing as a Captain (Man) , i have yet to try the other 
 races but from this perspective the game is no less greater than I had hoped.
  
  Audio could be a little better, I dont know but somehow it seems to lack in the immersiveness of 
 the game (I dont know if thats a word or not but you know what I mean) unlike the graphics. Did 
 I mention the graphics were frickin awesome?
  
  Great game overall, try it out, I was reluctant to get it but I thought about it and realized, 
 Hey, I love Lord of the Rings and this could be, if not already, the biggest thing to come to the 
 gaming perspective of LOTR. Get it now and I'll see you in Middle Earth!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truthfuldemise
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  As I said, it's WoW for people who hate WoW. Not too much else to say, it's definately aimed more 
 at casual gamers and people who want something that isn't so damned cartooney. I love it. It does 
 share a lot in common with WoW and while it is not revolutionary, it does add a lot to the MMORPG 
 and takes away some of the things I don't like such as being penalized for having a real life that 
 takes presedence over the game. I also just love the LOTR mythos and world so being able to play 
 a character in said world is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjslugddd
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 1, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The game has alot of things WoW has. Alot of companies think that because WoW had such a successful 
 game, that is the only way to make games...
  I played the beta. The max level was 15 at the time ( which has been raise greatly) . But the game 
 had ALOT of walking back and forth. The game is quest based which seems pretty fun, but the quest 
 are extremely boring. Go to X and kill/collect X. Go to Y and bring X number of people to kill 
 Z. The epic quest are the only ones that are interesting, because there is a story behind it.
 
  
  Only the races to choose from, and about 6 or so classes to choose from. Once you get to level 
 10 on your main character you can start playing a max level monster creature, which was pretty 
 fun.
  
  It was fun to recognize some of the areas and buildings from the movie.
  
  I'd play it if i was a big LOTR fan, but if your not. It's just another mmorpg just like all the 
 others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_is_pathetic
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because there is no little kids that you will find on it. The Graphics are very 
 good for a MMO and the water is jesuslike. The Only complaint I have about the Gameplay is the 
 fact that when someone close to you talks there is no chat bubble it just goes to the the chat 
 window. The music and sound in this game in this game is very good. The Value of the Game is very 
 good and the patches should make it better. If you used to play WoW and want to try something new 
 a refreshing like me then LOTRO is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outfctrl
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 1, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Played all through Beta with no lag or performance drops, preorderd the game, then after it went 
 live, lag became unbearable. My system is way above the recommended specs too. The tech forums 
 are riddled with lag and performance issues. I took the game back before I registered it. They 
 need more servers or something.
  
  The game is absolutely stunning and fun to play, if you can move. I most likely will go back once 
 they fix these issues, but I am not going to pay for a game I cant play.
  
  During my beta playing, I had a blast. It was very smooth and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loopy564
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've never found a MMORPG I enjoyed - WoW, EQ, EQ2, SWG - played all those and betad some. Never 
 made it more than a month due to boredom. Somehow, LoTRO keeps the gameplay, quests, combat, etc 
 fresh. Graphics are great, sounds are great, community is good, UI is good - basically, everything 
 in my opinion is good to great.
  
  The best part for me might be playing in the LoTR-verse. Taking part in the story, seeing the sights, 
 feeling immersed in the story is genuine fun. So far I've smoked some pipe-weed with Bilbo and 
 Gandalf, been healed by Elrond, fought barrow-wights with Tom Bombadil, been put to sleep by Old 
 Man Willow, fought orcs next to Aragorn and other rangers... For a big fan of the books and movies, 
 you need to check this out at least.
  
  I have some small issues with crafting, but those have all been written about already so I'll leave 
 it alone. Hopefully they will be fixed with the first big content update within the next month 
 or so (it's been annouced, it's free) .
  
  My biggest complaint is that this is NOT a game for soloers, which I typically am. There are numerous 
 'fellowship' quests, designed for groups to compete and normally too hard for a single character, 
 even one 8-10 levels higher than the quest. This is normally due to the number of mobs involved. 
 For instance, escorting an NPC from location A to location B, while fighting mobs in 2 or more 
 fronts. Right now, of my 30-ish quests total, over half of them are fellowship. And if you prefer 
 to solo, you may get a bit frustrated. Luckily the players in general are older/more mature than 
 I've experienced in other MMORPGs, so I so far haven't run across the typical l33t (or just plain 
 dumb) players that tend to ruin grouping for me in other games.
  
  All in all, quite fun and addictive from someone who doesn't like MMORPGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoladavide
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 1, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  WOW clone.
  Queste are very boring and nothing special...
  All the best places in the middle earth are not present ,like Mordor...
  The sounds are awful 
 the music as well...
  
  I hope in a deep end game better than WOW.... full of lore ,epic quests and something like this... if 
 not this is a crap game.
  
  A good point is the grapihc.... very smooth with old systems like Pentium4 2400 and radeon x800series, not 
 lot of details in the landscape but a good graphic overall.
  This can be a good game (only good not great, limited mechanic and game play) but it needs lot of 
 updates and changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totedoggy69
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing this game for 3 days and all I can say is whew . Whenever I see a game with 
 a title of a movie series or based on something that it is supposed to be immitating, I normally 
 avoid at all costs. This time, since I've been waiting forever for a replacement for World of Warcraft, 
 I have to say that I'm extremely satisfied.
  
  Graphics: Polished provided your PC has the snot to reflect light and sky overlays on crystal clear 
 water. Detailed to the point that you can see the threading on your cloaks and armor, dull edges 
 on blades or embers glowing in your pipe as you smoke it with your boys. Some of the animations 
 could use some minor tweaks, but overall they're what you would ecpect in an MMO of this size and 
 quality, and what they lack in certain departments, they more than make up in others. Dynamic shadows 
 are a welcome too. Trees dont get pixelated at extreme close range when you're fighting in a forest, 
 they blend and soften so they arent so harsh on the eyes.
  
  Gameplay: What you would expect after being a seasoned player. Combat is fine, the sounds are there, 
 sometimes a little on the annoying side if you are a WOW player. The first thing you may notice 
 is that the distinctive sounds that are trademarks of WOW have kind of been left out, making the 
 crash and bang explosive cartoon-esque WOW players a little bored with combat at first. After a 
 while, you will realize that you ARE playing a different game however, and begin to appreciate 
 each individual thing about LOTRO's combat. Movement may take some adjusting to as well, the game 
 doesn't seem quite as responsive as WOW, but then again, that's all I've been used to for the last 
 two years.
  
  Sound: Lacking. Not enough ambient music to get me pumped and into the environments. Hopefully 
 they will add some more potent musical scores later. The soundfx are on time, footsteps in time, 
 water splashes and mining pick sounds all there, sort of deflated sounding though. The rest I will 
 skim over: Character creation is a breeze, limited selections, but hey, it sticks true with Tolkien's 
 legacy. Quests are simply fun, delivering mail throughout the Shire is a trip, and single player 
 instances have got me salivating for more. Groups are easy to form, chat is simple and adaptable. 
 Crafting looks daunting, but I'll get it down soon. Recource gathering is fairly simple as well, 
 more angles to cover than the other crafting systems I've played as well. Main thing is, it's new, 
 it's bug free as far as I've seen, and though you may be used to a fast paced highly aggressive 
 climate like WOW, LOTRO is to me, just the right change of pace. It's a little more traditional, 
 not a grind or a chore to play. All aspects of the environment are beautiful as well, there's not 
 a single thing so far that I have been disapointed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumeiwan
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 1, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Although this game have some very fresh new features which are very enjoyable, at the same time 
 they have quite some things that aren't. In fact, these un-enjoyable stuffs can really piss people 
 off. For the enjoyable stuffs like deeds, titles, music-playing and traits. These are mainly the new 
 features that weren't in WOW and some other MMOs.
  
  The un-enjoyable mostly i should say is about the quests. Disagree with me if you want but i'll 
 bet you that some quests will really make you scream infront at your monitor. The more minor issue 
 is the combat, it's so smooth that even if you can react, you might not even be able to pull it off 
 at critical situations.
  
  For those who have the reviews scores higher than 9.5, i really doubt that you people really know 
 how to play a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Same thing's just some adjustments as WOW. if you like WOW and you like LOTR this is perfect for 
 you, period.
  
  The pvp system is a little different. You make your own PVP player or you can use your Hero as 
 the PVP combatant. It's got capture the flag and a kill count which awards destiny points which 
 can be spent to better your Hero or Monster.
  
  The quests are the same, there are instances and raids. Just a warning, there are tones of elfs 
 :|
  
  the gameplay is straightforward for a MMORPG, the graphics are not cartoony wow type, their more 
 like guildwars if you ask me. Sound focuses around the LOTR theme, flutes, lutes and all kinds 
 of instruments. you can play your own instruments too in this useless music mode :| The game is 
 good value, monthly fees apply of course. Hopefully they'll be adding more to the game in the future, 
 quests and the like.
  
  Tilt? 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gusted
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  When first logging into Lotro you will be greeted with the beginnings of an epic storyline. The 
 title of 'epic' refers to two things. The first being that in essence the Lord of the Rings stories 
 are quite an epic tale and when you start you are plunged into the events that will lead up to 
 the aforementioned. Secondly, you begin what is called an 'Epic Quest', which covers everything 
 from gathering missions to escorts.
  
  The first thing you will most likely notice upon logging in is that the game is rich in environmental 
 details. The starting towns are alive with action as NPC's walk around, sing &amp; dance, or master 
 their craft. When approaching them they'll make comments that vary upon your race, all adding to 
 the immersing effect. From 'low' to 'ultra high' settings, the game flourishes in subtle nuances 
 that make you feel like you're in Middle Earth. There's wildlife that reacts to you or other characters, 
 many farms/encampments set up with interactive characters, and the usual aggressive monster to 
 keep things interesting.
  
  The user-interface is very user-friendly. If you are coming from the reigning MMO king 'World of 
 Warcraft' you will notice that Lotro developers obviously took notes on their competition while 
 taking the liberty to improve on a few aspects that players disliked. Windows are easily renamed/resized. 
 The options for extra skill bars are toggled through the use of 'shift' and 'alt'. All of these 
 things bear weight on how comfortable one will feel when first venturing into Middle Earth, which 
 is complimented by the great starter quests.
  
  Sound is top notch and is easily one of the best features in Lotro. Combat effects range depending 
 on the armor your target has. Musical scores are beautifully conducted to flow seamlessly with 
 the multitude of different environments you'll encounter. One of the more unique features, the 
 ability to play music with one of four instruments is an unneeded, but very nice touch. This can 
 lead to some impromptu jam sessions by yourself and fellow music lovers alike.
  
  Finally, the game play is fantastic. The combat flows through a simple real-time setup in which 
 you can even queue your next ability, making it more strategic then your standard button masher. 
 In fellowships you and your partners gain the option to make battle-changing decisions through 
 the use of the 'Fellowship Skills' feature. This involves you and your party members clicking one 
 of four icons that will do everything from adding attack power to your character to summoning an 
 avatar that will strike your foes with a lethal shot. This feature offers what would be a standard 
 formula (Tank/Heal/Dps) a fresh idea that surely offers some customization. Something that may 
 deter many would-be adventurers from giving this game a chance is its resemblance to World of Warcraft. 
 This is purely cosmetic and once you start going you'll find that the similarities are fleeting 
 at best. The only other drawback comes in the form of what is (at the moment) an unbalanced economy. 
 While this is common in newfound MMO's, the repair costs don't compliment quest rewards that don't 
 compliment training costs. This can be fixed though and surely will as time progresses in the games 
 life.
  
  All in all, Lord of the Rings Online is a surprisingly fulfilling game that offers all the satisfactions 
 an MMO should. Everything from rich, active environments to amazing sound production create an 
 immersing and detailed recreation of Middle Earth, from places you know to the ones in between. 
 If you can overcome its small similarities and its current economic confusion, you will find that 
 Lotro has amazing potential to be one epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO, a game that I've been waiting for a long time, and it's been worth the wait! First off I've 
 played this game for about 2 months now, in closed beta, open beta and after launch and so far 
 it's been great. The graphics are just plain amazing when running around the zones and unlike guild 
 wars the players don't hitch and jump everywhere. The zones are huge and immersive and VERY accurate 
 to the books. They also are packed with content, you won't find any ''empty'' zones with one quest 
 giver camp (like so many in wow &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haojerry
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I am not the real fan of Lord of Ring but a real gamer. I am suprised to see that this game is 
 so good but I don't real know it until it is near release. The game almost copys all good features 
 from other mmo games into one game. I have more than 10 years MMO game experience and I have to 
 say the game is real over expected. most time I will igonore a game linked to any movie but this 
 time seems turbine real did a good job. If you are playing one of these game - wow, FFXI, Guld 
 War ,DOTA and EQ, You should buy a copy of this game. The only issue is you may have to upgrade 
 you PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctifer1
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  I'm not a MMO-Expert, but I'm not an MMO newb either. I've played SWG, The Matrix Online and CoH 
 extensively.
  
  So far, LOTRO beats them all, hands down and I'm not even a Tolkien fan. Never have read a book, 
 but I'm thinking about buying a few of them just to pick up on the lore and get more familiar in-game.
 
  
  Anywho, I got in about 2-3 days before the Beta ended and I'm glad I did. I pre-ordered and I'm 
 now up to lvl 15, almost exclusively through solo-ing. It's beginning to get tougher though now.
 
  
  The quests are varied and the world is pretty vast! I got to meet Gandalf fairly early on after 
 finishing the first Book - the main quest line.
  
  I often find myself walking around, getting lost in all the different quests. And it's easy to 
 find a group when you come across the quests that are too hard to complete on your own (yes, there 
 are quite a few) . But once you finish the mission, wish your Fellowship well and be on your way.
 
  
  The community is top-notch as well. If you're having trouble finding a quest or have a question 
 on how to accomplish something, just send a message out and you'll get no less than 3 answers in 
 30 seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A99Barnsey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Turbine's first game, Asheron's Call, was my first MMO. I played it for about four years, and it 
 was an amazing game. Since then Turbine has put out AC 2 and D&amp; D online which both flopped. 
 However it seems that Turbine has learned from their mistakes, because LOTRO hits the mark. One 
 thing that Turbine did well back in AC 1 was make the game fluid. Every month there was an update 
 that built on the lore and added new things. And there were live events where developers would 
 control the major characters and wreak havoc. Sometimes the ground would be littered with the corpses 
 of players they killed. An entire city was destroyed in one update. And when killed they would 
 drop truly epic loot which was unique (1 per server) . I think that LOTRO will follow in AC 1's 
 footsteps, and gamers are in for a treat. I am really excited about the first update to the game. 
 Here's the description of it from Turbine's website: As the Fellowship prepares to leave Rivendell, 
 Aragorn must re-forge Narsil, the Sword of Elendil. Gandalf has asked for help in Aragorn's search 
 of the ancient lands of Evendim for an ancient jewel that once belonged in the sword's hilt. This 
 powerful relic must be recovered before the Dark Lord Sauron finds it. 
  
  As you can see, this is not going to be a static MMO like WOW where Thrall and the other leaders 
 sit on their butts 24/7 and nothing ever happens. Allen Rausch over at gamefly put it very well 
 when he said:
  
  it's the opportunity to participate in the War of the Ring more than the chance to get phat loot 
 that drives the player forward in The Lord of the Rings Online.
  
  That, naturally, is going to cheese off those power-gamers who pride themselves on never reading 
 quest-text, always sporting the epic loot and being the first on the server to hit the level cap. 
 The Lord of the Rings is less about loot and more about experience. Yes, there are epic prizes 
 to be won from mighty monsters, but the game as designed seems to be more about what you've done 
 than what you're wearing. 
  
  LOTRO plays very similar to WOW, but it is more immersive, has a better community, better story, 
 and less focused on raids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I was privilaged to have been part of the Beta members, and I certainly was proud to have work 
 with these guys. They were indeed very responsive in getting the game right. But like in all games 
 that launch there still cliches but certainly this launch without the massive cliches like Vanguard!
 
  
  The atmoshere in the game can make you feel right at home with J. R :)
  Visit the towns that are currently in game and folks would think that you were in that world. graphically 
 impressive and dosen't take a Honken machine to run it not like some other do. Midway and turbine 
 has done a very good job with this franchise and one that all ages can really enjoy. You can go 
 solo or group up, travel together and explore this world or go it alone. If you look at my other 
 reviews for mmorpgs you find this rates very high with me. Please I grade them as I see them and 
 I keep my bias from it. If I were a fanboy of any games it would be X-COM UFO!! I like Kevin review 
 of LOTR I think he right on on most accounts, this game should have 2 factions as in the books 
 so pvp would abound greatly .
  Last but least ENJOY FOLKS ! I do :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  When I play an MMORPG there are a few things I go into the game expecting, a few things I hope 
 for, and a few things I wish for. The main reason I decided to pick up LOTRO (Lord of the rings: 
 Online) is because I have bored and been slightly disappointed in WoW: BC current endgame. And I 
 am happy I made the change.
  
  First off, take note that while most of the poor reviews out the have been based off 1 of a few 
 things:
  
  a. the game is a copy of WoW
  b. the game feels unfinished
  c. they are experiencing minor lag/glitches.
  
  Please, please please don't bother typing and 
 writing poor reviews based on these 3 points, it is the launch of a huge game, with tons of content, 
 and it has been done better then any MMO I have ever played at launch (a good amount) . To respond 
 to people calling it a copy of WoW, you cannot say that this game copy's world of warcraft, merely 
 because of the same (relatively) classes, areas, and instance like zones. Games long before WoW 
 were using the same system, in essence if this game copied WoW then warcraft copied ever quest 
 and eq copied bla.. bla.. bla
  
  So, I'm sure if you've read this far you know enough about the game itself (though not from my 
 review) and your just trying to see what other people think. Let me sum it up:
  
  Game play: Fun, unique - a few of the classes feel fresh and exciting, something rarely seen in 
 MMO's
  Sound: Outstanding
  Story: Something most MMO's contain, but do poorly, is absolutely exceptional here.
  
  It's 
 to soon to tell whether the end-game will hold up to others like warcrafts, yet the possiblities 
 are endless, imagine hopping into a raid and doing some huge battle with endless foes climbind 
 towers like you see in the movie? Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mycroftholmes86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I finally got the game and just played it. and you guess what? it really impress me. I am transfixed 
 and mesmerized by the depth and realism that you get from watching the movie. I think it's better 
 than world of warcraft. Even you are not the fans of LOTR, you should try if you like game like 
 WoW, because LOTR online offers so much more.
  
  The quest system is the usual stuff. You get directions from NPCs and they can get confusing early 
 on in the game (Go north of town and southwest from the river until you see a yellow tree) but 
 it gets easier to follow.
  
  Again, the coolest thing about the game is being able to go to the locations that we saw in the 
 movies. Everything is done really well and looks incredible. This is a worthy alternative to World 
 of Warcraft or any other online RPG. It is friendly to casual gamers and rewarding to the hardcore 
 set. Recommended. I hope, they develop the sequel of this game. THANK YOU SO MUCH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I reviewed this game earlier, giving it a raving review and my highest recommendation. No longer 
 do I do that.
  
  While the graphics are good, I slowly realized that the gameplay lacked. It got boring, FAST. The 
 classes don't have any personality, and neither do the races. It's no fun when there's no personality 
 to the game, and personality is something that WoW does have in excess. The game looks great, and 
 I love the LotR theme. Character customization is a joke though. Traits don't give bonuses worth 
 grinding for. Groups are annoying to get together because people think that you have to have a 
 set of specific characters to be successful. Minstrels are few and far between, yet are the only 
 class that can heal (two others have very small, single target and wimpy heals) . This makes successful 
 grouping near impossible.
  
  Crafting is once again designed for those with no life other than playing their MMOs. Spending 
 hours farming resources is just stupid. What's the point? Some of the stuff you can make is actually 
 better than what you get from quests and what you can buy, yet still is not work spending hours 
 trying to get that rare material or to grind all those nodes. It's ridiculous.
  
  Monster play is a joke. There's almost no incentive to go play your monster character. Monsters 
 are almost always weaker than players at level 50. The perks you get for your main character are 
 temporary and laughable. I want a game with good PvP worth spending my time on.
  
  Anyway, I ended up extremely disappointed with this game. I hope some people enjoy it though. Many 
 certainly are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fghpv_14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Very Good game. I played the BETA a lot: very good characters and playability, very good graphic, 
 very good music, very good quests, very good crafting, very good feeling. I played WoW for a lot: 
 Is it WoW? No, the games are very different! Yes the interface is near the same (will be the same 
 in Warhammer too, now is the standard indeed) , with a lot of small nice better news... BUT this 
 one is a totally different PVE game... if you like PVP stay in WoW waiting for Warhammer !!!
  
  Is it good for hardcore gamers? I don't know, I never seen the endgame here and I hope will 
 be better than WoW... but actually you can play only in about 1/5 of the Middle Earth.
  
  After WoW we have a new, very good, funny and solid fantasy MMO (finally!) ... Now we wait for a 
 fast new expansion and for the right support from Turbine.
  
  Have you nice days in Middle Earth... enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spudacus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is a game that certainly holds its own. Yes, it contains much of the same controls that are 
 familiar to Wow players, with some significant enahancements (deed system, traits, fellowship attacks) ... 
 all of which are done extremely well. The clone criticism is really laughable. WoW, as those of 
 you have been playing MMO's for a awhile, IS a clone itself. It uses all the elements that were 
 successful for the games that came before it with some good additions. For those of you like myself 
 who have played Wow for 2 years solid and really needed a change, this is a terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moulsha
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I have been a WOW player since it game out. So when i saw that lotr online was being developed 
 I was very excited. From reading about lotr i saw that it was very similar to WOW, which made me 
 hope that it would be just like WOW only better. Lotr is a great game. The graphics are nice, the 
 story line is thought out nicely and the game stays true to the lotr lore. Now at lvl 10 you are 
 able to pvmp which is what I like. that is the only reason that im playing WOW right now is because 
 of pvp. I participated in the beta and once I hit lvl 10 I ran to the closest... portal thing, sorry 
 cant remember what its called, and jumped in. OMG! I was so disappointed in what I saw. The monster 
 set up is nice and all but were is the fun in automatically have a lvl 50 monster player. The quests 
 that you get are completely out of line, and the whole deal the with points and being able to spend 
 them on items for your monster is dumb... but o well that is why i didnt like it maybe it will appease 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smitthound
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is polished and quests are unique, engaging, and fun. The use of instances is a strong 
 point and works well for playing out the epic storyline. 9/10
  
  Graphics are top notch as far as any MMO to date, if your machine can afford to run it with everything 
 cranked up you will be amazed. The ability to scale the graphics down for older PC's works very 
 well too, and the game still retains alot of its beauty, overall graphics are solid across the 
 board 9/10
  
  There is some good music in the game and the music system is an excellent feature overall 9/10
 
  
  Value, There is tremendous value in this game and in the license. Turbine's track record with releasing 
 free content is incomparable and they have already announced their first big FREE content update 
 for june. Things are really looking up for this game. 10/10
  
  One last very important thing I must say about LotR: O is that it has an excellent community and 
 that it has been a breath of fresh air compared to other MMO communities. I am enjoying playing 
 very much and highly recommend LotR: O to anyone that is a fan of MMO's or the literature alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copythat
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Having played Asherons call for several years , I can see where some of this game came from.
  
  Having seen the Turbine devs address many player concerns from my AC days that Wer e not in 
 current tech ( Mounts, CAPES!) makes me remember that they really do listen. Next, We need Mounts 
 WITH capes :-)
  
  SO far the gameplay is engaging, I really like the dynamic that will allow more casual players 
 to not get completelysnowed under by the hardcore.
  
  All in All, I got the lifetime sub. because 1) I Can :-) and 2) I will be playing this game for 
 a long time to come I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabadrin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has blown my mind. I've played a lot of MMOs, but this one is summed up in one word: 
 fun. Every time I log in I have so much fun, and the instances are so well put together, that I 
 can't wait to play again. The community has been real good so far, and I'm really looking forward 
 to more from Turbine. They've already announced their first free content expansion, so I really 
 feel like I'll get my money's worth. In addition, they're going to expand to all the locations 
 of Middle-Earth: Mt Doom, the Lonely Mountain, Gondor, Rohan, and Mordor to name a few. I just 
 cannot talk enough about the game, and I'm geting all my friends to sign up as well. I even went 
 in for a lifetime membership because it impressed me so much. $200 well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasmasyean
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  There are basically two starting areas and they look and feel pretty much the same.
  
  Combat doesnt feel really smooth and well designed. One thing seems to work sometimes is an 
 action-queue system that allows you to press consecutive buttons and they will happen in sequence. 
 Thats pretty neat but it just doesnt feel smooth quite yet. You have some weird cool-down effects, 
 but maybe it just takes some getting used to.
  
  The crafting system is about manufacturing (or gathering for it) . But this is sub-par for todays 
 games. For example, there arent any real service professions or gadget proficiency profession 
 that gives you unique situational advantages.
  
  The interface lacks many convenience features and is fairly annoying to use considering how much 
 human-game interfaces have evolved for MMOs. Basic use is fine, but when you get into trading and 
 crafting and a lot of interaction with other players, it leaves a lot of things to be desired. 
 Customization is very limited and some windows take up too much (or the wrong) screen real-estate.
 
  
  The graphics are really nice from the realistic perspective, but all-in-all it looks more like 
 a copy of a photograph than anything truly creative. But that could be what Middle-Earth looks 
 likeEarth. I can imagine that this has its appeal to some, but I think the awe-factor will go 
 away pretty fast as you can step outside to see the same things. In a game, you would expect some 
 fantasy world with imagination, but againmaybe thats Middle-Earth so
  
  The immersion music sounds like old-England everywhere you go in order to conform to Tolkien 
 world. However, that gets boring, doesnt really sound epic and doesnt draw you into the setting. 
 You dont get the feeling of the danger/battle/mystique/heroism (like World of Warcraft music for 
 example which does a great job at this) .
  
  As of this writing, the community seems more mature. This can be good if you like interacting 
 with these types of people on certain levels. For example, many in the forums seem very intelligent, 
 well-read, and versed in various topics from fantasy, history, etc. Lord of the Rings fanatics 
 are rampant and you can get into some highly enlightening disputes over a wide range of topics 
 as well as learn a lot about the fantasy genre. Lore fanaticism is everywhere and I can imagine 
 that if youre a Tolkien fan and can accept the moderate-level of gaming, then you will feel 
 right at home here. As a matter of fact, I would definitely recommend any Tolkien fan to try this 
 game, whether or not they ever played a game before.
  
  Overall, unless you are a reasonable fan of Lord of the Rings fiction and like closer to realist 
 graphics, I think youll be better off with another MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier3106
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  So here it finally is. The final frontier of Lotr games. Now that this is made, no other LotR game 
 will need to be made anymore, ever. Because this is it all. The world Turbina managed to created 
 is incredibaly immersive, from the very start. Although, indeed, the UI is a bit WoW like. The 
 game itself is completely unique. Simply because it isn't just like any other MMO. This game concentrates 
 heavily on a main story line. The intro of the game drops you in this storyline. Whichever race 
 you'll chose, you'll be dropped into a battle where a city/town of your race is under attack. I'll 
 use the race of man, for example. You start being captured in a bandit camp near the Town of Archet. 
 The bandits are raiding the town, and you're captured as it happened. In your imprisonement a Ranger 
 (One of those fellows like Aragorn) visits you. He attracts the attention of the guards, hides 
 till one opens your cell door, and then ambushes him. Setting you conveniently free. After that 
 your off to save some of your hobbit friends. From this moment you notice that if you have the 
 right Rig-setup, the game looks sheerly awesome. The graphics are great. They are realistic in 
 a very vague and blurry way which looks great. In your prison is a puddle of water which perfectly 
 reflects your enviroment, including yourself. The animations flow perfectly and textures look great 
 even if you zoom in on them. After saving the hobbits you get one of Lotro's in-game cutscenes 
 . The Eye of Sauron flashes before you, and the screen becomes blurry red and blooms. You see a 
 scene of how a mounted Nazg&ucirc; l kills the Ranger that saved you.
  
  From here on starts the story line of how you will indirectly aid the Fellowship. You'll be helping 
 the Rangers and even Aragorn himself to make sure the Fellowship lives to bring the ring to Mordor. 
 All that while fighting of a witch-king invasion of Angmar. Which the game should be centered around 
 but isn't that much really. But that doesn't matter one bit.
  
  Lotro is suffering from some early game problems though. The starting areas/towns are over populated 
 by players and lag is great. It's not so much the graphical demands as the internet demands. It 
 seems that even a small amount of players easily lags the game which is annoying. Because it may 
 take minutes to take several steps.
  
  The other only second annoyance is that the music sounds very cheap. WoW's music was very orchestral. 
 Lotro's isnt. Which I find sad because the music of the movies is marvelous. This game's music 
 isnt. And often, there isn't a background music playing at all.
  
  But for this game, these are only minor annoyances. New servers are being opened all the time, 
 and more are planned. Eventuelly all server will probably have a balanced amount of players.
  
  On gameplay, I'm not going to say much, besides that it's great and immerses you deeply. Quests 
 are original and never the same. It's all very storyline driven. I've enjoyed discovering this, 
 and I won't spoil it for you.
  
  Everyone who is tired of WoW, I reccomend this game highly. And for new players, it's always better 
 to start with a fresh MMO then with a relatively old one as WoW. lvl 60 always seemed so very far 
 away. Now 70 is even further away. Soon it will be 80, and it will be impossible for new players 
 to reach the top. All the more reason to play LotrO. The first free update is coming soon so also 
 expect lots of new content being added of time. LotrO is a must for every decent RPG player and 
 for every Tolkien fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmondownload
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The game is well balanced, with a lot of stuff to do, and many options to make your character unique. 
 Graphics was a bit of a letdown, after oblivion and upcoming DX10 standards, but at that, the game 
 doesn't lag even the faintest bit.
  
  And for all you people calling the game a WoW-ripoff; WoW emerged as the biggest ripoff of all 
 time, taking traits from pretty much every big MMORPG out there, and knitting it all together in 
 a little ball of 'fun'. It is the reason why it became so popular: Anyone that hadn't really played 
 a MMORPG before (It wasn't really THAT big before WoW broke all the barriers) , found it awesome. 
 However, anyone that had played MMO's before knew that they had stolen pretty much everything - 
 except the idea of the world that the warcraft games were based on - and that they would most likely 
 find nothing new here. Which turned out to be true. So don't judge the game by it's ripoff, there's 
 only so much new you can do in a MMO. They need to have a type of skill system, lvling system, 
 crafting, pvp, and so on for it to be an all-round interesting game to lure players to their realm, 
 or it won't ever be big. And WoW was not the first game to do any of those things. :)
  
  LoTR-O is imo the best MMORPG so far this year, and as far as I can tell, only AoC will have a 
 chance to compete. Buy&amp; Try; the community is great, and GM's literally help you out in a matter 
 of minutes if anything is wrong.
  Well worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcpboy1234
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  naw, need to put more grp action like wow, need to make the game a lil more exciting and easier 
 to level at lower levels
  
  other than that it was a ok game, playing about something that i know about more than wow, and 
 was fun gettin to play as a hobbit but then on the other hand just the game style is to much like 
 guild wars and in my oppinion was a terrible game for questing and pvp. but gl to all who choose 
 to play. i believe u will have fun playing it if uv never played wow, but if u havent played wow 
 to the full extent i recomend trying it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOOman23
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  OK... there isnt much too say about this game because it is just TOO amazing to talk about. Honestly, 
 if i was too do a full review on how good this game is, u would be sitting here for hours reading 
 it and u would be left with the question Should i go buy this now....... Or should i eat then go 
 buy it? Honestly people go buy it! Its better than WOW by a long shot, and it was just released! 
 Thanks for reading this NONSENSE but trust me, it will be worth  
 r u still doing reading this????.... Go buy the game NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vVv_GaMeR_vVv
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  A solid RPG that's 10 dollars a month. If u alrdy have wow then u dont need this unless ur desperate. 
 The max cap is 50 and the quests are very interesting. Theres weopens, armor, skills, instruments 
 u can play by pressing the 12345678 buttons, and and auction house. It's a pretty awesome game 
 and theres no doubt ull have fun with it. Even if you never heard of Lord of the Rings or watched 
 the movies then dont worry. This game kindof retells the story of all of the movies plus SO MUCH 
 MORE storyline. If u know ull play this game for more than 20 months (1 year and 8 months) then 
 pay the $200 dollar lifetime fee to have this game. Looking for a good rpg? Get this and u wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydiggity
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game tries in every way to steal everything great about wow while trying so hard to say that 
 it's not. This is a cheap knock off of wow and that's all there is to it. The menus aren't as simple, 
 the tabs, buttons, and quick bars aren't as easy to use. The animation is much more mechanical 
 to the point where you feel almost like your are giving your character a command he's attempting 
 to translate it into something more doable.
  If you want to be entertained by a great mmo with great lore, just play wow. it's been out a long 
 time, it's been established as a great game, and now that i've played this, i can safely say it's 
 much much better.
  
  Also, i'd like to say, during my free trial i made the comment in the starting zone that this game 
 is just a wow knock off and i got mysteriously booted from the server within 30 seconds and couldn't 
 rejoin for at least a day. So, i just uninstalled it. If you don't have wow, sure this game might 
 entertain you, but why even play it knowing there is one that is far superior? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4DDY-O
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  PREEE-SENTING THE STAR OF OUR SHOW... MIDDLE EARTH!!!
  
  Well, okay, so it's not ALL of Middle Earth (as yet) , but what I have seen of this environment 
 is superb.
  
  LOTRO is an explorer's dream. Overall, the gameplay is relatively standard fare for a turn-based 
 MMORPG and works well enough, but the big payoff here is easily the setting itself. For me, the 
 sight of Mount Weathertop hulking on my horizon was my first really gratifying in-game reward -- 
 simply because it LOOKS right, as opposed to the pitiful little knob Peter Jackson gave us in his 
 first LOTR movie. But in addition to the sheer esthetics of the environment, you can also pick 
 up certain perks known as deeds, which is a subsystem that grants various enhancements to characters 
 for doing certain things in the world. For example, you can acquire one such enhancement by finding 
 six specific Dunedain ruins scattered around Bree-land, and another by slaughtering neekerbreekers 
 in the Midgewater Marshes. I find this to be an elegant enhancement for the genre.
  
  Turbine's version of Middle Earth features a LOT more open space than the room-service zones found 
 in World of Warcraft. In this game, I find myself spending a fair amount of time simply running 
 to where I need to be for a quest. Which, to me, is good, because it feels more like a world than 
 a purpose-built zone. But still, it's nowhere near as empty as, say, Star Wars: Galaxies. LOTRO 
 features a nice, happy medium.
  
  A second feature worthy of note is that the quests themselves are well-written and well-paced. 
 Each of the four Free Peoples give us a discernibly different flavor, with separate introductory 
 sequences for each. (If you need some comic relief, do some of the quests in the Shire.) Each intro 
 is well worth experiencing, with its own set of surprises.
  
  As you move into the main body of the game, you find a nice mix of individual quests, subplots, 
 instances, and adventure zones, with an ongoing storyline (referred to in your quest log as the 
 Epic series) available throughout. Much of the content can be played solo, but certain places and 
 quests require a group because of the toughness of the enemies.
  
  PvP is somewhat constricted by design. The devs wanted above all to avoid situations like groups 
 of orc player-characters dancing en masse at Bag End, so players can only assume the role of a 
 Minion of Sauron in the Ettenmoors, the game's dedicated PvP zone. And once one of your toons reaches 
 level-10, you can access Monster Play via a red fell scrying pool, found in main cities. (There's 
 one in a side alley in the south side of Bree, for example.)
  
  All in all, the game looks fantastic and plays very well. If you are one of those cretins who insists 
 on power-leveling to the cap as quickly as possible or camping certain mobs only because you've 
 read that they drop the phattest lewt, you are definitely missing the point of this game. Do us 
 both a favor: Stop camping. Stick with a more generic product. You (and we) will be much happier. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtl68170
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  All I can say is wow. And I don't mean WOW.
  
  First off, I am an ex-DDO player. There are (were?) no better dungeons in any MMO than in DDO. 
 Beautiful and very atmospheric. In my opinion Turbine's developers have a great sense of high fantasy.
 
  
  I have to admit, when I played the beta (for about 2 hours in total) , I thought sheesh, it's DDO 
 with a bigger world . I couldnt have been more wrong. Turbine took all of the best aspects of DDO 
 and highly polished them, and gave a huge overhaul to the graphics. I just bought a 22 HD lcd, 
 and I couldnt believe how beautiful and smooth the world is, especially with settings cranked.
 
  
  Just being in Middle earth and seeing all of the tolkien lore done as well is they did it gives 
 you goosebumps. Im still in the early stages, and it's a blast. Players tell me it just gets and 
 better and better as you move up. I cant wait.
  
  Only beef, if you could call it that, is the standard MMO click on your enemy and mash buttons 
 combat system. I enjoyed the more fighter gamestyle of DDO. But combat is still fun, thats all 
 that counts.
  
  One last thing. Any game that lets you fire up a pipe of pipeweed has me hooked. How cool is that?
 
  
  Go out and buy this game now. Get ready for a great adventure. I certainly am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nificant
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  LOTRO has potential to be a very fun game. While The Lord of The Rings has been copied by almost 
 all of the modern fantasy genre, LOTRO pretty much mimics all the popular game play mechanics from 
 them (with a few twists) . Sadly, the game feels like a clone. Though the graphics do an impressive 
 job of giving life to Tolkien's work, the actual gameplay left me feeling like I had been there 
 and done that before. The musical score is decent, and the sound effects are nice, but become painfully 
 repetitive (unrelated note: female enemies' battle sounds sound like a soft-core adult film to 
 me) .
  
  There are a few interesting twists, such as monster play, and the title and deed systems, but while 
 they are interesting concepts, and fun to play around with at first, these systems grow boring 
 after a short while (especially monster play) . The deed system has some promise to it, but needs 
 to be given more depth, along with the title system. Titles were really cool for awhile, but I 
 found myself turning them off in cities, as titles of large groups of players (Bree) coupled with 
 NPC names took up a considerable amount of the screen.
  
  All in all, LOTRO is a pretty fun game, and it does have potential in the future, so long as it 
 can drop the Deja-Vu feeling and better flesh out some of its unique ideas. For players who love 
 Tolkien and either are tired of, or have not played other games like WOW, LOTRO could be worth 
 a shot. I'm going to save my $9.99 a month (which is a pretty good deal for those who could get 
 in on the beta as compared to other current MMORPGS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  I am a WoW player for long now, and I played this game Beta, and to tell the truth, it's impressive, 
 what did catch me the most is the similarity between this game and WoW, in the UI, keys, and many 
 other things, but still its not same, the characters are deferent, the rewards you get from questing 
 like deeds and titles are unique to LOTRO, even some things are improved over WoW, like the group 
 UI, and the ease in placing your abilities keys on the screen.
  
  What about graphics, LOTRO got amazing graphics, you really feel like you living in a real world, 
 water reflections, living surroundings and atmosphere, some cool animations, one of the animation 
 that I really liked is the swimming animation, its very realistic.
  
  There are many things in this game to make it stand up among others of the same genre, and maybe 
 to some players its not a WoW killer, but sure its a very strong competitor to every MMORPG. 
 But again, it's not only how nice the game is, the support and servers reliability will play a 
 major role in the success of any MMORPG game, and LOTRO is no deferent, so time will tell us if 
 this game is up to the challenge.
  
  I am very excited to be a part of this world that I am a big fan of, its a great game with big 
 promises, give it a try, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaznoodles
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Well being involved in the beta gave me insight into shadows of angmar.
  As a seasoned wow and eq player (among others) i was skeptical to how really life changing SoA 
 was going to be. Pros: - The profession system is nice by giving u 3 skills at a time which makes 
 for some good stuff. Also, the promise that u can make stuff that u can use that is worth a dam 
 in later lvls is a nice touch. - Everything has its own style and buildings r not cookie cutter 
 buildings like that of wow.
  
  
  Cons: - Not much new here. Its not Lord of Rings fault that all modern fantasy is pretty much inspired 
 by it. U have elves, dwarves and (omg) humans. Dragons and goblins as well, woot i have never killed 
 these before. - The play style is not as stream lined asthe wow and it plays like so many others 
 before it. Once again nothing here we havent seen before. I havent seen anything that made me think 
 of this game as ground-breaking. Makes me think they just wanna make a buck off the franchise then 
 push the boundary on mmo's
  
  
  All in all this a decent game and turbine was giving everything to be one of the first to play. 
 But i mean if i want to be an elf and kill goblins wow is still the standard. Wow-killer this game 
 is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shasarak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old MMORPG player. I was there when NWN used to be a 2D'ish multiplayer game; I've played 
 Dragonrealms, Merdian 59, UO, EQ, AC, EVE Online, CoH, SWG, WoW and many others. So I do have some 
 MMORPG knowledge and I must say that LOTRO has been the most enjoyable experience so far. This 
 game has been released with so much polish it gleams!
  
  Just a few reasons why I like LOTRO:
  Hey I'm participating in the Lord of the Rings! Woohoo!
 
  The History and Lore components are well done.
  Grinding isn't mind numbing, you can gain new fun titles or stat bonuses from killing an amount 
 of creatures. Kill wolves for a new title next to your name for all to see such as Finscarfin, 
 Wolf Tamer or if you kill wolves in the shire you can get Finscarfin, Fur Cutter too!
  There are so many quests to choose from it's amazing.
  The scenery, I just walk around and enjoy 
 excellent graphics like I did when I played Oblivion. I'm showing my inner geek by taking screenshots 
 and sending them to friends.
  Combining two of the above comments: if you hate pure grinding alone to make levels then you can 
 quest and make huge exp. The early quests ( I don't know about later quests ) are relatively local. 
 You don't have to travel for an hour to get to your destination, just walk about 2-4 minutes and 
 you're there. After a while you learn the land so well you don't even need your map for many areas.
 
  Cities/Towns/Settlements are all over, this world has a population in it!
  Want a break from being a Good Guy? Make level 10 and you can gaze into a Fell Pool and play a 
 Dark Lord's minion in your Vision of an alternate reality!
  Most enjoyable non-gimped classes as well. I prefer playing casters and one of my biggest complains 
 when playing other games is usually your caster is weak and can't handle more then one person at 
 a time, usually only a weak one at that. In LOTRO my caster has a pet with agro abilities also 
 I can stun people and the stun actually lasts long enough that I can finish my fight take a breath 
 and kill the second guy without freaking out. My weapon actually helps in a fight and I can heal 
 my pet if things get too crazy. Yet I have great attack spells and DoTs along with what seem to 
 be good crowd control skills in the future. Caster Heaven! Now you won't be the ultimate nuker 
 though, that's the Archer, you'll still do excellent nuking compared to anyone else.
  Combine my Loremaster with the Scholar (crafting) ability and I'm a scroll making fiend. Most people 
 aren't scholars so when you find the rare scholar resource (similar to miners finding ore deposits) 
 I can plunder it and make more scrolls and whatnot. I'm finding scholars are able to do much more 
 but I'm still scratching the surface and can't wait!
  
  Thanks for taking the time to read this, I hope you found it helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar is the latest LOTR-based game that creates a new 
 world for the players in this MMORPG. It appears to be an interesting blend of World of Warcraft-style 
 gameplay with the unique and spell-bounding world that LOTR is famous for. Unfortunatly, all similarities 
 end here. When I launched the beta test version (which is kinda misleading, as my beta ended when 
 the game was launched) i found that the game was laggy. Extremely laggy. I played World of Warcraft 
 on the same computer (a decent dell, not that great) and I was able to go to most areas without 
 many lag problems. In LOTRO: SoA, from the very begining, in the opening area, i met major lag. 
 However I pressed on and found that in the first village you arrive in (where the actually free-gameplay 
 of an MMORPG begins) , it was next to impossible to travel from a to b. The lag was so immense, 
 that it was just pointless. The good part was that when you left the cities, the open world was 
 big enough that you didn't expierence the frusturating lag. But, since most quests bring you back 
 to the cities, the lag was enivitable and I just gave up after a while. Other than the lag, LOTRO: SoA 
 is almost a crappy knock-off of WoW, the classes are more or less the same, with a few tweaks to 
 make them seem different. The lack of warring factions and pvp (which WoW has) is also disheartening, 
 along with the horrendous graphics (They remind me of the original half-life's graphics!) It does 
 have the cool feature of namesakes (Joe of Rohan, etc) and it also has the player adoption, where 
 players inherit another higher level character's name. (Joe, son of bob, etc) But they only distract 
 the game's issues for a little while, otherwise, your focused on what to do when you run through 
 cities, which should be renamed, LagLands. Now this would all be fine and a somewhat worse version 
 of guild wars if not for the worst mistake the developers made: a monthly fee. Yes, thats right. 
 Not only do you have to pay $50 for a crappy game, but you also have to pay by month (s) . Now unless 
 the developlers serious patch this game, fix the lag problems and add some sort of pvp (classes 
 would probably have to stay) then this game might be worth something. But right now, this is just 
 another sad stop on the LOTR gravey train. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmyers2215
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Very impressed with LOTRO. I tried it in the beta period and really enjoyed it. Now I find myself 
 feeling the same way I did when WOW first came out. Better value (if you got the Founders Package) 
 and just as fun as WOW. If you are a LOTR fan you must have this! The story line in game makes 
 it more immersive and makes you feel like you are really effecting what is going on in Middle Earth. 
 The community seems to be more mature than the WOW community. If there is one MMORPG to get then 
 it's a toss up between WOW and LOTRO. You can't go wrong with either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddick123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, I really don't get the people saying the graphics suck. If you are saying they suck 
 it is because you are running the game on a lower end PC that barely meets the requirements. I 
 luckily am able to own an 8800 GTX and can say the graphics on this game are excellent. This game 
 does play very closely to WoW. I used to play WoW, had 2 level 60 raiding characters, so I am very 
 familiar with WoW. You actually have reasons in this game to grind mobs. They have a thing called 
 Deeds. So if you actually kill 30 to 60 of a particular mob, you earn points towards getting better 
 stats for your own char and earn titles. While questing I ended up killing 90 spiders, earned the 
 title of Spider-slayer and increased my poison resist and vitality stats. You get bonuses for completing 
 a certain number of quests in an area. You also get stat increases for using a particular attack 
 and landing it so many times. So while you may have to grind in an area, at least you have a reason 
 to grind and explore, which you get stat increases and bonuses for exploring and finding ruins 
 and such. The mailing system is awesome, where in WoW you have to wait for an hour or more to get 
 items someone mailed to you, this game is instant when you send or get sent items. Been very stable 
 so far as well. Why anyone would compare this game to Lineage is beyond me. Best thing about LoTRO..... NO 
 BARRENS CHAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturn614
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Let's keep this to the point... It's the first MMO since WOW that is worth talking about. Despite 
 all the updates, World of Warcraft was getting old and LOTRO is a very nice replacement. The 2 
 games are similar but the content is all new which is really nice. You need a decent computer to 
 run the game... At least a 6800 GT or better. I run a 8800 GTX and it looks amazing! It looks like 
 they will release content more often than WOW... well once every 2 years is pretty easy to beat. 
 In my opinion this will hurt Blizzard quite a bit. Maybe they will start working on the next MMO... 
 starcraft or something... we won't see that anytime soon! :-)
  
  Definately a must have game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Having played many MMO's over the last 8 years it's hard not to be a little jaded when loading 
 up another one even one as ingrained in popular culture and established in lore as Lord of the 
 Rings. For a long time, up until playing the beta, I was hesitant to give this game a try. I was 
 afraid that taking the world out of my imagination and confining it to a game would ruin my love 
 for the series but for all the misgivings I'm happy that I gave it a go.
  
  I don't want to compare this game to WoW, there's too many people doing that already so I will 
 confine my review to the game based on its own merits and flaws.
  
  --Game play --
  Races: LotR offers a limits the race selection to Man, Dwarf, Elf and Hobbit. This selection seems 
 dismal at first but there are very few races in the Tolken universe so that's what we have to live 
 with. Monster Play allows you to chose between Orcs, Warg or Spider so that lends another dimension 
 to the game and allows you to play both sides without having to level characters on another server 
 just to play them (this I think is a bonus) . Every race has certain traits that can be unlocked 
 by completing objectives giving the race flavor beyond the appearance and initial stats.
  
  Classes: While the class selection is also limited every class in LotR is well defined but has 
 enough leway to dabble with alternatives. The variations offered by Traits, Gear and Skills allow 
 every class to do a bit of multi-purpose work while still keeping them within the defined boundaries 
 of their profession. The limited classes stem from Tolken lore but serve a dual purpose when it 
 coems to grouping and especially when it comes to PvMP. While it may be satisfying to have a selection 
 of many classes eventually things boil down to viable group selection, with only a handful of classes 
 in LotR and the useful aspects of each class there is no need to worry about compromising between 
 taking the druid over the cleric or the mage over the warlock, you take the minstrel and lore-master 
 because that's what there is. Many games suffer from the 'x-factor' class, that class that can 
 do everything and nothing well, the class that seems great but you can never figure out how to 
 fit them into your group; or the other problem, the 'good here but not there' class, the one that's 
 great in PvP but horrible in PvE or vice versa. LotR is a PvE heavy game with classes not needing 
 as much balance as other PvP intense games and there-for does less 'i can't fit you into my group' 
 class issues.
  
  Quests: Eventually most quests boil down to 'kill x them' or 'bring x there', that is the nature 
 of the beast when it comes down to MMO's. What people unfortunately forget is that playing in playing 
 an MMO the quests come not only from NPC's but also from fellow players, of course they're along 
 the same lines...'help me kill x' or 'bring me some x', sometimes the rewards are tangible and 
 sometimes it's about the friendships that you make. For me MMO's have always been about the community 
 I play with more then the actual game itself.
  
  Crafting: The crafting system allows you to chose a general profession that comes with three related 
 vocations to specialize in. Example, a Metalworker has Prospecting (mining) , Armor Crafting (uhuh) 
 and Tailoring (yup) . Every item made adds a few points towards its vocation's exp bar until a maximum 
 is reached and a new tier is opened up that allows you to craft better things out of better materials. 
 Once a tier 'levels' it then can be 'leveled' again to earn a crafting trait. Most professions 
 are interdependent, requiring materials from fellow crafters in order complete an item. Example, 
 while an Armsmith can mine and smelt ore to produce blades to create weapons, he can also create 
 hafts and hilts for weapons too but what he can not do is boil leather for the hilts or make treated 
 wood to craft the hafts. Crafting if not easy, it requires a community of crafters to provide materials 
 and crafting anything worthwhile requires learning from recipe drops that are rather rare. Now, 
 this is an issue suffered by every MMO there is: 'how to balance crafted items and drops?'. Eventually 
 either item drops are easier to get and better then crafted items or the value of crafted items 
 outweighs drops and killing monsters for loot becomes meaningless. Which way does LotR stack? It 
 is too early to tell.
  
  Role-playing: With a story as rich as Lord of the Rings it is hard to imagine how one can resist 
 role-playing a character. Though I wish servers had been dedicated to upholding a role-playing 
 community none have been implemented as such, yet. Still, LotR offers a vast array of expressive 
 emotes as well as the ability to set your character's mood to suit the occasion. My dwarf Guardian 
 looks perpetually angry while my man Minstrel wears a mischievous smirk (think Bill Clinton at an 
 intern convention, or Zephod Bebblebrox getting ready to steal the Heart of Gold) . Gear: LotR has 
 chosen to treat gear in a unique if not entirely innovative way. An interesting aspect of different 
 weapons are the intrinsic bonus to each type. Just naming a few: Axes are less accurate but ignore 
 some armor, Bows add to critical %, Heavy shields add ranged protection but subtract from evade 
 chance, Spears cause a bleed and Halberds add additional aggro. Weapons can be attuned to certain 
 monsters, through enchantments, causing them to glow when the enemy is nearby and dealing that 
 enemy extra damage. All the armor and weaponry is well detailed and rendered even though I'm not 
 thrilled with the look of dumpy helms on my dwarf or silliness of the cap on my minstrel.
  
  Monster Play: Monster play is perhaps the most innovative of LotR's features. A monster is 
 almost like an alt that you can play, and improve, that start at level 50. I'm not quite sure how 
 to phrase it but I know I like the concept. In other MMO's in order to play the other side you 
 would probably be required to start a brand new character on a different server, find a new group 
 of friends and generally begin from scratch, often this has lead me to create alts on different 
 servers that I would play for 10-15 levels and never touch again because the pull of my home community 
 far outweighed the desire to play a different side. I guess this is just the thing I have always 
 looked forward to.
  
  --Graphics --
  I am not having any problems running this game, neither is my friend with an outdated computer. 
 I will not say the graphics are the best I have ever seen but they are done with considerable thought 
 and the areas are all themed accordingly. I'm not impressed but I am not disappointed. The graphics 
 do not hinder the game play and that's all that counts.
  
  --Sound --
  The music is nice, the ambient sounds are commendable and I love hearing my Guardian shout and 
 laugh at the enemy as he swings his tower shield and warhammer. The game also offers an ingame 
 music player and an instrument system that allows you to play your own tune on an instrument. Have 
 fun and enjoy...
  
  --Value --
  Typically I rate most MMO's as having great value. There is often so much content to explore that 
 you can't be done with it in just a few weeks or months or sometimes years. Sure there is a monthly 
 subscription fee, so what? It's roughly the equivalent of buying a new game every 4 months and 
 you know you probably spend more then that already on games that bore you after only a few days.
 
  
  --Tilt --
  So far so good. Something new, something different. Perhaps one day this game will become an end-game 
 grinder, until then I do and will continue to enjoy it for all its splendor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surgeonix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  My first game was Lineage II, a game not for casual players in my opionion, but my favorite one. 
 After i tried World of Warcraft: a very well designed game, more for casual players, with a lot 
 of options, but lack of real interesting content for me. And what i founded in LOTRO ? just a copy, 
 a bad one, of World of Warcraft. A quest based game, not any inmersive, graphics not good at all, 
 interface very unpolished. The quest log is not very intuitive, the action was worst than i expected 
 too. I must say thank you to Turbine for let players try the game before buy, i think every game 
 must have this oppotunity. Any game is a matter of everyone taste, and for me, this is not a game 
 for mature players with some experience in MMO. Maybe my opinion if not fair for the short time 
 i played this, but i dont want to play anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackbow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  If your looking for something new, then this game is for you
  Its like wow but been polished ALOT the combat flows really well and has great looking animations.
 
  The graphics are stunning and the scenery is breathtaking aswell as the music which sounds sooo 
 good, you also have the choice to buy an instrument and play is sing the 1 - 9 keys on your keyboard 
 and change octaves with CTRL its such a good idea :P
  This MMORPG is full off things that people love,
  Such as instancing, getting new cool looking 
 loot and having fun
  and best of all it doesn't feel like a grind! also as its LOTR makes it that whole much better 
 and especially if you are the fan of the films and books if not this is still something for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best MMORPG's to hit the market. Have been a part of many a MMO and this 
 one is great. Considering the lack luster showing of many licensed games and MMO's in particular, 
 this one looks to be a true winner. How can you lose with the Lord of the Ring franchise? This 
 one out of the box has more going for it then most have after five years in the show. And the future 
 looks to be even better. Expansions, both retail and added as part of the normal update process, 
 will expand the game to an even higher plain. If you ever play any MMORPG you have to try this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I quite WoW about a year ago because the high level raiding just wasnt worth the time it took. 
 From what I have heard from some of the closed beta players this game wont be nearly as raid intensive. 
 The game has the Lotr feel to it and if you have watched the movies or read the books you will 
 be absorbed into the world. Alot of the animations are based off some of the attacks from the movie. 
 Hunters have the Legolas arrow stab then shoot. Captains have the Aragorn sword stab. The citys 
 do have some parts to it that dont seem Lotr like, but once you get out in the wilderness and fight 
 your first goblin. Youll be thirsting for more goblins to kill. You wont get bored of killing the 
 same type of creature often. The sound hasnt been that great. Ive noticed a few flaws like the 
 goblin spear thrower has a Men sounding yell when it throws its first spear. The sound isnt that 
 impressive, but the graphics on Ultra High are just amazing for an MMO. The water is GODLIKE. The 
 terrain is ok. Some of the textures are awesome mainly the White hand orcs in the lone lands (Not 
 the goblins) . The graphics engine handles amazingly. As long as you have a 7xxx series you can 
 run this game on very high to ultra high depending on your other specs. The only issue that I have 
 had with graphics is that it is INSANELY memory intensive when you enter citys or highly populated 
 areas. There might also be a memory leak, but I have no doubt that will be found and fixed. The 
 quests are not nearly as time intensive as WoW. The drop rate is nearly 100% and you wont spend 
 30mins getting 1 drop on a quest item. Theres not alot of go talk to this guy quest, but they do 
 exist. The group quests are AMAZING! They are insanely fun except when you die (but who likes dieing 
 anyways?) . I love the cutscenes and story-line. Alot of this Linear storyline is BS! It is insanely 
 deep and entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JivexDragon
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Is this game bad? Not at all, it's pretty cool. For me, it wasn't so cool. Alright, so you start 
 off... just like World of Warcraft. You take up some quests... just like World of Warcraft. This 
 game boasts that its experience points come more from quests than grinding. However, as it turns 
 out, the quests are mostly either, go talk to this person or go kill/collect ___ of these. After 
 a while, all the quests are truly grinders. I will admit that it's pretty cool to go visit The 
 Shire or some other places that we've all been imagining. Nevertheless, it turns out to be a quick, 
 cool, I'm in the shire, and then back to some boring quests. If anything, those quests ruin your 
 appreciation for the recognizable universe. Graphically, this game is not bad at all, considering 
 that it is an MMO. Furthermore, my graphics score is based purely on the fact that is it an MMO, 
 so my expectations were not that high. However, while graphics in the game are nicer than those 
 in World of Warcraft, there's a certain zest that's missing from the rich landscapes... a certain 
 beauty that's just not there. What is there to say about sound in an MMO? It's repetitive and unexciting. 
 However, at least you don't have to hear a Loktar! or For the Horde! everywhere you go, which is 
 a nice change. You're paying a monthly fee to play World of Warcraft in Middle-Earth. Your call. 
 So the tilt? I switched to this game to escape World of Warcraft, but that didn't turn out to be 
 the case. If you've never played an MMO before, give it a try.... it may not seem as blah. While 
 the euphoria that comes from being in the Tolkien universe is neat, it's short-lived as you come 
 to the realization that the gameplay is the same as World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  LOTRO is different, yet the same, in all the right ways.
  
  LOTRO vs WoW - classes
  Classes do what they should!
  Tanks: are strictly tanks, the gaurdian is strictly a tank, not 
 a arms/fury mutt tank.
  Healrs: are better, unlike priests who are gimped on HP, Minstrels can self-buff with every attack!
 
  DPS: does just that, a Champion can out do any rouge any day!
  Hunters: unlike a mage or 'hunter' from wow, the Hunters in LOTRO do insane long-range damage without 
 sacraficing survivability or 'minimum range' to fire!
  Casters: Unlike a mage or a Warlock, the lore-master has the best of both worlds, able to do damage, 
 help others, de-buff the enemy and so much more!
  Captain/Paladin: the Paladin of WoW is a healer/buffer/tank. Not always good when you want to do 
 just one, the Captain does all that the Paladin fails to and more! You can buff the party, dish 
 major damage, and heal your fellowship (party) .
  
  LOTRO vs WoW - Professions/Crafts
  In Wow, the professions were a scarry thing. Often totally useless and rarely in need of other 
 players. LOTRO makes every craft need other players stuff to aid you, but you are not without independence. 
 LOTRO groups pre-determined sets of 3 crafts into one head craft, unlike in WoW were picking your 
 own mix and match could lead to deadly (financial) results.
  
  LOTRO vs WoW - the world
  Although WoW's world is very pretty and fun to be in, it lacks what you would expect from a world, 
 TOWNS! Since LOTRO is based off of a very very detailed book, every inch of the world has a place 
 and purpose, you will rarely find miles of open land that does not connect to some part of the 
 lore of the books. If you are a fan of the books, you will be amazed at how accurate the world 
 is to them. While in Wow, there is so little lore to go off of, you are not sure were you are, 
 let alone see a area from one of the epic battles you fought in WC3...
  
  LOTRO vs WoW - Lore
  WoW does have an amazing peice of lore, but how can you top the lord of 
 the rings? WoW does not stay all too true to the Warcraft series we all fell in love with back 
 on windows 95... as mentioned above, i've never seen a area in WoW that was directly from one of 
 the epic battles I fought in WC, WC2, or WC3... (With the exception of WC: FT's Orgrimmar story) . 
 LOTRO stays so true to the LOTR story that it makes you want to go back and read LOTR, if you have 
 not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  You start directly in action, wow... surprise me , but i excepted better for this game.
  
  Well for the graphics , it certainly win against WoW, it's fluid, feel like less cartoon. For the 
 gameplay, it takes more time to feel better in the gameplay, little more difficult to learn. Where's 
 the bad guys? We can't.... well anyway that's not very important but it can be great in future 
 for more pvp experience. Good choice of caracter and custumize is huge. Servers don't lag, patchs 
 are on in the first day, wow good work... but you have not enough servers to choose, already queue 
 up to connect.
  
  The quest are fast and easy ( in the part i'm on ) , it's not lime WoW where you have to walk from 
 U. S. A into Australy... no it's... fast!
  
  Sound is great, you feel you are in the imaginary land of Tolkien.
  
  Well try it, it certainly 
 feels different from other MMORPG. It's a really good alternative. Hope to see Expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryebread75
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The game closest to an MMO that I played previously was Neverwinter Nights. I spent 3+ years with 
 that game and was looking for a new game to take its place on my computer. WoW didn't interest 
 me because of the cartoony graphics and EQ2 seemed too hardcore for me. I used to be a hardcore 
 gamer but 10 years, a wife, a 3-year old son, and a solid career changes a person and doesn't leave 
 me with as much free time for gaming. I wanted something that I could play at a casual pace and 
 wouldn't tire of quickly.
  
  I tried out the beta for the last week and was instantly hooked. I just love the incredible number 
 of quests. Quests are so much more meaningful to me than just running around killing things for 
 no apparent reason (other than gaining XP) . Killing the brigands because they kidnapped the farmers 
 daughter gives me a legitimate reason to fight.
  
  I have a decent computer (3GHz, 1GB RAM, 256MB 7600GS) that handles the game's graphics very well 
 on moderate/high settings. I experience some choppiness in towns but it always remains playable, 
 and more importantly, beautiful to look at. When I crank the graphics up as high as possible just 
 to see how good the game can look I am suitably impressed. Once I buy a new computer in the next 
 6 months or so the game's graphics will grow with the new system, introducing higher resolutions, 
 higher framerates, more shader effects, and better lighting/shadows.
  
  I'm happy to have pre-ordered. Now I must decide whether to pay $10/month or $200 for life (of 
 the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terdfergusen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  LOTRO is very simalar to WoW on an astonishing number of ways (but, if it ain't broke why fix it?) , 
 except in that there doesn't appear to be any way to distinguish your character from any others 
 of the same race and gender. All the armor looks like goofy spandex and the colors are usually 
 silly. For me, character individuality and customization are a huge part of any RPG, so I'm a little 
 disappointed in that aspect of LOTRO.
  
  The gameplay and quests were fun and everything ran smoothly but I would have prefered not to read 
 so much tiny quest text (it really slowed the pace of an otherwise well paced game) . Perhaos if 
 there was more voice narration I would have enjoyed it more though I'm sure that; s not very practicle 
 for this sort of game.
  
  The graphics were good but due to the lack of originality among characters, I score it as merely 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackcrowe
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Although most of the reviews have been very positive some have not. I have focused on those that 
 were under 6 and I am very surprised to see some of the comments. The game does use many of the 
 same functions as WOW -so what, it works. Is the game entertaining? This depends on what you are 
 looking for If you are expecting some cutting edge breakthrough in this type of gaming look elsewhere 
 please, this game does not provide that. If on the other-hand you are looking for an immersive 
 game that stays true to the spirit of Tolkien then this is the game for you. If you are looking 
 for LEET speak garbage and lots of PVP where you can pwn some poor schmuck who doesn't have as 
 fast of a connection as you, please stay away. If you want a mature group of players who appreciate 
 the classic story of struggle against an indomitable foe and pulling together to accomplish the 
 task, this just might work for you. I really appreciate how polished and complete the game feels, 
 how interesting the stories are and how much fun it is to visit the places I have only read about 
 or seen on the movie screen.
  
  I have found the interface relatively easy to use it has a few little quirks I would have done 
 differently but that is personal preference.
  
  I don't know how the mid game or end game will be but so far I am really enjoying myself and isn't 
 that what games are suppose to be about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iddly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings online is a mmorpg based on the lord fo the rings. You start the game by creating 
 a charater (elf, man dwarf etc) , and you are then pushed into an introduction of the game; this 
 is follwed by an introduction level. After 1-2 hours you finish and enter the 'real worl'. Graphics- 
 The graphics on the intro levels are extremly bad, but when you enter the real world they go up 
 a notch. The best example is the shire, this is jaw dropping and a real treat. The graphics would 
 best be described as fable-ish graphics mixed with final fantasy 11, but not really as good as 
 wow since lotro is more realistic. BTW Seting the games hud off is beatiful and i would suggest 
 playing like this for most of the game.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is slow but it depends on which class you have You level up better by doing 
 quests then killing monsters. The stanadard control pannel no.1-9 is used and its really just simply 
 point and clcik. The quest are good and easy to understand. Deeds and traits probley are the main 
 backbone of what you wil be doing. The chat server isnt great it feels like no 1 is there even 
 when the screen is full of people. Lag is sometimes an issue. Performance- The game is a system 
 hog and i dont kno really where all this processed information is going. It takes 1gb ram and 128 
 gpu to run decently, but i would sugest 512 gpu and 2 gb ram. A dual core is a must.
  I would sujest you set the game to meduim on everything except lighting (set on low) , set model 
 detail to high and texture to sharp. Put antianizling on and put bloom filter on.
  
  
  Overall- The game is fun and its lord of the rings worth its weight in gold, but you need to spend 
 tons of money on getting that graphics card and upgraded memory. But since this is a new mmorpg 
 starting out makes you feel apart of it compared to wow where every1 is level 70. The HUD is ugly 
 and the writing is tiny, but every game has its up's and downs hopefully all these issues will 
 be sorted out at the next expansion or even with an update. P. S.- i had to rebot my brand new pc 
 3 time just to get it stared i kept on getting a 201 error, but now finally i got it working after 
 about 2 days of installtion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eradorn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I saw some reviews that was saying this game was bad. I was like were they sleeping instead of 
 playing the game!?!?!! This game is great, the graphics aren't amazing at the beginning. It looks 
 pretty much like Guild Wars at the beginning. BUt when you see the landscape, rivers, the sky, 
 all these tiny details. Everyone would like to live in this world! The gameplay is maybee similar 
 to WoW but honestly, does WoW combat system's good? Of course it is why there's so much people 
 playing it! Everyone who loves the LOTR universe will enjoy this game!
  
  I didn't want to pay to play a mmorpg before this game... but this game is really worth the price. 
 I hope to see you guys on the Meneldor server! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglesoft
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I am very surprised by how the game turned out. Excellent graphics, quality sound and a lore to 
 backup the game. You got instance encounters with friends or if you just wanna solo, raids and 
 a whole world of quests!! Also some cool features like Deeds and Traits to decipher what type of 
 Class your character will be to distinguish from others of the same class. Surnames, Family Trees 
 (origins) and you get to see the cast of players from LoTR!!
  
  The only disappointing thing about the game (IMO) would be the quest system. Yea too me, this can 
 use a little work, but it isnt terrible compared to some I have played. But a few heres and theres, 
 but not enough to say this game is garbage. They did a fantastic job with the game!!
  
  This game is going to be around for a long time since its got so many things to do, despite it 
 being a just PVE mmorpg, well you can still duel others, but I wonder if they will ever add in 
 PvP content?
  
  Task 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donmccarley
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I've cancelled my tired old WoW account for LotRO. It's new, the quests are excellent and really 
 pull you in. The social scene is so far very pleasant. The expansions that will fill up this online 
 Middle Earth are the most exciting part for me. Highly reccommended.
  
  The end-game is still unknown (at least to me) . I just got level 18 last night with my main tank 
 character. The announced June content patch does have a promising raid. Time will tell if I and 
 other will play this for years or just months, but the potential is outstanding. After getting 
 to level 40, true PvP could become very interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameshc2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Turbine and Midway and all the people involved have really out-done themselves. The visuals stunningly 
 beautiful. The game play tops. I have never been dropped from the server, even in closed beta. 
 I really don't have the word to describe how wonderful this game is. I've been a die-hard gamer 
 since pong and have played most of the RPGs since their beginnings. This one is the One To Rule 
 Them All. The questing system is great and the rewards and titles that you receive make it not 
 seem like grinding. Kills don't earn you much EXP but the quest earn you major EXP so that also 
 relieves the grind factor. Each area is true to the Tolkien vision and great to just travel through. 
 I've been as far as the passes in the Misty Mountains and the land scape was incredible. I love 
 this game and am looking forward to many years of adventure. Thanks again Turbine and Midway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_galbraith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  The graphics are stunning, You actually FEEL like you are in Middle-Earth. The game is both Lord 
 of the Rings lore appropriate and really fun. I like this game MUCH better that WoW, because the 
 graphics are better, the story is better, the sound is better (you can play instruments) and overall 
 it is just much better. I find that the tutorials for each character, are not only very informative, 
 but easy and fun to learn. I have been playing this game since Beta 1. And I will be buying the 
 lifetime offer. Thanks alot Turbine for such an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiK2k3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  A very short review of LOTRO
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing, even on a low-range computer. The only small point to make is that you should (if you 
 haven't already) try to have at least 1GB of RAM. I ran the game for 2 months on 1GB and it was 
 fine, at 2GB the game runs smoothly and is capable of beautiful high-res textures.
  Also note I only have a 6600 Geforce at the moment and it still runs and looks fantastic.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  Mostly standard MMORPG battling, though the focus is on questing rather than grinding (thankfully!) 
 Epic quests are exactly that - epic. Professions are at the moment fun but too costly, something 
 that is still being balanced. There's plenty of fun to be had: Facial Expressions/Moods, Pipeweed 
 smoking, and of course, the most impressive interactive in-game music system I've ever seen.
  
  Sound:
  It's a LOTR game ... nuff said really. Epic music, realistic fighting sounds, very 
 very immersive.
  
  Value:
  Well I signed up for 6 months, something I've never done in a game before, I think that shows how 
 confident I am that this is going to be a fantastic game and will grow in the following months.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I'm not a huge Tolkien fan, but a lover of all things swords and sorcery. I've played many MMORPGs 
 in the past (included the fabled WoW) and this game is to me, after nearly 3 months of playing, 
 the best MMORPG to date.
  
  9.7 - Fix the balancing issues and this game is DA WINNAH!
  
  Small Extra Note: I think the fact that many are debating this game is fantastic. WoW had exactly 
 the same start and look where it is today. Also it should keep the immature players off our lovely 
 server ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwonflash
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  This game was a complete dissapointment to me, waited all day to play and when i did want did i 
 find. Well an terrible interface, no orginality at all (and thats nearly impossible as its based 
 on tolkiens work) . Rearly there should be a national amensty for the people who brought the &pound; 
 130 collectors edition or lifetime subsrciption. The frist hours spent i walk through the beginning 
 areas field and it looks like im walking through an old golf game, it looks terrible. But yes if 
 you put the graphics up all the way the water does look great but there is still has a lack of 
 charm . It rearly feels like a poor mix of diablo and lotr tactics on the psp, i rearly thought 
 this was gonna beat wow but i guess im gonna have to renew my subsription now. The only thing i 
 can give codemasters points for is the opening video but what should i really of expected from 
 codemasters online gaming. I'm now gonna try and get a refund or jus give it to a mate cause i 
 can't bare to have it in the same room as me.
  Though I consider changing my argument i a couple of months when i will return to it and hopefully 
 all the problems with it will be fixed but i expect when that day comes ill be able to buy it in 
 a bargain bin in game and there will be no one on the server to play with cause this will not last 
 the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bababa12128
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  To those who are MMO veterans this game will not offer anything too new or horribly exciting but 
 to new players or casual gamers, this game will suit you just fine. The games focus is on PvE making 
 the time you spend playing more relaxed. At times it will be almost too slow but the amount of 
 excitement or danger you experience is dependent solely on you. If theres one thing Turbine did 
 right, it was the graphics. This game is absolutely beautiful. You can stand at the peak of Weather 
 Top an gaze at the Lone Lands with flora visible as far as the eye can see. Leaves will fall off 
 the trees and float softly to the ground in forests and flowers will carpet the open fields of 
 Bree-Land. Simply Beautiful.
  
  The visuals are so nice it's disappointing the sound doesn't quite match its quality. Streams can 
 only be heard if you're nearly standing in them and wind apparently doesn't exist in middle-earth 
 but this is not to say its terrible. The battle sounds are quite satisfying and the music, while 
 not the score we all know and love from the movies, is definitely worthy. The game itself is more 
 stable two days after launch than other games are years after launch. The system requirements are 
 a tad high but will be considered normal with in a few months.
  
  Game play is sort of hit and miss. Literally. You will miss (alot) what would seem like sure shots, 
 a shock to SWG veterans who are used to getting a hit nearly every time. But battles move along 
 at a decent pace and the classes are fairly balanced.
  
  All in all, the game is great for a newly released MMORPG. It has plenty of room for improvement 
 and with a content update patch already scheduled for this June, it seems the devs are already 
 on it.
  
  Worth the time, worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  After being in beta and such i decided that the game isn't that great.
  Gameplay: Extremely average and crafting system isn't worth the time or effort
  Graphics: If 
 your computer can handle it, it can actually be very good looking. If not, then it turns into the 
 ugliest game on the planet.
  Sound: What can I say?
  Value: I'd wait for the initial price to drop or wait for Warhammer Online
  Tilt: Well I did 
 Beta it.
  
  Overall a solid game that's good for a WOW drop out, but don't expect to play it very long. If 
 I were you, I'd think it as a passing over WOW killer until Warhammer Online arrives in Winter 
 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymantjg
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The Crafting portion is annoying as you can make Armour but cant figure out how to make boiled 
 leather for binging and leather pads. You wonder around waiting for re spawning resource boulders 
 that you hit away with your pick and squeak out 1 to 3 ore where is a mine so I can enter and collect 
 Ore. You can make work orders and wait 40 hours for Rare uncommon Ore from the Silver Deep mines 
 and get a sample of 4 different Ores. You enter the mine and no Ore is in there. This is a work 
 order not a Grocery store meat sampler. Same thing happened with Hides. To solo missions like collecting 
 ingredients for the Will of Iron part 2 mission has a level 11 Armour Smith killing level 22 Oath 
 Breakers for an Ancient Emblem. The game twists you to be dependent on others Armour smith needs 
 a forester for all its Boiled medium and light leather and you can buy it at the auction house 
 for a super inflated price gouging your pocket. Dont get me wrong some missions are Easy then out 
 of no where you presented a task you can not complete alone. This game looks like middle earth 
 but it is a reskin and adds little to what is out there and has been out there over the past 6 
 years. I like the stability as long as you dont enter Bree. Been there done that kill, collect, 
 build, and mission after mission. Has a big feeling of rinse and repeat. wake up and say do I really 
 want to play the dont agro the mobs for Ore all day or grind some Orcs in a convient Fellowship 
 of exp . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthbr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was on EQII when I heard about this game. I got excited at first and sighned up for the 
 closed beta. Luckily I was able to get in with 2 months before launch. After downloading and installing 
 the game, I went right on in. Well, to start off, the character models looked pretty ugly. The 
 movies that displayed at the beginning were pretty cool (DDO has them also) . Well, I got in the 
 with my elf hunter and off I go. At first, I thought the game was pretty cool because you really 
 are involved in the story. Though, the game quickly becomes boring after some hours of gameplay. 
 Its just the same thing in a whole new makeup. Worth a try for those who are new to MMOs, but not 
 for the ones who expect something new, something different. I also dont see how the graphics are 
 rated 9 or even 10 O. o in some reviews. The graphics arent really anything special even after seeing 
 the High-Res ones in the highest setting possible. I never played WoW, but knowing how many people 
 play WoW, I doubt this could harm it. It would take something revolutionary to take down WoW. Lets 
 just hope AoC is what Im hoping for huh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This is an early review I have been playing in the Beta and now 1 day in the release, so this is 
 not a review of the end game content but a review of the game system and the quests in general.
 
  
  I have beta tested for many games and this game comes closer to the Polish and ease of use of a 
 completed game. So thank Turbine everyone this game is a finished product and not a payed beta 
 test for the first 3 months. Cough Vangaurd Cough. The game engine runs great works really well 
 and aside from the first time you start the game in vista, it has run without a single hitch or 
 lock up. (it did lock up the first time I started the game but that was most likely a permisions 
 problem related to windows vista) Yes you do need atlease 1GB of ram but that is common for most 
 MMOS
  
  The interface is easy to use and the quest log works just like you would expect. Quests are sorted 
 into regions but these regions are so large that the organization isn't as focused as in WoW so 
 it can be tricky to sort quests that are in the same area but unlike WoW every step of the quest 
 has a synopsis even telling you where the turn in NPC is. This is the first line of text for the 
 quest in your quest log so it is easy to see and sort yourself.
  
  The quests are well made and entertaining to say the least Some are chilling and even exciting 
 like when you see your first ring wraith or when your group (fellowship) gets ambushed by an elite 
 mob while completing an outdoor quest.
  
  The classes are well ballanced and quite entertaining. The gaurdian feels like a tank and the Hunter 
 feels like a hunter. The captain feels like a strong paladin that can either focus on doing damage 
 and buffing or focus on buffing and healing depending on what combination of weapons and shield 
 you use. The monsters are varied and unique. From large spiders to wolves bears boars giant flies 
 bats ravens out in the wilderness to Brigands thieves orcs goblins and trolls in the enemy encampments. 
 Quests that are of a similar lvl will usually be in similar areas so the game flows along with 
 the backstory that is told through your epic quest line.
  
  The sound is spot on and the visuals are amasing if you have a high end computer and are tired 
 of the cartoon grafics in WoW this is the game for you. The terain is shadowed properly and the 
 water effects are almost photo realistic. Sword and armor sounds are varied and quite authentic. 
 A double attack will sound faster than a power attack having a noise kinda like a whip. Certain 
 things just make sense too a Giant bear Roaring in your face might really make you cower in fear 
 for a few seconds in RL as well.
  
  I would definately recomend this game to anyone that is tired of the cartoony grafics or the linear 
 content of WoW. There is alot of story here and a verry large world to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junwy
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Ive played the beta and didnt like it .. I bought the game , still didnt like it. I simply hate 
 playing as a human looking character and although you can play as a monster its not the same. There 
 is no true evil side where you can level from 1 on up. The only thing is you can get stronger. 
 Stronger? I mean c'mon thats so boring , you wont even get any cool lookiing armor or weapons for 
 your monster . how can that keep you goin? For me no rpg can hold my interest if I cant see gear 
 that shows ive accomplised alot with my character. As for COMBAT. The combat is slow and boring. 
 You can actually click on most of your abilites before the first few animations are even done. 
 It feels very delayed. This is were blizzard games are fun because they are fast paced , you dont 
 really notice these great little things until you try a game like lotr and go back to wow. just 
 think of Wow and the diablo series . They both have fast combat and are both killer games. Quests 
 and leveling. People talk and say GREAT! theres not much of a grind! Well some people would like 
 the option of grinding to level . I myself would like that very much . I like quests too but sometimes 
 i dont really want to pay to close attention to level up . Id like to be on the phone while i play 
 sometimes and not have to focus on finishing quests all the time just to level. It should have 
 been quests or grinding to make the game feel more free. This game there is only one option.. QUEST 
 GRIND : ( . wow is balanced. people say that wow is a grind? how so there are plenty of quests you 
 can do to get you to the proper level. Overall its still an ok game but its not better than wow 
 in my opinion and maybe it has potenial to be but lets face it . If theres no true evil side to 
 be able to enjoy from level 1 on up how can this be a compete mmorpg? To me this falls under just 
 an rpg which you shouldnt have to pay a monthly fee for. Even though they will fix the game a bit 
 and add new things it would take to long and by that time the real WOW killer would be out.. WARHAMMER 
 ONLINE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abakan
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I finally made my decision on this game. After playing during both the Alpha and the open beta 
 phases of this game, I am convinced that this isn't the right game for me. I don't feel "attached" 
 to the game environment and to make the long story short, I simply become bored/melancholic. I 
 think that the major reasons for this boredom are gameplay and graphics. I have a lot of problems 
 with the story line, which is surprising since I don't classify myself as a Tolkien "worshiper." 
 But when I read the book, the old forest, the house of Tom, and many other places of interest seemed 
 to be very much different from the replicas that I found in this game. The world just doesn't feel 
 like something that's designed to pull people in. I am under the impression that whoever designed 
 this world did it too sloppy and did not pay a lot of attention to detail... In this respect, I 
 think that this game has been poorly developed. Another problem that I had when I first entered 
 the world was the story line that I was presented with. I am not an English major, but I found 
 it to be poorly formulated. It is poorly written, and it seems to me that it was done unprofessionally. 
 This can be said about the quests, and other story elements presented in the game. Graphics make 
 up the other issue that I am having with this game. I have been playing World of Warcraft for a 
 while, and the graphics in that game were obviously done on the likings of a cartoon (there is 
 a more precise term for this sort of thing in art, but I will spare the technical stuff) . I wasn't 
 really impressed with the art used in WoW, but it was good enough to satisfy my taste. In this 
 game, I expected to see realism at its best (considering the fact that this is a game) . Unfortunately, 
 this game did not meet these expectations. The first issue that I have is with the way that the 
 distance is shown. I do not expect to see a bunch of blurry colors in the distance when I go outside 
 for a walk. Well the same could be said in relation to this game. Another issue consists of the 
 way the grass, plants, and other plantation pops up when my character comes close to a certain 
 area. Again this is not something you would expect from a well made game. There are many other 
 problems that I think exist in this game concerning graphics, but I don't really want to go into 
 details. I think that what I was looking for was something along the lines of Guild Wars or the 
 Unreal Tournament. Some of the other issues include music - timid and placid, quest objectives 
 - too simple and uninvolved, PvE element - not a lot of variety in terms of the "moves" the character 
 makes, and it is simply boring. I do not think that everything about this game "sucks" but I do 
 think that there are more negatives than positives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenowns
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone. First to the people that say that this is a WOW rip off. Are you nuts? That is 
 like saying that WOW is an EQ rip off. Get over it. Play the game for a period of time and see 
 what it has to offer. Now to the review. Now I have been hearing complaints that some of you want 
 to be bad. Well, go to the MONSTER POOL then. You can be a giant spider, wolf, orc or goblins; 
 cant remember which or maybe both. Anyway, that is where you can be bad if you wish to.
  
  Graphics: WOW! Even if you don't have a high end machine the graphics are quite nice and if you 
 do have a high end the graphics are amazing. They even show the constellations in the sky at night!
 
  
  Sound: Nice sound. Nothing awsome. Just nice. I enjoy the sound effects the dwafs make while fighting 
 though. They really get into it .
  
  Gameplay: GREAT! The deeds and trait system offer you a way to customize your character in a very 
 uniqe way. So many traits but only a certain amount of slots to use. So there are so many possibilities. 
 Quests are not insanely hard and you don't have to walk a million miles to complete a quest. My 
 only complaint is that I want more concentration of creeps in certain areas. OH! Did I mention? 
 There is an ACTUAL story! About time! A story that flows easily together with occasional cut scenes. 
 The actually plays like an mmorpg.
  
  Community: Best gaming community I have ever been a part of. More mature players here then on games 
 such as WOW. In my kinship (same as guild) everyone works together so well. We have people that 
 focus on harvesting then sending that material to the people that do crafting. That way everyone 
 gets what they need. Totally awsome.
  
  Value: Can't think of any current mmo that is better. This one has it all in my opinion. Buy the 
 game. Try out each class and don't forget monster play. You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say, bought the game, installed, downloaded patch went to log in and POOOFF! Nadda. 
 No EULA Crap, no server to choose NOTHING. Called tech support and was directed to support. turbine. com. 
 Once I was their the Phone Tech told me to click on Live Chat. Doing so prompted me to a screen 
 that stated that there were no tech's available. After trying numerous times, still no game and 
 no support. And oh by the way, if you do call tech support, don't think you'll be greeted by Mr. 
 happy. Looking at all the stuff in support, I think they forgot to pull the plug on the Beta Servers. 
 Get it together Turbine!!!! Welp, back to WoW I go..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiritcycle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Ive only just got the game but from my basic interpretation and the amount of read I can fairly 
 describe what this game is and what makes it so immersive:
  
  I was inspired to write immediatly when I saw people writing 'total wow rip-off'... lets remind 
 our wow friends (yes I was once a keen player in Azeroth) that World of Warcraft 'borrows' alot 
 of its ideas from other games and makes them better. World of Warcraft blends all that was good 
 from the classic mmorpgs like Everquest while bringing its own distinct style and content. I believe 
 Lord of the Rings Online does exactly this, but improves on turbines previous works (which are 
 extensive, ie Dungeons and Dragons/ Asheron's Call 2) and uses inspiration from other excellent 
 titles like World of Warcraft. Now enough of wow and more of the game:
  
  Graphics:
  lotro has some of the best looking graphics for any mmorpg out there. Middle Earth is brought strikingly 
 to life with lushious scenery and belivable characters. Character models are well detailed, smooth 
 and attractive. The style resembles a mixture of Guild Wars/ WOW/Everquest 2 (lmao said it again... i 
 guess it cant be helped) which essentailly means a wonderful style that is both artisitc and realistic 
 with great uses of light, shadow and texture. The game has been in development for 4 years and 
 it certainly shows the effort into every detail. Watch leaves fall from trees and float on water, 
 gaze upon the endless terrain and skyline with natural beauty and evil corruption at every corner 
 and meet with charcters that feel real and bring the works of J. R. R Tolkien.
  
  Gameplay:
  lotro doesnt revolutionise the mmorpgs style of gameplay but makes it more interesting, 
 streamlined and enjoyable. As usual you level up a character and gain skills and experience as 
 you travel through Middle Earth to destroy the evil Witch King of Angmar. You start as a humble 
 Elf, Dwarf (no females.... phew) Human or Hobbit. Immediatly you are immersed in characters and 
 locations written so well by Tolkien. The Stories and details of his work clearly drive forward 
 ythe gameplay. Learning the game is made extremely easy but not annoyingly easy.
  
  While the key aspect of the game is the story and questing ect... there is a very interesting pvp 
 (player verus player) enivronemnt for the bravest to dare enter. This is where lotro comes more 
 into its own by briniging 'monster play' which allows level 10 characters to make a level 50 evil 
 monsters like wargs or orcs (Which King's forces) with full customisation. This essentailly allows 
 lower levels to get into pvp early and experience the darker side of Middle Earth while giving 
 leveled up players a great challenge. Though im not fully informed of all of 'moster play', it 
 looks distictive and effective in allowing pvp access to all players (from very early on) . So if 
 your getting alittle tired of fighting Cave Trolls (who would? :D) you can become a Warg and sink 
 your teeth into some mna flesh! (other players... which makes it sooo much better) .
  
  Sound:
  Lotro brings a mixture of good charcter acting and wonder muscial tunes together. The 
 music feels right at home and almost resembles the scores of the films but stays very unique and 
 different. Each location has its own musci and all fits nicely, so wether your rolling in the fields 
 of the Shire or crawling around in the Shadow lands of Angmar... you definatly feel it.
  
  Characters once again arent vioced by stars of the epic films by Jackson, but they are well done 
 and suit their roles. The game seems to do its self justice by steering away from the film content 
 (unlike many lotr themed games) but retains its beautiful filmed imagery and music.
  
  Value:
  Like many mmorpg's, lotro does have subscription. This isnt necessarly a bad thing as 
 turbine are reknowned for being dedicated in updating content and quality of service. Also there 
 is a special offer where you can pay a life time membership fee which is pricey but is certainly 
 worth it if you are planning to stay a long time. The big debate is whether you thikn its worth 
 the money? Lorto will constantly be updated and will grow meaning it might keep you away from other 
 games saving you money there. Either you pay for a service that lasts or buy many games or do both... entirely 
 up to you.
  
  The content in the game is top class and being based on the novels cant go wrong. Turbine did decide 
 only to cover the areas in the fellowship of the Ring... which might disappoint some palyers. But 
 Middle Earth is huge and even the current content is extensive. With time and updates we will see 
 the white city of Minus Tirith or the warlord lands of Rohan.
  
  My Final Points:
  Lotro is a fantastic game for people who love the content material. Even though it cleary caters 
 for lotr fans, the game is easily accessable for anyone. The focus on story and in gmae movies 
 drive it through draw you in as you feel part of the game. The game remains casual, but the depth 
 is there for anyone to explore and its certainly worth exploring. There is also a new spin on pvp 
 to please the more hardcore mmorpg players. Middle Earth has never looked this beautiful or been 
 so deep, I highly recommend you pack your bags and set forth into the lands of the Shire, Rivendale 
 and Bree. Middle Earth is waiting for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingb33
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I had huge expectations for this game. It exceeded them in every way. I've played EQ, EQ2, WOW, 
 Vanguard (ugh..) , SWG, EVE and s a few others and no other MMO has felt so polished on release 
 as this one. I've read some of the reviews in here on some people giving this game a score of 1-4 
 and don't let them fool you. They are probably WOW fanboyz who are worried about the potential 
 of LOTRO and want to bring down the overall score for it. Any idiot that says the games graphics 
 aren't amazing and completely immersive is either blind or is just plain lying or is running a 
 486DX from 1995. The game's atmosphere is so immersive and middle earth like that you will find 
 yourself just standing there looking around and just admiring the world that was built for this 
 game. The gameplay is right on too. Yes it feels a little like wow's combat system but who cares. 
 If you want to play a game that is immersive and polished amd breathes Middle Earth then give this 
 game a try. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tovarischs
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The first thing I should state in this review is that I am an enormous fan of MMORPGs. I have played 
 the vast majority of the major releases, from EVE to AO to EQ to UO to WoW. As such, I understand 
 that not every MMORPG can be a revolutionary step forward from its predecessor; WoW was an excellent 
 example of this, it really did nothing that was exceptionally exciting and new, but it did everything 
 other MMORPGs had done quite well. Unfortunately, it also continued to do only that, and with the 
 release of Burning Crusade I decided it was time to seek greener pastures.
  
  With this in mind, one of my former guildmates from WoW convinced me to try LOTRO, and I acquiesced. 
 It was still in open beta, after all, and all it would cost me was 10$ for the pre-order. I did 
 not expect to like it; after all, it seemed like simply another blatant cash grab, an attempt to 
 pull in some extra money for Midway over the Lord of the Rings license. So I installed and logged 
 in, expecting the worst. My first (and so far, only major character) was a Hunter; they are the 
 DPS class of the game, essentially Legolas from the films and able of dealing out some rather severe 
 beatings at range.
  
  There are a few things to bear in mind when coming to this game from any other MMORPG. There is 
 no magic-user class as one might expect there to be. This is a world, after all, where there are 
 only five wizards, so making a player able to be one would make almost no sense in the game. You 
 are given seven classes; Guardian (your tank) , Champion (melee DPS) , Burglar (debuffer) , Captain 
 (hybrid) , Loremaster (crowd control) , Hunter (ranged DPS) and Minstrel (healer) . Each one has their 
 own strengths and weaknesses, which are better expanded upon in a strategy guide, not a review.
 
  
  The first thing that struck me in the game was how polished the graphics were. After coming from 
 WoW's admittedly cartoonish world, the realism and attention to detail in LOTRO was almost overwhelming, 
 particularly when I saw my first pool of water. The water in this game is probably its best graphical 
 achievement, and I highly recommend anyone with doubts about the quality of the graphics to go 
 walk over to a lake and watch the sun set over the water. It's absolutely stunning.
  
  Now, as I mentioned, this game is evolutionary, not revolutionary. The quest system is very similar 
 to the EQ2 system (far more than the WoW quest system, sorry to everyone who wishes to claim they 
 stole it from the latter game) , and straightforward; most quests are prefaced with at least some 
 kind of directions so you aren't wandering around lost for hours on end, although even this won't 
 save you all the time. Since exp for killing creatures is rather minimal in this game, you'll be 
 far better served running quests to level, and this should bring you through the first ten levels 
 in relatively short order.
  
  One of my favourite features of EQ2 was 'Heroic Opportunities'; essentially, a chain of abilities 
 that would result in one 'Super Ability' being used at the end. The concept in a general sense 
 is present in LOTRO; you can do 'Fellowship Maneuvers' which are, essentially, super-powerful abilities 
 which require input from each player. Although I've only unlocked a few of the abilities, some 
 of the neater ones at the higher levels allow you to summon Oathbreakers to fight alongside you 
 (remember the green ghosts from ROTK? Those ones.)
  
  The neatest 'extra' feature of the game is the /music system. Pick an instrument, and then type 
 /music. Suddenly you're given the opportunity to play whatever songs are floating around in your 
 head, with three different 'keys' and 10 notes from each key. This is one of those features that 
 seems rather silly but you'll still find yourself using far more than is healthy, hitting keys 
 and trying to figure out how to play the first bar of 'Funky Town'.
  
  To avoid prattling on for too long, let me summarize; LOTRO is highly derivative of a lot of what 
 has come before. That is not a bad thing in its case. Everything it borrows from other games, it 
 refines far beyond what has been done before, whether it be the quest system, the crafting system 
 or what have you. To anyone who is a fan of both LOTR and MMORPGs, you cannot pass this one up. 
 And if you're a fan of MMORPGs but dissatisfied with what is currently available, I recommend LOTRO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaluv
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  LOTRO has a lot going for it. The quests are shorter, more can be accomplished in a shorter amount 
 of time with fewer people, beautiful backgrounds with interesting zone layouts, and an interesting 
 story advancement. However at the end of the day with all these improvements I keep asking myself 
 Why am I so bored? . The answer comes mainly from the fact that the enemy's are uninspired and 
 one is hardly motivated to keep playing by the boring story that hardly resembles its great source. 
 Add this to the shoddy player models, all too often zone loads, the lack of counter player characters, 
 and the interface that is not quite there yet and you are left with a game that could of been so 
 much more. I tried really hard to enjoy this game but just couldn't get past the lackluster elements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tek3n
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  First of all ignore the bad reviewers out there, most of them come from WoW to bash on this game 
 because all in their mind is WoW. Check their previous review and you'll know. Now to the game, 
 the game is amazing up till now it's a mix of almost every game you see out there, the advance 
 graphic system allow your old computer to run/yet see great graphic beyond's any MMOs out there 
 and run at stable speed. I was playing during the open beta and spend quite some time with it, 
 there's almost no lag actually no lag for me what so ever. At launch yet still no lag... the best 
 about this is that there's almost no bug I encounter and I've 5 characters brought to level 15 
 during beta.
  
  Gameplay is also fun and entertaining with the trait/deed system where when you complete killing 
 certain amount of same type of monster you'll get new skills unlock that cant be obtain by trainer 
 and more from the deed system. The trait/deed can be switched so you can maintain your character 
 at top notch to your wish. The quest follow the story line though there are tons of other quest 
 to do. Each has a unique reward. Music is almost exactly like the music you hear if you've watched 
 Lord of the rings but with awesome mixed sound effect. If you're going to bet your money, bet it 
 here it's 100% worth it to try it out.
  
  The list could go on like 100% Solo Friendly/Raid Friendly/Group Friendly, Monster Play, Great 
 Crafting System, Great Character Tunning etc... but i'll let you see for yourself instead of me 
 spoiling the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tunaface
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  gaming experience. You don't need to be grouped all the time to do anything, although it's nice 
 when you are (great community, i've been on since beta) . I prefer to solo when i can, and thats 
 100% o. k. This game is amazing. From the lore, the characters (tom bombadils my favorite) , the 
 scenery, the places, the graphics, and the music, you can't go wrong with this game, if you're 
 in the market for a MMO, especially if you're a tolkien fan. It didnt take long for this game to 
 take hold of me, and pull me in. The classes are alot of fun to play, and the crafting is a lot 
 of fun. If you enjoy crafting, but hate the headaches (eq2) , then you will enjoy the crafting system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoVelamir
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Ok yea, it's a dumbed down MMO like WoW, and I'd rather have it be more like the original EQ but 
 who cares. People whine and complain, this is a copy of Wow wahhhh. Well Wow is basically a copy 
 of EQ and all other MMO's before it. People who complain about the graphics and gameplay running? 
 Ok, Bree lags your comp up if you have a mediocre computer, but when I go to my bro's house and 
 play his comp on Ultra High, this game is close to Oblivion beautiful. Compared to WoW's 90's cartoon 
 graphics? Haha. The gameplay is aswome and the pure fact that it's lord of the rings just makes 
 it even better. Ok haters, if your only excuse is it runs bad (ur comp stinks) or its a WoW copier 
 (Wow's a big copy already hipocrit) then your argeement is invalid find a better one. Those who 
 think there is no mass PvP. cry me a river not everythings perfect. Sparring is very fun especially 
 when Kinships hold tournaments and that's all the PvPing ive played. And monster play rocks too, 
 its basicaly like faction battles from GW only better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy_gamer2k6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when I went to go and pick up my copy of LOTRO. The instillation went by really 
 well, with the thought of the opening menu screen still promoting me to buy now when I have a 
 legit copy already in use. With that aside, it makes me feel sort of upset to think I am going 
 to be shelling out 15 clams after my 30 day trial. Hopefully by then, I will have played LOTRO 
 enough to not really care. I think that the graphics are awesome and the whole feel is just very 
 becoming. You get engrossed very deeply into the game, and that is one thing that adds a bonus. 
 The menu system and the inventory and skill set system were a little hard to navigate. I trained 
 my character up to level 4 and got my first new skill, but was unable to use it do to the fact 
 that I did not know how to transfer it to my skill menu (I mean, why couldnt they just appear 
 inside the menu) . The quests are very fun and good, and so long as you have a team of followers 
 behind you, its pretty easy to dominate anything. There is much more that I am going to have to 
 get used to and play, but for what I know so far, this is one game that will rule them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbitrage
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  I was extremely skeptical about trying out LOTRO after being a loyal WOW player since it's beta 
 stage. I received a beta key early on and then during one of the WOW upgade downtuimes figured 
 it would be a great time to try it. All in all I impressed with the fact that you live the opening 
 storyline through interactions and cinemas which really gives you the sense of why you are doing 
 what you are doing. for $10 a month I will keep both accounts active as I think this game Is an 
 RPG in an MMO box which is a different way to play sometimes. looking forward to seeing what develops. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shraniken
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  You can't beat this game if you want a good MMO... Especially if you want a good toss back to the 
 old days. It's pulled off what Vanguard attempted, but with proper planning it's managed to actually 
 work. It's graphic style, while often compared to WoW is actually quite different as it goes for 
 a more realistic approach, but at the same time it does so without compromising it's performance. 
 It takes advantage of all the new hardware as well.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, not a whole lot new here. But it's taken the best from eq and eq2, and 
 it'd done well in doing so. Quests.. You simply won't find better quests in any other mmorpg. While 
 I'm not typically a fan of instances, LotRO has managed to pull em' off quite well by making instances 
 very dynamic. There are load screens, but you'll never seen one for more than 2 seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  I'll do the CONS first, THEN the PROS.
  
  CONS:
  
  The world to some is a bit small. I am in the category that believes this to be the case. Bree, 
 and Hobbiton are a mere 15-minute walk. Unnatural animation of players, mobs, and NPC's.
  
  Physics model is very poor
  
  No transitional/simultaneous emotes. You can't sit down, AND 
 laugh, smoke, eat, or drink at the same time.
  
  Graphics hiccup on my machine, in spite of it's status as a powerhouse. (Dual processor, 2.66Ghz, 
 2 gigs ram, 512MB ati XTX 1950 card. This game should perform flawlessly graphics maxed, and it 
 doesn't.
  
  Interface not as intuitive as WoW's. Also cannot be re-sized.
  
  Environmental interaction isn't as natural feeling as WoW's.
  
  When you target a mob or NPC, 
 the targeting circle around the ground is gigantic, and it is hard to take a good screenshot. (In 
 other words, you can't take a good screenshot whilst fighting something) At least, I haven't been 
 able to do so.
  
  Cinematics aren't very well-done. (In-game drama, etc.)
  
  Farming (yes, FARMING.. As in tilling fields) has been ruined as of release. This may change in 
 time.
  
  PROS: (In no particular order)
  
  A VASTLY superior crafting system. If you're reasonably dilligent, you can make items for your 
 level that are vastly superior to the drops you get from drops, and the items purchased from vendors. 
 This is a very refreshing change of pace compared to the artificial controlled economy WoW.
  
  *Unprecedented* graphics. Environmental animations are beautiful.
  
  4-hour full day cycles 
 and large variety of weather is very, very immersive. You can have bright, and sunny days with 
 almost no clouds, partly cloudy days, overcast days, foggy days, and hazy days in-game. Variety 
 IS the spice of life. Quests are quite fun, and story enhancing. They're area appropriate, and 
 are well-done.
  
  The traits system is quite superior. It allows for MAXIMUM custumization of a character, and their 
 strengths.
  
  *HUGE* number of emotes! You can even set your character's MOOD! (I mean a persistent set of behaviors!) 
 Happy, Sad, Mischievous, Apprehensive, Surprised, Solemn, Calm, and a few more.
  
  The developers so far have adhered to the lore. It is reasonably faithful to the BOOKS. They are 
 not afraid to use the word queer as Tolkien used it. There's pipeweed, and pipeweed farming. Pipeweeds 
 have their distinct animations when being smoked. All of these things are LORE-APPROPRIATE
  
  A FANTASTIC toggle list, and graphical tweaks. These features allow you to get the absolute 
 most out of your game. They could use a few more toggles, to be honest, but what they have is prolific, 
 and far above and beyond most other games.
  
  The game boasts a very good soundtrack, and there are some stunningly beautiful visual effects. 
 (Sunrises, sunsets, smiths working on various items, and you can see the heat waves radiating from 
 the brazier and forge)
  
  Bear in mind that this game was BORN 24 hours ago, as of this writing. Who knows what will be changed, 
 added, or fixed in a few month's time. I pre-ordered, and am now going to be a lifelong subscriber. 
 I have participated in the process since the early stage of ALPHA, (Alpha II to be precise) and 
 I am going to see this game through to whatever end it takes. Am I shamelessly biased? Well, I'll 
 leave that to you to decide. I honestly felt that some of my cons were scathing, but all-in-all 
 I like the game more than I do WoW. My opinion is apt to change after spending even MORE time with 
 LOTRO, but considering what they have done with it by the time of release, I stand impressed. The 
 devs have shown themselves to be not only interested, but accomodating to the wants and needs of 
 players. (By and large) they are a bit knee-jerk with certain issues, and unfortunately, the level 
 cap in open Beta caused an economic problem that was dealt with far too harshly, and further adjustments 
 will need to be made with the game.
  
  It's all a learning process, I think. Turbine has a right to be proud of what they've created here, 
 but they'd BETTER be of the mind that their job has just begun, and that more work needs to be 
 done to improve the game. Anything less than a philosophy like that may prove to be disastrous 
 not only for theplayers, but to Turbine.
  
  Well worth the money in my opinion. My apologies for the long review, but four years is a long 
 time to spend getting ready for a game, so as it pertains to ME, it is a suitable review.
  
  Best regards,
  
  Froldegar Barleybuck
  Meneldor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  I know i'm just one of the many million Blizzard fans who have been playing World of Warcraft since 
 their own closed beta, however as time has taken its toll, so have my perception on designs of 
 multiple MMO's. From a completely designers perspective (Working on a degree in Game Art &amp; 
 Design) I have a few comments about what Turbine has done with Lotro. As there are millions of 
 wow players, you can't help but see that every game afterwards that claims the MMO genre will be 
 compared to wow. World of Warcraft has in a certain way set a bar that has completely made itself 
 unique compared to its predecessors. With that, I want to say that the Turbine team have done a 
 magnificent job in learning from the several aspects of other MMO's (including wow) that had made 
 them successful games. They took many attributes and improved on them, making them unique in their 
 own way. People would call them copycats of ideas Blizzard came up with, however Blizz never came 
 up with the ideas, this is why people become so Bias. Everything is compared to wow. LOTRO IS NOT 
 WOW. One thing for a fact that will separate this game away from wow, is the limited PVP (only 
 included in Monster Play) . You are allowed to duel of course however the game isn't focused around 
 pvp. It is definitely geared towards the RolePlaying and Player vs Environment communities. They 
 have formulated their own raid formula focusing on 24 man content for end game. This game is also 
 quest based, this will be where you make most of your XP, not griding. The only grinding you will 
 see are from players trying to pick up certain mats, accomplishing deeds and titles. On that note, 
 which also makes this game unique. Accomplishing the various amounts of deeds and claiming titles 
 (similair to the City of Heroes and Villains) . Player played instruments are also brought into 
 this game (Asherons Call anybody?) So it is always a refreshing change when waiting for other players, 
 or if you're bored, interacting with other players simply through in game instruments. This is 
 definitely something I missed since AC. The graphics are superb. So is World of Warcraft's environment. 
 So what is to judge here? Well for one, its back to a more realistic non cartoony style that Blizz 
 stylized with their environments. Nope? I still can't judge. It's simply all about taste. Seeing 
 that I have been in the seemingless world of Azeroth and Outlands for the longest time, it is a 
 complete refreshing change to be able to indulge into a completely new environment. Now as with 
 any graphics, this is also a game pioneering new graphical features, so you definitely want to 
 have at least 128 mb of video minimal. However, to see the true graphical beauty and potential 
 of this game, you want to be powered by the latest graphics cards. I utilize dual 7800 GTX OC in 
 SLI, running the game in generally Very High with many of the graphics tweaked to my liking. 2 
 Gigs of Ram will also help out with player crowded areas, loading times and certain glitches. The 
 graphics for the most part are bug free, gorgeous, and for all the minor discrepencies that I have 
 come across, I am sure future patches will cover this. Not bad at all for Open Beta. The music 
 sticks with the lore as well, keeping to simple string elements and very strong symphonic tunes 
 when it comes to the scripted storlines in instance quests and what not. I think the action sounds 
 can be worked on as they are a bit subtle and boring, but as this is still in beta, there are bigger 
 fish to fry. Closing thoughts. Turbine doesn't have the greatest track record, however they have 
 definitely made a successful mark here and as soon as the game releases, they are going to bask 
 in the glory of a successful game that has definitely made its mark in the MMO community as one 
 to stand up against World of Warcraft in the player based communities. After seeing how World of 
 Warcraft became so successful, and watching other MMO's just fall against the might of the loyal 
 wow fans, I can't imagine how tough it must have been for the Turbine team to reinvent and renovate 
 a game to attract millions of players already zombified by the powers that be (which is Blizzard) . 
 I for one am walking to the light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morristi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Many of the negative reviews complain about poor graphics. I think they must have only played the 
 downloadable open beta, which is restricted to the low resolution textures and animations. The 
 fact that they didn't even bother to note this fact indicates that they aren't really taking the 
 game very seriously or giving it much of a chance.
  
  People who complain about easy quests and limited scope probably never got out of the introductory 
 area which is purposely single player and designed to gently ease the player into MMORPGs and the 
 LotR world.
  
  Maybe people should try actually playing the retail version of the game and play it past the newbie 
 area before dismissing it as a completely worthless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game brings you into the world of Middle Earth at the beginning of the Lord of the Rings trilogy 
 time-line. You play as an inhabitant of Middle Earth just trying to do your part in the war against 
 the armies of Moridor. The story for LOTRO follows a side track to the story told in the trilogy 
 but it touches at points with some of the various characters from the books. Your story changes 
 a bit depending on what race you are as well. If you are a human your introduction into the tutorial 
 part of the game is different than if you played a hobbit, elf, or dwarf. Character creation is 
 well laid out with movies for each of the races and classes to help you make your decision. There 
 are many choices as well for creating the appearance of your characters. The graphics in this game 
 are very well done and at times breath taking. With expansive maps and large terrains to cover 
 you are given a feel of being part of the world. The sound quality is wonderful and engaging. The 
 gameplay is well thought out and entertaining. The story line for this game is very quest driven 
 with the numerous quests available this isn't a problem. Turbine took a page from their Asheron's 
 Call developers for this game and listened to what the testers had to say. They worked out the 
 majority of the bugs long ago and altered the game to enhance the LOTR experience for the better. 
 To top it off for founders (those who pre-ordered the game) the monthly fee is only $9.95 or you 
 can get a lifetime membership for $199.95. All I can say is thanks Turbine for making a very enjoyable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maalinga
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  From about 20 hours of gameplay and 4-5 different classes I played, this is what I conclude: This 
 game has no reason to be called an MMORPG. It is a RPG with a built-in chat (maybe voice chat) 
 engine. There is absolutely no feel of a community in this game. Everyone does their own thing. 
 Quests are so easy it is a joke. This game is built for the whiniest player out there. I started 
 as a champion and went to the elven starting place, and got tired of doing kill x of this and go 
 talk to this guy over there. To boot, there doesn't seem to be an alternate path. This game is 
 so set in stone, I felt claustraphobic. Even the world felt flat.
  
  Then I played a captain, which put me in the human/hobbit area which was slightly different but 
 only cosmetically. I joined a guild (ok, kinship or whatever u wanna call it) and formed a group 
 (bah! fellowship) since I was so bored running around solo. Well we were in a group, but we were 
 just about doing out own things.. After about 15 mins, I go y we in a group? they go i dunno... 
 
  
  Anyways, I goto the forums to read up a bit on this class. There is a thread that goes captain's 
 weakest class inside someone is whining about how a captain could only solo two mobs about 2 levels 
 higher than him, whereas other classes could do 3 levels higher than them! Such a gimp class T. T
 
  
  Then I go and make a loremaster, an excuse for a magician. I find that loremasters have a pet and 
 spells. Cool! I conjure images of making my pet draw all the agro while I dps the monster, only 
 to be disappointed sorely. Turns out, it not only is feasible to be the main tank (between u and 
 ur pet) in a fight, it also is the preffered and correct way this class is played. The pet basically 
 gives u some kind of a buff and doesn't do much else other than cawing annoyingly and pulling stray 
 mobs at the end of a fight. Completely useless. When fighting two or so, can't really let the pet 
 take agro of the adds while u knock down a mob - pet dies way too soon. A PET CASTER'S EXCLUSIVE 
 PET SHOULD OUTLIVE HIM!! Well, there are things about this game that I do like: Absolutely bug-free, 
 compared to vanguard this is a big plus. My game never crashed. The load times are really annoying 
 though, especially with the videos. I wish I couldve turned them off. hmm.. yeah, good points... 
 game looks rather neat graphically, esp on full settings, like the water and grass. Don't like 
 character models and animations though.. too cartoony for my taste.. The deed system sounds interesting, 
 but the rest of the gameplay is so linear that I doubt this will make any difference. I bet there 
 will be a set or traits that outperform all else for a class and you will have to go with that 
 or be able to only solo 5 mobs 10 levels above you while everyone else is soloing 20 mobs 30 levels 
 above them while voice chatting with their friends... if u got to try it in open beta, u got lucky 
 and played a release quality mmo for free (good karma for paid beta testing of vanguard and the 
 like :P) Otherwise, not worth paying up the 50+ monthly... Am waiting for the better MMO's set 
 to release later this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseArt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Honestly when I first started the game, I was impressed by the character creation area, but when 
 I started playing I was a bit disappointed. I wasn't too impressed with the animations and the 
 models for the elf I was playing didn't look so great; sort of disproportionate. I guess I have 
 too much of the movies clouding my imagination. Well, after having played in the beta and getting 
 used to the game I soon forgot all that and was treated to a rendition of the LOTR books that very 
 much made me feel a part of the land and lore, even in just the beginning areas. Turbine is no 
 stranger to the MMO market and their design of LOTRO is very well done. From the well written quests, 
 to the beautiful graphics, to the stylized art of the world around you, to the unique ways to personalize 
 your avatar, it''s clear that the 3 years development time turned out what's sure to be a very 
 successful and enjoyable MMO.
  
  One thing that stood out from all else (especially coming from Vanguard) is that, for me, this 
 game was rock solid. No bugs, no crashes, nothing. The game scales VERY well graphically and should 
 be playable on any PC 2-3 years old. One thing however, there are queues, so If you create a player 
 on a busy server you're gonna wait. On launch day only 3 servers had a queue and my wait on each 
 was less that 5 min, if that. There are currently 11 servers (if I recall correctly) so there are 
 many to choose from that shouldn't be overpopulated. When you launch the game the launcher app 
 recommends servers for you that aren't overly popluated. I came from WoW over a year ago to start 
 playing Vanguard (no MMO is as frustrating and painful at $14.99/month) and I have to say that 
 LOTRO is a nice breath of fresh air. Yes, it somewhat favors WoW but to me that's a bit of a compliment 
 because I consider WoW to be a very well made MMO as well. Hopefully however LOTRO won't become 
 the timesink of life itself that WoW turned into. If LOTRO truly retains it's solo-ability and 
 balances it with the nice fellowship (group) system, then I believe Turbine won't alienate it's 
 player base based on who has the most time on their hands like Blizzard did.
  
  So if you're looking for a fun MMO and are a fan of the Tolkien books then this is your ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainkash
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first notice about this game i was very happy, i mean, a MMORPG based on my favorite novel, 
 The Lord of The Rings, it was amazing.
  I was waiting until i heard about the open beta and i gave it a try. I bought some magazine with 
 the CD of LOTR and i installed it. First impression, the menu was cool, i registered my account, 
 everything seems to be normal. Entered the game: Well, graphs seems to be poor, i mean, you have 
 great games with better graphs on the market, the NPC's animations, well seems to be sprites of 
 a 2D game, it was disappointing, the environment, reminds me a lot of WoW, colorful characters, 
 not shader at all. The Story, well, all i can imagine is about the Witch king making some mess 
 in middle earth after the war of the ring. In Conclusion i don't think this game will offer something 
 really new to the MM ORPG community, there are a lot of better games out there, and if yo are a 
 true fan of LOTR you will be like me, very disappointed. It could have been the great MMORPG ever, 
 but at least was a good try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  If you really love questing, love instancing and love LOTR. You will definitatly love this game. 
 You will find leveling quite easy through quests unlike other WoW who encourage you to kill the 
 same mobbs over and over again (grinding) . Quests in this MMO really takes it to another level, 
 I'm not 100% what makes it so special yet but somehow I'm just addicted to them. Graphics are amazing, 
 probably will be the best out there (for MMOs) for a long while. Landscape is amazing, you won't 
 see the same house/building over and over again it feels like they really put an effort to this.
 
  
  Although with a license like LOTR you definitatly have a lot of restrictions, however I must say 
 Turbine pulled it off quite well. You will miss powerful casters though, so if your desperatly 
 in need to play a bad ass dmg dealer as a caster you will not be too happy. Also there are a bunch 
 of small details that will annoy you if you've played WoW for a very long time like, selling stuff 
 (you have to sell from a menu the vendor has) , buying a random amount of quantity of an item from 
 a vendor (sells only in stacks and one by one) . So here's the deal. Used to WoW and still loves 
 WoW? You should probably stick to WoW. Sick of WoW and want to try something else? LOTRO is your 
 thang. Oh and knowing the LOTR lore will be a very big bonus. Also if you love PvE this game is 
 the s**znit for you,. Love PvP? Maybe not so much. It's a either love it or hate it for most people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a good game with a bright future.. I would like to see them do more with PVP and 
 maybe player owned structures... Some will say the playing design is a rip off of WOW.. I think 
 that it takes the things that are right in WOW and incorporate them into this game but a rip off 
 of WOW it is not.. Map size is great because you do not spend half of your time walking to your 
 quest.. also the game seems to force you to quest for XP at the early levels at least the XP from 
 killing monsters is not there.
  
  Play it you will like it.. if you like LOTR play it you will love it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunlcolvin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- OK it's the style your used to, and it work's well if your a mmorpg'er.
  It at some times seems a bit unpolished, but thats coming from beta exp. All in all Gameplay is 
 good
  
  Graphics- The overall Graphics are very very good the animation some times of your toons seems 
 off but never the less they did a good Job.
  
  Sound- Great music and good sound, At first you think man this seems dull but you begin to see 
 how well they made the music blend in with the area's you play in.
  
  Value- Even if you get 2 good fun months out of a game I think you got your moneys worth and it 
 will keep you logging on every day. So far so good even though I was caped at lv15 Overall- Well 
 done and yes a little bit of copying from other games systems and put in some of their own Ideas 
 with I think are good and original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Having played a little bit of closed-beta and non-stop for the past few weeks of open beta I can 
 honestly say this is one of, if not the best MMO I have played to date.
  
  Gameplay, first and foremost is downright fun, with lengthy questing, new deed and traits systems, 
 and other additions that make the game rise above others. From questing to combat to crafting to 
 raiding, you'll have fun in this game without the monotonous grind found in other MMOs.
  
  The visuals are stunning in high resolution and the game can be run on pretty much any PC, which 
 is a feat in itself, considering others that fail miserably in this area.
  
  The sounds effects are original and dynamic and the diversity of them in each area is in itself 
 noteworthy. Add the fantastic music score to that equation and you have some of the best in-game 
 sound done to date.
  
  A few posts on here claim that this game lacks originality, but I beg to differ. The LOTR game 
 environment is immersive, moreso than pretty much any other MMO out there. It feels like you're 
 thrust into a believable world that could be LOTR without the plastic-like appearances we've seen 
 in MMOs with ultra high resolution textures.
  
  This title has massive potentional and after reading recent interviews with Turbine there are huge 
 plans in store. Not only that, it's backed by one of the most professionial companies in the gaming 
 and MMO industry that truly knows how to do things right. The best thing you can do is pick a copy 
 of this up for yourself and jump right in and not take to heart the posts of others who've had 
 an entire 3 hours of gameplay experience.
  
  LOTRO is a winner and you won't have to take my word for it. The masses will prove it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Taking a Tolkienesque spin on World of Warcraft sounds like a nifty idea right? The largest problem 
 i have with this is the non -continuous world (load times in a mmo? when did we take a step back?) 
 The game is almost a homage to WoW, down to the controls and quest system. But as far as that takes 
 it, the User interface is drab and very small (im playing widescreen, maybe that matters?) And it 
 may sound right now that i am a WoW ffanboy, hold your horses. I am one of the biggest Tolkien 
 fans out there, I can quote family trees at you if you so require, and the idea of a LoTRs MMO 
 made me very excited. The problem with that is it is VERY, and i mean VERY, loosely tied to anything 
 in the books! It has hobbits, elves, men and the dark lord in it, and thats about as close as it 
 gets. The maps, wich tolkien was very specific about, are only vaguley similiar. Don't get me started 
 on the lack of PvP and that there are no evil races. I really wanted to see things from the perspective 
 of an orc, but nope sorry. Anyway, i will continue to play WoW and hope that Warhammer Online shows 
 a little more substance to earn my mmo dollar.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy8vien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  So far so good for LOTRO, I'm one of the Beta Tester (Founder) and have played the game for 2 weeks. 
 All I can say is it is worth getting specially if you are a fan of Lord Of The Ring series you 
 can really feel that you are part of the epic story and I think as patches comes along it'll just 
 get better. Gameplay is not much of diffrent from any other MMO out there which is good because 
 if you are an MMO player you wouldn't have a hard time to get use witht he control and btw Num-Lock 
 is your best friend (it's a key to auto run/walk) . The world is beautiful, transition of day and 
 night is very nice you will notice the changes in the weather. Lastly so far the community are 
 very social and very nice you can find yourself playing in a certain area (ex. Barrow-Down) by yourself 
 completing a quest and people will invite you to a fellowship/party to help you and them out to 
 do the quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlove2dream
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  It's advance of WOW, loves their EPIC story quests, Raid quests, Fellowship quests,100 times more 
 quests to do than WOW. It is half size map of WOW for now but it will be 5 times bigger than WOW 
 after many expansions. LOTRO is faster with quests, shorter distance, WOW is boring, too long run 
 distance and quests are too slow and boring. LOTRO is cheaper than WOW. LOTRO forever, gonna play 
 it lifetime. I was lvl 50 (max lvl) in closed beta, Amazing game! LOTRO #1, WOW #2, FF #3. Go LOTRO 
 go. Best game many years to come, I give it 10 , 2 thumbs up, 5 stars!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elahan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I've been in Beta since Oct '06. LOTRO has gone from a fairly decent game, I wasn't sure I would 
 buy, to an MMO that delivers the perfect portrayal of Middle-Earth in the digital realm while still 
 providing a fresh, engaging and immersive MMO world to explore and engage in. The Dev Team has 
 proven (time and time again) that they care what their customers think. They have repeatedly listened 
 to our (sometimes fervent) demands and have returned with exactly what we have asked for. Frodo 
 Lives! Middle-Earth Lives! I am excited to lose many hours of sleep over the next couple of years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sindeal
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who has played the game for only roughly 5 - 6 hours but I can 
 tell you from many beta tests and many other MMORPG's that this one has nothing to grab you. There 
 was nothing that made me want to come back and play this game again after this first initial login. 
 Graphically I thought it was mediocre at best. Overall the graphics seemed a bit too cartoony to 
 me (and this is coming from a Warcraft vet) . Also I was extremely annoyed by little things, like 
 when you are wearing a cloak, it is CONSTANTLY blowing in the wind, AWAY from your body at all 
 times. On a positive, I'd say if you are a Tolkien nut then you'll probably dig this game because 
 of the opportunity to transverse Middle-Earth but for someone who may not be the biggest fan of 
 Hobbits saving the world, you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgalvan
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I have to admit to being a little giddy about this game when I first downloaded it. I mean it's 
 LOTR! Some would say it is a MMOG based upon the roots of which all other RPGs sprouted from. Others 
 would say it spawned the best trilogy ever. What ever the case it was a pretty important license 
 franchise and I was all tingly when I finaly installed it, patched up and saw the opening movie. 
 Then it kind of fell short from there.
  
  Maybe my expectations where too high. Why shouldn't they be? This is LOTR after all. It shoudl 
 have blew my socks off. It didn't.
  
  Character creation was the saem as every other MMOG. I was dissapointed in the lack of different 
 classes to choose from. You basically get 7 to choose from if you are human. If you choose a demi-human 
 it gets even more restrictive. Nothing really stood out to me on what I wanted to be. I wanted 
 to shy away from what I figured would be 10 billion hunter (bow using Legolas wannabes) and figured 
 a Human / Champion would be good. I like DPS chars.
  
  I created a character and off I went. After getting through tthe first sequecne of quests which 
 you pretty much get no choice in doing, you are thrown into an MMORPG as plain and vanilla as every 
 other one out there. There are quests a plenty of the typical, go there and get that, go there 
 and kill that, or go there and talk to him / her. I picked up a few quests in the starter viggiage 
 and off I went for fame and glory.
  
  As I cruised into the battlefield the first thign that caem to my mind was, I should have picked 
 a Hunter . Why? Because as I suspected there were 1 billion hunter / Legolas wannabes in the area 
 and trying to run up to a mob before Legolas Jr. plinks him and tags him is an exercise in futility.
 
  
  Fast forward an hour or so and i am lvl 10 with a few more utilities under my bat belt. During 
 a fight I realize that I am just button mashing and that is getting very boring. There are no cool 
 animations that make it interesting. Basically I am pressing the same 3 buttons during every fight 
 and I start to think to myself I'd be having a lot more fun kiling terorists in Vegas or levling 
 my rogue to 70 . I give it a last push to see if anything more exciting will happen and it dosn't 
 look like it. I can only do so many cookie cutter quests before I start to want o bang my head 
 with a spoon because the sound that my head makes when I do that is much more interesting then 
 what I am doing. I didn't want to compare this to WOW. It's hard not to being that they are the 
 same genre. IMHO save yourself the grief and skip this. Go play WOW or R6: Viva Las Vegas. Go play 
 anything else and leave this game to the hard core LOTR fan bois. I'm sure they'll eat this up 
 much like I did when SW: Galaxies came out. The only good thing I can say about this game is, with 
 the graphics turned al the way up, the water look really pretty. There is nothing innovative or 
 new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanem_2k1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Its hard for me to not be biased cause i love the Tolkein universe, so here's my best shot.
  
  The gameplay can be repetitive... some quests are as simple as running back and forth between 
 Hobbits in-love, others are incredibly difficult and can only be completed with the help of others. 
 So there's some variability in that. Initially, this game does feel like a WoW copy-cat what with 
 crafting and questing, but it does have a Deeds and Titles system that allows you to get special 
 race-and-class pertinent traits that can upgrade your character. And these aren't just some random, 
 overly general traits. They stick true to LOTR lore and literature and are highly specific according 
 to the books. So in some areas it lacks originality, but for some reason i still find it more fun 
 than WoW.
  
  Combat is simple, accessible, and fun, though it lacks any real creativity since every class is 
 pretty much stuck with the same meneuvers. Knowing that the ranger next to you has the same attacks 
 you do kind of is annoying since there is no uniqueness between classes. Guildwars is a good example 
 of high variety level even withina class type.
  
  The Lone-Wolf player will have some fun for a bit exploring a geographically acurate Middle-Earth 
 (more or less, and not to scale) and harvesting resources for their crafting proficiencies, but 
 when push comes to shove and you gotta further the Epic Quest storyline, you're gonna be seeking 
 aid.
  
  It's chat feature needs some seriosu revamp, its a hassle having to click between channels and 
 IMs and General Chat, but it makes up for that with simple VoIP functions.
  
  Visuals are muuuuuuch better than that other MMORPG, though it does have its glitches here and 
 there. The armor is very detailed, even for lower levels. The high-end 50 level armor is amazing, 
 very movie-esque with reflecting metals/silvers and armor glow. By biggest beef is with the trees.... they 
 could use some work.
  Sound doesn't have that LOTR punch i was expecting from, say, the movies, but the soundtrack is 
 awesome, relatively changing from area to area and nailing the mood spot on.
  
  This is definitley a great start for an awesome franchise, needs some improvements here and there, 
 but with a story as rich as LOTR, expect alot ALOT more in terms of content in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulfortner
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  The world is stunning and needs to be seen in action to really do it justice. Rivers flow, Lakes 
 ripple, Trees sway in the breeze, reflections and lighting blooms are done just right... really 
 impressive stuff. The quest system is much of the same you will find in any MMO except that they 
 have more of a story behind them (if you read the text) and the directions to finding where the 
 quest is located are generally very well done.
  
  The Deeds/Trait system is unique and looks like it will really allow a great deal of customization 
 within character classes. Deeds are basically Macro-quests like completing most of the quests in 
 an area, or killing enough spiders, or not dying for 5 levels, etc. When you complete a Deed you 
 earn either a Title or Trait. A title is just that, a title you can show with your name to other 
 players like Arborian the Wary and has no real effect on gameplay. A trait can be equiped to give 
 stat bonuses or new skills and are easily swapped out to customize your character however you would 
 like. I don't like the character animations and hope they get help after launch. They need more 
 variety and impact. Combat up to level 15 is certainly on the easy side but I expect that from 
 most MMOs in early levels.
  
  Overall, with this much Lore to work from and such a well done world engine already in place, this 
 game has serious legs. It is already very fun and the potential is exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radbytrade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Online, the first foray into the MMO market for the storied intellectual property 
 that is Tolkien's Middle-Earth retains enough of the familiar trappings of the genre for anyone 
 to pick up and play, while providing enough new gameplay ideas as well as improvements to pre-existing 
 features to thoroughly satisfy anyone looking for a new, massively-multiplayer experience.
  
  The user-interface and gameplay is directly copied from a little title Blizzard created that 
 some might be familiar with. The prevailing theory here of Don't fix what's not broken seems to 
 apply adequately. On the other end of the spectrum, from a more realistic-to-the-setting morale 
 system that does away with health to the ability to craft and perform your own pieces of music 
 played on period instruments and the fact that crafting professions must work hand-in-hand with 
 other would-be smiths and bowyers to create viable equipment, there's so much new here that those 
 yearning for something new (although not necessarily more) will find a lot to love, to say nothing 
 of the fantastic setting which all modern fantasy tales, epics, and games owe everything to.
  
  The soundtrack is a wonderfully crafted masterpiece, switching from folksy acoustic guitar 
 tracks you'll come to associate with those delightfully rustic hobbits to the sweeping, epic scores 
 more fitting for the elder races of elves and dwarves. It's all here and virtually teeming with 
 production value. Spoken dialogue can at times be a bit unintentionally comical (Bwackenbwook?) , 
 but on the whole the sound is one of many strong points for this title.
  
  On top-end machines, the visuals in this title are absolutely breathtaking at times and will have 
 you scrambling for the print screen key often so that you can capture moments, and landmarks, to 
 show to your friends.
  
  All that being said, the system requirements for the game CAN tend to be a bit exclusive, especially 
 considering the jump from more popular and successful games such as WoW (clocking in at a miniscule 
 800mhz compared to the system hog that is LotR: O which demands 1.8ghz MINIMUM) . Also, as said before, 
 the similarities between some aspects of World of Warcraft and LotR: O can be off-putting to some 
 and downright laughable to others.
  
  Nothing can be lost by trying the game out for free for 30 days, however. If you're a fan of the 
 genre, LotR: O is definately worth at least a look. PvP hounds beware, there is little in the way 
 of actual meaningful content for you here. This game is heavily biased towards the PvE/Questing 
 end of the spectrum and Turbine makes no apologies for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolielStarfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  After beta testing and/or playing Everquest, Everquest 2, Final Fantasy XI, URU: Live, World of 
 Warcraft, and Lineage, I thought I had seen it all; The RPG in my MMO was saturated. So when I 
 got my beta stress test key several months back for Lord of the Rings Online, I was pissed: Im 
 an avid Tolkien fanboy, have been for years (Seriously, how many teenagers draw their idea of an 
 ideal relationship from Aragorn and Arwen) , Just as Tolkien said about making LotR into a movie, 
 I raged How could they make a MMO out of this! They will mess it up. It will not work. Ill cry. 
 Ill laugh. At the game designers.
  Goodbye, short lived anger. Hello epic, advanced MMO that has made me cancel my Wow subscription.
 
  
  Here are some highlights:
  The Storyline: Turbine has done what only Peter Jackson has had any measure of success at, that 
 is, staying true to a story that has been read as much as the bible, but still retain creative 
 license. When adventuring in Turbines middle earth, you are part of the LotR story, involved in 
 epic quests throughout the whole game that immerse you into the core story of the fellowship, the 
 ring, and the dark lords campaign. The game focuses highlighting this story every chance it gets: 
 rewards in the form of stat boosts and character titles are given for everything from discovering 
 important historical locations to killing a lot of a certain pesky creature, helping the Shires 
 postal service get up to par, or just not dying. This is the first MMO which has a storyline-focused 
 reward system that does not feel tacked on.
  The Gameplay: We have groups of fellowships. We have quests to go on and monsters to kill, treasures 
 to find and lands to discover. Sound familiar? Yes, however, the game mechanics of LotRO makes 
 World of Warcraft seem like it is a tricycle with training wheels. Where timing isnt an issue 
 in WoW until mid-game at least, and spell chaining isnt so important, (although still important, 
 just not relatively) , LotRO is built from the ground up with a focus on fellowship (group) tactics 
 and timing. I have a feeling that people who become experienced with LotRO group play and raiding 
 will become experts much sooner than if you were playing WoW. That being said, the learning curve 
 is variable, depending on your experience. People new to MMORPGs might be a little lost at first. 
 Dont worry, though, even if you feel disoriented in the first few hours, its ok, its just the 
 endorphins flooding your brain with anticipation
  The Graphics: The graphics system is absolutely gorgeous, and the artwork has captured the look 
 and feel of the free races and of middle-earth in a way that compliments instead of contradicts 
 pre-established ideas such as the movies. Firstly, if you try to get to Bag End just following 
 the directions in the book, you will get there, and it will be right where you expect. The world 
 is faithful almost to a T. Whatever that means. Although no one is going to be using LotRO to tax 
 out their DirectX 10 Video Card, its graphics are still stunning.
  The Music System: Incredible. You can compose music in game and play it for everyone using a variety 
 of instruments, and it is class-focused (Minstrels play better by virtue of having more instruments 
 available) . Its just neat and once again emphasized the level of detail that Turbine put into this. 
 However, I have one gripe: The music is great, so what do I do as a Hobbit? Dance! Go ahead, log 
 into LotRO and type in /dance. You will see your character stamp his foot and clap his hands. Wait, 
 youre an elf instead of a hobbit? Ok, Elves MUST dance well, after all, Tolkien loved to point 
 out how Elves were the master dancers of Middle-Earth. So let me see, logging in as my Elf /dance 
 stamp foot and clap hands. I love the music system, but where is the dancing system???
  
  Ok, I could write more, but you get the idea (Im not paid for this) . LotRO is an advanced MMORPG 
 that incorporates the most renowned modern legend around with the best that MMO gameplay has to 
 offer. Be prepared.
  
  P. S. The crafting is great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rriosjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is based on the books, NOT the movies, therefore you will encounter tons 
 of characters and places that where left out from the films. In terms of game play I think its 
 smooth and provides for hours of fun even if you're not a Lord of the Rings fan. You have the ability 
 to choose from the four races of Middle Earth; Elf, Man, Dwarf or Hobbit. You also have different 
 classes and abilities to choose as you go along. There is also crafting in which you must specialize 
 on a vocation. I played WoW for almost two years and this game made me switch. Graphics are amazing 
 and being able to visit the places from the books are a great incentive. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who is a LotR fan or RPG gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great artistic style. Well-established lore, and game world. Fun combat. Traits, titles, 
 and monster-play.
  
  The Bad: Handful of character choices. Limited PvP. No custom GUI support.
  
  Lord of the Rings 
 is perhaps the greatest work of fantasy ever written. It's often cited as being the second best-selling 
 book of all time behind only the Bible. J. R. R. Tolkien's story of the War of the Ring is the foundation 
 for everything from Dungeons &amp; Dragons to World of Warcraft. There have been many games based 
 upon this masterpiece, and now Turbine's MMO Lord of the Rings Online is finally here, and it doesn't 
 disappoint.
  
  It should be noted that LotRO is based on the novels, and not the recent films. Therefore, don't 
 expect to see Ian McKellen running around as Gandalf. However, this also gives Turbine the ability 
 to expand the story to areas barely mentioned in the novels. It also allows the game to have a 
 rich lore that's already been established. Which is something that is lacking in most MMO games. 
 Because of this, there are limits to what goes on in the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  LotRO takes place during the first novel, the Fellowship of the Ring. While you can't play as any 
 of the main characters from the books, you will be able to meet them at certain intervals, and 
 even fight along side them.
  
  LotRO will be immediately familiar to anyone who has played MMO's in the past. Upon signing in, 
 the GUI looks a lot like the one used in WoW. At this time, there is little customization you can 
 do to the GUI, but that may change at a later date. Otherwise, nearly everything about the gameplay 
 is very similar to past MMO games, and that's not really a bad thing. This means you can immediately 
 jump right into the game without having to learn a new control setup. Combat in the game is especially 
 fun when in a group. Certain items and classes can start fellowship attacks that allow the group 
 to perform combination attacks and gain benefits such as healing, or extra damage when performed 
 correctly. Some abilities can only be used after blocking an attack, or on certain enemies.
  
  LotRO also features a robust crafting system similar to that found in WoW. You can pick a profession 
 like weapon smith, and are granted certain raw material gathering abilities for that craft. You 
 can also enchant items to make them more powerful, and give them unique visual effects. For example 
 you can equip an anti-orc enchantment on a sword so it glows when orcs are near, and deals extra 
 damage to orc-kind enemies.
  
  Some people are not going to like LotRO because of the limits the lore places on gameplay. This 
 game is clearly focused on the PvE game. While there is consensual PvP, it's limited in scope. 
 The characters you create must be one of the 4 races of the Free People of Middle Earth, or freeps 
 as they're commonly known. Man, Elf, Dwarf, and Hobbit are your only choices, but this is how the 
 lore is. Once your character hits level 10, you can take part in PvP battles, and create an evil 
 character, or creep to fight against other players. As far as classes go, there aren't as many 
 here as some MMO players are going to be used to. But again, this fits in with the lore, and all 
 the usual classes are covered. Champions are the offensive melee class, while Guardians are their 
 defensive counter-part. Burglars are your typical stealth character, while Lore-masters are the 
 mezzing class. Captains are similar to paladins in other games as they get heralds that act as 
 pets, and can use group-friendly rally cries to provide various bonuses. Hunters are LotRO's long-range 
 high-damage class, and Minstrels act as the healing class.
  
  Perhaps one of the most compelling aspects of LotRO is the game is very focused on the story element 
 of Middle-Earth. You'll frequently encounter quests that take you into single-player instances, 
 and even present you with cut-scenes that follow certain story arcs within the game. Some of these 
 instances will actually alter the game. Such as town burning down, and the charred remains being 
 all that's left. GRAPHICS
  While the graphics in LotRO aren't breaking any new ground, they are still better than WoW's low 
 poly, cartoonish graphics. What makes LotRO stand out is it's artistic style. It's very subtle, 
 yet gives the graphics that mystical quality to fit in the world of Middle-Earth.
  
  The characters, armor design, and the environments all pull you into the world Tolkien created. 
 There're no pop-in visuals, and in some areas you can literally see for miles. The only really 
 lacking area is the GUI. While it looks good, it's not customizable like in other MMO's. This could 
 be addressed in a future patch, but I felt like the toolbar at the bottom of the screen got in 
 the way a little too much.
  
  SOUND
  The sound effects in LotRO are average. There's nothing special about the combat sounds, which 
 is a shame considering how good everything else is. What is nice is the music and voiceovers.
 
  
  Music played a big part in the books, and it's fitting that it does in LotRO too. The background 
 music fantastic, and on par with the movie soundtrack. Best of all every player, regardless of 
 class, can use musical instruments to play songs just for fun. This further adds to the Middle-Earth 
 feel of the game.
  
  VALUE
  Value is a hard thing to judge in an MMO because there's technically no end to it. So value is 
 usually defined by the game-world. That being the case, LotRO is probably one of the best values 
 in the genre. The lore is the selling point of this game. Players who aren't familiar with the 
 books will probably not get as much value of it. But if you've enjoyed the book, or the movies, 
 this game will be hard to put down.
  
  With that said, some of the more competitive players are not going to like the limited PvP gameplay. 
 It comes in the form of what the devs call Monster Play or PvMP. The idea sounds good: being able 
 to create a level 50 creep, outfit them with special abilities, and fight other good players or 
 freeps. There are several monsters you can play as including orcs, wargs, and trolls.
  
  The PvMP is confined to a single area in the game world, so you can't take your creep and go hunt 
 Hobbits in the Shire. At this time there are no plans for PvP dedicated servers, and likely will 
 never be since it goes against the Tolkien lore. While this might not be bad for casual PvP players, 
 the hardcore ones will likely stick with WoW or Guild Wars for their player-killing fix. On the 
 positive side, LotRO does offer a unique reward system for PvMP play in the form of Destiny Points. 
 These are points that can be used to upgrade your creep, or be used to buy temporary boosts to 
 your freep.
  
  While the end game value has yet to be thoroughly explored, there is a lot of potential for expansion. 
 The initial launch of LotRO only includes the lands west of the Misty Mountains. With future expansions, 
 the game could easily become three times larger, and still fit within Tolkien lore.
  
  Also highly rewarding are the traits and titles systems. Traits are bonuses to your character's 
 stats, and allow you to customize your character. You frequently get them from finishing quests, 
 or accomplishing deeds. Some traits are unique to certain classes, while others come from your 
 characters race, or slaying epic monsters. Titles tie into this, and are seen by other players. 
 For example, if you kill a large number bandits you get the Watcher of Roads title. If you survive 
 to level 10 without dying you will get the Undefeated title. From then on players will see you 
 as Playername, the Undefeated.
  
  Lord of the Rings Online is a welcome addition to the MMORPG genre. It's designed to appeal to 
 fans of the books, but anyone can pick it up and enjoy it. It barrows ideas from past MMO's, but 
 also does a lot of new things for the genre. Because of its focus on PvE over PvP, it wont appeal 
 to everyone. It's not going to dethrone World of Warcraft, but it will likely become the second 
 biggest MMO on the market. If you're a fan of Tolkien's work, you must buy this game. It fits so 
 perfectly into the lore he established that it feels like an extension of his writings. This is 
 the game Lord of the Rings fans have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoops8240
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game will be taking up the next few years of my life ( sry wow but you have been replaced 
 ) . After playing this game in Beta for a few weeks I tried to jump on wow for a few and the graphics 
 look like a Saturday morning cartoon compared to Lord of the rings online. Wow just doesn't have 
 the story and history to keep me entertained anymore. I get sick and tired of being forced to join 
 a group to get through my quests. Lotro is balanced just right to where you dont always need a 
 group for the harder quests, it helps yes but not required. The fact that it is set in Tolkien's 
 world really seals the deal for me. If you like Tolkien lore or just getting tired of the same 
 boring quests with wow then pick this up. A must for anyone who has wondered what it might be like 
 to walk through Middle Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mj1moore
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS....
  Yea its not as flashy as say.... WoW.... But it does play very nicely. Plus you can play as a monster 
 ;) once you reach level 10. Also you get to play your favorite Middle Earth Races. Its just like 
 being in the movies.....
  
  There are a lot of quests that you can do on your own which should appeal to the lone wolfs out 
 there. But here is the kicker you must join up with other members to complete the much more difficult 
 quests. If you don't you will die quite quickly. Fellowships are the way to go anyway. When you 
 join a fellowship you all get credit and experience for the monsters you kill.....
  
  REMEMBER Fellowships are you friend...
  
  You also have the ability to harvest resources and 
 mold them into usable items such as armor, cooking skills, weapons, etc... I hope you all enjoy 
 this as much as I do.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
