-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/lordoftheringsthefotr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 535 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Black Label Games
Developer: Surreal Software
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Oct 22, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Only true Tolkien enthusiasts will enjoy the game for very long. 

 Thanks to last year's blockbuster motion-picture adaptation, author J. R. R. Tolkien's  Lord of the 
 Rings  novels are an extremely hot property -- the kind that people put on T-shirts, on collectible 
 cups at fast-food restaurants, and even in computer games. But Black Label Games' The Fellowship 
 of the Ring is officially based on the fantasy novel rather than the movie and carries the approval 
 of Tolkien Enterprises, so you'd think that the computer game would be more than a cheap rush job 
 to earn some quick cash. You'd be right. You might also expect it to be an even more faithful adaptation 
 of the novels than the film -- one that even the stuffiest Tolkien enthusiasts will enjoy. Unfortunately, 
 thanks to Fellowship of the Ring's limited gameplay, only true Tolkien enthusiasts will enjoy the 
 game for very long.           Fellowship of the Ring is based on Tolkien's novel.    

  The Fellowship of the Ring, which is a third-person action adventure game, gets off to a good start. 
 The PC version has a simple control scheme that's reminiscent of a first-person shooter and has 
 a true first-person mode that can be used to aim at enemies from a distance. Over the course of 
 the game, you can play as one of three characters, the kindly hobbit Frodo Baggins, the elderly 
 wizard Gandalf, and the tall, solemn ranger Aragorn, though you'll also eventually travel with 
 the dwarf Gimli, the elf Legolas, the human Boromir, and the hobbits Sam Gamgee, Merry Brandybuck, 
 and Pippin Took in your quest to bring the evil One Ring to Mordor and destroy it. The game also 
 has a simple inventory system that automatically pauses the game when accessed and lets you cycle 
 through your active character's inventory to find an item you may need to solve a puzzle or use 
 a healing item or magic spell.   

  Fellowship of the Ring is also a good-looking game. Many of the game's environments are huge: The 
 outdoor areas are composed of grassy, rolling hills, and the subterranean mines of Moria, which 
 your party will eventually explore, feature impressive architecture that suggests the huge underground 
 hallways from both the books and the film. The game also does a decent job with its character models, 
 each of which bears a considerable resemblance to the characters in the movie. Though they're animated 
 expressively in the game's in-engine cinematics, their movement tends to be a bit stiff in the 
 actual game, and their textures tend to be simplistic, making them look rather ugly up close in 
 the cutscenes. In addition, the game's character models suffer from some rather embarrassing graphical 
 glitches, including problems with polygon clipping (the elf-queen Galadriel's hair clips into her 
 shoulders and out through her chest, for instance) , and from the game's third-person camera perspective. 
 Fellowship of the Ring's camera has a tendency to get stuck on walls, which isn't much of a problem 
 in the outdoor areas but is very problematic once your party reaches (and spends a considerable 
 part of the game in) the mines of Moria -- the camera tends to get stuck on walls and often completely 
 obscures you, leaving you at the mercy of angry orcs that you can't fight properly because you 
 can't see anything other than the nearest wall looming in front of you.   

  At least the game sounds fairly good. The game's voice acting is generally decent, though if you've 
 seen the movie, you might expect the game to have more fake British accents than you can shake 
 a stick at, and you'd be right. Some characters, like Frodo, sound decent enough, while others, 
 like the overly grim, overly melodramatic Aragorn, are a bit overdone. The game's sound effects 
 are adequate, but not especially memorable, and unfortunately, the developer didn't capitalize 
 on the opportunity to make good use of 3D sound in the cavernous mines of Moria -- echoing footsteps 
 and orc battle cries might have sounded that much more menacing and exciting. Fortunately, the 
 game has a great symphonic soundtrack that changes on the fly when you're exploring peacefully 
 or are under attack. The music is generally quite good and appropriate to the game, and though 
 it might not be memorable, it's certainly not annoying either.   

  Unfortunately, the actual gameplay of Fellowship of the Ring isn't very good. The game's pacing 
 is inconsistent: It consists alternately of simplistic errand-boy quests and fighting sequences, 
 which are either too easy or too frustrating, since the game sometimes throws too many enemies 
 for your sluggish characters to deal with at once and since the game's camera sometimes gets in 
 the way. For most of the early game, you'll play as Frodo and will carry out several easy, menial 
 tasks before you can move on to other parts of the game. You'll later play as the swashbuckling 
 Aragorn, who can shoot rather useless arrows or slash his opponents with a simple, predetermined 
 series of sword strokes and can also stun his opponents by kicking them, and then finish them off 
 while they're down. Unfortunately, Aragorn is far too slow to deal with multiple opponents, and 
 as you'll find out later in the game, so is Gandalf, who can use some magic spells to defeat his 
 enemies but generally suffers just as much from his own slow movement and from the game's bad camera 
 angles. When you're being swarmed with enemies, you'll also have a hard time targeting a single 
 one (which you'll need to do against tough enemies like trolls and uruk-hai) , but this problem 
 is balanced out somewhat by the fact that in several areas, you'll have the help of one or more 
 computer-controlled companions, and in some cases, you can simply hang back and do nothing while 
 your buddies do all the fighting.           The impressive figure of Gandalf the Grey is stuck 
 behind a wall.    

  These problems might be easier to ignore if Fellowship of the Ring were a tightly structured, action-packed 
 game. But when you're not struggling with orcs, or struggling with the camera, you're basically 
 just walking around, either trying to collect items or to get from one point to another. And occasionally, 
 you won't even be able to do that because the PC version has an unnerving tendency to randomly 
 crash every so often. Since the game doesn't create autosave files whenever you complete an area 
 or a particularly important quest, you'll find that you have to save early and save often, or you'll 
 lose lots of progress. Unfortunately, you'll finish trudging through the game's areas fairly quickly -- Fellowship 
 of the Ring isn't a long game, and though the game has a few optional side quests, you probably 
 won't find much incentive to play through it again once you've finished it the first time.   

 
  Unless you are a highly critical, extremely demanding Tolkien fan, you probably won't criticize 
 The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring for its production values. The game generally 
 looks and sounds quite good, but unfortunately, it just isn't that much fun to play, thanks to 
 its control and camera problems, along with its occasional crashes and lack of an autosave feature. 
 If you're looking to visit (or revisit) the fantasy worlds that Tolkien created in  The Fellowship 
 of the Ring , you might be better off picking up a copy of the book.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Deepfreeze32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well, this game has quite a few strength's and weaknesses. It's biggest strength is the story, 
 and it shouldn't take a genius to figure that out. The fellowship of the ring is the first book 
 in the lord of the rings trilogy. The games story strength comes from the fact that it is based 
 off the book rather than the movie. 
  
  The graphics are above average for their time, the best being the pre-rendered cut scenes which 
 are absolutely beautiful. The sound does a good job of carrying the game along, nothing too noticeable 
 except for Hobbiton and the old forest. The controls are customizable, which is good, but for some 
 odd reason my gamepad didn't work. 
  
  The biggest weakness of the game is that it is incredibly short, taking only 5 or so hours to beat. 
 Another disappointment is the lack of being able to change characters. Gandalf is only played in 
 the mines of Moria, Aragorn and Frodo are often switched at major instances, such as the village 
 of bree, the river Anduin, and other places. It is also tough in some spots.
  
  All in all, this is a worthwhile pick-up if you have a bit of patience in puzzle solving, and are 
 looking for a "Walking Tour" of Middle Earth.
  
  Just make sure to pay under $10 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curlycrouton
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  I believe this game deserves greater praise from the gaming community. It is not only engaging 
 in its portrayal of the book, but is also incredibly fun to immerse yourself in for maybe an hour 
 or so. Perhaps I do have a biased view because I am a massive Tolkien fan, but nonetheless I found 
 the combat challenging and fun. I enjoyed this game overall mainly because of its charm however 
 and the overall finish of the game. I especially enjoyed the Shire section, because of the sheer 
 atmosphere. But again, I am a Tolkien fan. Perhaps if you want a more action orientated game set 
 in Middle Earth then Two Towers, or Return of the King would be a wiser choice, but if you want 
 a faithful portrayal of Middle Earth and a captivating adventure game then without doubt this is 
 the game for you. Without doubt worth playing, if only to relive those Middle Earth memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game i have ever played in my life.
  Oke the game is old its from 2001 but that is no excuse to be a bad game.
  First of all, the 
 game is not based on the movie but instead of that its based on the book so all characters and 
 places look nothing like the things from the movie, the missions are bad you start in the shire 
 where you need to do stupid thing like ring a bell to warn people for wolves, sell bags end and 
 later you need to avoid blach riders witch is incredibly stupid.
  The cutscenes are well animated but the poor voice acting ruins it completely, there are also a 
 lot of mazes in the game that take forever to complete and aren't fun just like the rest of the 
 game you must also collect mushrooms for health a gather flowers for a lady while your fighting 
 giant spiders with a stick and rocks and later you must fight ghost and a goul that spits acid. 
 Later you play als aragon, he has a sword and a bow witch is impossible to shoot things with. you 
 must fight horse thiefs and orc that look like humans you must also fight gaint trolls and wolves, 
 and the kraken witch only attack you when your not watching, as gandalf u can use your magic staff 
 and sword and use 5 magix spells, in the last level you go to the cave witch is also a maze and 
 the only guy that follows you is Gimly the other guys from the fellowship aren't there but they 
 appear in the cutscenes and then dissapear ingame.
  You must pull levers for bridges and elevators and then you come to a door and the game ends, no 
 encounter with the balgor or any boss battle.
  there is no instant action or multiplayer so you can complete the game in an hour and then u can 
 only restart if u wanna play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I have played. Reason being is because of its frustrating gameplay, 
 poor graphics, really really bad music that would hurt your ears (its that bad) .
  
  I hate the way the characters don't look anything like the actors in the movies, they are so bad 
 looking it puts you off completely.
  
  The only difficult thing in the game is the movement controls; they are very sluggish which is 
 why the gameplay is so bad and frustrating. 
  
  The music makes the game into garbage. 
  
  The graphics are appalling it makes you sick to look at. 
  
  Overall it's the worst game 
 ever, however it does keep true to the book, like for instance it include characters that the films 
 didn't put in. But still it doesn't make anything different, as the game is terrible.
  
  I wouldn't recommend it even if you were a hard-core fan of lotr.
  
  dont buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  It doesn't have the grandiose of the movie, nor the intense of the action, and it just doesn't 
 fit in with the mood of the blockbuster film. I'm sad to say I wish it hadn't been made. I'm a 
 fan of the trilogy, thus am very disappointed with this game which seems to be merchandised just 
 for the sake of capitalising on the success of the box office.
  
  The combat system is unchallenging overall and thus makes the player bored easily, and the stealth 
 factor (mostly the hobbit) is very forced. Maybe hardcore classic adventure fans (Dreamfall, Gabriel 
 Knight...) may find this level of action mildly exciting.
  
  Though I must say that the overall plot follows closely to the story in the film, which may be 
 the only console to LOTR fans who must have this game.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring. Where do I begin? This game caused me so much 
 trouble. I bought it because I am a fan of the books and movies. This game and I dont know if 
 I am the only one with this problem, crashed my computer soooo much. It was amazing; almost every 
 time I played it would crash my computer. The graphics are okay, nothing special. The game play 
 is alright, it isnt great by any means, but it isnt horrible, you got to play as Frodo, Aragorn, 
 or Gandalf, you do specific missions as each one of them, you dont get to choose. The sound is 
 alright, nothing special. Overall this game is pretty bad. It could have been a good game, because 
 the story is great. Also, what I do not understand is why they didnt try to make the characters 
 look like the ones from the movies that we all know and love. The movie came out in 01 this in 
 02. They shouldve at least tried to make them look like the movie ones. The ONLY THING, and this 
 really is the only thing that is actually good about the game, is that it stays pretty damn true 
 to the book. It even has good old Tom, which they cut out of the movie. So, this game is for REALLY 
 hardcore Tolkien fans, everyone else can pass it up, because trying to run this game on your computer 
 is like an adventure all by itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bh711
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game for The Lord of the Rings fanatics only. There is nothing much for 
 other gamers to enjoy and be awed with here. My first impression as I read the games manual, was 
 that it was going to be quite an enjoyable game. You would be able to play the 3 main characters 
 from the Fellowship of the Ring movie, which I had watched and enjoyed, so I was really preparing 
 for a really good game. The game itself started off quite nicely, with you in the shoes of Frodo 
 Baggins, preparing to embark journey towards Rivendell, where you have to bring the One ring to. 
 You first have the task of selling off Bag End, as well as one or two other optional tasks, which 
 turn out to be of no use at all! You just receive a bunch of mushrooms, which are plentiful in 
 the game. If my memory serves me well, I had about 60 mushrooms left after the entire game! Of 
 course I had absolutely no idea of this fact at that point, so I was at most, grateful that I 
 had at least received something for my troubles.
  
  My hopes for the game was still pretty high and I was preparing to play a Role-playing sort of 
 game, judging from the optional quests I had to do. How wrong I was, these were the only real 
 quests in the entire game! It really felt like the developers were having a tough time deciding 
 on what type of game they wanted to created. After leaving Hobbiton, everything practically went 
 downhill. The only other thing I really enjoyed during the rest of the game was the part where 
 you play Aragorn and where you had to collect items around Bree to make dummys of the hobbits. 
 The graphics of the game also seemed to have been scaled down somehow during the later stages of 
 the game. I found myself lost in a wall once! What started out as decent game soon became a disappointment. 
 The gameplay itself was rather easy, I found myself just running away from enemies the entire time. 
 Bosses were really easy to beat, some of it just consisting of repeating sequences of attacks you 
 had to do to kill them. The game itself was also rather short. I completed it in about 3 hours 
 and I really believe that a total newbie of action/adventure games could finish it within a day.
 
  
  Overall, a disappointing and rather unpolished game which I would not recommend to avid gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosmw26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game isnt rated all that great and honestly i dont know why. i feel its a great game, 
 it has its own plus and minus points, just like any other game. the main plus point is that it 
 sticks to the original storyline of The Lord of the Rings, which is great in itself. the graphics 
 are actually very good keepin in mind its a 2002 game. its one of the games wherein you get to 
 play frodo for a large part of the game, you dont really get to play frodo in the rest of the LOTR 
 games as much as in this game and that too a role playing game. i did find it a bit short in terms 
 of playing hours (well i do play for long hours at a stretch, mayb thats the reason) but overall 
 its a great game, i finished it and played it all over again soon after, i still do play it quite 
 often. its a game you will definitely want to play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I think this game rocks, and that is my opinion. Very well put together, with a different style 
 of playing. Play as many characters such as Frodo, Gandalf and Aragorn. I thought this game had 
 some really realistic features, such as the environment in which you play, and weapons.
  
  I though it was really fun, that some levels you have to avoid being seen or caught, and others 
 you must defend yourself from enemies.
  
  Lord of the rings is a very realistic game. The characters and environment were realistic and had 
 a certain air about them.
  
  The missions were fun and all different. It was challenging at times, but I enjoy a challenge. 
 Always.
  
  I conclude you should get this game. I'm not sure why this game got some bad reviews...... well, 
 I represent the ones who say TWO THUMBS UP FOR THIS GAME!
  
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  LOTR: Fellowship of the ring
  
  The game is based upon the book, not the film. If you have read the book but not seen the film 
 (not many of you) then you will love the game. If you have read the book and watched the film then 
 you might like the game. If you've watched the film but are to lazy to have read the book, then 
 you will probably detest this game. I personaly think that it's good for one play though if you 
 can get it cheap enough, but other than that there isn't much this game can offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharang_3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Based on book of JRR Tolkien the lord of the rings fellowship of the ring is not that bad a game 
 afterall. It is a third person shooter (though one wouldnt call it a shooter) . It has easy controls 
 as such an learning curve is easy aswell. A big plus point about this game that i found was that 
 it is'nt repetative. You play as three characters : frodo, aragorn and gandalf and are as such 
 different. Whatever glitches the GS review talks about are common to see in all games. The game 
 isn't that easy so it adds to the fun. There's no harm in trying it as it isn't that short. The 
 game takes you to different locations that though aren't graphical masterpiece though but still 
 look beautiful. Seeing that it is a game of 2002 i feel it is quite good. The music in the game 
 is good but dialoges need some work. 
  Though there are many good titles available in the market u may wanna give it a try.
  Also you 
 may find some replay value if you're a hardcore LOTR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The only LOTR the FOTR game to be realeased and although more following the storyline of the excellent 
 unbeatable books.... it was a dissapointment to most fans looking for a good interactive LOTR game. 
 The game was suprisingly short and ended before the death of boromir! THis game is slightly unpopular 
 yet started off in the vast beautiful land of hobbiton which actually turned out to be alright 
 as there was not as much fighting involved... though afterwards it gets pretty boring! The landscapes 
 and graphic aspects were good. Not an excellent sound score but fair... and too short for gamers 
 liking!
  
  overall this game truely dissapointed LOTR fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 23, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Ah, the semi-ancient art of making a licensed work into a game. Never quite worked out, did it?? 
 Much less develop an immensely popular book/movie into a well-done game. Well, though it has some 
 hitches, Black Label's take on Lord of the Rings did, to a great degree, reach that goal. First 
 and foremost, this review is based entirely on the PC version. I won't bore you with the story, 
 especially considering that half of you know it already. So let's cut to the chase, hmm??
  The cinematic cut-scenes are well animated and portray some real passion for the project, though 
 seeing the most powerful wizard in Middle-Earth lip-synch like a Final Fantasy character would 
 make almost anyone giggle. The in-game graphics are outstanding, featuring bump-mapping, nice water 
 ripples & such, volumetric fog, and impressive draw distance. There is occasional slowdown, and 
 even areas where graphics become questionable, but such trivial annoyances have no real affect 
 on your gaming. Throughout your quest you'll play as Frodo, Gandalf, and Aragorn. However, for 
 a game sticking so closely to the book, it's odd that you aren't accompanied at all by the other 
 members of the fellowship, save for about 5% to 10% of the entire game. Speaking of which, the 
 game following so closely to its origin is actually a drawback. It's portrayed in such a way that 
 the story is hardly presented and can become boring, even if it plays through areas featured in 
 the book. It's tremendously linear, often with only a single path with a few others to travel and 
 nothing more. Tolkien's stories have always had always been rooted in vast, sprawling areas of 
 beauty. It isnt here, friends. Puzzles are sparse and simple, found almost entirely in Moria. 
 The sound is reasonably well done, and at times exceptional. This is probably the game's nicest 
 portion, which says quite a bit. Particularly, there is a frighteningly catchy Scottish tune that 
 will stick to you like glue. Oh, and did I mention the load-times?? I sometimes felt I could take 
 a nap and wake up to a loading screen still running. Still, playing through the expansive worlds 
 is well worth the wait. Essentially, the game's entire foundation is simple puzzles coupled with 
 hack & slash mechanics. For those of my tastes i. e. Gauntlet, Baldur's Gate, and Dungeon Siege 
 (all of which include myself, BIG TIME) can find bliss here, as will hardcore LOTR fans (also including 
 yours truly) . Even light RPG enthusiasts or Zelda fans can have a reason to smile. For those of 
 you who didn't like the sound of this review, I'd suggest waiting for the Two Towers. Perhaps the 
 movie-based version will strike a better chord. Lord of the Rings is a fantastic title, worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game sux!! Don't waste your money!!! It is a bastardization of LOTR! The graphics are good 
 and pleasing and thats the only good thing. Only diehard LOTR fans who are blindly loyal to it 
 will be entertained by this for more than an hour or two. Otherwise, stay away from this abhorrent 
 mess! Go buy somthing that won't leave you puking for days! Buy something that wont make u want 
 your money back! Instead of buying this game, go buy LOTR on DVD! Heck, you'd be better off reading 
 the excruciatingly long books! Its much more entertaining and will last alot longer! Just remember 
 these wise words! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings - The Fellowship of the Ring is good game that has no elements of an RPG 
 ( Like I saw on some sites ) but it is acctually a Third-Person Action adventure.
  
  I myself am a Lord of the Rings fan so i liked this game pretty much eccpecialy that its more adventuristic 
 than it is concentraded on slayer and killing monsters. You get to view a lot of aspects of nature 
 from woods to rocky mountains even to caves and mines.
  
  This game deserves a better grade than everyone is grading it so im willing to give it a 7.5 
 
  
  The graphics are pretty fine ( for that age ) and the sound is pretty good itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  You read the books, you bought the 12 disk dvd set, you own all the collection figures... Stay away 
 from this game. It was nice at first, then you quickly learn of its bugs, its about 9 hours of 
 gameplay. The game has SOME unique twists in it but it dosent pull of any of its tricks that it 
 trys at all. The only reasson this game got ANY coverage was because it was branded with the LOTR 
 franchise. You spend the game in a semi-open GTA/GUN sort of feel with very little problem solving 
 skill needed, Not quite sure what genre of game they were aiming for in this.. oh wait.. yes I do... garbage! 
 Sadly this is a game that belongs lost forever for no man to find...
  
  HUGE DISSAPOINTMENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is just alright... it definetly has alot of problems though. One of them would be combat 
 (which you will be doing a lot of in this game) you hardly have any moves and its only kinda of 
 fun to fight when your gandalf because then you have more than two or three moves. There are lots 
 of monotonous side quests in here you can play too.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics arent "good" but they aren't "bad" either. Sometimes they really capture the feel 
 of Lord of the Rings and sometimes they just plain stink.
  
  Sound:
  The sound for Lord of the Rings the Fellowship of the ring is just alright like most of the games 
 other features. They are a few alright sound effects and theres a good amount of music too, but 
 nothing you will remember for long.
  
  Value:
  The game doesn't take that long to beat either. But I guess just to be fair i'll say it would take 
 a little longer if you did all the sidequests.
  
  and the final score is 5.8 medicore keep away unless your a harcore tolkien fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelRender
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrible game on so many levels. Bad graphics, terrible game play, crummy sound and a dumb 
 camera. The best part of this game is that it only makes you suffer for a few hours. I do not care 
 how much you like lord of the rings you will hate this game. So pleas do your self a favor and 
 do not buy this game. Having said this the game for The Two Towers and
  The Return of the King are great games and if you like the books or the movies you should buy those 
 two without delay. That is my review for 
  Lord of the Rings the Fellowship of the Ring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Disastrous is an understatement!
  
  Gameplay:4/10
  The gameplay of this game is just recycled garbage. Such as the sneak move, the throwing rocks 
 at things that are bigger than you move, the slow walking move, hitting with a stick move, the 
 eating bread move, the shooting with an arrow move, and finally the sign over house deed to evil 
 fincial adviser move.
  
  Graphics:5/10
  They sucked end of story!
  
  Sound:3/10
  Oh my gosh they figured out how to turn crap into sound it makes my ears bleed. Seriously don't 
 listen to the music!
  
  Value:3/10
  I beat this game in 4 1/2 hours this game is very short. Not worth renting, not worth buying, WORTH 
 SELLING, and worth not getting.
  
  Tilt:1/10
  This game is a complete embarrassment to the Tolkien books and games please don't ever remake this 
 game again. If they do, DO IT RIGHT THIS TIME! STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME PLEASE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattymansid
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  not exacly the greatest game i've ever played, but hey... every games have their up's and down's 
 right??..... ohh frgt it its the most lousy lord of the rings or any other strategy action game 
 ever created. it was harly a challenge and the game was just 2 damn short... it was a good start 
 but there is ahuge scope of improvement. the graphics were 50%, the sound was absolutely terrible 
 but the concept of the game was not bad. the gamers who are playing fellowship will fall asleep 
 eventually as its so f a u k i n  
 this game was okay but should have been made more fun, mor challenging and longer. f ff f f f f 
 f f ff f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f ff f f f f f f f f f f f ff f f f f f f f f f f f f f 
 ff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I beat this game in about 5-6 hours, and that was taking my time. Having been given the 
 time to be polished this game could have been excellent, but like so many games it gives the impression 
 that it was rushed and flawed. Graphics are quite good actually and set on a high end system can 
 be close to excellent. Sound is okay but could have been more........ emotional. Controls are tight 
 but there are SEVERE camera issues. I lost count of how many times I dided because i couldn't see 
 my character in the mines of moria, but the outdoor levels are stable. But this game spends way 
 too much time as Frodo running arund picking up mushrooms in the Shire. Had been made longer, much 
 longer and more gameplay with Aragorn or Gandalf would ahve greeatly imrpoved the overal experiece. 
 The game is good but the severity of the camera problems will enrage you and the game is short 
 to the extent that it will end just as you start to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  this is the easiest game ever i beat it in about an hour it was fun too well while it lasted anyways 
 anyways way to shorts alalallal its not bad tho but they shood have made it longer some way adding 
 something as the graphics sound were pretty darn good but it was just too short and all the bosses 
 were soooooo ridiculously easy man boring lol anyways i am off to review another game bye for now 
 good luck gaming dont play this game tho too shortt waste of money toos also the controls were 
 solid and please make a beteer version of this game lol please please please please please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlas77
Rating: 2.9
Date: Nov 1, 2003 9:54 am PT
Review:  If one pays more than 5 dollars for this horrid game then I pity the poor soul.
  
  Game is entirely too easy.
  Graphics are lacking in just about every aspect.
  Sound was bleh.
 
  Voice acting made baby Jesus cry.
  Game play was just plain and simple horrible.
  
  There is not one feature or instance that I can speak well of.
  
  I know people put hard work 
 into making games and I pity the poor programmer that had to churn out the code to make this game.
 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.. PERIOD.
  
  Take the money a pay someone to kick you in the balls. Same effect but at least you will recover 
 quicker.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 1, 2003 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I've played until I get too frustrated... There are very few health packs in the game and you always 
 have to concentrate on finding what few packs are available... The story is somewhat interesting 
 and it's fun following along. But, the biggest flawe in the game is the controls! They're terrible! 
 At least, they are with the mouse... The character's abilities are somewhat limited too. That detracts 
 from the game... and the adventures... when fighting wolves, if one comes up behind you, it's very 
 difficult to swing around and defend yourself! Had there been better controls of the character's 
 actions, I would've rated this game higher. Is it worth your money? I think it is, but you'll have 
 to judge for yourself. I'm at a spot in the game where Gandalf is leading the hobbits and comrades 
 through the tunnels and he meets a devil-like creature of lore. He has to somehow cross a narrow 
 bridge but the creature is at the other side casting fireballs at Gandalf. All he can do is dodge 
 the fireballs. The designers apparently thought it was clever to remove weapons from the good guy 
 characters at critical times, leaving you almost defenseless. That can be very annoying as well 
 as poor controls. Too bad, this game HAD great potential... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
