-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Longest Journey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/longestjourney/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.8, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 2,469 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funcom
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 16, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Longest Journey is one of the best adventure games in years. 

 The Longest Journey is one of the best adventure games in years. Like a hybrid of classic Sierra 
 and LucasArts games, it tells a great fairy tale filled with characters that you'll remember long 
 after the game is over.   

  The Longest Journey is about a young woman named April Ryan, a visual-arts student who lives at 
 a boarding house in a small, bohemian area in the city of Newport called Venice. While these locations 
 suggest Southern California, the geographical setting of The Longest Journey is never stated; it's 
 just a large city of the future. And while The Longest Journey's setting may be the stuff of science-fiction 
 clichs, the game never resorts to the typical dystopian predictions. In fact, Newport seems 
 very much like a modern metropolis, only with flying cars.   

  April has some problems. She's a runaway who has left home because of her father, though the exact 
 reasons she left are never stated. She has a huge art project due, and she can't seem to get started. 
 The guy who lives across the hall is a crude, arrogant jackass who won't leave her alone. And most 
 importantly, she's being plagued by strange dreams that seem a little too real.   

  The game begins in one of these dreams. April is standing high on a cliff, overlooking a strange 
 land. On this cliff, she meets a dragon and a talking tree, and she is visited by a strange, malevolent 
 mass that sends her careening over the edge - and back into her bed.   

  When she awakes, you begin to learn about her life. If there's one problem with The Longest Journey, 
 it's that the opening is a bit slow. It's loaded with expository dialogue about April, her friends, 
 and the city. While this isn't a problem in and of itself, it seems strange that there is so much 
 exposition right off the bat, when you've yet to meet any of the characters or visit the places 
 mentioned. These conversations would have been much more interesting had they come a bit later 
 in the game, once you've actually familiarized yourself with the places and characters you learn 
 about.   

  During the first chapters of the game, you explore April's life. You meet her friends, you go to 
 her school and to her job at a local coffee house. It seems like boring stuff, but it accomplishes 
 an important task - as you take part in her routine, you begin to really care about her and her 
 comrades. Her friends all have the hallmark concerns of people making the transition to adulthood 
 - school problems, turbulent love lives, and bad jobs.    

 The game gets more interesting once the truth behind April's dreams becomes more apparent. You learn 
 that there are two different worlds: Stark is devoted to science and technology, while the other, 
 Arcadia, is devoted to magic. April has the rare ability to "shift," to move between these two 
 worlds. These worlds, which were once one but came to be two, are fascinating, and you'll be eager 
 to learn more about both their history and their future. April's dreams and some strange occurrences 
 in both worlds are taking place because the division between the worlds is being eroded. And April 
 is the one who must restore the balance.   

  Once the truth is revealed, the game begins to take place in both worlds. April cannot control 
 her shifting, so moving from one world to the next takes place at times both opportune and otherwise. 
 In both places, April meets a fascinating range of characters. In Arcadia there's Abnaxus, a representative 
 of the Venar, who live in all times at once. He's a copy editor's nightmare, as he shifts tenses 
 midsentence and often midword. Then there's Burns Flipper, the foul-mouthed hacker who rides around 
 in a little hovercar. Even the most minor character is interesting in The Longest Journey, and 
 you'll find yourself concerned with all of their fates.   

  It's a testament to designer Ragnar Tornquist's storytelling ability that you become so attached 
 to everyone you meet. His game follows the blueprint laid by the classics of the fantasy epic, 
 even as April's eccentric mentor begins teaching the reluctant savior. But it's also an original 
 story that's filled with interesting settings and people. The Longest Journey is sometimes sad, 
 sometimes funny, and sometimes scary. At times, it's all of these things at once.   

  The worlds are brought to life with rich, detailed graphics. The character models may not be extremely 
 detailed, but they are good-looking and diverse. The background scenery is colorful and varied, 
 and no two locations look the same. The sound is even better, because of the nonintrusive ambient 
 music and excellent character voices. It's commendable that Funcom took the time to create a great 
 English translation of the game, especially considering that it may not ever be published in the 
 States (the translation was done for the U. K. version, which was published in April) .   

  The puzzles in The Longest Journey are fairly standard, though they get better as the game goes 
 on. In the beginning, you'll have to use some of your inventory items in illogical ways. But later 
 in the game, the puzzles become more intuitive and fit better into the story.   

  The Longest Journey's complex and interesting story is what's most important. It deepens as you 
 get further into it, and once it's over you'll still be thinking about all the subplots and how 
 they tied together. And the conclusion is bittersweet - it's uplifting and rewarding, but there's 
 a strange sense of sadness to it as well. The only criticism that can be leveled at the ending 
 is that the epilogue does little to wrap everything up, so it'll leave you wondering what happened 
 to many of the characters after April's task was completed.   

  But the end does allude to a sequel, and anyone who plays the game will be more than happy at the 
 prospect of one. It's not that The Longest Journey leaves you unsatisfied - it's that it leaves 
 you wanting even more.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (88 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alan_Wake_x
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes when u play a game, all u think about is when n how to finish it, sometimes even when 
 it's a great game there's some borin' parts,, lot's of waitin' n some things u don't wanna see 
 but u keep on crossin' very often,,
  This game,, "The longest journey", it makes u wonder if there's a way to slow down ut thoughts so 
 u can play more,, i'll keep on rememberin' it everytime i play another and say "what is this comparin' 
 to TLJ??", The game that made me skip some of the most important things in life,, probably that 
 happens when it's life itself,,
  Not just mysterious, surprisin' n playable, but also funny,, listenin' to a conversation between 
 April n another character,, u won't even dare pressin' the escape button to skip the conv,, 
  You silmply keep on playin', laughin' and enjoyin' one of the most beautiful Adventure games in 
 the area,,,
  I realized all that from the first 10 minutes of playin' it,, when it begons with a dream,, the 
 way she talks to the tree n then herself,, it's not somethin' ordinary or what u see everyday,, 
 yes it's classic,, but truly new n one of a kind,,,
  It truly is a long beautiful journey,,,,
  
  Grphics : 6
  Story : 10
  Sound : 10
  Gameplay 
 : 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd0606
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I've never written a rev in my life, and probably I won't bother writing one again for a long time, 
 but this game is something that's worth the while.
  
  I'll try to give this as simple and as short as I can:
  I play shooters and action RPGs most 
 of the time, but I've always stayed open for all kind of new experiences. I'd tried adventure games 
 as well, but I always ended up by the same statements: "boring, frustrating, unreasonable..." I 
 always became stuck after a few minutes, and the solutions from the walkthroughs seemed just so 
 ridiculously easy, it made me freak out and leave it all just be, and get back to ol' good instant 
 FPS butchering.
  
  I ran into TLJ by accident. I quickly figured it was not something I'd consider an ordinary adventure 
 game. (OK, the first impression was: "OMG, that's some  kinda graphs!" 
 But believe me, that's something u gonna forget about in no time...) The base story made me need 
 to go on, I couldn't fight my curiosity about the rest of the plot. And I was shocked that I don't 
 have to spoil half of the puzzles from guides, 'cuz I can figure them out on my own! I wouldn't 
 say they were easy, but more like reasonable. After a long while, somewhere in the back of my mind 
 I started to feeling sleepy, now I really should go and get some sleep, but it was too late: I 
 realized I fell in love with the tale of April, my attitude to adventure games was changed forever...
 
  
  That's why I recommend this great piece of art for anyone who cares for a great story, 'cuz no 
 matter what genres he/she prefers, I'm absolutely sure that TLJ's gonna suck everybody in! The 
 beautiful background images, the idea of two totally the opposite of each other worlds (Stark, 
 a cyber-punk-like sci-fi environment; and Arcadia, the ancient realm of magic and knowledge) and 
 the complex personalities with so expressive synchron voices - it all makes a gaming experience 
 of a lifetime.
  
  It sure did for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  It's been a few years since I played TLJ and I was surprised that I had yet to write a review of 
 this great adventure game. I wouldn't say I'm a huge fan of the adventure genre - preferring more 
 of the action adventure type like PoP, Tomb Raider, Hitman, etc.. However, I have played quite 
 a few dating back to the classic old school adventure games.
  
  I won't go into much detail as that's really unnecessary and a tend to babble a lot anyway. I'd 
 just like to say that TLJ is a very unique adventure game. It has your usual - in depth dialogue, 
 path-finding, point and click puzzles, an inventory of items that help you along the way if you 
 figure what their use. However, what sets TLJ apart is a rather unusual story and vibrant universe 
 that gradually sucks you in before you know it. There are bits and pieces of the story and characters 
 that may have some relationship to the known, but really it's hard to describe how different this 
 adventure game is compared to others. The game will take you across land and sea both in a futuristic 
 earth setting as well as a parallel universe resembling a more distant time. A deep central story 
 in play that is extremely rich and immersive. The story to me was unlike anything I'd experience 
 before, yet there's an underlying familiarity or tone that makes it relatable as to not be so offbeat 
 that it becomes off-putting. In short, it's fantasy based in a certain reality - it's fantastic. 
 I suggest reading a summary review for a brief synopsis.
  
  If you play, you will become very invested emotionally in the main character as well as other important 
 characters and really care about there fate. The puzzles are well though out and intuitive while 
 being challenging without overtaxing the neurons. Lastly, let's not forget the setting - I gorgeous 
 tapestry has been created as the background for this game. The game itself is a work of art. 
 
  
  Ultimately, if you play this game, you will travel to a time and place you've never been to before 
 or recognize and you will certainly enjoy the trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  "The Longest Journey" is a classic Adventure game it almost sounds like a dirty word calling it 
 a "classic adventure". It's probably the result of the genre withering away, turned into a past 
 memory that isn't always the most pleasing. There's certainly a reason for the death and subsequent 
 shun of the genre, and it partially resides on a range of defects shared by all adventure games; 
 "The Longest Journey" is no exception. Illogical or obtuse puzzles and the thorough use of pixel 
 hunting (the obnoxious habit of devious developers to hide obligatory items in the visual clutter 
 of 2D scenarios) were the only vehicles used in the genre to generate difficulty and challenge, 
 therefore transforming a narrative experience into a game 'proper'; the truth is that these elements 
 would just end up spoiling the experience. But, putting genre idiosyncrasies aside, as they aren't 
 really that important, especially in this day and age (we've got GameFaqs to thank for that) , "The 
 Longest Journey" is a wonderful game because, like all the greatest references in its genre, it 
 focuses on narrative instead of gameplay.
  
  The journey mentioned in the title is that of April Ryan, a normal young woman, full of aspirations 
 and dreams, who's working her way through college. One night, her dreams become strangely vivid, 
 even though inside them, she encounters a magical realm where dragons and other creatures abide. 
 Later, of course, she finds out that the dreams really were real: images and sounds from a dimension 
 that was once a part of our world and so she embarks on a journey to save the universe from chaos 
 and destruction. I'm serious, that's how the story goes. The plot is a by the numbers application 
 of "The Hero's Journey" (a structure common to most mythological and religious texts, as extracted 
 by Joseph Campbell) : it involves an other-wordily place unbeknownst to all but a select few, a 
 young hero that has been chosen by prophecy to save the universe and restore balance, forced to 
 travel to that other-world in search of some magical artifacts, in the process facing numerous 
 trials that allow for his coming of age and the transcending of his inner flaws, and by doing so, 
 eventually freeing the world from evil. "The Hero's Journey" is a framework like any other, it's 
 effectiveness is determined solely by the quality of the writer of the work, and how he develops 
 the narrative structure into a story proper. Ragnar Trnquist (producer, designer and writer) , 
 has a vivid, colorful imagination that blends High Fantasy, Sci-Fi and even some New Age religion 
 into a lush magical world populated by original creatures and civilizations. His writing is engaging, 
 cohesive and extensive, not to mention marvelously brought to life thanks to the stunning art design, 
 which transforms each fantasy piece into a breathtaking digital painting. Like in all fantasy novels, 
 there's a certain sense of wonder and bewilderment on the account of the aesthetic beauty, as if 
 you were staring at a bright, yet hazy dream, an odd mix of the alien and unknown with the idyllic 
 engulfing your senses and bringing about your inner child's imagination. Trnquist's world is so 
 intriguing and inviting, that you can't but help delve in, just as April Ryan does.
  
  However, though the world is detailed and its lore superbly written, the characters that populate 
 it aren't always so. In part because of the work's relationship with the "Hero's Journey", but 
 also because of inspiration taken from classical LucasArts' adventures ("Monkey Island") , "The 
 Longest Journey" characters often are a high fantasy archetype stripped to its barest form (the 
 hero, the villain, the mentor) , adorned with some nonsensical, post-modern humor traits, which 
 seem straight out of a comedic cartoon. These are, for the most part, not funny, and mix poorly 
 with the high fantasy aesthetic, not to mention that they trivialize characters, some of which, 
 who are later involved in dramatic episodes that end up losing some of its impact. The main character 
 is the biggest downfall, as she keeps hopping from a compassionate and intelligent youngster, worried 
 about the fate the world and its people, to a dumb, pompous brat, shooting silly one-liner jokes 
 left and right, and always whining about "why won't nobody tell me the truth?", "why must I be 
 the chosen one?", "why must I sacrifice everything?", etc, etc. It's inconsistent, annoying and 
 a constant mood-breaker. That's not to say that there aren't powerful, dramatic, or incredibly 
 funny scenes (the sidekick, crow, is a good example of a comedic character that isn't disruptive) , 
 but all it takes in one ill-devised dialogue line to breakup suspension of disbelief. The voice 
 acting that comes with the characters is on par with the text: it's extensive and elaborate, but 
 when it goes down the path of predictable comedic tropes, it tends to stumble, becoming absurd 
 and unfunny.
  
  Despite the disastrous attempt at mimicking LucasArts' humor, the storyline is what eventually 
 makes "The Longest Journey" a thrilling experience. The universe devised by Trnquist is truly 
 amazing, and the plot's climax, with its twists and turns, is sure to make you jump out of your 
 chair in enthusiasm. It's not Tolkien, it's not even Lucas, but in videogames, what is? Sure, it 
 can lack the proper tone, and the absence of a meaty subtext to all of the story can be a bit disheartening 
 (at least, one that goes beyond "The Hero's Journey" main themes) , but there's such a shortage 
 for good (fantasy) writing in the means that it is doubtful anyone will care about such a small 
 mishap. Whatever case it may be, the simple truth is that "The Longest Journey" is an astonishing 
 game inside the frame of its genre. It wasn't innovative or groundbreaking at the time of its release, 
 and certainly isn't today, but it exuded a care with aesthetic and narrative uncommon to most videogames; 
 the fact that it came from a Norwegian developer only adds to the value of such a delicate, pondered 
 work. And to enter this mystical land of fantasy all it takes is your commitment to look past the 
 oddities that doomed Adventure games to extinction and that's not such a steep price for such 
 a magical journey, is it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperflobo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey was released in 2000 by Funcom and is still one of the best adventure games 
 ever made. 
  
  You play as April Ryan, a young art student, basically helping her finding the reason for her mysterious 
 dreams and visions. April lives in Venice, Newport in the future (this world called Stark in the 
 game) but early April is introduced to another world, Arcadia, where magic and adventure is the 
 keywords. April will soon find out that something is wrong and the balance between these two worlds 
 is shifting. And the fantastic adventure is taking form.
  
  The story is what makes The Longest Journey so incredible; unpredictable, breathtaking, surprising. 
 
  Extremely well written and close to never ending. Almost as important as the story is the voice 
 acting and luckily April Ryan is voiced by the talented Sarah Hamilton. She is just excellent and 
 is followed by several brilliant voice actors, another reason why the game is so fantastic.
  
  And the voice acting is essential course the main focus of the game is listening to dialogue. 
 And there is a lot of it - and I mean A LOT. There are 50+ characters to interact with and most 
 of them haven't talk to anyone for years, or so it seems, course once you get them started, they 
 won't stop. 
  Since the dialogue is intelligently written it's natural, funny and entertaining. 
  
  Of course 
 an adventure game contains puzzles and just like the dialogue part, there are plenty to do. Not 
 all of them are logical in nature, but almost all is solvable  if you've got the time. For some 
 reason I had a great challenge with a couple of them at the start of the game (chapter two) , but 
 after that everything past without headache of any kind.
  
  The graphics is, even for standards today, acceptable. 8 years is a long time in this industry, 
 but the aged gives the graphics a certain charm.
  
  The sound is definitely quality and the soundtrack is super, especially "Prologue", "Winterland" 
 and "Dragon". The score is composed by Bjorn Arve Lagim and Tor Linlokken. Nice job, boys.
  
  If you can't get enough of April Ryan, open the book of secrets and enjoy outtakes, the additional 
 score and art gallery. The book of secrets can be accessed by finishing the game or planting the 
 plastic leaf during chapter four.
  
  Finally - what makes this game so special is the fact that it came out of nowhere. Not many in 
 the gaming industry had expected The Longest Journey to be so unique and brilliant.
  
  Conclusion
  The Longest Journey is destined to make a huge impact, if you reach the end. And 
 if you do, you know within that is was worth all the hours you spend, the family reunion you didn't 
 attend, your mothers birthday you forgot, the phone line you cut, the friends you lost and the 
 other adventure games colleting dust. 
  
  Not even the longest review can describe a tenth of the beauty that is The Longest Journey. So 
 if you haven't played it yet, I strongly advice you to get clicking. I hope you've come to love 
 this game as much as I do. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  The Longest Journey has got to be one of the best adventure games of its genre that I ever played. 
 There, I said it. Rarely do I ever give a game the pleasure of being called "one of the best of 
 its kind" but that's exactly what The Longest Journey is. I was pleasantly surprised by the fact 
 that a previously almost unknown Norwegian game producer (and unfortunately still isn't a household 
 name today) , Ragnar Tornquist gave me one of the most enjoyable adventure game experiences in my 
 life. He and The Longest Journey team managed to take almost everything that's good about adventure 
 games and refined it to a state of near perfection.
  
  The game's biggest highlight is its story. At first glance, the story seems quite simple. You play 
 as April Ryan, a young woman who has to save the two worlds of Stark (a sci-fi world of logic inspired 
 by real life) and Arcadia (a "fantasy" sort of world filled with magic and all sorts of imaginary 
 creatures) . However, the story is great because of how much depth it goes into with its characters 
 and how gradually and interestingly it progresses. You will quickly learn to love April Ryan because 
 of her witty personality and along the way you'll also meet many other characters who are simply 
 interesting thanks to their fleshed out backgrounds and personalities. There's also more to the 
 story itself than meets the eye as one can quickly get immersed into a tale all about human nature 
 and destiny.
  
  In terms of gameplay, there really isn't much to say about this game. The Longest Journey is pretty 
 much a pure point-and-click adventure. To the modern gamer who has only been recently initiated 
 into the world of gaming, a point-and-click adventure is a game where you justpoint and click 
 stuff. You can interact with items, you can combine items when necessary, and you can talk to people 
 all by clicking on them. To the gamers who are used to shooting people's heads off in an FPS or 
 strategizing your next moves in order to prevent certain death in RPGs, this might sound extremely 
 boring. But really, it isn't, because you'll be too busy paying careful attention to the story 
 and dialogue, and you'll be busy solving puzzles which are pretty much the bulk of the gameplay. 
 A lot of the game consists of puzzles, if you're stuck in your room with a bunch of people trying 
 to break in then you have to solve a puzzle to get out, if you're being attacked by a nasty creature 
 in Arcadia then you need to solve a puzzle to defeat it (although, you can't really die in this 
 game) The puzzles in this game range from extremely easy to really hard to downright illogical 
 which is both good and bad. You will feel extremely satisfied whenever you finish certain puzzles, 
 while after other puzzles you'll just be wondering "What in the world did I just do?". Regardless, 
 the gameplay segments of the game are pretty much like any other point-and-click adventure, and 
 there's not much to say about it.
  
  Now, graphically, I have to say that this game is like a piece of art. Sure, it's really dated 
 because the game was released back in 2000, but honestly, if it was made today, then I bet the 
 game would have looked extremely good. At its current state, the game still looks pretty nice. 
 The 2D backgrounds all look very atmospheric and detailed. The graphic designers managed to implement 
 all sorts of different styles to create two completely different worlds in a single game. They 
 were able to successfully create a believable futuristic world (Stark) and at the same time, were 
 also able to create an almost overused fantasy world in a great way too. The FMV sequences look 
 decent although you can't really come in expecting graphics that rival those of Crysis. The one 
 big thing that takes away from the graphics is the character models. They look blocky, pixelated, 
 and not very detailed. Sure, I know that I said this game was made back in 2000 but if a person 
 who was new to gaming played the game now, that would be the first negative thing about the graphics 
 they would notice. Other than that, the graphics are very stylish, artistic, and pleasant to look 
 at.
  
  The sound design of this game also deserves a lot of credit. The sound effects and music of the 
 game are acceptable and not really memorable, but the game's biggest feature in terms of sound 
 design has got to be the voice acting. Never have I seen a game have such top quality voice acting. 
 The voices are simply so believable and full of emotion. A lot of praise goes out to Sarah Hamilton, 
 the voice of April Ryan who was a key part in bringing her character to life. Her wide array of 
 emotions in the given situations simply makes her a believable character and together with some 
 well written dialog, the producers of The Longest Journey have created a character that I actually 
 cared for. The supporting voice actors and actresses are also pretty nice too and also bring a 
 lot of life to the game.
  
  In terms of replayability, there isn't much that The Longest Journey has going for it. But adventure 
 games were never known for how good they are the second time so it doesn't really matter. Besides, 
 the emotional story of The Longest Journey will have such a great impact the first time that one 
 probably won't care if their isn't much reason to play it again. There is this neat little unlockable 
 called The Book of Secrets that can be achieved by beating the game (or using a certain item in 
 a certain place) and its full of voice outtakes and music remixes which is a pretty nice and is 
 worth taking a look at.
  
  Anyway, all I really have to say is that The Longest Journey is adventure gaming at its finest. 
 There might be a few things to be critical about like the somewhat unsatisfying ending that doesn't 
 wrap up the story well (but then again, isn't that what sequels are for?) and the dated 3D character 
 models, but those things are simply overshadowed by the positives of the game which include a great 
 emotional story, characters that are overflowing with life and emotion, and detailed artistic environments. 
 Any adventure game fan should have this in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popteodor
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I cannot say I've played many adventure/quest games, but this is a great one. This is a great adventure 
 game and a great game overall. The way it just keeps you there, in front of the screen, as you 
 take step after step to unfold the story it's amazing. I remember when i played the game, the story 
 was simply amazing. Can't really explain why, but the story, the dragons, the "chosen one", save 
 the world, all these fairy tale elements came together to create a story so captivating, so simple 
 and still full of meaning, it just blew me away. This game is just as good-an-example of the "just 
 another turn" addictiveness, where you just want to solve another puzzle, just want to advance 
 the story a little bit more and see what happens next.
  Can't say i remember much about the puzzles, the difficulty, but the story, that I'll never forget: 
 one of the best (may simply be the best) game story I every came across. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamebm
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  
  This is easily one of the best adventure games ever made. Here is the strength of this game, big 
 story, interesting and funny conversation, exotic world setup, not so easy but meaningful puzzles 
 and reasonably good 3d graphics and animations. I first played the demo, and at that time not a 
 lot of adventure games had demos, but I was caught by the game instantly and decide to buy the 
 game when it releases. And at that time, game is very expensive for some kid from China, it cost 
 me 300 Yuan, it was a huge saving for me. 
  
  The game started by April Ryne telling her life story to kids at the fire. Who is the protagonist 
 of the game and back then. She was absolutely a normal girl except the whole story is set up in 
 the future where it looks that 1986 finally come true. The whole society is controlled by some 
 military government. The only weird thing is there is this weird old attractive guy. When you are 
 just wandering around the city and doing trivial quest, the mysterious world Stark kicks in and 
 April has to begin her longest journey all on her own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  It's my theory - although whether or not it holds any water is a topic for another time - that 
 every gamer, young and old, male and female, has a game in their preferred genres that they consider 
 to be the benchmark for all other games of that kind. It can be matched, but only on the rarest 
 of rare occassions will it ever be surpassed. Some people will never find an FPS they like more 
 than Call of Duty 4, just as I will likely never love an RPG as much as I do Baldur's Gate 2. 
 
  
  In the adventure genre - or point-and-click, if you want to be really specific - that game for 
 me is The Longest Journey. I've played many games in the genre, from the Sierra games to the LucasArts 
 classics to Myst and beyond, and none have ever grabbed a hold of me like Funcom's sadly under-appreciated 
 tale of two worlds.
  
  You play April Ryan, a young art student in the world of Stark in the far future. Stark is a typical 
 sci-fi setting, albeit not outlandishly so - you won't find the aliens of Mass Effect or the mad 
 AIs of System Shock here. Stark is a gritty, grimy, almost-cyberpunk-in-places locale - the nearest 
 comparison I would make based on my own experience would be the Earth depicted in Deus Ex. As a 
 setting, it's convincing, and at the time of the game's release, the pre-rendered backdrops were 
 fantastic - they're still effective now. The characters themselves are obviously showing their 
 age, but they still communicate well enough, and the animations are more than decent. 
  
  The character of April, then. You begin the game in a dream sequence, where April is confronted 
 by visions of magic and strange creatures. These visions eventually bleed over into the real world 
 - some taking physical form and becoming visible to others - and April soon learns from a mysterious 
 old man named Cortz that there is a world adjacent to Stark known as Arcadia. In Arcadia, magic 
 exists - an opposite to Stark's technology - and the two worlds coexist in a delicate balance. 
 However, the two worlds are beginning to combine - an event which would surely destroy the reality 
 they inhabit. April posesses the rare ability to "shift" between the two worlds, and it's up to 
 her - and you - to prevent the catastrophe befallen Stark and Arcadia. 
  
  April is an immensely likeable protagonist - a girl out of her depth and convinced that there has 
 to be someone else more suited to the job of saviour of reality, she's easily identified with. 
 Her dialogue is well-written and more often than not quite amusing - there is a very funny game 
 mixed in with the drama and adventure. Other characters you meet along the way are equally well-scripted 
 and in some cases hilarious; one of my favourites, Burns Flipper, is a scene-stealer.
  
  The score of the game is outstanding; a combination of electronica and orchestral music that pulls 
 you into the events even further (the high standard of the music would continue in the game's sequel, 
 Dreamfall: the Longest Journey) . I'm unaware of who composed the music for the game, but they've 
 done an amazing job, and the work is worthy of recognition as some of the best videogame composition 
 of the past decade.
  
  Overall, the Longest Journey is a gem of a game, a modern classic that was missed by far too many 
 people. I can't recommend it highly enough. If you can, I urge you to take the (relatively Short) 
 Journey to your nearest games retailer and pick it up - if you're a fan of adventure games, or 
 just great characters and a well-written story with fantastic dialogue and sharp humour, you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Joureny is perfect in every single way.
  The plot, the puzzles, the charaters, everything is designed in a way so you can enjoy the game 
 at it's full.
  
  The Longest Journey's main charater is April Ryan, the most loveable charater that was ever created 
 in gaming history.
  You guide her on her longest journey to save time and the very world it self.
  
  The game takes 
 place in 2 worlds, Stark and Arcadia.
  Stark is a world driven by modern technology. 
  Arcadia is a world driven by magic.
  Neat huh?
  
  April Ryan is one of the few people that 
 can't "shift" through these 2 worlds. If the balance of one of the worlds breaks down then the 
 other world is also effected.
  April Ryan must help preserve this balance. 
  
  By going back through a futureristic world and a magical fantasy land, this game offers experiances 
 you have nere had before. 
  
  The story and the dialoge is probably the best thing in this game, it is so engaging and real that 
 you WANT to listen to what they have to say and every single word of it. 
  
  The puzzles are funny, and challanging, most of the time, and requires great logic (mostly) to 
 figure them out. It's not just point and click everywhere and try to find the hidden potion bottle. 
 
  
  The music is also very moving. Everything in this game is planned out, and i would bet you $1000000 
 dollars that if you do not cry at the end of finnishing the game (not because you finnshed the 
 game but because of the story line) then you are a cold, heartless monster. 
  
  One of the BEST adventure games ever to set foot on this earth and still is. 
  A must get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panos83
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Although "The Longest Journey" is old, still it's one of the best PC games ever. Simply classic. 
 It's not only a point and click, search items, talk and solve puzzles type of adventure game. It's 
 more than that. It's probably the best trip you can experience from a PC game. I don't remember 
 many video games with equal or better storyline and so powerful and memorable characters. 
  
  Okay, adventure games aren't famous for the rich gameplay & the quantity of adrenaline they 
 offer, but this one isn't a typical avdenture, maybe it's the most inspired story you can find 
 from a pc game and probably the best at this category. It's dedicated for mature gamers, pc gamers 
 who like depth in a game.
  
  The graphics are still breathtaking, like paintings of surreal art. The music and sound fxs are 
 perfect to absorb the atmosphere as a player. The characters and voice acting have "Hollywood" 
 standards. The puzzles and riddles are smart and at the right amount to entertain you. The ending 
 is just unpredictable... Why I can't remember something negative to say? Because there isn't.
 
  
  The Longest Journey is the best "science fiction-fairy tale-movie-pc game". Very inspired and unique 
 game. I don't consider it as a pc game only, but as art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooncalfReviews
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Review by Mooncalf Reviews - gaming for the thinking player.
  
  If you've never played this game, but you are considering buying it due to the rave reviews published 
 here, then I submit a word of caution. Don't get me wrong, it's a brilliant game (perhaps the best 
 point-and-click adventure game I've played apart from Discworld) but it's far from everyone's 'cup 
 of tea'.
  
  The Longest Journey has many good points, but it also has a few dozen bad ones. My largest gripe 
 is the fact that - despite rumours to the contrary - the storyline isn't that good at all. After 
 discovering the storyline about a quater of the way through the game, I was vastly disappointed, 
 as I had been told that the story was brilliant, even original. Not the case. The fantasy/sci-fi 
 crossover has been done before, and the idea of a balance between the two worlds is an old one 
 (see Flight of Dragons, for starters) . Indeed, being a writer myself, I saw most of the plot 'twists' 
 coming a mile off, and was left - by the end of the game - thinking I could have done a whole lot 
 better. Another let down on the storyteller department was the dialogue. Although I'm willing to 
 bet that it suffered somewhat somewhere in translation, it still does not excuse some of the lines 
 of speech that at times are downright corny, predictable and long-winded (most of the game is taken 
 up by dialogue, and while there is nothing wrong with this, the dialogue is at times pointless 
 and repetitive) .
  
  Story aside, TLJ has but a few inconsequential flaws. The animation is pretty bad, as are the blocky 
 characters. I do not usually gripe about graphics, but in an adventure game, graphics keep the 
 eye entertained in the middle of aforementioned lengthy dialogues (although I do have some great 
 things to say about the graphics a little later) . Another problem I had with the game was the often 
 out-of-place course language. Sure, it's realistic, but the game itself isn't, so why stick a million 
 f-words into a fantasy game that could otherwise be suitable for all ages? Seems a little ignorant 
 and juvenile to me.
  
  And now the good points. 
  
  Firstly, let me start by saying that the voice acting is brilliant. When you consider some of the 
 cringe-worthy lines they were given, the voice talent has done a remarkable job in fleshing out 
 the characters with drama and subtlety alike, where required. It is in no small part to the acting, 
 that the characters were given a life that is lasting and memorable. However, credit must be given 
 to the writer for the creation of the main heroine, April Ryan, who is far from the a-typical girl. 
 Some degree of thought has gone into the personality of April, and it shows, as you could quite 
 easily imagine her as being a real person, with real likes, dislikes, fears and quirks. By the 
 end of it, I found myself actually very fond of the little lady (and her sexy voice. (clears throat) ) .
 
  
  And then there is the art of the game. This is probably the strongest point of the whole 50+ hours, 
 as the music and imagery alike both leave a lasting impression on the soul, which is something 
 a video-game rarely does. The scenes are vast, beautiful, sprawling with wonderful graphics (a 
 "stark" contrast to the blocky characters) and intricate detail. Moreover, the music is haunting 
 at times, and subtly provoking at others. 
  
  Like a film that - although fairly basic in plot - is an artistic experience that leaves a lasting 
 impression, The Longest Journey will both frustrate and amaze you. However, if you have no interest 
 in beautiful art, music, acting and characters, and dislike heavy dialogue, weak plots, and games 
 which require you to think, I'd avoid this one if I were you. Fortunately, I'm not you, which is 
 why I gave TLJ a respectable rating.
  
  ---
  
  Score Breakdown 
  Based on the the Mooncalf Reviews scoring system as shown on this blog post:
  http://uk. gamespot. com/users/MooncalfReviews/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25395842
 
  
  
      Story: 3
  (Predictable storyline with clichd notions to be found in both of the opposite worlds. Gets a 
 3 for effort though.)
  
      Hook: 3
  (If - unlike me - you don't see the twists coming, then you might personally be more hooked than 
 I was)
  
      Characters: 5 
  (Much like it's superior sequel, TLJ's narrative strength resides in its realistic and colourful 
 characters)
  
      Originality: 3
  (Point and click adventure games, by this point, were becoming something of an outdated notion. 
 Which is why it was both a brave and foolish choice of genre for TLJ. Would have benefited from 
 some form of genre-cross like in Dreamfall)
  
      Art: 4
  (Some conceptually astounding works of art, but some pretty badly designed character animation)
 
  
      Voice Acting and Script: 4
  (Excellent voice acting from nearly every character, but some of the script might have got lost 
 in translation)
  
      Music Score: 5
  (The standard of music you might expect from a Howard Shore composition)
  
      Fun: 3
  (While 
 adventure games are seldom 'fun', TLJ actually manages to both challenge and entertain with its 
 interesting puzzles and complex worlds)
  
      Freedom: 1
  (As to be expected from an adventure game, TLJ allows for no freedom to deviate from the plot, 
 and no real digressions for those stuck or bored)
  
      Lifespan: 5
  (Perhaps it was just me, but TLJ took me a long time to finish. As far as adventure games go, this 
 is one of the longest ... journeys)
  
      Multiplayer: 0
  (No multiplayer support)
  
  Total Points: 36
  
  Gamespot converted rating: 7.5
  
  
  Note: Consider buying this 
 game, simply because the second in the series is a serious improvement, and it would be foolish 
 to play Dreamfall without first playing The Longest Journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemonAid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Haha, I'm not offending you Norwegian, I'm being 1/2Norwaylander myself. The humour, design and 
 dialogues are just so typical Norwegian. If you're Norwegian, you know what I'm typing about! Here 
 goes...
  
  April Ryan is an art student in the future in a city called Venice. Suddenly she finds herself 
 in another world, dream-like, yet very real. She wakes up to reality and is still puzzled about 
 her weird dreams. Then she meets this weird old man who seems to know something. April learns about 
 two worlds, paralell to eachother, Stark and Arcadia, which she is able to travel back and forth 
 to with her special ability to "shift".
  
  Why is she able to "shift"? Howcome the old man know a little too much about April and seems to 
 be almost too caring and concerned about her? So her click'n point journey begins...
  
  The beginning is indeed quite slow, it's quite the daily life routine, meet your friends, get your 
 job done, go home and sleep. At the beginning the language is quite vulgar and their conversations 
 didn't interst me at all, but that's not really important. The start is focusing a little too much 
 on April's life details.
  
  The bad language was a little too much, I know that there are alot of people out there expressing 
 themselves like they do in the game. It's quite adult and somewhat immature, both in Norwegian 
 and English. The language itself in the game almost managed to put me off the whole thing.
  
  Since the game is getting old, I don't have too much to say about the graphics, but to be quite 
 decent for the time it came. Though some of the FMVs, sorry to say, plain sucked. They could've 
 done it better.
  
  The story didn't impress me, suddenly it was only about April and her personal problems. I didn't 
 like the sudden "skip of stories", it didn't mix well with eachother.
  
  The world of Arcadia is quite interesting and fun to explore. Most of the designs are quite unique 
 and the characters quite appealing. You'll learn about everything you need through the game, which 
 is intersting! There's alot of stuff to read and pay attention to, it can get pretty heavy with 
 all the informations. You'll learn alot of details about the worlds with the puzzles.
  
  The riddles are fair enough, it might be some IQ-blockage at the beggining if one's not used to 
 point and click games. Later on the puzzles will get more clear and easier to understand. 
  
  My personal opinion is that the game is a tad overrated, but it's still worth playing. I was 
 suprised that the game didn't really last long, it only seemed long because of all the dialogues 
 and reading. At least the game had it cute moments and I enjoyed those moments alot!
  
  Not too much of a game, but decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  It is often said that adventure gaming is dead. Not action/adventure gaming mind you, but pure 
 100% adventure gaming. Since the final days of Sierra On-Line's Quest series, along with SCUMM 
 coming to a close, the world has moved on to more action based adventures. The Longest Journey 
 changes that uninspired mold by bringing back adventure gaming, and it does an amazing job to boot. 
 If you are one of the many fans who feels your gaming genre has been abandoned, Rejoice! Your days 
 of neglect are finally over thanks to FunCom's masterpiece.
  
  The Longest Journey takes you on an adventure across worlds and beyond the edges of time. It follows 
 the story of a small-town run away named April-Ryan, who flees her dysfunctional family for the 
 big city. Now attending a college of the arts in a futuristic metropolis, she learns of a troubling 
 menace that threatens the balance between not just one world, but two. 
  
  As you play through the adventure you will come across plenty of memorable characters that provide 
 some of the best voice acting ever done in an adventure game. The people who inhabit The Longest 
 Journey have distinct personalities and each one is not soon forgotten. You have your typical chauvinist 
 20 something neighbor Zack, who tends to bother April every time she steps out of her apartment 
 door. The character brings alive a certain hatred for him, which just makes you wish he would crawl 
 into a hole and die but at the same time proves entertaining. Then you have the more mythical creatures, 
 such as one who sees the future and speaks to the main character from that point of view. My favorite 
 by far was your companion, a little bird who knows how to talk. Remember the owl in King's Quest 
 V? Just think of it like that, except he is actually useful and has a witty personality.
  
  Not to get into any spoilers, I can tell you that The Longest Journey only starts as a sci-fi story. 
 After the leading events of the tale, you will find yourself in a land dominated by magical arts 
 instead of futuristic technology. This leads to a shifting between the two worlds, mixing up the 
 atmosphere between science and arcane. The game is long, and will take you around 30 hours or more 
 to complete. That is pretty good for an adventure game, since they are driven more by story and 
 puzzles instead of pure repetitive action. 
  
  Speaking of puzzles, you will find some well designed puzzles in TLJ. The game is forgiving, and 
 will not let you pass on to a new chapter without solving necessary events. This is not to say 
 that the puzzles are easy. There is a mix of easy puzzles along with some real thinkers. The great 
 thing is that all of these puzzles fit in well with the main plot, and are not done to annoy or 
 waste the player's time. 
  
  The dialog, while well written can also be a burden at times. Some of the characters choose to 
 talk awfully slow. You can choose the option to display subtitles, which lets you skip over spoken 
 word if you just want to get to the point. The character textures tended to become distorted at 
 times. I could not verify if it was a common bug or due to running the game on a modern pc, but 
 all the same it should be mentioned. I did not experience anything else out of the ordinary in 
 terms of bugs or crashes. 
  
  The Longest Journey provides a story that trumps almost anything done in adventure gaming. The 
 game is original and immersive, even going as far as to make fun of fantasy fiction clichs while 
 still staying on track. If you want a game that will consume you into a fantasy world with masterful 
 storytelling, The Longest Journey is your new adventure game bible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Adventure gaming is certainly in a rut these days. The average gamer today simply doesn't have 
 the patience or dedication to sit through long sections of dialogue, solve a brain wrecking puzzle, 
 or connect with the gameworld depicted to the fullest. Most gamers view games as toys, they want 
 to play with them and let go of them when they get bored. And to be fair, there's nothing wrong 
 with that. After all, that's exactly how video games got their start (pong, tetris, pac-man, they're 
 all just electronic toys) . But in the evolution of gaming some games have transcended that barrier, 
 games that go beyond just being a toy, games that bring characters and worlds to life, games that 
 serve as a medium for a person to share ideas, tell stories, express their emotions. Games that 
 become art. And while any great game, regardless of genre, can (and should) aspire to becoming 
 a work of art, not all do. The Longest Journey is a work of art. This game is the pinnacle of adventure 
 gaming, a game that served as the canvas for designer Ragnar Tornquist to express his vision and 
 create the most memorable gameworld (or worlds in this case) ever created, filled with incredible 
 characters and littered with detail, and tell the greatest story ever told in a game. The story 
 of April Ryan and the ancient Balance.
  
  Before giving a brief summary of the story I'd like to say that this is a game where you want to 
 discover everything by yourself, so if you decide to embark on the journey, make sure no one spoils 
 it for you. The game takes place in the year 2209 and you play as April Ryan, a young woman who 
 was just moved to the fictional city of Newport, Venice. April escaped from her turbulent family, 
 and is an aspiring painter. However she's lacking direction, both in her career and life. Her friends 
 are there to help her, but that's not enough. April still feels lost. And on top of everything, 
 she's being tormented by a series of bizarre dreams that feel too real. Eventually she meets a 
 person who tries to explain the meaning of those dreams and convince April that she has a very 
 important task ahead of herself. April is reluctant to believe or cooperate at first, but she soon 
 discovers that there's indeed a lot she doesn't know about herself. She discovers that the world 
 is divided in parallel worlds, Stark and Arcadia, the world of science and the world of magic. 
 She also learns about the ancient balance between the worlds, the balance that maintains order 
 and prevents chaos. But this balance is threatened by people who wish to reunite the worlds, regardless 
 of the chaos this would bring. It's April's mission to help restore the balance between the worlds 
 and find out the truth about herself. To do this, she embarks in the longest journey of her life, 
 one that's filled with discovery, danger, humor, sadness, and virtually every emotion that there 
 is.
  
  The Longest Journey is a traditional point and click adventure game, where the gameplay will consist 
 mostly of solving puzzles, be it by interacting with the environments or the items in your inventory. 
 Most of the puzzles in the game are fairly logical, and can be solved through some careful exploration 
 and interaction with the gameworld. But there are a few puzzles that have little logic behind them 
 (be wary of the rubber ducky) , and they can become potentially frustrating as you fail at trying 
 to solve them. A word of advice, experiment with every item in your inventory, even when it makes 
 no sense, and you may find the solution to the puzzle. And if all fails, there's no shame in using 
 a walkthrough (I had to resort to one on a few occasions) . You will also be presented with decisions 
 to make as you are listening to the dialogue, or better said interactive dialogue. And while there's 
 usually no wrong decision to be taken, the ability to alter the dialogue or in some cases change 
 a cutscene, is one that allows you to fully immerse in the experience and relate more directly 
 with the characters.
  
  Despite being an 8 year old game, TLJ holds it's own in the visual department, thanks to it's incredible 
 art direction. The fact that the game is capped at the low resolution of 640 * 480 matters little, 
 as both Stark and Arcadia are vibrant locations, filled with an astonishing amount of detail. The 
 backgrounds are 2D, while the characters are 3D rendered, and while there's the occasional visual 
 weirdness, it all blends in perfectly. The game's interface is also very intuitive as it makes 
 it easy for you to identify interactive objects as well as find out what you're supposed to do 
 next.
  
  But above all else, it's the voice acting that brings TLJ to life. Every character is masterfully 
 voiced (and considering the amount of characters in the game, that's no small feat) . They all convey 
 their emotions in the way you'd expect a real person to do, and it's impossible to find a flaw 
 in their performances. Considering the amount of dialogue in the game, poor voice acting would've 
 killed the experience, but thankfully, that's far from the case. It also doesn't hurt that the 
 music of the game is beautiful and fits the gameworld perfectly. Every piece composed for the soundtrack 
 is amazing, from the music playing at the Fringe Cafe, to the ominous music announcing the arrival 
 of the Tyren army, to the folksy tunes playing in the forest, it all enhances the amazing journey.
 
  
  There's so much to say about The Longest Journey that I could go on rambling forever, but the best 
 way to find out about the greatness of TLJ is by playing it yourself. Provided you're a patient 
 gamer who actually cares about the story in a game (and is willing to explore the gameworld to 
 the fullest as well as sit through long sections of dialogue) , there's simply no way you won't 
 enjoy this game. The Longest Journey is the pinnacle of story telling in gaming, and a perfect 
 example of how games can become art. Don't hesitate to take a part of this journey, for it's a 
 journey you'll remember for the rest of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing voice acting and story, easy enough puzzles, decent graphics
  
  The Bad: Too much talking, not enough playing, not for action fans, a few obscure puzzles
  
 
  I played the sequel awhile ago but I had know idea it was a sequel. Now that I played this game 
 I'm glad I did because it has one of the most unique and interesting stories in gaming history. 
 There are two worlds known as Stark and Arcadia which is the world of science and magic. Stark 
 is out world and Arcadia is stuck in the medieval times. A girl named April Ryan has been chosen 
 to save both worlds from the Vangaurd, who are people trying to convince both worlds towards their 
 religion. A divide was created between both worlds to keep the Balance in check. While this game 
 is NOT for action fans it has A LOT of talking and not much playing. While there are the occasional 
 obscure puzzles, the game is fairly easy. The only people who should play this game are people 
 who LOVE stories. The pre-rendered graphics are decent and the price is just right ($10 on Steam!) . 
 If you want a good 15 hour story or so pick up The Longest Journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissuarez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of point and click adventure games and was not too sure if this genre still works 
 competing against today's modern games and graphics. I am so glad I purchased this game! This game 
 really proves that old school graphics can still produce amazing games, the game is a masterpiece 
 in its own right and joy to play. 
  
  The controls are easy to grasp as with any point and click adventure game. The 
  puzzles did 
 leave me thinking a few times, but does give a great satisfying feels when a particular section 
 of the game was completed. 
  
  The game takes you to so many different places and you get to meet many different types of characters, 
 all with different personalities. The plot line really makes this game a winner, and there are 
 so many cool situations that you must play to see.
  
  If you are reading the reviews of this game you are already interested in this game, I recommend 
 that you go out and buy this game now otherwise you will be missing out on a great game and never 
 know the adventure of April Ryan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvusp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  A game that has great sound, graphics, gameplay, and at least a decent story (like Crysis or Half-Life, 
 for example) deserves a 9.5 at most. But I'll make a confession: I didn't like Crysis. Not because 
 it's a bad game, but because companies like EA, Activision, Ubisoft, Crytek, etc. can stamp a great 
 game per season. A game that I rate as perfect has something besides graphics or sound. Like a 
 character in The Longest Journey says that a certain painting has a soul, the same is true of the 
 entire game -- it has a soul. It leaves a lasting impression on the player. It wins a place in 
 the player's, in my, heart.
  
  The Longest Journey was made in 2000, but even now in 2007, some games still have a lot to learn 
 from it. The sound and the soundtrack is excellent overall and the voice acting is simply superb. 
 Although the graphics may seem dated to some of the less romantic,  
 gamers, the visuals are some of the most beautiful I have ever seen in a game. The Longest Journey 
 is a perfect example of a brilliant, art house game.
  
  The story in the game is not only one of the most complete and detailed ones, but it is also one 
 of the most beautiful ones. It is funny in certain places, sad in others. At first it seems naive, 
 but slowly, as the game progresses, the player realizes that the story is much, much deeper than 
 it seems at the beginning, and when the game ends, it leaves the player thinking, reliving the 
 adventure.
  
  The game requires a lot of patience and time. Although it's possible to skip most sequences, it's 
 really worth just to play through the game and listen to every possible conversation. Although 
 some parts may be hard to figure out, it is impossible to get stuck in the game (I've heard of 
 two bugs: the rope disappearing in chapter one, and a bad save in chapter two, but the patches 
 sort those bugs out completely) . Besides, if you get stuck, there are always extremely helpful 
 FAQs/walkthroughs on the web and in the hints/cheats section of gamespot. Speaking of which, I 
 had to consult a walkthrough twice...
  
  If you are the person who prefers to get a shooter and blast your way through a game, or think 
 that the more blood and gore, the better, look elsewhere. You'll find this game pointless and extremely 
 boring. But, if you are a person who enjoys classics and who is willing to invest part of your 
 time and soul into the game, you should do so without a second thought. What you get in return 
 is much, much greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Historically, some of the most successful adventure game series have revolved around satirical 
 situations played out by cartoon-like characters, such as in the Monkey Island or Sam &amp; Max 
 series. The Longest Journey breaks this trend, but that is far from a bad thing.
  
  Let's begin with the main character. Female protagonists are, unfortunately, all too rare in the 
 gaming world unless they kick a lot of ass, have a chest that would make Pam Anderson blush, or 
 both. April Ryan, thankfully, is neither and if she had been this game would be far less of a storytelling 
 triumph.
  
  April is a tall, lanky, dark haired young woman in her early twenties. The game world is set in 
 the distant future and starts in a fictional American costal city called Newport. Throughout the 
 opening hours of the game, April begins to form a relationship with the player using her life and 
 friends as a medium. She is a student at a fine arts college, trying to make enough money to get 
 by with a less-than-desirable job. She is stressed out over a project she can't seem to get the 
 inspiration to start - much less finish, her past is troubled, her friends are the kind of unique 
 characters you might expect to run across in an art community, and amidst all this is the undertone 
 that she's becoming detached from the world around her and can't seem to find her place.
  
  While I get the impression that female players might relate to April Ryan better than I could, 
 there were still enough elements there for me to form a connection, or at the very least, sympathize 
 with her situation.
  
  Anyway, she has been troubled by strange dreams that have become increasingly real. In fact, the 
 game opens in one of these dreams, but I won't go into much detail as this is a review, not a synopsis. 
 After a series of strange events and repeated encounters with a mysterious shaman-like man named 
 Cortez, April is transported to the fantastical world of Arcadia. In the game's lore, there was 
 once one world where both science and magic existed and worked together to create an unparalleled 
 civilization. However, through the hubris of human ambition, this world was sundered into two parts, 
 each occupying the same space but on different planes of existence. The world of science - our 
 world - was called Stark, and the other world of magic was called Arcadia. Neither would know of 
 the other's existence, save through dreams, and a careful balance was set to prevent another cataclysm 
 that would annihilate both worlds once and for all.
  
  Ragnar T&oslash; rnquist, the game's designer, is easily one of the best interactive storytellers 
 of our age as the delivery of the plot is done masterfully throughout the entire game. The voice 
 acting is spot-on perfect for the individual characters and really adds life and depth to their 
 personalities. The musical score ranges from epic, to whimsical, to humorous, to dark and is implemented 
 appropriately. Visually, the game uses mostly pre-drawn backgrounds. Though that is nothing to 
 complain about as each background has been done in fantastic detail and serves to make each area 
 all the more real/believable.
  
  The actual gameplay itself is relatively simple. It follows the old formula of a point and click 
 adventure with an inventory system and such. There may be the odd time where you can't figure out 
 what to do next or where to go without running back and forth and trying things at random. Whether 
 this is because the hints were too subtle or require knowledge not given to you by the game (such 
 as scientific principals) is hard to say. Though I find that an adventure game is better off with 
 a few really hard puzzles rather than make it so easy that you become bored with just going through 
 the motions.
  
  All in all, The Longest Journey sets itself apart from others in its genre through a deeply compelling 
 story, great characters, and visual splendour that surpasses the age of its technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  The adventure genre has not seen many great games in recent years but the year 2000 saw the release 
 of what could be regarded as one of the best games the genre has seen to date. I am, of course, 
 talking about The Longest Journey. Written and produced by Ragnar Tornquist, this adventure game 
 doesn't break any new ground as far as gameplay is concerned, it is a simple point and click adventure 
 game, the likes the PC has seen many. But what it does do is tell a wonderful and moving tale of 
 pain, self-discovery and self-sacrifice that alone is worth the price you will be paying for this 
 game.
  
  The Longest Journey tells the story of April Ryan, a young girl who moved to the city of Newport 
 in hope of finding greener pastures and who studies at an art school. She is being disturbed by 
 weird dreams that are a little too real to be just dreams. The story begins in one of these dreams 
 in which she meets a talking dragon and from then on the story keeps on getting weirder and better 
 as the game progresses and, simply put, is one of the finest stories ever told in a game.
  
  The only major complaint about the game can be leveled at its rather lame and boring opening 
 sequences where you run around the city of Newport completing a few easy tasks such as going to 
 April's school, interacting with her friends etc. before the story really opens up. Though this 
 portion is arguably the only turn-off about the game, it does contribute to the overall game because 
 these portions really help you connect with April as she struggles with her life and her various 
 relationships with her family and friends. This makes some of the later portions of the game more 
 enjoyable because you know exactly what she's been through to get there.
  
  The characters surrounding April in the game are all wonderful and you'll really begin to care 
 for them as much as you care for April and when some fate befalls them, you will actually feel 
 sad for them. Apart from April, the most important character is Cortez who will be your mentor 
 and guide throughout the game's story and is the most complex character of the lot. There is a 
 talking bird who is the game's best and funniest character and who provides a lot of laughs in 
 an otherwise serious game. There is a whole host of interesting characters and even the most minor 
 ones have a say in the story and you will get connected to each of them in one way or the other.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, The Longest Journey doesn't break any new ground at all. The early portions of the 
 game contain standard puzzles which can be solved by combining the items in your inventory in logical 
 (and sometimes illogical) ways. As you move on, the puzzles will get really interesting and will 
 actually be connected a great deal more to the story and some of them are actually fairly difficult 
 and will require application of logic to solve. Moving from place to place is a simple matter of 
 clicking on the place where you want to go. The game provides all the details on whether you can 
 interact with a particular object or not as the cursor will change shapes for objects that you 
 can actually interact with. Combat is pretty much absent from the game save for a few minor battles 
 and even then you will just have to use your surroundings and inventory items to good effect to 
 overcome them. Overall, the game is pretty easy and the basic gameplay can be grasped by anyone 
 who has not played adventure games at all. Just don't forget to save a lot because the game features 
 no autosave which means if you forget to save and the PC crashes all your progress will be lost 
 which is really a minor complaint in an otherwise solid game.
  
  The Longest Journey's presentation really helps make the game more immersive and enjoyable. The 
 graphics are really the high point of the game and the designers must be really commended for providing 
 an artistic touch to it. All the worlds in the game are brought to life vividly with great coloring 
 and textures and the whole appearance of the game world is wonderful. The character models are 
 good but not great by any means and some of them will appear really pixelated because the game 
 does play at a low resolution with no means of increasing it to be found anywhere. But taking the 
 game for when it was released in 2000, it is a great looking game and the graphics do the job they 
 are supposed to do which is provide a platform for telling the game's wonderful story.
  
  Music in the game is really moody and wonderful and because it changes with the different worlds 
 you will visit, it never gets repetitive or boring. The voice-overs are all great with the only 
 major complaint being some of them sound the same. In fact, when you look at the credits you will 
 realize the same people have provided voices for a few different characters. Nevertheless, all 
 the voice-overs are pretty good and feel like the actors have lent soul to their voices which helps 
 in selling the illusion that these are real people even though the story is pretty fictional.
 
  
  The Longest Journey features a great story that is very complex and moving and all the game's characters 
 will remain in your heart long after you are done with the game and the ending will leave you wanting 
 more. Overall, it is one of the finest adventure games ever created and should not be missed by 
 anyone even if their interest lies elsewhere in the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  So you are April, a female artist who can somehow shift between two worlds. One is the world of 
 Stark which is a world of science and the other world is Acadia a land of magic and weird creatures.
 
  Acadia is in trouble and thus your world of Stark is also in danger. It is your destiny to find 
 out how to save the universe. With a minimum of 30 hours of gameplay this is no short game. There 
 are tons of characters and mucho dialog to read through. While I was annoyed at times with the 
 excessive dialog this did not deter me however from liking the game. The story was very intricate 
 which accounts for the drawn out chit chat, but it was also interesting. The worlds April journeys 
 through are well done and there are many delightful creatures and characters that you will be interacting 
 with. This is strictly a point and click adventure game but a well accomplished one. It is definitley 
 worth a play especially since you can now find it in your bargain bins for only $9.99. It's a win 
 win situation. While the graphics are not state of the art they get the job done. I did find myself 
 taking a break from playing straight through this game since its so long, but it was worth finishing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  This is how adventure games should be done, while this might not be as good as Dreamfall, still 
 this is a game that is definitely worth your while if you're into adventure games. At this point 
 the graphics might feel a little outdated, but the pre rendered backgrounds still look nice and 
 the character models are ok. The strong point of this game is its' story characters. They story 
 is incredibly rich with a lot, and I mean a LOT of dialogue in it. If you haven't played this game 
 yet, but you're a fan of Dreamfall you should check this game out and this is a prequel to Dreamfall 
 if you didn't know. This game still stands tall today and is still one of the best adventure games 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer needs to play this game. Whatever genre they like, or even if they hate adventure games 
 Get this game, get a walk through and just 'play the story' using the walk through to deal with 
 the puzzles.
  
  Then they need to demand all other genres to produce to this quality of writing, this quality of 
 story-telling and this quality of characterization. Whether RPG or even FPS, this level of story-telling 
 is what was needed to become 'normal' for PC gaming to reach the masses. The fact it hasn't happened 
 so far and PC gaming is sliding into oblivion shows how much this quality of story-telling is not 
 there in today's games and PC game sales are struggling because of it.
  
  You cannot call yourself an adventure gamer if you do not own and have not played this game. But 
 you cannot call yourself a hardcore gamer if you do not play games like this to see how PC gaming 
 should be in all genres and bringing this pressure to bear to the genre you love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  +: A good story with some wonderful characters; beautiful game world; superb voice-acting and music.
 
  
  -: Pacing is annoyingly inconsistent; some of the puzzles are awfully obvious.
  
  The Longest Journey is a critically acclaimed yet not quite best-selling adventure game. This alleged 
 masterpiece takes you on a journey that is truly unlike anything else out there; a fairly lengthy 
 one filled with imaginative settings, great characters, and puzzling adventures. It's a renowned 
 example of adventure gaming, and I played the thing till the very end with a verdict to lay out 
 on the table.
  
  The Longest Journey pits you in control of a character called April Ryan. She is a student at a 
 arts university in a small district of the bulging metropolis of Newport. April Ryan isn't the 
 happiest woman in Newport though. The fact that she isn't really all that good at art being the 
 bottom line. She's constantly being plagued by otherworldly visions of strange monsters and a huge 
 dragon who names herself 'the mother'. It is soon enough however that these visions begin tearing 
 into the precious reality of the grim world of stark. April finds out that she is actually a drifter 
 who can cross between the worlds of stark and arcadia, and that she will have to use these powers 
 to save the world from chaos.
  
  As an adventure game in itself The Longest Journey could be considered relatively standard fare. 
 All actions can be performed with a mouse in a simple but intuitive interface that you could easily 
 guess. Items can be used, looked at, talked to or rotated. You click on any location and April 
 will automatically make her way there. Much of the puzzle solving is based around figuring what 
 items to used on the environment or other items, or combining two items and then using the hybrid. 
 Much of what makes for good adventure gaming are puzzles, and how well these puzzles are integrated. 
 I won't have a hard time admitting that the way The Longest Journey executes this is slightly below 
 par compared to a few other similar games. Yet I wouldn't let it down for not being the greatest 
 example. For the most part the puzzles are pretty enjoyable and you may feel like a genius or pretty 
 clever for solving some of them. You may get stuck a few times whether you like it or not, but 
 that's just the way the genre is. The game lets this down with some illogical, and - especially 
 towards the end - overly obvious child's play.
  
  What really makes this game worth your while - including the &pound;8 and software bugs that get 
 in the way on certain versions - is the story. Yes, you can find a description of the situation 
 of this behemoth in the 2nd paragraph (sorry if that was a mouthfull) . The characters, situations, 
 and writing in the game are all masterfully woven by the Norwegian game designer Ragnar Tornquist, 
 if only in the quality of the writing. The adventure effortlessly changes different moods, one 
 moment it's funny, sad, intense, or interesting. There is a hell load of dialogue in the adventure, 
 but it's so enjoyable the dialogued sections may grow to be your favourite part in the game.
  
  Unfortunately enough, as I was playing the later sections of the game, a word constantly came 
 to my mind which shouldn't have been if a I was playing a game this good, rushed. In other words, 
 I kept thinking that the games act started getting more stale the further I went in. There are 
 even hints in the the world itself that this game is not as long as it should be. The quality of 
 the dialogue is pretty consistent, but the pacing towards the end was more jumpy than a hyperactive 
 kid on steroids!! I'm unlikely to change that remark. It feels like a missed opportunity, that's 
 what I really don't like.
  
  The graphics in the game are appetising. The technical side is lacking in some areas, with some 
 pretty crude moments. However, from an artistic standpoint the game is more than worthy. The worlds 
 of Stark and Arcadia are stunning. The story does pretty well to ensure you understand that Arcadia 
 is not the fairyland it looks like (although it assures you that Stark is the cyberpunkish urban 
 hell you get from first impression) . The Longest Journey was included in a Gamespot top ten feature 
 for game worlds, and I'm not surprised.
  
  The audio in this game however is simply majestic, or just extremely effective. The voice overs 
 are really great and every line is read with a certain charisma lacking in some other games. How 
 simple could it possibly be? All the text is done in full speech, certainly a feat for a game with 
 this much dialogue. The music doesn't kick in often, but the effects that play in the background 
 are soothing enough to melt you into the world, and when the music does kick in it's pretty good.
 
  
  Overall you musn't mistake my score. The Longest Journey is a great adventure game despite it's 
 letdowns. Almost certainly well worth the money. It's an epic adventure, but most of all it's entertaining, 
 and that's the bottom line. It's an entertaining, epic, fairly lengthy and sparkling adventure. 
 You owe yourself to try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games were once a staple of PC gaming. They didn't rely on action at all, but instead 
 focused on good stories, memorable characters, and some incredibly imaginative puzzles. The Longest 
 Journey seems to be trying to revive this nearly dead genre but unfortunately it falls somewhat 
 short of its goal. Sure, there are some interesting characters, and there's a finely written story 
 propelling the game forward, but the puzzles are lacking the imagination that made the genre great.
 
  
  The game follows April Ryan, a young woman who has run away from home to escape her father and 
 pursue a career as an artist. Within a few months of beginning her new life in Venice April begins 
 to have some disturbing dreams. On top of that her dreams seem to be coming to life. One day her 
 dreams appear to her while she is awake, and many people witness strange things in town. She encounters 
 a strange man named Cortez, who seems to have answers as to what is happening, and her journey 
 begins.
  
  As it turns out, the world in which she lives, a 23rd century city rife with science and technology, 
 is but half of this world. There is another half, Arcadia, where magic reigns. Unknown to her, 
 April has the power to shift between these two worlds. It turns out she has an important part 
 to play in the coming events; a battle between those who would reunite the worlds prematurely, 
 and those who wish to restore balance before the reunification.
  
  TLJ has some wonderful places to explore, and the backgrounds look fantastic. Stark (the world 
 of science) has all the infrastructure you would expect. Subways run throughout the lower city, 
 while hover cars weave through the tall buildings of the rich upper city. The downtown is strewn 
 with gang members, drug addicts, and other miscreants, while the outlying area is a gathering place 
 for young artists, complete with cafe and boarding house. Arcadia, on the other hand, seems quite 
 medieval. There are ancient structures, a bustling marketplace, a harbour, and plenty of untamed 
 land to explore. On top of that, there are a few different species to interact with, such as the 
 Alatian, a winged species renowned for their storytelling, and the Venar, a slow-talking people 
 who experience past, present, and future all at the same time. Unfortunately, in terms of art, 
 more work was put into the backgrounds than into the characters. Everyone in this game, including 
 April, is extremely jagged, and sometimes the animations are lacking, especially when people are 
 talking.
  
  However stiff the characters may seem visually, the voice work in this game is great. April sounds 
 fantastic throughout the entire game, and the other characters usually follow suit. Many of the 
 stranger species' voices could have easily been overdone, but the developers did a great job of 
 avoiding that problem. The dialogue is helped along by some great writing. Not only is there a 
 very interesting story here but conversation is well written, and many characters' personalities 
 come through clearly by talking with them. That being said, at times the dialogue drones on and 
 on, which can get quite annoying after a while. The original score written for TLJ is another highlight. 
 Most locations have a great theme accompanying them, be it wandering through an island forest, 
 or riding aboard a ship at sea. The ambient sounds are also very immersive.
  
  While the presentation of TLJ has few flaws, the gameplay is where this work really suffers. For 
 an adventure game, TLJ contains very few puzzles to solve. Most of the time you'll have to exhaust 
 dialogue trees until you get the information you need to continue. Also, many of the puzzles 
 involve going through your inventory and trying to combine items until you find something that 
 works. The few real puzzles either lack logic, or don't provide enough information so that they 
 have to be solved through trial and error. As an example, at one point April is standing in front 
 of a pedestal on which she must place a group of blocks in order to match up certain symbols. Apparently 
 this puzzle only cares about the sides of the blocks you can actually see, because if April had 
 been on the other side of the pedestal, the symbols would not have matched. It's truly a shame 
 that the player should be punished for thinking in 3D when that 2D puzzle was poorly thought out.
 
  
  The point-and-click interface is very intuitive to use. However, sometimes you'll be working on 
 a puzzle for a long time, until you realize you can interact with what you thought was part of 
 the background. Worse still is when April stands in front of the object you are trying to manipulate, 
 so that each time you want to click on it, you have to move her out of the way first. Also, there 
 are some areas of the game that serve no purpose other than leading to another area of the game. 
 As nice as the backgrounds look, there's no excuse for wasting the player's time running across 
 a screen to get to the next area.
  
  While TLJ is a pretty cool experience, it's not much of a game. Most of your time will be spent 
 in dialogue, and any puzzles you might encounter will likely be somewhat frustrating or unsatisfying. 
 There's no reason this tale couldn't have been made into a book, or a cable series, but it just 
 doesn't have enough interactivity to be a very good game. However, TLJ is now being distributed 
 via Steam for around $10, so if you're looking for an immersive experience you might want to check 
 it out. Don't expect much in the way of gameplay though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  You would think something like a point and click game would not gain a good rating or review from 
 a hardcore gamer that plays a lot of First Person shooters. Well, here it is; I love a good story 
 regardless of the kinda game. This game grabbed my attention with it's wonderful landscapes and 
 interesting themes. I simply had to finish the game and played it all the way through twice to 
 see if I missed anything. This game should always be labeled as a Point click classic among PC 
 games. If you plan on getting this game I recommend getting it on Steam in a pack with it's sequel 
 Dreamfall: The Longest Journey so you may continue a the adventure at half the cost of buying them 
 separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winters2
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  The longest journey is one of the best adventure games out there. I picked this game up after playing 
 dreamfall (the sequel) , and I was not disappointed. The graphics may be a bit out dated, but it's 
 still not bad. The background music creates the mood very well, and adds to the overall immersion 
 of the world. The voice acting is one of the best I've seen, it conveys humour, emotions etc. very 
 well. The puzzles in this game are kind of hard though. Especially in the beginning of the game 
 (and to an extent right through the game) the usage of items is a bit strange. Like using a blowed 
 up rubber duck, with a string (and something else I can't remember) to get to an iron key which 
 has fallen off the rails to open some electrical generator later on in the game. The course of 
 your journey (and who to talk to) can make you lost at times, unless your have a walkthough as 
 a reference.
  
  The best part of the game is it's story and world. The 2 settings of a sci-fi and fantasy world 
 is merged together nicely. The story is immersive (especially with the voice acting) and keeps 
 you playing for hours at a time. The characters are memorable, and their interactions with each 
 other is very interesting. The humour in the game is very good, and no joke is excess or overly 
 repeated (except maybe April's whining.....) . Overall the game is definitely worth the money I 
 spent to buy it. It's quite lengthy (even with animation skip) but it was enjoyable right through 
 from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  For me it was the first adventure game played and the great, great, great, great, great, great game. 
 Now, that demo for this game look a god thing for people who never play The Longest Journey. I 
 think Syberia (another great adventure game and assuredly this 2 games are the best in series of 
 adventure -game) was inspirated for Longest Journey...
  But, don't play the demo The Longest Journey buy the game or get it and play full. And then play 
 next Dreamfall: The Longest Journey 2. Both are so great and amazing story-line. You never forget... the 
 worlds and characters, music and puzzles, dialogue... everything. You never forget this game... never! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  I have had endless discussions of what makes a memorable game. Is it the graphics, the game play, 
 the sounds? Most arrived to the conclusion that graphics is the most important then game play. 
 I felt that these definitely will assist in enhancing the game however for me its the main character. 
 If the game can draw the player into 'their' world as a living and breathing person then it will 
 be a memorable game. The Longest Journey has done just that.
  
  The premise of the game is about an 18 years old girl named April Ryan. She's your typical person 
 as she's not a super-star, hasn't got much money and looking to 'find' herself due to her troublesome 
 past. The game is separated into 13 chapters and each is a masterpiece on its own so be prepared 
 for a long journey (oh the puns) - seriously it's long.
  
  The game's interface is well placed. The menus are easy to locate, items that you pick up will 
 glow if it's able to be used, and options for graphics, sounds, her diary and everything else are 
 well sorted out as they are all presented graphically and looks impressive. You can even view past 
 conversations, cut-scenes and that 'book of secrets' (which needs to be unlocked  hint: its in 
 chapter 4) .
  
  The puzzles are not generally hard as there are ample of clues however there are a few puzzles 
 that require either logical thinking or just plain luck. The downside is that the dialogues are 
 too linear. In other words, it's impossible to make a mistake as no matter what you choose you 
 will be able to get all the information needed. It's not like for example Fallout 2 where you can 
 easily make an error and upset a faction. The good news is that you will eventually finish the 
 game!
  
  The stronger point of the game is the storyline and how well it integrates with the main character. 
 The developers have made April Ryan (the main person) not a 2D pixel hunting adventure chick but 
 a fully developed 3D character that has feelings and a purpose. This is the key to any adventure 
 game, or any other game in that matter. There were times I actually felt the pain and loneliness 
 of April when she ventures through the two worlds as no matter whom she talks to, the non-player 
 characters never give the whole story (which is good) .
  
  The sound effects in this game are great for its time; from the crunching sounds of April walking 
 though the sands to the whisks of the wind to birds chirping. Even though the background sounds 
 are 'looped' it's well done. Full credit is due for the musical scores and voice acting. Together 
 they are probably the best I have ever heard from a PC game.
  
  The Longest Journey is a long game and easily can take 30 plus hours playing. I have play over 
 40 hours as I was amazed with all the locations and different dialogues and of course the acting. 
 Even though there is an option for 'time-skip' not once I used this option as it's just simply 
 astonishing to see all the places in full glory and as well you have a higher chance of risking 
 missing information.
  
  Overall the whole game feels like a wonderful movie as this can make a great fairytale of hope 
 and self-sacrifice. The writers deserves full credit for the story and of course the developers 
 for the game. A lot of effort has been placed to make this game as close to perfect as possible 
 and deserves to be played, even for beginner adventurers. So join me in an unforgettable journey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning to the end, The Longest Journey is a winner game that keeps the player amazed 
 and mystified. The first one third of this game leaves you so mystified that you will be compelled 
 to finish the game to get answers. As you play it, you will feel that Funcom -- the developer -- 
 did not make it just for the money; it is absolutely a work of passion (a success element often 
 overlooked by developers) . But first thing first -- though it is a point and click game, it is audio-visually 
 the most superb one. This beautifully rendered and drawn game's storyline and story telling style 
 are also equally matched. April Ryan is perplexed by strange dreams of another world; then she 
 starts experiencing momentary flashes of that another world in her real life. She starts looking 
 for answers and that pushes her to the other world -- which is the parallel world of magic. That 
 parallel world is colliding with our world and April's job is to save the both.
  Given this basic story, the game presents stunningly beautiful real world levels and magic world 
 levels. April's perilous journey roams from earth to the sky and to the bottom of the ocean. Some 
 characters resonate mythical ones, and some are wildly imaginative.
  The puzzles in the game are moderately hard as some of them require imaginative solutions, instead 
 of logical solutions. The voice of April successfully creates an image of April in the player's 
 mind and when the game will be over, you will be left with the feeling of a loss. This is why people 
 who played this game had been demanding a sequel since 2000.
  There is no clear definition on a perfect length of an adventure game. But I think this game's 
 length is perfect -- its not too long and not too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonatanr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This really is one of the best games I have ever played. I mean the story is fantastic. The characters 
 are believeable and they actually have personalities instead of being badly pictured stereotypes. 
 I really liked the whole theme about there being two worlds and the player being able to occasionally 
 shift between them. It is such a good idea that I don't understand why don't we meet that more 
 often in scifi games. The puzzles are also definitely a positive thing about the game. I think 
 that they are not too tough to figure out and not too easy either. There are a lot of puzzles that 
 you don't figure out very quickly but eventually they will come to you. In fact when I finally 
 got the really difficult ones I was amazed how easy they actually were. The conclusion is that 
 the great voice acting and the great storyline really made the game worth playing and even worth 
 playing it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  The Longest Journey is just one of those games that, even after playing for a short period of time, 
 you know will stand the test of time. While it may not be one of the most heard of titles, it is 
 by far and away one of the greatest adventures you will ever play.
  
  Graphics 7/10:
  Sadly, this is the only place the game falls down. Whilst the graphics are still very nice and 
 the rendered cut-scenes are great, the general graphics in the game leave a bit to be desired. 
 This is most obvious in the character models where they all look a bit blocky and the animation 
 can be quite rigid at times. Don't get me wrong though, there is still plenty of beauty in this 
 game. For one thing, the backgrounds and objects you come across in the game look truly wonderful 
 and set the scene and feel very well.
  
  Gamplay 10/10:
  The Longest Journey is a typical point-and-click adventure game. What that means is you click to 
 move the character to a certain spot, move between various areas and pick up items you have to 
 figure out how to use correctly t progress through the game. TLJ does this very well and keeps 
 a high level of challenge in the game, possibly too hard sometimes. There is a lot of really great 
 puzzles to figure out that will keep you guessing and entertained. There are also a large number 
 of different places you will travel to in the game each providing their own unique puzzles.
  
  Sound 10/10:
  The sound has been done beautifully. Background music suits each environment 
 really well and has been chosen very appropriately. The sound effects are all great as well, everything 
 from bubbling potions to cars racing buy are all very effective. The best sound in TLJ though is 
 the voice acting. Each voice really suits the character well and it flows very nicely without some 
 of those weird pauses you get in other games.
  
  Value 9/10:
  TLJ will probably take you about 20 to 30 hours to beat depending on how much you use a walkthrough. 
 It is a highly challenging game, so you may find yourself stuck at points, but this does much to 
 expand the life of the game. After beating it there is no reason to go back though, except for 
 the pure joy of playing it again.
  
  Outro 9.4/10:
  TLJ is a truly great adventure game that features everything you could possibly want out of one. 
 Its also so cheap now that you'd be denying yourself if you didn't go buy it! So what are you still 
 doing reading this review? Go and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piecar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this game blew my mind when i played it back when it came out. The hype got to 
 me and i had to try it. I've played it three times already. And no, its not like the puzzles change 
 or that i have even forgotten the puzzles. But it is just such a well crafted game in terms of 
 production, style and story that it floors me every time.
  Also, one thing of note is that it really IS a long game. Even in my replays its taken me a loooooooong 
 time to get through it. At this point, its definitely worth any price you pay for it.
  Some of the puzzles area easy, some are crazy hard. So i must admit i did use a guide at some selected 
 points. The game does make it easier because it will highlight certain tools that you can use on 
 certain other things. Honestly, the game never feels like its trying to beat you down with impossible 
 puzzles or happily moving you along with easy ones. The people are VERY memorable, the dialogue 
 has wit and it feels real. This is a mature adventure without being lewd, overly violent or stuffy.
 
  If I had to pick Top 5 games ever, without a doubt, this would be one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Okay, since this was the very first adventure game that I played, I was a little apprehensive about 
 starting into a new genre after years of Halo and Doom and suchlike. But I must say I wasn't at 
 all disappointed. The story, the sound, the dialogues, and the cutscenes... they were all really 
 great. It will still take me time to get used to the click-and-find-items system of all adventure 
 games, but apart from that, the game is extremely enjoyable through and through. I just wished 
 the ending could have been a LITTLE more memorable, though there's nothing wrong with what's been 
 done already... Give this game a try; it deserves a place among the Halo and all the other gods. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Remember those fun old point-n-click detective games? Remember how satisfying it was to solve mysteries 
 but how predictable and short they could be? Remember the wonderful dialogue and plot from Knights 
 of the Old Republic? Remember how even though there was SO MUCH speech that it really never got 
 dull? Well how about you combine those two features into one game? And so, The Longest Journey 
 is born.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : As said above, this really is the perfect blend of two great features. The problem 
 solving and puzzle solving is almost always very logical and as long as you think a little you 
 can get through almost all of the game without any help. The only problem is that a few puzzles 
 here and there really are based on trial and error and that is annoying. Enough of that... what 
 IS this game exactly? Well basically you control this character named April Ryan on her adventures. 
 Really I can't reveal anything because half the fun of the game is discovering all the plot points 
 as you go. How you do it is basically you have a static screen background (kind of like how Resident 
 Evil used to be) and you click on a location. That moves her to that spot and you can click on 
 'hotspots' to move here there and interact with them. You right-click to bring up items which you 
 can combine and use all over the place. It is as simple as that yet it keeps things relatively 
 mixed up so it doesn't get boring. Even if you do get bored, the great story that rivals some of 
 the best novels ever written, will likely do a good job of keeping your attention. Though 70% of 
 the game is talking, it is all so interesting and like a giant novel so you really just can't put 
 it down. It is fairly simple when you think about it, but funny thing is, without the thinking 
 the game can be VERY hard. Unlike most games we play now, this game requires you pay attention 
 and actually use your brain when you play. It really does feel so much more satisfying for that 
 reason though. The only problems I saw were that a few puzzles were either based on trial/error 
 or were just so blatantly obvious that you would overlook them or were just so complex (albeit 
 do-able with a lot of thinking) that they could be frustrating. This was rare though and really 
 that is a good thing. The other problem is that when playing on XP (which is I am sure what most 
 people will play this on now, since Vista isn't quite up to speed yet) , there can be random crashes 
 even with trying every single patch. In fact, I played 6 hours and got my save game DELETED for 
 some reason, it was overwritten by a spot in the game early on that I had not even saved in. Luckily 
 this only happened once and there are a decent amount of savegames you can download online, but 
 it is an annoyance nonetheless. Oh, did I mention that the story has so many GREAT (great as in 
 well done, you may not particularly LIKE all of it) twists and turns that the only time you will 
 truly know what is going on (and even then there is much to be answered) is the very end.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : There were WAY better looking games even on the N64 at this time. Why the 
 8 then? Every background is drawn so beautifully that even though it isn't 3D, it completely draws 
 you in and never leaves you with a dull moment. Unfortunately I can't say the same about the character 
 models. The models can look anywhere from acceptable, to silly, to downright horrible. Generally 
 the last two. It is good that the characters are at least unique looking so you can tell the difference, 
 and the FMVs look great for its time. I just wish that the lack of graphical power in the backgrounds 
 (artistic? yes. next-gen graphics for its time? no.) could have been used to make the characters look 
 more... solid and less... polygonal. Some colors just look so bland and blended together on the models 
 too. Other than that though, it does look good and will usually do a good job of keeping you satisfied.
 
  
  Sound (10/10) : Brilliant. I admit that though the music is usually fitting for the moment, the 
 even music generally is either WAY too loud or WAY too quiet when it is played. That is ok though, 
 if you put the music settings down a third then it really does sound a lot better. Not perfect, 
 but better. Why the perfect score? Dialogue. Considering a lot of this game revolves around talking, 
 it is a good job that Funcom got such GREAT voice actors. Ever line is said with so much emotion 
 and character and really, is quite possibly the best voice acting I have ever heard in a game. 
 And people said (then and now) voice acting couldn't be done effectively in a game. The sound effects 
 are mediocre at best but really, the voice acting is just so darned good that this deserves a 10 
 just for that reason.
  
  Value (10/10) : A lengthy story, clocking in at 50+ hours without online help, compelling story 
 that (like a good novel) never gets old, and add to it some pretty nifty special features? Excellent. 
 After you beat the game you get outtakes, additional unused music and a bunch of artwork to sift 
 through. For a game of its time, this is a good amount of special features to complement an already 
 lengthy and addictive adventure.
  
  Even though I rate this game so highly, it isn't for everybody. You have to be patient and willing 
 to spend a lot of time listening to talking in order to completely enjoy this. Those who get the 
 most joy out of action-packed games would do better to avoid this game. The rest? You guys (and 
 gals) owe it to yourselves to buy this game (did I mention it is relatively cheap now? I got it 
 for $5, new) . It is difficult for me to see somebody who wouldn't like this game, because then 
 that would require the person not like a really good story (minus the all-action players of course) . 
 Enjoy, I sure did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  I played The Longest Journey last year and it's one of the best adventure games I enjoyed so far. 
 It's vividly imaginative plot and awe-inspiring backdrops with the charmingly simple point and 
 click interface makes it an experience you will never forget even after you completed it.
  
  All adventure games rely heavily on storyline since it's the only motivation to play the game 
 and the story that The Longest Journey has to tell is definitely one of the best in it's genre. 
 The characters have amazingly real personalities and backstories that you think their world really 
 exists! It's really that wild. Also, there are a lot of side-stories and interesting ideologies 
 in between the main plotline you really feel the sincerity of the developers for putting a lot 
 of effort and resources into this game.
  
  If you are trying to experience the adventure game genre for the first time, make this game your 
 debut. This game is worth every penny (even full price) if you still can find it.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Longest Journey has been out since 2000, but until recently it has not been very 
 high profile; the much-anticipated sequel, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey. The game begins in one 
 of these dreams. April is standing high on a cliff, overlooking a strange land. On this cliff, 
 she meets a dragon and a talking tree, and she is visited by a strange, malevolent mass that sends 
 her careening over the edge - and back into her bed. When she awakes, you begin to learn about 
 her life. If there's one problem with The Longest Journey, it's that the opening is a bit slow. 
 It's loaded with expository dialogue about April, her friends, and the city. Then you go around 
 visiting thoughs places and talking to people and so on. During the first few chapters of the game, 
 you expore the life of Aprl. You will meet who she knows like her friends and you will go to school 
 and have to go this job at this coffee shop. This might not seem important but you are wrong, It 
 gets you emotionally attatched to the character and know what April's life is all about and make 
 you really care about her friends too. So though out the game you will be taken to another world 
 and then back again becayse April will have dream and the game gets more intereginh once the truth 
 behind April's dreams. You also learn that there are two diffrent worlds: One place is called Stark 
 which is a place devoded to science and Tehnology while the other place is called Arcadia which 
 is devoted to magic. So pretty much you are traveling to between two world and meeting these characters 
 but yet your fate seems so tagled up with theres. The Longest Journey is sometimes sad, sometimes 
 funny, and sometimes scary. At times, it's all of these things at once. Graphics: The graphic detail 
 is remarkable, and in every sense plausible as our future. There are just a vast number of places 
 to visit, and much of it is something we will recognize as our own future. Stark is just as its 
 name would suggest; while technology has advanced considerably, other things have decayed. Drugs 
 and urban stagnation are slightly more visible than our present day world - but it is certainly 
 plausible enough to think that we could end up like the world in Stark.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is aboulutly Amazing and the voice acting is very well done aswell. Noteworthy 
 is the fact that voice actress Sarah Hamilton, the voice of April Ryan and the other voice acting 
 is just as compelling and you will not be dissapointed.
  
  Value: I would have to say that the replay Value is very good. Any adventure gamer, gamer or Caual 
 gamer should pick this up and add this game to there game collection.
  
  All in all this is an amazing game that should not be missed, to bad back in 2000 it did not recive 
 enough attention and was unappereciated. I give this game 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games have gotten stale for the most part and only a few games have been able to break 
 through and show some real promise. The Longest Journey is one of those, if not premiere, games 
 of the genre. It comes on the PC and is the predecessor for the somewhat successful Dreamfall.
 
  
  The game takes place in the future where to take the role as April Ryan. She is a young girl in 
 her 20s attending art school but she doesn't really know what she should do. Much of her character 
 is conveyed strongly through the voice acting and the emotions she exhibits throughout the game. 
 Because of this, she continues to grow on the player and she seems to evolve and become more mature 
 and more of what she is supposed to be.
  
  What is really fascinating about the story of this game is there are two worlds. Without saying 
 too much, the story is only somewhat creative but then it really takes a turn and pulls you right 
 in. With the distinct characters and the awesome voice acting, it's hard not to feel that this 
 is the quite possibly the best interactive novel you've read, played, and watched.
  
  Gameplay involves using the mouse to click around the world, picking up items as you go along. 
 Sometimes, you pick up items that can't be used for a long time and it can be frustrating trying 
 to figure out what to do with what items just to get the story to move ahead. At times, the puzzles 
 make little sense and that can be very frustrating. Though the game is extremely linear, it still 
 looks awesome for a 2000 game. The characters come alive and each are very distinct. Everything 
 is colourful and it looks great. If you're running a slower computer, this game will still run 
 fine and it doesn't slow or lag.
  
  The sounds fit the game quite well and do not sound grainy nor annoying. All the voice acting is 
 top notch and the feelings and emotions come right through without a hitch. Every word tantalizes 
 you into what could come next without ever becoming too revealing or easy to the ears.
  
  The major aspect of the game that keeps it so enthralling is the story telling. I can not emphasize 
 enough how great the story is and how authentic it feels at times. Though the game has been out 
 since 2000, if you have time and wanna see a great, though somewhat difficult and illogical game, 
 pick this up. Even if you use a walkthrough for the entirety of the game, you can't wait to see 
 what next tribulation or friend shows up next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comthitnuong
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is a point and click, puzzle based adventure game that incorporates a very 
 enjoyable story. The Longest Journey makes for a very memorable experience due to its deep and 
 complex story.
  
  At first, The Longest Journey takes place in the futuristic city of Venice, complete with tall, 
 majestic buildings and flying cars. In game you play as an art student named April Ryan. April 
 Ryan is your basic simple student struggling through school. She has an art project due soon and 
 has yet to put a good amount of work into her painting. To add to this she is also having very 
 odd and seemingly real dreams. You will begin meeting all of the people in Aprils life and learning 
 more about her life. After playing for awhile, you will then see that Aprils dreams turn out to 
 be real and that April has a power to shift between two worlds. These two worlds are Stark, the 
 world of science and Arcadia, the world of magic. You will get to explore a large variety of different 
 areas on both worlds and meet a huge amount of solidified characters from each world. Exploring 
 these worlds and learning about these different characters is very fun and allows you to see the 
 depth that the developers put into creating each character and environment.
  
  The story is clearly the main focus of this game and will take you about 20-25 hours to complete. 
 The story will take you back and forth, across both worlds as you discover your destiny. The story's 
 never becomes confusing as it is well explained and filled with cohesion. Each part of the story 
 works off past parts of the story. What you find and do in the beginning of the game may affect 
 events in the far future.
  
  Much of this game is based off of puzzles. These puzzles serve the purpose of moving the plot forward 
 in a way that you know what is happening and it sticks in your mind. The puzzles usually consist 
 of you finding an item or group of items and combining or using them in various ways. While some 
 of these puzzles are cool and give you a good amount of satisfaction after completing them, some 
 of these puzzles are flat out illogical and frustrating and others are extremely difficult. For 
 instance, one time you will have to make a makeshift fishing pole to fish out this key from a subway 
 station. The place you have to fish the key out of is barely noticeable and when you put the items 
 to form the fishing pole, you will probably feel like hitting the computer and saying, what the 
 hell? . This does not affect the overall story though. It just makes it kind of hard to move from 
 one part to the next.
  
  The Longest Journey visuals are pretty mixed in terms of quality. Character models are sometimes 
 a pain to look at as you can usually see the flat surfaces from the polygons in the models. This 
 does not really get in the way though as considering how old this game is and plus the fact that 
 you are looking at the characters from a fair distance away. The background and cut scenes are 
 beautiful though and show a good amount of detail.
  
  Since the games focus is the story, one of the necessities is the voice acting. The Longest Journey 
 hits the voice acting almost perfectly. By the voice acting you can imagine their facial expression 
 and will be able to tell their feelings. The game even has accents made up for different regions 
 of Arcadia which is a nice treat to listen to. There is only one problem with the voice acting. 
 As the speech moves from one character to another, there is a slight 1-2 second pause. This sometimes 
 disrupts the mood but you will get used to it and it does not bother you afterwards. The soundtrack 
 and background music is also very fitting and does a very nice job of setting the mood for the 
 scene. Sometimes when there is a scary part, just the music by itself will be enough to put goosebumps 
 on you back.
  
  After completing the game there really isnt much reason to play it again, unless you want to gain 
 a deeper understanding of the story. I played it a second time and its a nice experience how all 
 the subplots fit together after already knowing the plot. Also after completing the game, you will 
 unlock some bonuses that let you see some of the game art and voice acting bloopers. Many of these 
 are pretty funny and will give you about an extra 30 minutes of gameplay.
  
  The game does have some problems. Sometimes while saving or just playing the game will just shut 
 down. So it would be wise to save frequently. Also for the action junkies out there, I suggest 
 you do not play this game. The game consists of no fighting and not a whole lot of violence (though 
 there are some scary parts) . The violent scenes present feature you using items around you to trap 
 your foe instead of bashing them on the head or shooting them.
  
  While the game does not appeal to everyone, to those who are looking for a wonderful story will 
 get their share while playing The Longest Journey. If you do look for story in a game, you will 
 find yourself becoming sad when the game is coming to a close. The Longest Journey leaves you with 
 a memorable experience that you will remember for a good amount of time. This game receives Comthitnuongs 
 Stamp of Approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  There are so many things to say about this adventure... that it wold take me a year to describe 
 It. It is the most solid adventure game i have ever played and i hope someone will think to release 
 a book , a very big book with the same title.
  
  I remember i played it a long long time ago, and suddenly i wanted to play it again last month, 
 i enjoyed playing as much as i enjoyed the first time. This game is mostly about the story, a never 
 ending story...
  
  This is a game that can gives 100% satisfaction to an adventure fan, it has it all. So don't miss 
 it !!!
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  What is left to be said about one of the most beautiful stories and one of the best adventure games 
 ever released? I would say, for all gamers who have never played it, you don't know what you are 
 missing ! This game is so rich, so inspiring, that you'll be feeling like you are a part of a better 
 world, you're emotional state will be greatly and for a long period, changed. You'll always have 
 the feeling, when playing, that you are taking part of something else than just a videogame; something 
 great, exciting and rewarding. The fabulous story drives you to 2 differents worlds, an antithesis 
 between good and bad, between ugly and beautiful, between science and magic. The quests are fairly 
 difficult, the puzzles are a bit too difficult, but all the action is very creative, very catchy. 
 You will never want to hit the exit buton, and, when you have to do it, from time to time, you'll 
 be still thinking at the game, at what you should do next. You'll barely can wait to come back 
 home, to start your computer and launch the game. After finishing it, you'll the feeling that you 
 want more, but this is not the game's ending fault. It's because you'll be missing already the 
 beauty of the story, the Marcuria and the characters. You'll be feeling that you have left behind 
 in Marcuria and in many characters encountered in the game, a part of your soul.
  The characters are memorably, you won't forget any character of the game and the voice acting is 
 simply fantastic. You won't skip any line, though you'd heard some cue many times before.
  The bad is that (althought for the time was released, it was a very innovative game) it seems that 
 the game's technical solutions back then being limited, were not supporting the story at its best 
 potential as it should have been today. Sometimes, it seems that the action is pushed ahead in 
 rush (you pass from underground world to underwater world, then to the skies, and viceversa) , not 
 leting you this way to taste and enjoy enough those (very different) worlds. I think it would have 
 been great if this kind of story would have been told using episodic gaming. This way, the sequel 
 for The Longest Journey wouldn't had to wait 5 bloody years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumanrbr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Advertisement
  
  The Longest Journey's interface is simple, and reminiscent of many similar games' mechanics, but 
 is more successfully implemented than most. Clicking the mouse pointer on an on-screen location 
 causes protagonist April Ryan to walk to that spot; clicking an object or important piece of scenery 
 allows you to examine it, and if possible, manipulate it with hand (picking things up, moving switches, 
 etc.) or mouth (eating food, playing a flute, etc.) icons. Numerous shortcut keys are available, 
 hotspot detection is excellent, and best of all, pixel-hunting is almost never an issue. If you're 
 supposed to find an object on the floor or a button on the wall, the designers of The Longest Journey 
 have made sure you'll be able to actually SEE it. The graphical and aural components of The Longest 
 Journey are both generally excellent, with a few stumbles in character animation. The game world 
 is represented by polygonal characters and objects over pre-rendered backdrops, much like the recent 
 Final Fantasies. TLJ's environments are beautifully rendered and animated... ocean waves are particularly 
 impressive... but their inhabitants often look slightly off. The character models are generally 
 detailed and attractive, but their animations are too obviously looped and frequently somewhat 
 jerky. The same goes for the game's many FMV sequences, in which the special effects and settings 
 are stunning, but the rendered actors don't always move smoothly and convincingly. In the sound 
 department, music and FX are top drawer, and the staggering amount of dialogue is all competently 
 voiced. Some of the voice acting is fantastic, and some of it a bit over the top, but overall it's 
 well above average. Where The Longest Journey truly excels, however, is in drawing you fully into 
 its world. I won't give away too much of the story, as it begins revealing its many secrets right 
 from the beginning, but the gist of it is this. April Ryan, an artist and student in Newport City 
 (a futuristic metropolis resembling something out of Blade Runner) , has been having strange dreams 
 of dragons, tree spirits, and other strange phenomena... some of them appearing while she's wide 
 awake. One day, she has a run-in with Cortez, a local eccentric, who seems to know far more about 
 April and her mysterious dreams than any stranger should. As the dreams grow more intense, others 
 around April begin to see them as well, and Cortez eventually reveals that Earth is actually divided 
 into two worlds: Stark, the one she knows, a place of science and order, and Arcadia, which she 
 has seen in her dreams, a place of magic and chaos. The existence of both worlds depends on a balance 
 of their forces, and April's dreams are a sign of that balance beginning to deteriorate... One 
 word that appropriately describes the feeling of working one's way through The Longest Journey 
 is EPIC. April's quest takes her (and you) to many corners of both Stark and Arcadia, from Newport's 
 crime-choked Hope Street to the flying castle of a mad Arcadian alchemist; you'll deal with an 
 impressive cast ranging from your landlord to an ambassador of the Venar, a race to whom past, 
 present, and future are indistinguishable. It is an adventure grand in scope, but its real beauty 
 lies in how fully each location and civilization is fleshed out. Sure, it's not quite Tolkien, 
 but each Arcadian race has its own history and lore, and even your life in Stark comes with an 
 extensive backstory. The game's conversation trees often allow you to chat at length about subjects 
 that aren't germane to the quest, but further increase your understanding of the worlds around 
 you. This goes a long way toward creating the illusion of a cohesive, holistic world, and does 
 wonders for a player's suspension of disbelief and sense of immersion. It is somewhat curious that 
 April will refuse to perform any action that might get her killed, but the inability to die in 
 The Longest Journey does give you the advantage of being able to try anything and everything without 
 having to worry about the old save-and-restore tango. The Longest Journey loses a few points for 
 its character animation and for a few of adventure games' standard pitfalls. Its replay value is 
 arguably limited, a few puzzles require Martian leaps of logic to solve, there is the occasional 
 bit of hamfisted exposition, and yes, it's a niche title in a fading genre. However, The Longest 
 Journey is also such a polished and engrossing example of that genre, and I enjoyed it so much, 
 that I cannot in good conscience give it any less than a B. This Journey won't be to everyone's 
 taste, but for those who salivate at the idea of one of the best-written graphical adventures ever 
 seen, it's one well worth taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game ranks up there with Syberia. It has a great story and interesting characters. I played 
 Dreamfall the Longest Journey first, which in retrospect I wished I had not. The first game explains 
 what the Balance is and so forth. Tha game was made around the same time as Syberia so I cannot 
 understand why the graphics of the characters were a little sub par. The voice acting was great 
 and the puzzles a little more challenging than Dreamfall. The game play is pure point and click, 
 which I like. It is a mature game secondary to the language so it is certainly not for the kids. 
 All in a great adventure game and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsinc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is one of the games that will slowly draw you in until you can't escape. The 
 beginning of the game starts off a little slow. You are put in the body of Aprii Ryan, an 18 year 
 old art student without direction and vision. You get aquatinted with her and learn how her everyday 
 life plays out. As this happens you notice strange phenomena around you. Eventually you investigate 
 and inevitably get pulled in to an unknown power struggle of control of two parallel worlds. As 
 April you are aware of all her thoughts and feelings, which guide you though the long and enveloping 
 storyline.
  
  Every character in The Longest Journey is voice acted. This definitely adds to the value and the 
 characters in the game. Every character in TLJ seems to have been given their own background and 
 unique personality, no matter how insignificant they are.
  
  The game play its self is rather simple. Like most Click and Move Adventure games you move your 
 character around, collect items, and solve puzzles. Many of the puzzles are intermediate in difficulty, 
 and some are somewhat difficult. The puzzles are challenging and will keep you entertained
  
  The Longest Journey is a long game. It will take about 30 hours to complete. This is good, 
 although as long as it is you'll be sad its over in the end.
  
  The Longest Journey currently has a sequel, Dreamfall. I highly recommend playing it after the 
 TLJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  The Longest Journey really had good premises with its stunning graphics and story in its demo. 
 And even though the interactivity was limited, it could have been a great balance between a movie 
 and a videogame. But in the reality, it wasnt exactly it.
  
  An unedited movie
  
  The Longest Journey just felt like an unedited movie. It killed the rhythm of the story. Dialogues 
 were long and could often have been reduced to half or even third of their length and the unchanging 
 camera angles didnt help you keeping concerned by what characters were saying nor did the limited 
 animation. But thanks, there were the subtitles to keep your interest focused. Thought, those long 
 dialogues often lead to an overdose of information forcing the player to click again and again, 
 to be sure he didnt miss something, rather than just to try to know more. The exploration was 
 nice too, but there were so many things to explore that it was overwhelming. Although, this got 
 better at the end.
  
  Illogical puzzles
  
  The puzzles were often illogical. I finally got impatient at the end of the second chapter and 
 started using a walk-through. I felt solving the puzzles was more of a question on how lucky you 
 were clicking everywhere rather than how cunning you were. And I didnt felt like spending three 
 weeks clicking everywhere just for the sake of it. 
  
  A great balance between the ordinary and the extraordinary
  
  On a more positive note, there 
 were parts of the story that really got me hooked, especially those in Shark. Sometimes, it really 
 got intriguing. There was mystery, humor and it had a balance between the extraordinary and the 
 ordinary that other games don't have in general; or they are about superheroes, which don't sleep, 
 don't eat and fight day after day, or they are about people and friends and daily life. In The 
 Longest Journey, one minute, April was saving the world, and then, she went back for an evening 
 to her normal life and had to deal with her friends and her parents. Day after day, she walked 
 in the same environment and she developed day-to-day relationships with her peers. I thought this 
 was the strength of the game, rather than the missions in Arcadia. I also liked how the missions 
 were written in the form of a diary. She did know how to interpret the events going on! Also, I 
 think this was the first video game I tried where the main character traveled in metro! And there 
 were memorable characters in the game, the captain was the best! He knew sarcasm all right!
  
  But too bad the game crashed so often. It really decreased the experience fighting to get the 
 dialogue skipped for the third time. 
  
  A loooooong journey
  
  So, The Longest Journey really was a way too loooooooong journey. It let me a bit on my hunger. 
 The ending was fishy. Though, I liked the book of secrets. As for the story, I enjoyed parts of 
 it, especially those related to family and friends. The puzzles bored me and so did long stories 
 about Arcadia. But I found interesting the dept they tried to give it (real stories written in 
 books... just for the sake of it!) .
  
  I may redo the game once, but not three or four times. It's a nice story, but it's far from being 
 the most memorable one. The music was okay, but this too wasn't what will strike me for the rest 
 of my life. I already forgot it. (Though, I remember the wanna-be stressful one when there is "danger" 
 and the enemies are waiting for you to think of what to do next) . Ah. No, I definitely prefer RPG. 
 And if this is one of the best adventure games... I am not sure I want so much try the others. 
 But still, I might try Dreamfall one day, by curiosity.
  
  Thanks anyway for the journey, April Ryan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadTricks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Great story is the main source of pleasure what adventure game can give you. And The Longest Journey 
 has it. Very good graphics for its releasing year (2000) , best of all are the backgrounds. First 
 chapters were certainly the hardest, after that I found The Longest journey to be easy, last chapters 
 i just ran through. The Longest Journey have amazingly good vocal acting, which images the whole 
 personality of every character individually. 13 Chapters filled with gripping story, 2 Worlds need 
 to be saved, many magical creatures waiting for help, that is The Longest Journey.
  I would recommend this game mostly for those who are new at point-and-click genre. This game fits 
 perfectly for starting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlekMosingiewic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  To begin with, I've heard that TLJ was originally meant to be a platformer, and its setting - complete 
 with two worlds, one of magic, the other of science, and the Guardian that makes sure they do not 
 interfere with each other - was originally conceived as a setting for a platformer. 
  
  There are moments in the game when it actually shows.
  
  The story is, on one hand, very well 
 crafted and involving - but as I moved through the game I found it not as original as it could 
 be. One of the major problems it's suffering from are the dialogues - they game wouldn't lose much 
 if they were a little bit shorter. Then the story is your average quest, with the protagonist having 
 to assemble pieces of an artifact/a set of artifacts and stop the Evil. Been there, done that. 
 A number of times.
  
  Then there's the ending. 
  
  Actually it seems as if the designers were flooded with plenty of good ideas as they moved towards 
 it, but they were clueless when they had to piece them together, and - in result - "The Longest 
 Journey" ends leaving you with plenty of unanswered questions. That's not the way stories are meant 
 to be told, Funcom. 
  
  Overall "TLJ" is not as big a pain as long as you can look past its obvious flaws. It has some 
 absurd puzzles that will have you looking through the Internet for solution, but fortunately their 
 number is small. Both of the worlds are a sight to behold, even if they are a bit cliched - Stark, 
 or the world of science, is your typical cyberpunkish dark future, a battleground between powerful 
 corporations and the hackers underground, while Arcadia - the world of magic - is a distorted, 
 magical reflection of our own reality. There are few extremely well-done, cinematic moments though, 
 when April actually faces some enemies - even though they're only an imitation of actual action 
 scenes, they're quite decent. 
  
  Tu summarise this review: if you like adventure games, play TLJ. If you like cliched fantasy tales, 
 play TLJ. If you want to see a game that makes full use of the artistic potential of the medium, 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antar3s
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  The longest journey is a very nice adventure game, probably the best after LucasArts's great titles 
 and before Syberia.
  I wonder why, for years, developers and publishers have thought that the adventures were a died 
 game genre. They are even one of the best example of games which are not just "entertainment", 
 but also clever activities for people.
  The story is good and well told. Graphics - a mix of 2D sprites and 3D models - is coloured and 
 detailed. Nice sounds and musics, also. And the interface is simple and easy to use. It permits 
 player to do simply any action: describe items, talk and use what is in the inventary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hastur
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  In the wake of its successors release, I thought I should give this one a try. As it has such 
 a high GS score. And although I must admit beforehand that Im no real adventure fan, I was somewhat 
 disappointed afterwards. Its a true point and click adventure and I dont mean that in a positive 
 way. Youre going to have to click every inch, else you might miss something important. Which you 
 wouldnt have noticed otherwise. As the puzzles arnt always intuitive. The story, although it 
 does have some twists and turns, is hardly original. And if I compare it to other games of its 
 year, the graphics look somewhat outdated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv99squall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, the longest journey ranks among the top adventure games ever, with a incredibly complex 
 and well developed storyline and colourful characters.
  The voice acting is superb and the dialogues range from the laugh-out-loud funny to very serious.
 
  What the longest journey manages to do is to put together two different genres (science fiction 
 and fantasy) together without causing any clashes.
  The puzzles in this game can be quite hard and sometimes you're hopelessly wandering around in 
 search of clues, but this only adds to the satisfaction of solving them.
  This game is simply amazing. If you like adventure games you HAVE to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnavdesai
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I just started playing this game and it is fun to watch the story unfold but the puzzles are really 
 tough to crack and require a lot and I do mean a lot of thinking. 
  Some of the puzzles span across more than one chapter and thus if you are not paying attention 
 to your surroundings even for one second then you are really screwed. 
  Coming to the story line it is amazing and has a lot of detail (to which you should be paying attention!!) 
 The characters are really nice and fun.
  As for the graphics they are nothing to write home about since this game was released in 2000 but 
 for its time its nicely done although the controls could be slightly better.
  Play this before you play the next in the series which the Dreamfall: The Longest Journey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is still one of the few games that has me going back time and time again to 
 exprience it's magical and futuristic journey that made adventure games so engaging. 
  In a time where adventure games are rare and developers scared to take a chance and create an inventive 
 story The Longest Journey still holds it's ground as the best and a topdog for all others to follow.
 
  
  Graphics: By today's standard's it's certainly not the best but the gorgeous art direction for 
 both Stark and Arcadia made this experience all the more consuming. The characters each have their 
 own distinctive feel and appearance. The whole look of the Longest Journey was one of it's strongest 
 attributes in making this game what it is.
  
  Story: The story follows a young artistic student, April Ryan, through a journey that begins with 
 a dream and has her exploring her futuristic world, Stark, aswell as a alternate realm, Arcadia, 
 where magic is all that exists. The divide that keeps these worlds as bay is in danger and April 
 will play a key role in the survival of both worlds. Trust me it's unlike anything you've ever 
 played and as rich as a charles de lint novel.
  
  Gameplay: The Longest Journey has you control April Ryan through two worlds that are based on rendered 
 backgrounds and has you collecting things that you would naturally be able to carry. Puzzle's are 
 abundant and sometimes very challenging and add to the experience. It's very engaging and there 
 is alot, i repeat alot of dialogue so if your not ready to listen up then don't get this game because 
 it's completely story driven.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is perfect aswell as the sound effects, i enjoyed all the little 
 effects and all the voice acting is very well done. April herself has a very sassy attitude that 
 is reminicant of any teenage girl who doesn't know what to do with her adolesant life. All the 
 other characters, and creatures, are very well done and have great voices to give each one depth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  THE LONGEST JOURNEY (2000) 
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 6/7
  Fun Element: 6/7
  Camera: 6/7
  Tradicionality: 6/7
 
  Atmosphere: 5/7
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 6/7
  Music: 5/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 6/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 7.8/10
  
  Genre: Classic Sci-Fi PC Adventure
 
  Classic: NO
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every ten years
  
  + : you play a very likeable female character that literally grows on you, very innovative and 
 interesting story, fully audible game, a great mix of medieval and science fiction worlds, great 
 potential for a sequel
  
  - : too many too hard puzzles, very low sound especially speech quality, 4 cds instead of 1 dvd, 
 overall way too hard adventure game for a regular Monkey Island fan, almost impossible to complete 
 without a walkthrough, too complicated, some illogical and weird inventory items combinations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holagrave1918
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Classic point-and-click adventure game. The puzzles that adventure gamers that have grown 
 to love are all in here and some of which are challenging, to say the least. You will spend the 
 majority of the time in the game just listening to speech from the various characters, but when 
 it comes to solving a puzzle or figuring out what to do next, it will have you spending hours there 
 as well. Good balance between the two.
  
  GRAPHICS: Beautiful pre-rendered backgrounds as your polygonal character moves around. FMV is intergrated 
 seamlessly into this game. The FMV sequences remind me of how FF7 seamlessly integrated such sequences 
 with actual gameplay. 
  
  SOUND: Superb voice actors and moody music puts you in Newport, Venice and Arcadia. The voice acting 
 is some of the best I've heard in any game. The way they all deliver their lines is awesome. It 
 brings the player that much closer to the character. 
  
  VALUE: Definitely worth playing multiple times through to actually grasp everything that is going 
 on with the story. The first time through everything is new to the player and with the amount of 
 story that is thrown at the player it's hard to digest all of it at once. 
  
  After playing it multiple times myself I'm making this one of the best games I have ever played. 
 It's like a favorite movie or book. You can watch the movie or read the book multiple times and 
 you are entertained each and every time regardless of you knowing the ultimate outcome. This is 
 one step better. This is a game, which you can interact with. Picture it as an interactive novel/movie 
 :) 
  
  A must buy for anyone who loves a great story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Remember the good old days of point and click adventures? Well, they're not dead yet! The Longest 
 Journey is a point and click adventure by Funcom. It follows the adventures of April Ryan, a "Shifter". 
 As you advance through the game, you learn that the world is in danger and that you are the only 
 one that can save it. Although the story is great, the puzzles are very, very hard. In fact, I 
 need to use a guide everytime I play. The game also has some bad language and it is sometimes a 
 bit confusing. If you love adventure games, this is for you, as it is one of the best ever. If 
 not, however, you probably shouldn't consider the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  What if the world you lived in wasnt the only world? What if there was another world full of magic 
 that we never knew existed and what if the boundaries between these two worlds started falling 
 apart? Then youd have the setting for The Longest Journey, because this is exactly what is happening 
 at the beginning of the game.
  Prepare yourself for one of the best adventures of all times, because if you havent played this 
 one, you dont have the right to call yourself an adventure fan. This journey will take you from 
 one world to the other and bring you into contact with creatures and cultures of all sorts. All 
 of this to save both worlds.
  
  
  The game
  
  I could just fill in this entire section with one word: superb. Because that sums it all up. Nevertheless 
 I will try to be a bit more elaborate on the subject, hoping I wont reveal too much of the game.
 
  The game is set in the year 2209. In our world that is. You take on the role of April Ryan, an 
 18 year old art student who has left her home to go live in New Venice, a somewhat decayed part 
 of the city Newport where mainly students live.
  April has been having strange dreams lately and she doesnt know what they mean. Then she is approached 
 by a man who claims to be able to help her understand. Overpowered by her curiosity she decides 
 to listen to him and he tells her that the world she lives in is not the only world in existence. 
 Besides the world that she has been living in (Stark) there is another world, not based upon science 
 but upon magic, called Arcadia. She learns of a way to travel between both worlds and only then 
 she comes to realize the truth. Thousands of years ago there existed only one world, but this world 
 was falling apart and there was only one solution: a complete separation of science and magic, 
 which meant that the world had to be split up in two. In this way, the two worlds were created 
 and a Guardian, a human who would surrender his soul for a thousand years, would see to it that 
 both worlds stayed separated in order to avoid the total destruction of both worlds. However, it 
 has been over 1200 years since a new Guardian has come, so the worlds are starting to mix again. 
 And youve guessed it correctly: April is the one who has to stop this. I hope I havent given 
 away too much of the story and if you think it sounds crappy, dont worry; it is told much better 
 in the game.
  The game is not very difficult, except maybe from one puzzle: the infamous Maerum puzzle (those 
 who have played it know what Im talking about) , but you can even figure that one out by trial 
 and error. On overall, the puzzles are logical and most of the time it is about using/combining 
 an object on/with another object/person. You even get help with this; if an object can be used 
 on something, it will light up if you hold the object over it. Another thing which people might 
 like (I know I do) is that you cannot die in this game.
  
  
  The controls 
  
  There is not much to say about the controls; you use the mouse for everything. When an object is 
 clickable the cursor will change, so you wont have to click everything. If you click an object/character, 
 a tiny menu will open in which you can choose between different actions to perform on that object/character. 
 With a right click of your mouse you open your inventory. Like I said, theres nothing to it.
 
  
  
  The graphics
  
  The game was released in 2000, so the graphics arent like Still Life. They seem a bit outdated 
 now, but then again, they are a bit outdated now. Nothing to worry about, its not ugly or anything, 
 just look at the screenshots. The good thing is that system requirements arent that high to be 
 able to play the game. This means that it will runs smoothly even on older systems. So what are 
 you waiting for? Buy the damn game already!
  
  
  The sound
  
  If there ever was a game where the music would make me want to cry, then it would be this game. 
 I cant say enough how important I think good music is for a good adventure game and luckily, Funcom 
 understood this. I cannot begin to describe how good it is (although I just did) , but I think one 
 could compare it with Star Wars. The music of Star Wars just belongs to the movies and that is 
 whats exactly the case with the music of The Longest Journey; the two just belong together.
 
  As for the voices in the game: once again I shamefully have to admit that I dont own the English 
 version of the game (although Funcom is a Norwegian developer, they made an international English 
 version of the game, among many other languages) . I own the Dutch version. The Dutch versions 
 not too bad, but I wouldnt call it outstanding. I do however haves some knowledge of some of the 
 English voices, due to a hidden feature in the game that strangely enough is still completely in 
 English. I cant tell you to much about the English voices, but I can tell you this, the voice 
 for April Ryan is perfect. If youd hear the voice and didnt know which character in the game 
 it belonged to, you would immediately guess that its April Ryans. But, as I said, thats only 
 one voice of many. If however, the other voices are similar in quality and fit the characters just 
 as well, you have nothing to worry about. My advice would therefore be: get the English version.
 
  
  
  Overall
  
  If there ever was a game you could write a book about, then it would be this game. Its the epic 
 aspect of the game that gets to me most. Also taking on the role of some kind of chosen one is 
 just great to experience. Even more since there seems nothing too special about the main character. 
 She solves most problems just with clear thinking, not with superpowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jean0rogue
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is more of an experience than a game. It's highly immersive. I remember getting 
 the demo for it by chance and searching for the game for about 1 year before i got my hands on 
 the full copy. After that came almost non stop play until i finally finished it. The story is beautiful 
 and the graphics were great for the time when it appeared. This was my first adventure game i believe 
 and its the dearest to me. After i finished it, I played other adventures, great ones too like 
 Sanitarium and The Monkey Island series, but this game will be the one dearest to me because of 
 its superb storyline. and the feeling i had playing it... that feeling cannot be described and 
 i think everyone, no matter what their gaming style is, should play this game because they will 
 not regret the time spent. I know i dont, even after 4 times through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The longest journey is a very good game. The graphics are superb (keep in mind that it was released 
 in 2000) , the sound are great, the story is intriguing.
  
  The biggest problem is that it was made for previous generation PC. I played the game on Dual Core 
 3.1 GHZ, 2 gigs of RAM, GeForce 6800, bla bla bla.... and it keep crashing over and over.
  
  For an adventure game to be successful, you need to feel like you are part of the story. The 
 Longest Journey does that perfectly, that is until it crashes. I played the whole game, and it 
 crashed every 5 or 6 minutes... You don't feel part of the story anymore when you are more concerned 
 about saving your game every rather than trying to find how to move forward in the story.
  
  If you have an old PC, I greatly recommend this game. If you have a new PC, don't. You'll be 
 cursing the game instead of enjoying it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crucifine
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  One of the most intriguing titles I've ever played. Kind of like Myst, but with a story line, and 
 you can see the main character.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Click and points are fun, to a point. I loved it, but I wouldn't expect to play through it more 
 than twice. The story is fantastic, I was completely sucked in for awhile, but that doesn't save 
 it from the eventual boredom that comes from point and clicks. In all honesty, it really is the 
 lack of physical activity required for this game that made me give it an 8 in gameplay.
  
  Graphics - 9
  I am being quite lenient with this one... the character models, while unique and 
 colorful, tend to be on the jagged side. The cutscenes also have a wierd sort of look to them. 
 You visit many exotic and mystical locales, but aliasing issues can ruin the experience a little 
 bit. However, despite these negatives, they did do this entire game with 6 programmers and 2 animators 
 (someone may want to check that) . That alone is an achievement.
  
  Sound - 10
  Terrific soundtrack, I'm actually quite surprised I hadn't heard vgmusic people raving about this. 
 The voice acting, as of right now, is the best I have seen in any game I've played. They bring 
 the characters to life so well, and as an added bonus, you can unlock a 'secret' book, which has 
 a whole bunch of audio bloopers in it.
  
  Value - 8
  Great game, takes about 15-20 hours to beat, but as stated above, it only lasts you two playthroughs 
 or so.
  
  Tilt - 9
  This game is terrific; I don't know what else to say. My only regret is that this game is relatively 
 unknown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesmau
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy adventure games, so I was really looking forward to this one, especially since the premise 
 of a dual-world with a sci-fi/magic setting sounded cool. There were several interesting puzzles 
 here, and some of them are challenging. The greatest criticism I have of the game, however, is 
 the amount of daialogue. I don't really like it when I start to feel like I'm reading a novel instead 
 of starring in one. Although most of the dialogue is voice-acted, that just slowed things down 
 even more. The lengthy stories and lectures that you get lend flavor to the story, but since you 
 don't always know when something is going to be important and when it's not, you don't feel like 
 you can skip it, although it drags the pace of the story to a crawl.
  
  The game is worth the price, if you like this kind of game, but be prepared to spend a lot of time 
 listening/reading, and also a lot of time jogging from place to place. Enjoy the visuals and the 
 setting, but you will probably find yourself checking out the hint sites to speed things along 
 and tell you what you can skip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rencie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey captured my attention when news about its sequel Dreamfall: The Longest Journey 
 began to surface. Rave reviews of The Longest Journey made me curious about the game, and consequently 
 led to me sifting through bargain and used game bins for the title. I eventually tracked down the 
 game at Staples Business Depot and picked it up for $13 CDN.
  
  Mind you, this is a review written in 2006 of a game released in year 2000. Over the past six years, 
 we have witnessed great advances in graphics. Sadly, unlike other adventure games like Grim Fandango 
 and Curse of the Monkey Island, the graphics in The Longest Journey did not age gracefully. The 
 backdrops in the game are still gorgeous by todays standard, but the character models look primitive. 
 Furthermore, it was rather annoying to see the main character modeled one way in the playable portion, 
 but another way in full motion videos.
  
  However, the story in The Longest Journey is very captivating and very imaginative. Despite being 
 a bit wordy, the story was well told and treated the characters with much respect. I began to care 
 about each character by the end of the first chapter and was anxious to see how the main characters 
 relationship would evolve as the story progressed. The story is so content-rich that I found myself 
 reading the conversation log repeatedly to catch very nuance.
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay falls a bit flat. I felt like I was being led on a leash throughout 
 the game. There was little freedom to explore the settings unlike the good ol Sierra and LucasArts 
 adventure games. For example, I wished to go into the seedy bars or climb up the lighthouse, but 
 I couldnt. Furthermore, I was forced to solve one puzzle before proceeding to the next majority 
 of the time. I would much prefer to be presented with multiple puzzles at one time and solve them 
 in any order I wish.
  
  The puzzles in the game are not very difficult or frustrating because the game succeeds in making 
 your objectives clear. In fact, the way the puzzles were presented makes this game a good adventure 
 game. This game will likely make Ron Gilbert proud since it did closely follow his rules of thumb 
 for designing adventure game puzzles. Unfortunately, solutions to many puzzles often lie within 
 two or three adjacent scenes from where the puzzles were presented. There were also a few puzzles 
 at the beginning of the game that require you to use objects in ludicrous ways. The best puzzle 
 in the game is the telephone puzzle midway through the game. It is too bad that the other puzzles 
 are not of this caliber.
  
  Ultimately, The Longest Journey did not impress me much, but it did provide me some entertainment 
 for measly $13. It falls just a bit short of reaching the glory that old Sierra and LucasArts adventure 
 games once achieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmcollectorboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is one of the last great point-and-click adventure games, a final hurrah in 
 a genre that had lost its ability to be recognized by the time this game came out. Compared to 
 most point-and-click adventure games, The Longest Journey is leagues above the competition. It 
 is deep and absorbing, both in terms of the puzzles it presents you and in the complexity of the 
 story and characters.
  
  The Longest Journey tells the story of two separate worlds living in two separate dimensions. One 
 you assume is planet Earth but is really a world called Stark. Here the laws of Einsteinian physics 
 are true, so it's similar to what we know as reality, but it's a futuristic, dystopian reality 
 where ugly cities clog the air, the gap between rich and poor is huge, and rent-a-cops subsidized 
 by corporations arrest you for trivial reasons but then try to sell you useless junk. It is on 
 this world where we're introduced to our heroine April, who is struggling to find inspiration for 
 her art in this bleak world.
  
  The other world is Arkadia, a world where fantasy creatures still exist, the landscape is infinitely 
 more beautiful, but where outdated medieval notions still hold sway. After meeting some hispanic 
 seer who babbles some deep passages about the nature of truth and reality, April discovers that 
 she's a special person who can travel between the two worlds. At first she can't do it at will, 
 only in uncontrollable spurts. It all starts with a sad dream she has about a dying white dragon. 
 Only this dream isn't really a dream. Later on in the game, the boundaries between the two dimensions 
 start to collapse little by little, and the people in Stark start to see bits of Arkadia, and the 
 people in Arkadia start to see bits of Stark. April just wants to paint, but she gets caught up 
 in the quest to discover the reasons behind the decay. As you guide April, you slowly unlock clues 
 to both the grand scheme of things and to April herself, both her past and her relationship to 
 the worlds. Deep plots ensue about two religious sects, four dragons, and a tall tower where the 
 Guardian is supposed to keep balance between science and magic. This game also has one of the biggest 
 plot twists you'll ever likely see in a video game.
  
  The characters in this game are just fantastic. They have evocative and brilliant voice acting. 
 You slowly become emotionally attached to many characters. Even though April can't die in this 
 game, many good characters DO get killed off. A review below me said that he felt this game tossed 
 out curse words and crass dialogue just for the sake of it. I personally didn't notice anything 
 like that. The dialogue is actually brilliant. Keep in mind that this game is rated M, but not 
 for that reason. This isn't like Grand Theft Auto. However there are scenarios where April will 
 interact with more "colorful" characters, and there are environments in this game that are slumlike 
 and depressing, and the people there have lost hope. But it all just adds to the flavor and atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  It's not just the story and characters that make this game so great, but the puzzles. In many point-and-click 
 games, especially in Myst type games where all you're usually doing is interacting with a photograph, 
 the puzzles often don't make a lick of sense and don't seem to possess any significance beyond 
 just the puzzle itself. The puzzles in The Longest Journey are sensible and intelligent. Sometimes 
 they're TOO intelligent as many times I struggled to find the solution. But many puzzles in this 
 game involve reading or obtaining key pieces of knowledge to advance the plot. Others involve looking 
 at certain everyday objects and seeing beyond their most obvious purposes and "MacGuyvering" something 
 to open up the way. Others involve manipulating another character to help you with a problem. Two 
 of my favorite puzzles can be found in this game. One involves looking at a spell book to mix up 
 different potions, and you have to use your different senses to determine which ingredient is what. 
 The other one involves a giant Aztec-like version of the telephone where you have to spin disks 
 with runes on giant towers to connect them so you can amplify your voice and wake up a sleeping 
 giant who's in the way. Brilliant stuff. Often the puzzles are intuitive, and it's only a few instances 
 where a puzzle might stump you because the obvious is so easy to hide.
  
  The beauty doesn't stop there. While this game has the year 2000's outdated graphics, the backgrounds 
 are some of the most painstakingly drawn you'll ever see. But the music is even more brilliant. 
 It's among the best I've ever heard in a puzzle game.
  
  Story, characters, emotion, intelligent puzzles, music. These all add up to one of the greatest 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoscot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I read all the awesome reviews of this game. I love adventure games. I have played all the Monkey 
 Island games, Grim Fandango, Space Quest, King's Quest, Quest for Glory, Phantasmagoria, The Dig, 
 Legend of Kyrandia, etc. Even the recent ones like Still Life and all.
  
  I loved the graphics in this game. The length of the plot and the nice twists and the puzzles lent 
 themselves to the furthering of the story. The Characters were well developed and the layers of 
 complexity showed a lot of thought and time and work. Good job.
  
  What I didn't like. The language was extremely foul and often excessive. I felt that at times, 
 characters were cursing just for the sake of it. There were also frequent political and religious 
 commentaries that just jerked me out of the game like a slap in the face. Unnecessary and frustrating 
 to the otherwise beautiful work done here.
  
  That affected my overall enjoyment of the game and I have to lower the rating and call the game 
 "disappointing". I know many will disagree with me, but this is about my opinion. So throw that 
 into the mix before you decide to buy/play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey  people say it is one of the best adventure game ever made and after playing 
 the game I am now agree with them. What make this a great game? First of all its great storyline, 
 that moves the game very smoothly. Games Visuals, cut scenes and animations are totally amazing. 
 Main character April now is a well known character. All the characters have their own special voice 
 and voice actins seem very real. Characters movement and style of conversations are different than 
 the others. Games control is very easy and you need only two mouse button to complete the whole 
 game. All these aspects make this game one of the most successful adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaeve
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved every last second of this game. Incredible story, wonderful and often amusing characters, 
 and the best puzzles I've ever seen in any adventure game. It all felt natural and intuitive, while 
 still being very challenging. To add to that, the writing and voice-acting were spectacular. It 
 was funny at times, but you still got the urgency of the situation. April Ryan is a wonderful and 
 believable character, and this is undoubtably not only the best adventure game I've ever played, 
 but it ranks in the top 5 of my all-time favorite games ever. I don't know how else to say this 
 is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatmeworry21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Playing The Longest Journey was, as games go, an intellectually stimulating experience. What makes 
 up the bulk of this game is dialogue and character interaction. Its an understatement to say that 
 this part of the game is done very, very well. Every person you meet will have a colorful, (or 
 fittingly not so colorful) personality. Even better is to see how April Ryan (player controlled 
 protagonist) fits in between all of these people and events. The feeling of disbelief followed 
 by sarcasm is carried out so faithfully and so realistically in April, youll feel as if youve 
 known her all your life. The expert voice acting is also to credit for this intriguing character 
 development. Every voice is fitted to every character tastefully, and the execution of almost every 
 line is flawless. To top everything off, an interesting storyline is woven throughout all these 
 personalities. Youll see how different characters support, loathe, or keep themselves aloof from 
 the enigmatic Balance. Although the development of the plot dedicates itself to long, drawn out 
 dialogue sequences, you dont feel like you have to understand everything the first time. Youll 
 be able to relate to April during these sequences because she is in the same boat. A reading of 
 her journals that she keeps throughout the game is a relief from all the prophetic ramblings youll 
 encounter in the storyline. April reacts to these mysteries the same way any normal person would, 
 and it adds yet another dimension to her likableness.
  
  Traveling throughout the large and beautiful scenery can get exhausting at times, as for example, 
 youll find out that the clue you need is at the other side of town, causing a good amount of frustration. 
 The adventure game elements aside from the dialogue seem a bit superficial to the storyline. There 
 are a few really confusing puzzles, and it occasionally feels like the item interaction and puzzles 
 were just included in order for the game to be classified as an adventure game. For instance, early 
 on, you need to find and obtain a rubber ducky for reasons unknown, until finally you invent a 
 ridiculous fishing rod rig that solves all your problems. Not that all of these elements are 
 dull, for there are many fun and comical ordeals to sort through.
  
  This game has great music, but it could use A LOT more of it. The ambient sounds of the scenery 
 get pretty dull after a while, especially when theres no one around to talk to. Finally, the games 
 graphics get pretty grainy, especially in the disappointing looking cut scenes. Thankfully, The 
 Longest Journey doesnt rely on them for any of its storytelling. One redeeming quality about the 
 visuals is that the camera angles taken at each scene are quite liberal and definitely interesting. 
 For example, the Fringe Caf has more than enough atmosphere, and that can be attributed to the 
 lighting and camera angles.
  
  Overall, TLJ is a wonderful experience in the depth of its characters and storyline. Youll be 
 more than satisfied with all of the brilliant personalities youve encountered, and its worth 
 re-playing just to find out what you missed in the dialogue sequences.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  The game is available in 2 different editions, a 4 disc edition and a 2 disk edition (XP friendly) . 
 The 2 disk edition uses the latest compression technology and patches for the game. It comes with 
 a small clear manual and the game box.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  An epic story, filled with amazing characters and locations, every location in this game will wow 
 you with its lushness, the story has a few twists but delivers some serious satisfaction.
  
  Puzzle Design
  The puzzles are very greatly design, some very well known puzzles are used 
 and some very new and fresh puzzles are used. Only one or two puzzles are actually a bit really 
 hard, but otherwise the game has a fairly hard/normal puzzles, great.
  
  Graphics
  Top-notch FMV sequences throughout the game, however some in game sprites might look a bit worse 
 than some other sprites, maybe some lazyness of the developers or just what the engine was capable 
 of. Never the less every background is full with richness and detail.
  
  Sound
  The game's soundtrack is great and the audio effects actually really good, the soundtrack in this 
 game is so good, you would want to buy a CD and listen to the music over and over, A* material.
 
  
  Gameplay
  A basic Point 'n' Click system is used, a lot like the early adventure games. Even though the interface 
 style is common in adventure games, the way the GUIs don't get in your way is superb, taking something 
 old and making it better. Running around is really easy due to a skip animation key ''Esc''.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  Like most adventure games, this game doesn't have multiplayer. Once you finish 
 the game you know how the story will end, but its really worth playing this game twice through 
 because your just going to want to hear and see this magical adventure over again. 
  
  Last Word
  Probably the best adventure game ever, but some of the real time sprite graphical 
 lazyness really holds it down a bit in the graphic department, overall a great and solid adventure 
 game that should be in every gamers' home.
  
  8.5/10 - Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent1165
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This is such a good game. All the characters are so unique and the story is really great. You interact 
 with some many different people, some annoying and some helpful. The plot has a lot of twist in 
 it. I enjoyed it a lot and Love April! But... I dont like the ending; it leaves you wondering what 
 happened to April and all her friends. When it ended it was mad because I needed to know what happened 
 to them, but I guess thats what they wanted, it for you to decide and imagine April Ryan's life 
 after this great and fun adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_Zwei
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey (TLJ) Is an engaging adventure game. It has some of the most memorable dialogue 
 I've seen in a game and the way that the game manages to draw you in into it's own world and characters 
 is really great.
  
  You'll be playing as April Ryan, a runaway girl studying arts in the fictional and futuristic liberal 
 town of Venice. The game takes place in the 23th century where corporate companies own everything, 
 even planets. You wouldn't notice at first, because despite the game being set in the future, everyone 
 looks and acts just like a person would look and act today. But when you actually move around to 
 the bigger cities the game does give you that cyberpunk atmosphere where everything it's a big 
 and dark slum and you'll see hovercrafts and the like everywhere. 
  That's not TLJ's only side though, you'll get to travel to a fantasy-like world as well, full of 
 dragons, giants and mole-like creatures.
  
  The plot is somewhat like this: A long time ago there was just one world where magic and science 
 went hand and hand, and the humans were powerful enough to manipulate even the very cosmos. With 
 all this power they'll eventually turned too greedy and ambitious that they almost destroyed their 
 own world. So then the dragons came to lend their hand in the matter, and then they all decided 
 that the best thing was to separate magic from science, as it was just too much powerful of a force 
 together. So they separated the one world to create two: the world 'Stark' governed by science 
 and logic, our own-like world. And the world of 'Arcadia' governed by magic. 
  
  April is apparently a shifter, a person that can open portals and travel between the two worlds. 
 Although she's unaware of her abilities, she has a very important destiny that awaits her, and 
 that you must uncover.
  
  What makes TLJ so special is it's dialogue. It's funny, it's ambitious, it's entertaining, definitively 
 novel-like quality. Almost every person in TLJ feels special as they have their own unique attitude 
 towards you and the world. You can get to know some of them so well, that you can't help but end 
 up caring for them and their future. The voicework is really high quality and natural, truly some 
 of the best in a game. 
  And lets not forget our heroine April, even though TLJ was released almost 6 years ago, she still 
 feels fresh, maybe even more so than most characters nowadays. You can read through her diary which 
 besides being an entertaining read, makes you see how she deals with stuff, and you just end up 
 caring about her.
  
  TLJ does have it's set of flaws though. For starters, the puzzles can get too illogical, I mean 
 it's good and all that the game tries to make you think outside the box, but some puzzle solutions 
 just don't make sense to try, you can get stuck pretty easy and in the end you just end up clicking 
 throughout everything in your inventory to see what works. They also take a big chunk of the game, 
 even more than their share in my opinion. Sometimes it's just a puzzle after another, and most 
 of them aren't really memorable, they can get annoying even as they're often a drag to the story 
 as well as the overall flow of the game. 
  
  TLJ is strictly a linear game, however sometimes you can finish everything that you're supposed 
 to finish and the story doesn't move along, so this means that you either need to talk again to 
 a certain character, pick an item or do something you've no clue about, so you may have to wander 
 aimlessly from location to location until you figure it out, that can get really irritating.
  
  It's too bad as well that although the plot builds up nicely, they decided to pull a lot of 
 easy exits to deal with things and characters that make no sense or are very poorly implemented 
 in order move the story along, specially in the final parts of the game. And this can hurt the 
 overall feel of the story that was doing pretty well.
  The game does have some nice plot twist and surprises, and even though some are predictable, you'll 
 get to care enough about April and her friends that you'll probably get a nice feeling as things 
 get finally revealed.
  
  TLJ ends up being a good adventure game, great even. The game isn't really the "longest journey" 
 out there, and I felt that the puzzles slowed things a bit and the game sadly needed it. There 
 isn't really any side-quests or alternative endings so there's really no replay value unless you 
 want to experience the story again, but without the challenge of the puzzles the game can be pretty 
 short. TLJ is just one of those rare games whose story and characters you'll never forget, but 
 you'll also not feel like playing it again.
  
  The best thing in TLJ without a doubt is April herself who stands as an excellent example of character 
 development.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I played this game years ago when it came out and it was the most amazing game i think i have ever 
 played. Now that i've heard about the sequel Dreamfall i'm so excited that i just had to write 
 a review for the original before i play the sequel just so people will know what a truly awesome 
 game this is. There are no words to describe the amount of depth and thinking that went into making 
 this game and the story is so original and engaging it just draws you in from the very beginning. 
 This truly was a breath of fresh air the the adventure game genre and shows just how great they 
 can be. I absolutely cannot wait for the next one as i had always hoped there would be a sequel 
 to this amazing game as it truly deserves one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadi_S
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Once , all my games where a FPS games and Soccer games , i never played an adventure game .. because 
 i thought it's no very fun to play , why give up the shooting , the killing and the goals for an 
 adventure game !!!?
  that's what i thought before buying The Longest Journey , it looks nice and i wanted to change 
 a little bit ..
  
  But once i started playing it , it amazed me and i just kept playing .. and it made me think real 
 hard at some points and i liked it , the landscapes in the game facinated me , and i loved the 
 fantasy story .
  
  This game changed my view of games and the adventure genre and it became one of my favorite , right 
 up there . it's thrilling , amazing , plain fun , challenging , wonderful....
  great gameplay & story ... the graphics and the sound are very good .
  i cant wait for Dreamfall: 
 The Longest Journey , the sequal for the game .
  
  If you are an adventure games fan , you must play TLJ . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game recently after I stumbled on all the rave reviews it got. I enjoy puzzle solving 
 adventure games so I was really keen to play TLJ. Did it meet my expectations? No. I want to love 
 this game, it has so much to love about it, but I can't because at times it is too frustrating 
 and illogical. Clearly the people that made this game cared a lot about it, and put a lot of time 
 and effort into it. It looks beautiful, the story is original and engaging, the voice acting is 
 on the whole good, and the characters are very likeable (especially April - the story is clever 
 in that it draws you in to her everyday life before putting her in strange situations, thus making 
 you want to help her - I soon found myself caring about what happened to her!) However, I really 
 wish they'd put more effort into the puzzles and the puzzle interfaces. On several occasions I 
 became stuck just because I hadn't scrolled over a tiny corner of the screen or because I had to 
 use an object on something completely unrelated in an illogical way. Also on occasions I was able 
 to work out what I had to do, although it was unclear how I was to go about doing it. I'm up for 
 lateral thinking, but at times this game went too far! Some of the puzzles were intuitive but too 
 many made no sense at all. I wish that they had been better thought out; the producers did so well 
 with the other aspects that the disappointment of the puzzles was really enhanced. My other minor 
 concern was that the game doesn't seem to know its target market. At times it seems that it is 
 aimed at a younger audience, and at times it is crude and has a lot of needless obcenity. It seems 
 that it doesn't know whether it is an adults game or a kids game. It would have been better had 
 it found a happy medium between the two. Despite these criticisms I enjoyed the game and would 
 recommend it - while it has flaws the good points of it are so good that the flaws can be over 
 looked! The sequel sounds promising as it will attempt to mix action, adventure and puzzle solving. 
 In all TLJ is really good but the puzzles let it down far to often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  it's a journey like few games in recent years.
  the story is deep and takes it's time. it's like a good book.
  The characters are well developed 
 and seem authentic.
  it's rare that you find pure adventure games now a days and even though this is a little old is 
 still the one of the best in the genre.
  
  don't expect any action in this one. it's all about the plot and some puzzles.
  the faqs on this 
 site are good it you get suck on a part too.
  Technically, the graphics are dated but the voice work still shines.
  great value since you can 
 get it for dirt cheap now. 1-10 bucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is the most thrilling adventure game ive ever played,
  the story, the saying and the work put in to this game has the right to be called a masterpiece.
 
  I have played this game about 3 times now, and not once ive thought the game even slightest bit 
 boring. The graphics is fantastic, i mean the game was made what 1998 and even for that time of 
 date the graphics now today can be pretty even.
  The background is fabulous in the game and the two worlds amazing. When i saw the puzzles in this 
 game i got amazed and soon those puzzles got stuck in my head and each and every time you manage 
 to do a puzzle you will feel this grate feeling in side you that you want another one ( I feel 
 like that ) . And to be honest i do not think this game is over rated, i give this game 9.6/10 and 
 no less and no more.
  
  Thank you, Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed TLJ it was a wonderful adventure with plenty of puzzles and really interesting 
 characters. Yet, there are some problems with crashes and bugs but if you can get past the handful 
 of them the game really shine. TLJ takes you through some really beautiful landscapes filled with 
 rich colorful environments. This isn't a game for everyone but if your a big adventure puzzle solving 
 game TLJ may very well stimulate your mind for many of nights. TLJ can be found for a very reasonable 
 price in the bargain section of any game retailer near you. The system requirements are very low 
 and It won't take up too much space on your hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Superb. This is a classic adventure game that gets everything right, there are sadly few adventure 
 games that even come close to what has been acheived here in The Longest Journey.
  
  Gameplay:
  Some may accuse The Longest Journey of beeing too easy but I for one think that the 
 balance of plot and puzzles is just right. The puzzle elements could be viewed as just devices 
 for furthering the plot, which is fine by me, personally i'm fedup of so called adventure games 
 that are glorified puzzlers like myst and its many iligitiamate children.
  Anway, great plot, puzzles that are interesting and dont feel contrived and importantly never leave 
 you feeling frustrated. I can only wonder why this seemingly simple formula is so rarely acheived.
 
  
  Graphics:
  I think graphics do play an important part in a good adventure game and The longest Journey has 
 very pretty well drawn graphics that help immerse you into the game and work smoothly and seemlessly. 
 The game is a work of art in many respects.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  You can still find this game if you look around and though the price is relatively high given the 
 games age, I give it 10 for value as adventure games dont really age like other genre that are 
 very graphic/concept/feature driven. As probably the best adventure game on the pc wich will give 
 you dozens and dozens of quailty hours gaming its worth every penny.
  I loved this game! I only wish there were more like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, the graphical adventure game died. Went extinct. Sure there were some nitch production 
 houses that cranked out decent games in this genre, but none that stood out. Yet a little known 
 company in 2000, Funcom, released what should be considered one of the finest adventure games of 
 our time.
  
  You play as April Ryan. A loner 18-year-old that has no direction in life. An honest to goodness 
 slacker. She feels that she has no place in life and has been running from family problems in her 
 past. She has come to Venice to escape her problems. What happens next is an incredible tale that 
 is highly imaginative yet so well thought out, it could be highly conceivable in nature. 
  
  But why did I like the game so much? What drew me in? How could a five year old game with now 
 barely passable graphics suck me in and mesmerize me for nearly 20 hours? In one word, a truely 
 wonderful story. The story in this game seems so well thought out. I have play many adventure games 
 in my past. I own most of the Sierra On Line adventure game catalog. Yes this makes those games 
 seem so amateur. This game gives us an adult themed story with turns and twists. It is just amazing. 
 And somehow, they created puzzles that actually mean something. They mesh into the game and seem 
 plausible.
  
  I also think that the protaganist choice sells the game as well. With a character so lost in life, 
 it is a great way to star off. it is a great way to contrast with the serious mission she has to 
 take on. It emphasises her growth as a character as she makes choices later on.
  
  Graphically the game is dated here in 2005. But if you take the game for when it was designed, 
 the graphics are amazing. Beyond some artifacting here and there. I also had pallette issues whenever 
 I Win key exited the game and then brought the game back up from a toolbar. Nothing too serious, 
 but I do have to ding it a bit since it is dated. But you will be able to overlook it as you will 
 be sucked in by the story.
  
  Sound was one area that I did have a beef with. Mostly because you can tell that they were short 
 voice talent. Most of the voices really sound like the same three people over and over, but with 
 some slight variants in the voice pitch. It did to tend to kill the illusion when two voices started 
 to sound a bit too similar. Ambient noise is good and there is lots of sharp dialogue. And those 
 that did do the voices did a great job regardless of sounding similar.
  
  My biggest gripes against the game are the similar voices and the fact that some of the puzzles 
 are extremely challenging. I did have to consult a hint guide on occasion. And there are some logic 
 puzzles that really just killed me. One puzzle that stands out this way is a stone ring table that 
 you have to configure. And it was just confusing and no way to really dissemble how you should 
 arrange the rings and rocks that go with it. They are solvable but very difficult and will add 
 some frustrating moments to a well thought out game otherwise.
  
  This is a game that all gamers regardless of genre played should own. The dialogue, plot and a 
 great protaganist make for a rich gaming experience that will stun your mind and capture your imagination 
 for hours. A must buy for all. Get this game. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I've always been an adventure game fan, probably since I first played King's Quest on an Apple 
 IIe in middle school. The Longest Journey would easily be in my "top adventures games of all time 
 list."
  
  The game establishes itself as unique fairly quickly by delving into a fantasy world and then leaving 
 you to wonder where it is taking you. Ultimately this made me want to continue playing, getting 
 as much story as I could out of the game.
  
  The controls are simple and the graphics for 2000 are appropriate. Nothing really to elaborate 
 on here. Most of the puzzles are challenging but solvable without the use of a guide. However for 
 beginners, I would recommend thinking out of the box.
  
  All and all this game is just a fun game and an adventure fan must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was interesting at first but man, there are times when this *bug* really messed 
 up my game!! The puzzles are sometimes quite difficult (but then again, challenging) . I just think 
 it's an okay okay game!! Storyline is quite good though, it has it's twists and all but it's really 
 quite predictable. There are times where it gets irritating in some parts of the game especially 
 when you have to take a long run from this point to another. There is a "speed" function to basically 
 speed up the process! But it just makes the game go SWOSSH!!! Despite all that, it can still be 
 fun!
  
  Must have a keen eye to play this game!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  Originally released nearly five years ago, Funcom's The Longest Journey now shows its age quite 
 a bit in terms of its graphical presentation. However, those who haven't previously experienced 
 it will find that the fundamental gameplay and engaging story have stood the test of time, making 
 this a game that, even now, shouldn't be missed. 
  
  Adventure games of The Longest Journey's ilk used to make up a much more significant percentage 
 of the overall computer game market than they do today, though in recent years it's been up to 
 games like Syberia and The Longest Journey to keep the once-thriving genre alive. In games of this 
 type, you progress through a story, collecting an odd assortment of items that you'll require to 
 get past various obstacles along the way. These games succeed or fail on the basis of their stories, 
 characters, and puzzle design. The Longest Journey excels in each of these areas, although those 
 with a fondness for the often hilarious adventure games of yesteryear should go into The Longest 
 Journey expecting something quite a bit more serious in tone than the tales of Roger Wilco or Guybrush 
 Threepwood. 
  
  The central character of The Longest Journey is a young woman named April Ryan. It's the year 2209, 
 and plucky April has recently set off from home to study art in Venice, a liberal community nestled 
 in the futuristic metropolis of Newport. Aside from some very strange dreams she's been having 
 lately, her life seems quite normal. She has a close-knit group of friends, works at a local cafe 
 to earn some spare cash, has issues with her father, and isn't quite sure what she wants to do 
 with her life. The game takes its time in getting the plot rolling, allowing you to really get 
 to know April and become invested in her seemingly mundane life before things become anything but 
 mundane. Not only will you spend some of the early part of the game doing things like going to 
 work, putting in time on an art project at the academy where April studies, and talking to friends, 
 but you can also read April's diary, which provides some interesting backstory on the character 
 and which is frequently updated as you progress through the game. It's an effective device that 
 helps you get inside April's head, and she's an interesting enough character that we actually want 
 to know what she's thinking and feeling about everything that's happening.
  
  What's happening, by the way, is that the balance between science and magic is decaying, and April 
 is called upon to help put things right. Thousands of years ago, so the story goes, the world was 
 a place of both science and magic. However, this was leading to all sorts of problems, and eventually 
 it was decided to split the Earth into two worlds; one a place of science, the other a place of 
 magic. And so Stark -- our world, the world of science -- and Arcadia, the world of magic, were created, 
 and it was the responsibility of a person known as the Guardian to maintain the balance between 
 the worlds. This unenviable person would sacrifice one thousand years to sit in a tower in a realm 
 between the worlds and keep the balance in check before being relieved by a new Guardian. Now, 
 a group that seeks to reunite the two worlds has prevented the new Guardian from taking his rightful 
 place, and as a result, the balance between the worlds is growing more chaotic. April is mysteriously 
 gifted with the ability to travel between the worlds of Stark and Arcadia, and with help from a 
 fascinating assortment of allies on both sides of the rift, it falls to her to restore order to 
 the balance. 
  
  To do so, of course, she'll have to pick up all sorts of seemingly useless objects and use them 
 in all sorts of unusual ways. While this basic convention of adventure games is as absurd as ever, 
 The Longest Journey does does its darnedest to try to make the puzzles seem like a natural part 
 of the story, rather than a tacked-on necessity of the genre, and it frequently succeeds. Although 
 there are a few notable exceptions, in general the puzzles are pretty straightforward and have 
 solutions that make sense. In fact, the majority of them, while engaging, are even a tad on the 
 easy side, which at least tends to keep the story moving along at a decent pace. There are a few 
 puzzles, though, that are considerably more challenging and that might stump even seasoned adventure 
 game players for a bit, but even those are typically well-designed and logical. As with most great 
 adventure games, there's also no way to lose The Longest Journey. You can't die or get stuck without 
 a necessary item or anything of the sort. 
  
  The Longest Journey was originally released back in 2000, and this is apparent in the dated graphics. 
 In particular, the character models are blocky and not very detailed. Still, the diverse environments 
 of Stark and Arcadia that April will traverse on her long journey are vividly imagined, and while 
 they may not be technically impressive by today's standards, they still have a great deal of personality. 
 The story and gameplay are easily outstanding enough to overshadow any shortcomings in the graphics 
 department. 
  
  The game's sound, on the other hand, is as strong today as ever. There's not much music in the 
 game, though what's there is fine. But there's lots and lots (and lots!) of voice acting, and thankfully, 
 it's quite good, which is particularly crucial in a game that's as story-driven as The Longest 
 Journey. There are a few missteps here and there, a few spots where it seems like the actors didn't 
 really understand the context for the dialogue, but for the most part they do a fine job of inhabiting 
 the characters and selling the lines. 
  
  The title is no misnomer, and even progressing through the puzzles at a steady clip, it'll take 
 you a while to get from the game's mysterious beginning to its poignant conclusion. Especially 
 considering that the game is now available from some online retailers for just ten dollars, any 
 fan of adventure games would do well to pick this one up. For its engaging puzzles and particularly 
 for its likable characters and compelling story, this is one journey that's well worth taking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonlover
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  Buying a game that you found tucked in a corner for less than ten bucks and finding an exhilirating 
 experience is often far more satisfying than buying a big name, overhyped game for fifty bucks 
 and getting a merely great game. Back during the golden age of computer gaming, the term "adventure 
 game" didn't apply to games like The Legend of Zelda or Prince of Persia but to point and click 
 style games where you guided your character through the use of a mouse, where being a packrat and 
 picking up a wide variety of items was rewarded, and where you solved various mind-bending puzzles, 
 no matter how weird or out-of-place it looked if such things happened in real life. Ah, the good 
 old days. This genre of gaming died a slow and miserable death when such laid back conventions 
 became too passe for mainstream gamers increasingly drunk on ever indulgent and Hollywood-ized 
 games. This trend is no more apparent than in Lucasarts' inexplicable lack of confidence in continuing 
 certain well known adventure game franchises, like Sam and Max or Full Throttle. I suppose it's 
 just as well. Many such point-and-click games weren't very involving or fun. But those that were 
 the best among the genre were also some of the most fun and engaging games. In fact, some adventure 
 games could be described as what RPGs would look like if you took away the stat building, random 
 encounters, and minigames and just left the story. And as adventure games go, it doesn't get any 
 loftier than The Longest Journey. In fact there are very rare occasions when a game just sucks 
 me in and compels me to play until it's all over, and The Longest Journey is one such game. 
  
  The Longest Journey tells of the tale of April Ryan, a typical outgoing, sometimes misbehaving, 
 eighteen-year-old studying to become an art student in a culture city nestled in a far-future Earth 
 stuck in a dystopian vision of malevolent corporations, cybercops who arrest you and then try to 
 sell you junk, and all the typical terrifying scifi imageries that made pop culture icons like 
 Blade Runner so identifiable. April is suffering from "artist's block", but this problem becomes 
 insignificent when she discovers that the nightmares she's been having are more like visions and 
 that her destiny has been foretold by various races dozens of times over. Flash forward through 
 some fairly uninteresting puzzle solving just to find some hispanic seer and some psychobabble 
 about what is truth and you land in the real meat of the game. Through solid story-telling and 
 interaction with some wonderfully realized characters, you slowly uncover ever more pieces of the 
 mystery of the world and what your character's purpose is. You come to realize that April is what 
 those who know more about the state of affairs call a "Shifter", a person who can open up doorways 
 to other dimensions. You also discover that there was once one Earth where both magic and science 
 coexisted but it has long since split into two, one Earth called Stark, the dreary future world 
 April once knew as home where Einsteinian laws of physics still hold true, and one Earth called 
 Arcadia, a land of unparalled beauty, magic, and fairy tale creatures but also of outdated medieval 
 customs. Sandwiched in between these two dimensions of science and magic is an inaccessible realm 
 that the ancients created, where an impossibly tall tower sits and a Buddha-like person called 
 the Guardian lives and shifts about the flow of magic and science between these two realms as needed. 
 Every one thousand years, the Guardian leaves and a new Guardian arrives, and so on until the day 
 where both worlds are deemed worthy of reunification. But something has happened to upset this 
 process, and chaos threatens to tear the fabric of reality apart. 
  
  As can probably be guessed, The Longest Journey is a game steeped in lore, atmosphere, and exquisite 
 beauty. Saturating the game are themes of clandestine groups, both good and evil, and of four dragons 
 with ties to everything, and of something called The Balance, and of tracking down and piecing 
 together the parts of the key to the Guardian's realm. And even though this game features the year 
 2000's outdated computer graphics and character models, it still manages to blend realistically 
 animated characters with artistic and jaw-dropping 2D painted backgrounds and also wonderful orchestration 
 to create an experience that's nothing short of breathtaking. All this in a simple point-and-click, 
 puzzle solving adventure? Now let's get one thing out of the way. Without gameplay, all this story 
 still doesn't make a game. Solving the puzzles is how you get things done, and it is here that 
 the game rocks, even if there was no story. The puzzles are intelligent and challenging, requiring 
 the manipulation of items, and sometimes even characters, and reading of texts to get the necessary 
 information, reward, and furthering of plot. You'll get no simplistic Myst type "click on the photograph 
 until you figure out the gears" puzzles. One particularly memorable puzzle involves combining unlabeled 
 potions to make spells, using only a worn out tome to find out the combinations and the senses 
 of touch, smell, and hear to guess at which potion is which. Another involves spinning rune engraved 
 disks on an Aztec-ish version of a communications array to connect a series of call and receive 
 transmissions to amplify your voice and wake up a snoring giant. Brilliant. There are some pitfalls, 
 naturally. Some puzzles are so obtuse in the way that after being stuck for a while, you'd look 
 up the answer online and go "Now how in the heck was I supposed to know that?" There might be instances 
 where you'd inadvertantly leave a key item you thought were done with that you should've picked 
 up to use a second time, causing you to trek needlessly back to the location you dropped it. There 
 might also be instances where you might know how to solve a puzzle but it doesn't want to go anywhere 
 because your character needs to read a certain text or be at a certain place or talk to the right 
 character to "unlock the knowledge". 
  
  Such nitpicks are pointless, however. Make no mistake. The story is the true star of the game. 
 In an age when RPGs have become increasingly reliant on tired cliches, The Longest Journey's story 
 comes as a breath of fresh air. The expert blending of science fiction and fantasy elements is 
 only the tip of the iceberg. As I've mentioned above, this game exudes lore, mysticism, and atmosphere 
 and features brilliantly well rounded and fleshed out characters and excellent storytelling. April 
 starts out as a typical insecure teenager but grows in courage and strength as the game progresses. 
 And one of the most sensitive gaming moments I've ever seen involves April calling her estranged 
 mother and having a tender chat on the video phone. This is even more remarkable when you consider 
 that this is an action you don't even have to do to complete the game. The Longest Journey is one 
 of those few games that connects with me emotionally and makes me think. While your character has 
 no health bar and doesn't die (you don't even get one of those "make a mistake and restart the puzzle" 
 things) , The Longest Journey is one of those few games where good people perish, and I don't mean 
 the background cannon fodder types. It also doesn't end like you'd expect and features an ending 
 sequence that runs emotions that range from touching to hilarious to exciting. Unfortunately, like 
 all good stories with such far-reaching scope, there are questions that never get answered and 
 moments where you might feel like the game hurried just to wrap things up and couldn't quite tell 
 all that it wanted to tell. And if the thought of playing what is essentially an interactive novel 
 turns you off and you want something with a little more connection to the physical side of the 
 gamer, then you might want to pick up something else. Still, you'd be hard pressed to find a game 
 more exquisitely crafted, emotional, and thoughtful. It's a game that more people should've experienced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is deeply immersive gaming experience that keeps interest right till the end. 
 It plays like a standard point and click adventure game with the character in third-person perspective. 
 The puzzles are thoughtful and you wont find yourself stuck too often, although there is a few 
 which may require some thorough pixel hunting. Where this game differs  and thusly excels  is 
 its story. It is superbly written and well thought out. The basic premise is a girl, April Ryan, 
 who discovers a parallel world outside her own. The world she lives in, called Stark, is much like 
 our own and revolves around science and logic. The other world, called Arcadia, is more of a fantasy 
 setting replete with magic.
  
  Many of the pictures are extremely well rendered in high resolution, but the characters are merely 
 okay. The soundtrack is excellent and serves well as a backdrop. If you are into adventure games, 
 this is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nohabs
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Trying this game was a new expereance for me. I don't normally go for adventure games. Well first 
 off the graphics and sound were good. The gameplay, for lack of a better term was very boring... bouncing 
 around back and forth between scenes, searching or trying to solve a puzzle, is not my kind of 
 fun. The actual story is very interesting, and that's what kept me in the game.
  Now about the puzzles. I don't know what the writers were trying to prove, but the puzzles and 
 combiations of pieces you had to put together made absolutly no sence. I had to go to a walkthrough 
 many times to get the answer, this after a fustrating trip back and forth in the various scenes. 
 
  Let me state, the puzzles wern't hard they were just illogical, and totally took away from the 
 game.
  I did manage to get through a few levels until I came to using the 3rd disc - the game came to 
 a screaching halt because the disc was defective - poetic justice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2004 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? I picked up The Longest Journey on a whim, 2 years after it came out. It alas, 
 was also in a Bargain Bin.
  
  I took it home, figured out I did have decent enough specs to run and it and installed 4 CD's worth 
 of content to my PC. And then, for about 2 weeks every day after work I played and was immersed.
 
  
  You play as young April, a starving  in a fictitious town who 
 is plagued by memories and dreams of a different world. Something is happening to that world, and 
 the link between those worlds.
  
  The game follows a traditional adventure style with communication between NPC's and using your 
 inventory of items to open inaccessible areas.
  
  The graphics are pre-rendered static images while a slightly grainy 3D model of April is your primary 
 view (always in 3rd person) . The cinematics are truly beautiful and do well at advancing the story 
 forward. The sound is quite nice, as is the ability to save wherever you want.
  
  For me, the game was a bit difficult but worth the challenge. I'm not terribly good at solving 
 puzzles, but I like to try. I would recommed this game to anyone who thinks that this is a failing 
 genre. Also, there's a sequel coming out soon from the same company and I can't wait to pick up 
 that as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0v3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2004 1:10 am PT
Review:  I used to love point and click adventure games when I first got a computer. Sam & Max, Day of the 
 Tentacle, Broken sword, monkey island, grim fandango, they all go down as some of my favourite 
 games ever. Since those days, we haven't really see many good adventure games, Siberia springs 
 to mind as one of the only ones worth playing in recent years. Take note I didn't actually play 
 The Longest Journey until 2004, I somehow missed it when it came out 4 years ago. But thankfully 
 I picked it up, and I can safely say it is one of the greatest adventure games ever. 
  
  The story is beautifully told, the characters are really well done, and you actually care what 
 happens to them. The settings you play in are gorgeous. I'm sure in the 4 years is been out everyone 
 into adventure games has played it by now, but still, I wanted to say how much I enjoyed it. Simply 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamic1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 26, 2004 4:44 am PT
Review:  The Longest Journey is without a doubt one of the most immersive experiences I have ever encountered 
 in a game. The storyline is so good that it would make a great book. This is a game that goes beyond 
 just being a videogame, and the only description that can truly do it justice is that of an Interactive 
 Epic Novel.
  I beat this game years ago and have gone through it again recently and it is just as amazing today 
 as it was back in 2000. A great story never gets outdated, and The Longest Journey probably has 
 one of the best storylines you'll find in a game.
  The Characters are also amazing, and as you go through the game you really begin to care about 
 them and the worlds they occupy.
  One word of warning: though this game is definitely not vulgar in any way, it does contains swear 
 words and some mature themes, so if you are looking for a family oriented title, bear this warning 
 in mind.
  Otherwise, for anyone looking for an immersive and excellent gaming experience, look no further 
 than The Longest Journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game years ago, but I still remember how emotionally attached I became to it. Some 
 of the best and most enjoyable adventure games, I do believe, are the ones that feature amazing 
 stories, settings, and characters, and The Longest Journey definitely has those down perfectly.
 
  
  The story is absolutely marvelous (and epic, of course) , and will keep the player going, trying 
 to figure out the meaning of all the mysterious events that are taking place. The setting is very 
 imaginative and yet tangible: dual worlds, one of technology (a futuristic Earth) and one of magic. 
 Both are very well fleshed out and colorfully depicted, and each world has a definite personality 
 to it that is so wonderful to feel as you're exploring. The characters are well crafted as well, 
 especially the protagonist, April Ryan, who is gradually revealed to be one of the most complex 
 and realistic characters to be found in a videogame. I came to genuinely care for her and her stakes 
 in the whole drama. Dialogue in this game may seem long to some, but it is very well written, and 
 the voice acting is perfect. The gameplay doesn't disappoint, either: puzzles are interesting and 
 well incorporated into the plot.
  
  Overall, I would say that The Longest Journey is the best adventure game to come along in recent 
 years (by that I mean the 21st century; in the adventure genre, four years IS considered recent! 
 the genre is fading, so sad!) , and easily one of the best of all time as well. Definitely give 
 it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2004 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me be blunt here, The Longest Journey not only contains the best story in any video game, it 
 tells the greatest fictional story ever told. Our star is Gen Y'er, April Ryan. A confused art 
 student who has been experiencing odd dreams that transport her to the world of Arcadia, that remains 
 unknown to her. The Longest Journey has numerous sub-plots and story twists to keep jaded gamers 
 suited to your run of the mill adventure games. The backdrops and professional voice acting pull 
 you right into the worlds of Stark and Arcadia. The Longest Journey, quite simply, is the best 
 game ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
