-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/lordoftheringstherotk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,889 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Oct 31, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a relatively simple action game at heart, but a solid combat system and some extremely intense 
 and cinematic levels make The Return of the King deserving of its name. 

  It's a good bet that the forthcoming movie  The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King  is going 
 to be pretty good. Peter Jackson's cinematic trilogy, based on J. R. R. Tolkien's seminal series 
 of fantasy novels, is, by all accounts, a huge success, and since the three films were shot back 
 to back to back, we can expect the same kinds of dramatic performances, wondrous scenery, and sheer 
 excitement from the final chapter of this saga that we saw in  The Fellowship of the Ring  and 
 last year's  The Two Towers . This movie series is uncommonly good, which is certainly, in part, 
 why Electronic Arts, the company that nabbed the rights to produce games based on these films, 
 is going all-out for its game adaptations. The new Return of the King game follows closely in the 
 footsteps of last year's hack-and-slash action game, The Two Towers, but picks up at the fever 
 pitch where The Two Towers left off, and it's considerably better overall. It's still a relatively 
 simple and short action game at heart, but a solid combat system, some extremely intense and cinematic 
 levels, cool extras that fans of the movies will enjoy, and the option to play cooperatively with 
 a friend all add up to make The Return of the King deserving of its name.  

          The Return of the King chronicles the final, desperate acts of Gandalf, Frodo, Aragorn, 
 and company to thwart the destructive plans of the evil Sauron.     

  Last year's The Two Towers game included sequences based on  The Fellowship of the Ring  as well 
 as its sequel. The Return of the King is similar and begins, literally, with the climactic battle 
 of Helm's Deep from  The Two Towers . As if to make sure you get a grand first impression, the 
 first level begins automatically when you first load the game -- after a brief introductory cutscene 
 that sets the stage for the wizard Gandalf's arrival at the break of dawn with the Riders of Rohan. 
 The defenders of Helm's Deep are being overrun by the evil forces of Sauron, but Gandalf's perfectly 
 timed intervention swings the momentum of the battle in favor of the forces of good, putting Sauron's 
 armies into full retreat. As Gandalf, you'll smash through legions of the villainous uruk-hai, 
 scale the castle walls to assist Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli, and rupture the enemy's supply lines, 
 all while war wages all around you. This first level suitably captures the chaos and frenetic pacing 
 of the battle from  The Two Towers , and, aside from the fact that you can't actually lose here, 
 it's par for the course in The Return of the King: All the levels in the game are as spectacular 
 as they are frantic.  

  Once you've won the battle of Helm's Deep, you're presented with the nicely done stage select screen, 
 from which you'll also be able to access the game's various bonus features, as you unlock them. 
 The game primarily consists of three sets of levels, which are modeled after the separate paths 
 taken in  The Return of the King  by Gandalf, Aragorn, and Frodo, the ring bearer. The "path of 
 the wizard" and the "path of the hobbit" are shorter than Aragon's "path of the king," but to finish 
 Aragorn's path, you'll first need to finish the other two. This structure properly reflects how 
 these characters are forced to go their separate ways in  The Return of the King , but it also 
 reflects how their efforts are for a common cause: the destruction of the One Ring and, with it, 
 the elimination of Sauron, his general, Saruman, and their terrifying armies. Each of the three 
 paths can be attempted in any order, but, as you'd expect, you need to finish the missions of each 
 path in order.  

          Like The Two Towers before it, The Return of the King is pure action. You'll cut through 
 droves of Sauron's minions in each hectic level.     

  Also as you'd expect, The Return of the King reveals much of the plot of the forthcoming film, 
 though without being too specific. The game's storyline, in and of itself, is actually quite disjointed 
 and assumes players' familiarity with the material. That is, if you didn't know anything about 
 the story of The Return of the King, then the story of the game may be hard to follow, though you'll 
 still get the gist of it. Many people already basically know how this story ends from having read 
 Tolkien's trilogy of novels, but in case you don't want any aspect of the movie spoiled for you, 
 it'd be wise to hold off on playing The Return of the King until after you've seen the movie. For 
 what it's worth, The Return of the King actually includes very few video sequences from the movie 
 on which it's based. The full-motion video is used pretty sparsely, in general, and most of it 
 comes from  The Two Towers .     

  The Return of the King includes a variety of playable characters. In the path of the king, you'll 
 be able to choose from Aragorn the ranger, Legolas the archer, or Gimli the dwarf. You'll play 
 as Gandalf in the path of the wizard, but rather than play as Frodo in the path of the hobbit, 
 you'll actually take control of his faithful friend Samwise. Even if you played the similar Two 
 Towers game, you might expect each of these different characters to have vastly different repertoires 
 of moves, or you might expect that each requires considerably different tactics, but that's really 
 not the case. While the speed and style of the characters' respective slashing attacks is somewhat 
 different, each is comparably powerful and capable of holding his own. Purists may find it a little 
 ridiculous that the diminutive Sam is about as good at slaying legions of uruk-hai as a seasoned 
 warrior like Gimli and that the ranged attacks of the expert archer Legolas aren't really any faster 
 or better, in practice, than those of any other character. However, for the purposes of gameplay, 
 these similarities are fine. They basically mean that you can concentrate on mastering the game's 
 parrying and combo system rather than relearning the controls for each of the game's characters. 

          Cinematic cutscenes and DVD-style extras help make this game an ideal supplement for fans 
 of  The Lord of the Rings  movies.     

  As in The Two Towers, the action in The Return of the King rewards players for cleanly cutting 
 down their foes in rapid succession. The controls for all the characters are identical: You may 
 execute fast attacks, fierce attacks, physical attacks for knocking opponents back or knocking 
 them over, killing moves for vanquishing opponents who've fallen down, ranged attacks for shooting 
 enemies or other targets from afar, and parrying moves for deflecting enemies' blows. You may also 
 use certain objects in the environments, such as spears, catapults, torches, and gate latches. 
 Some of the characters have unique abilities. For instance, Sam can use his magical cloak to temporarily 
 disappear from his enemies' sight, whereas Gandalf can create a defensive barrier about him. These 
 aren't essential skills and don't really change the way these characters play, but they do help 
 provide some differentiation. More importantly, as in The Two Towers, your characters gain experience 
 levels as they fight, which grants them access to new combos and other improved abilities which 
 can be purchased between levels by using the experience points you've accrued. The more efficiently 
 you fight, the more experience points you gain, which is a good system that suitably encourages 
 you to do more than just mash on the attack buttons.  

  New to The Return of the King are "fellowship upgrades," which are options to spend more experience 
 points to unlock a combo or other ability for use with not only the character you're currently 
 playing as but with all the selectable characters -- provided they are of sufficient level. This 
 way, when you're playing as lower-level characters in the other paths of the game, as soon as they 
 level up during a battle, you'll be able to start using the abilities you've already unlocked. 
 Most of the unlockable combos and other abilities in the game can be purchased for the entire fellowship, 
 and The Return of the King offers more higher-level skills than The Two Towers did, which gives 
 you a bit more incentive to keep playing after you've finished the main missions. Also, once you've 
 finished the game, you may play any of the game's levels as any of the game's characters, allowing 
 you to experience some rather goofy "what if" scenarios.  

          Though you'll always be outnumbered, fortunately, you won't always fight alone -- nor do 
 you have to, thanks to the cooperative play option.     

  At its core, the combat in The Return of the King is simple. One catch is that enemies who carry 
 shields will automatically deflect your fast attacks, but your fierce attacks will shatter these 
 shields. The enemy AI puts on a convincing show, as many of the missions will put your character 
 and his allies in the middle of pitched battles where combat is occurring all around. Enemies who 
 have noticed you will tend to lunge in with an attack, then dance around and intermittently stab 
 at you some more. The enemies will also do a good job of surrounding you as they rush in from every 
 direction. If you attack at the same time as an opponent, neither one of you gets hurt, so it's 
 the same as parrying a blow. Parrying requires no real timing. Keep tapping the parry button and 
 a frontal attack will never penetrate your defenses. The various combos don't require much in the 
 way of timing, either, though link moves -- which you can use to instantly kill certain enemies after 
 parrying their blows -- can be a little tricky to get the hang of.  

  These countermoves automatically put you in "perfect mode," a temporary state from which you'll 
 get maximum experience whenever you kill foes. Repeatedly using combos while avoiding getting hit 
 will also put you in this zone. The game doesn't penalize you for using the same combo over and 
 over, either. In fact, some of the earliest combos you acquire are also some of the most useful, 
 and though the effects of each combo are slightly different for each character, the combos themselves 
 are performed using the same button sequences. You'll take damage pretty often in the game's levels, 
 but enemies will occasionally drop health potions, which instantly restore a portion of your life 
 and keep you going. The core gameplay of The Return of the King has just enough depth to be interesting, 
 and it's got a pretty good feel to it overall.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best movie game adaptation ever made. But this isn't enough to make 
 it good. The game is more like a small abstract from the movie (that is already a little abstract 
 from the book) and many that don't saw or read the trilogy can feel that many peaces will be missing 
 in the history. 
  
  Also, the simplicity of the combats can make the ones searching for a more solid and deep system 
 (hardcore ones) stay a little frustrated and, if wasn't the scripted elements from the game, like 
 protect someone, the game can be easily finished, mainly when your character is in the higher levels. 
 The combos are equal for every character and being Legolas or Aragorn don't make difference when 
 you use a bow or when you use a sword with Sam or Gimli.
  
  The level system is also a good implementation. Every time that you kill any enemy, you'll gain 
 points depending of your "Combo Gauge", that will fill when you hit enemies without getting hurt. 
 With these points, you can buy many implementations for characters, and some of them can buy unique 
 implementations, and this depends of the level that your character is. But you can also level up 
 in the middle of the battle, making any ability that's already purchased be available instantly.
 
  
  The AI left much to be desired and always will be a pain when you're have some allies to help you. 
 But they're work more like bait, making less enemies come for you. The problem is when they cannot 
 die... And you can discovery that the camera can be another pain.
  
  The controls are very well adapted. I'm commenting that because the controls can be a very complicated 
 problem in this kind of game and you don't "must need" a joystick to play The Lord of the Rings 
 (see Devil May Cry series and Resident Evil 4) . Maybe the fact that you don't need to jump or access 
 any inventory, but the controls are very simple and is easy to be used to it.
  
  The sound and musics isn't nothing more that you wouldn't expect watching a Lord of the Rings movie, 
 including the voices. All are there and the movies sequences that almost always are in the opening 
 of the missions can help to remember many things from the movie.
  
  The graphics are good and make its job, with nice light and fog effects, but the models are ugly 
 and Legolas can be more ugly than a orc! And I need to say that see all that elements from the 
 book and the movie in a closest way with more details and be in the middle of all, is just something 
 that any fan can't miss.
  
  Need to mention the Cooperative mode. It can be very attractive and can make the replay value be 
 higher, but the already mentioned camera problem can be much more a real problem. The camera just 
 can't find a good position for the players and, because of the AI problem, can make a easy game 
 be a pain in the neck.
  
  More positive points:
  - great level design;
  - nice "movie feeling" while you play it;
  - superb design of the level tree;
  - many extra 
 features.
  
  Some more negative points:
  - simple combats;
  - repetitive combos;
  - frustrating checkpoint system;
  - repetitive enemies;
  - few boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFireNT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
  Great Game , great storyline :D overall one of the gratest action - adventure games of all time 
 :D loads of action :D :X thats all :D I hope you will enjoy it :D I did :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  TERRIBLE Game!! Period.... The PC port is so horrible, I literally tore my hair out in frustration!! 
 WTF is up with the lame checkpoint system???? I've had to do many of the "episodes" over and over 
 and over again JUST to complete it and get moving... Coupled with a BS save game that does NOT 
 remember the check point... and uve got the biggest AARGH factor!! Also incredibly pathetic is the 
 twisted camera .... u have NO way of knowing when ur running back whether there's an army of uruks 
 /spiders (the shelobs lair.. ugh... i hgave up the game while playing THAT tripe!!) ... waiting to 
 accost you or something else... u JUST can predict where ur going....
  
  The hopeless PC controls, the nasty camera and the over and over repetitive gameplay because of 
 the moronic and thoroughly inadequate Checkpoint system killed this game!! MASS EFFECT? Anyone???? 
 See how a game port is done righT!!
  Trust EA to mess up ANYTHING that should be right...
  
  I usually not the one to grap and gripe about corporate evil... I think Microsoft is fine but 
 for a few flaws.. but EA tends to screw up EVERYTHING!!! I hope this game company dies , taking 
 all its assets with it.. time for a fresh slate!!!
  
  Excuse me now.. there's a dvd I gotta go throw down a trash chute!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veselinkanchev
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Although smashing orcs is fun, repetitive bossfights and horrible AI isn't.
  The levels the game offers are pretty cinematic and look well, graphics and sound are good, but 
 the actual gameplay is just not deep enough. After a couple of minutes beating enemies with the 
 same combos gets boring and the dozens of cloned "bosses" don't help too. It gets even worse, when 
 you replay a level, and because of the long distance between checkpoints you'll be doing that a 
 lot. The RPG elements are cool though. It is also great looking at the giant masses of baddies. 
 Other minuses for the game are the linear levels and the AI. The NPCs are so amazingly useless, 
 I don't think they actually do any damage. They are more like obstacles. In one level a bunch of 
 soldiers watches orcs taking their castle, while you try to keep it safe. They don't even push 
 the ladders off the walls, just standing in your way instead. In another level your two hero companions 
 do practically nothing, while you shoot at some 
  enemies and hordes of orcs attack you in the back. In the same level you are desperately trying 
 to save two NPCs, who are just staying and staring at the void for minutes, while a giant monster 
 comes slowly from the other end of the level and stomps them. I suppose it's better with the co-op 
 setting. If you can get past the bad AI, you will probably be able to do that with the other bad 
 stuff and have a nice experience. Like a movie game, it is pretty much for the fans of the movie, 
 but if you are just looking for a good action game it may come of handy too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I must admit I shelled out a lot of money to be able to play this game. As an avid Lord of the 
 Rings fan, I was bound and determined to glean all I could about the final movie before it was 
 released in the theaters, and other than the book, this game was my means of doing just that. Meeting 
 the minimum requirements to play it on my aging e-machines desktop set me back about $70 above 
 and beyond the price of the game. However, in retrospect, the sacrifice was worth it, as I had 
 the privilege of enjoying one of the best movie game adaptations I have ever played.
  
  The game's strength lies in its effective skill-point based reward system, which provides the player 
 with flashier combos and special abilities as his fighting skill improves. The abundance of unlockable 
 special moves and playable characters, combined with the addition of a two-player mode, help keep 
 the gameplay fresh well beyond the end of the single player adventure. Which is a good thing, since 
 there are only about ten levels in the game, and they must be replayed ad infinitum if you want 
 to unlock everything the game has to offer. Unfortunately, the unlockable special moves and characters 
 also serve to make the game significantly easier, which may cause some gamers in search of a challenge 
 to shelve the game long before they have unlocked everything in it.
  
  Other than the painfully short single-player mode, the game has very few flaws. The graphics, although 
 occasionally dim, are on par with most of its peers; the sound effects and music are exactly what 
 one would expect in an LOTR game; and the gameplay, as described above, is engaging and enjoyable. 
 All of these factors combine to make The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King one movie-based 
 game any fan of classic beat-'em-ups should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonjewel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The game is ok. And has great bonus features such as amazing cheat codes that you only can use 
 once you've completed the game. So that's one of the things that make the game highly addictive, 
 sometimes. After a while you can get tired. The graphics are kinda good but they could have been 
 MUCH more detailed, the faces are blurry and the lips aren't even moving. Sound is good from the 
 movies but can get repetitive as in most games. The combat system is the best thing in the game 
 because it got some sense, you can build up your own different strategies in different levels. 
 Slash, guard, hide, slash, guard can be one example. A bit like that is it in "The Death's King" 
 level. While each level is completed you get your own grade good, great, very good, and perfect. 
 Combined with that you earn points to buy cool power-ups. Such as much longer time using Invisibility 
 cloak, fire arrows, and a combo where you can slash the same time you rise up after being beaten. 
 The dialogue is kinda boring "Ugly little hobbits" "I've got to find Frodo" but they are not saying 
 much anyway. The game has multiplayer which is good but could have been done better. The characters 
 has to be so close to each other all the time otherwise you can't go further, irritating. But they've 
 got an counter of how many you killed which is cool cuz you can then compete with that just like 
 they did in the movies. The lifebar is made so each player can die 1 time or 1 player 2 times. 
 The most irritating is that between all levels everytime you start a new game you have to stand 
 out all those LONG video clips, man couldn't they have added an option to jump over them or something?! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 10, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  when you first look at the player reviews for this game you see 9.0 s, 8.5s, and then the 1.3 and 
 6.0, which in my opinion, are way more true to the game then the higher rated reviews. i am not 
 going to finish this game, because of the crazy diffuculty, the dated graphics, stupid ai, and 
 bad save points. the action is just repitive button mashing, so you really dont have to think AT 
 ALL. the endless amount of enemies is also very troublesome. how are you supposed to alone defeat 
 all the undead PLUS the undead king? i know, if you are really good at this game then you are probably 
 saying that i suck, but i dont, this game is just another really hard game that i have come across.
 
  
  i wanted to try it because it looked like a good game and my pc is getting dated (almost a 1 1/2 
 years old now) so im having to look at older games because i cant upgrade to newer standards. this 
 game is not good at all, and if you have it on your hard drive, uninstall it now, like i am going 
 to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunner4
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. I am a big fan of LOTR trilogies and I got everything I expected from 
 this game. I played this game couple years back and it was just awesome. There was so much fun 
 killing people. I was disappointed that they didn't release Two Towers for PC but this game is 
 huge improvement over the first one (which was complete crap) . This game has great graphics in 
 terms of 2003 and game play is fun but it is hard. After you get through first couple of levels, 
 it gets difficult to pass the other levels. It would of been little easier if they had a save feature 
 but there is none so if you mess up then you start all over and it sucks when you mess up in the 
 very end. Couple of levels took me more than 40 tries to get through. Some of the hardest levels 
 in the game are Helm's Deep, Pelennor Fields, & The Black Gate. If you are a true fan then you 
 won't give up and try to get through the levels. Due to having such a great difficulty, you will 
 feel so good after getting through any level. A must play! Great Game! I am desperately waiting 
 for the new game (LOTR: conquest) they are coming out with this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterbutt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is freaking awesome. It's challenging, but not too insanely hard. Some of the levels 
 were hard, then the next level was easier than I expected, so it's kind of unpredictable I guess. 
 I'm still beating it and I've had it for years, but when I got it I was like 9 or something and 
 wasn't a gamer at all. I was a total noob. I didn't exactly get it. Now I've beaten the Path of 
 the Wizard and the Path of the King and I just beat Shelob's Lair. Now I need to beat Cirith Ungol 
 then the Crack of Doom and I'll have beaten the game. I guess I'm a noob for taking this long to 
 beat it, but oh well. Anyway, it's a great game. It's got pretty good graphics and awesome gameplay. 
 And I paid like $10 for it, so it was definitly worth it. If you wanna get a cheap game that's 
 really good, get RotK. It's not perfect, but it's pretty freakin awesome. Get this game. You will 
 definitly not be sorry. At all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christheman1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game! The only thing i didn't really like was the camera view and some of the 
 moves. The camera moves as you move along so I'll be moving forward and the camera will be looking 
 at my back and then it moves and it's looking at my face. So you say so what but the character 
 moves in respect to the camera angle. So I'll be running forward and the camera will move and I'll 
 be moving in another direction. Also, sometimes smoke will drift through the fight and I would 
 lose sight of my character completely. Second not all of the moves worked for me. I'm one of those 
 gamers who, when thrust into battle, just start clicking away. When you have 5 or 6 orcs come running 
 at you, you don't have the time or the amount of health to successfully parry and then finish off 
 your opponent. Other than that is was awesome!!! I would definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Some games make killing satisfying (like Marvel: Ultimate Alliance) . Some games make killing simple 
 and fun (like Rayman 3) . Some do their way differently. Lord of the Rings: Return of the King does 
 a fine job with the combat system. The buttons are simple enough to use, except for mixing in the 
 killing move when you're stuck with many Orcs everywhere around you. ROTK makes it's killing fluid, 
 fun, challenging, and extremely satisfting. Some of the levels also are extremely cinematic, (like 
 the battle of Helm's Deep) . The upgrades also are helpful, and useful, and can help you clear away 
 orcs by slicing them like butter. Some puzzles involve killing a certain amount of enemies (e. g. 
 killing 35 ghosts, 75 Orcs, etc.) . The bosses are extremely great too. Although going up to an 
 enemy, bashing him, smashing his friends, and repeating the process is a bit tedious, the game 
 presents it in a very intense way, therefore providing a crazily great ride (despite shorter than 
 I had hoped, although 12 hours isn't bad.) The graphics are surprisingly good for a game from 2003. 
 It has an interesting way of moving from movie to game (and vice versa) . I. E. Movie, to weird graphics, 
 to game graphics. Also, the actual character's faces are quite detailed, and look more real than 
 the other parts. Sometimes, though, the game makes you fight as hard as possible, because it gets 
 a bit hard. Fighting Shelob in hard mode made you mash the buttons like mad. 
  The sound isn't so bad either. The orc's breathing, the cave troll stomping, the people screaming 
 all add up to a superior sound. Voice-acting isn't bad either.
  Gameplay is pretty thrilling, and is quite interesting. the attack system works a charm, as using 
 combos like speed, speed, fierce work great.
  The upgrades work great too. 
  All in all, this game is pretty darn good. I loved it, and I advise you to get it even if you aren't 
 a fan of the books or the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the LotR's movies and really adore EA's Battle for Middle Earth 2. Return of the King 
 has all of the earmarks of a great game, but is crippled by a few unpardonable flaws. I recommend 
 it only to the most fanatical fans of the movies/books and those who have the patience to wrestle 
 with this very frustrating game.
  
  Gameplay: I think this game is best played with a gamepad, although it can be played with keyboard 
 and mouse. It's the usual button-smashing adventure game. You get to fight battle sequences from 
 the movies as one of the major good-guy characters (Aragon, Frodo, Gandalf, etc.) . The game has 
 some light role-playing elements such as leveling up and gaining new abilities. However, it is 
 primarily an adventure game involving killing a lot of orcs. It's good, mindless fun for a while 
 until you realize how many times you are replaying levels due to the difficulty. I'm not great 
 at these kinds of games, but I'm pretty decent and persistent. But the difficulty of this game 
 (even on easy ) is just outrageous. It wouldn't be so bad if you could save the game whenever you 
 wanted or if the checkpoint saves were more frequent. But no. You could play though 20 minutes 
 of gameplay and kill 199 orcs. However, because you didn't get orc #200, you have to restart the 
 level again. I must have replayed the level with Aragon and the undead king over 30 times, and 
 still couldn't beat it. It just makes no sense. I'm not one to give up on a game easily, but this 
 one just became a chore by mission 4 or 5. A pity since it was quite fun in the beginning.
  
  Graphics: Looks really good and captures the spirit and mood of the movies. The cutscenes are 
 straight from the movies and blend in well with the gameplay. Character models are dated by today's 
 standards, but still look decent. Sounds: Everything is in order here. Great background music from 
 the movies, voice acting is spot on, and special effects are believable. Technical issues/documentation: 
 Thin, but functional manual. The game was perfectly stable on my computer, although I never finished 
 it. Overall, a well polished game.
  
  Value: If you can get it for $10 or less, it might be worth a try. I would suggest playihg the 
 demo first, although it is easier that the game itself. Again, be forewarned: this is a very frustrating 
 game due to the absence of a real save system. If you don't mind replaying a mission 5-50 times, 
 go for it. Otherwise, save your money and time.
  
  Pros:
  +good production values
  +nice graphics, music, and voice acting
  +action can be intense and very reminiscent of the movies
 
  
  Cons:
  -absolutely ridiculous difficulty, even on easy 
  -no real save system to speak of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  ROTK is an action packed game, anyway you put it. You will be constantly swinging or parrying your 
 sword with foes.
  
  If you are a LOTR fan, you will enjoy quite a bit of the movie inside of the game, along with some 
 behind-the-scenes footage.
  
  The voice-overs were done very well, but Aragorn's sounds kinda flimsy. At the very end of the 
 game, I noticed that the dude who played Aragorn never got interviewed... so i'm thinking he never 
 was apart of this game to supply the voice acting.
  
  This game is hard. No other way to put it. You will have to play through the level several times 
 before you figure out the exact pattern. Even then, you gotta be on your toes, no screwing around.
 
  
  Overall, Return of the King is a solid action game that implements scenes from the movie, and it 
 all works out well.
  
  Not the best game in the world, but its just solid and it works. Played mine on a Mac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Return to Middle-earth in a game based on the epic final chapter of the The Lord of the Rings movie 
 trilogy. Developed using the same digital assets as the films, The Return of the King recreates 
 in stunning detail the final events of the War of the Ring. Become the heroes who determine the 
 fate of Middle-earth as you traverse the haunted Paths of the Dead, defend Minas Tirith, and even 
 play co-op multiplayer with a friend as you march against the impenetrable Black Gates of Mordor. 
 The fate of Middle-earth is in your hands. Players get the chance to play as five characters (Gandalf, 
 Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Sam and Frodo) , plus three secret ones; the environments are interactive 
 with useable weapons, ropes to swing down, catapults to fire, and more. Plus, gamers can finally 
 get together with their buddies to play the game in co-op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  this game is much better then Lord of the Ring the Fellowship of the ring, for pc. which by the 
 way sucked bad. but anyway this game there is more players to play with u can choose who to play 
 as. buy different combos and better projectiles such as arrows, magic, and throwing knives. some 
 of the levels are more difficult then other obviously. there are down parts about it too, like 
 u dont have free rain over the levels, u have to go the right way all the time, which isnt that 
 bad because u can own alot of orcs and feel like u are invincible until u die. all in all rhis 
 game is very well put together, graphics arent to bad, gameplay is pretty good, and its fun. :-D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myrfalas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game with good and easy gameplay and co-operative (multiplayer) feature so u can share 
 the joy with your friends. You get to play with  and Gimli through 
 out many levels, taking part in some of the epic battles of Middle Earth like the battle of Helm's 
 Deep or the siege of Minas Tirith. You can learn various skills to your characters as they advance. 
 Some skills are common for all of them but there are many unique skills for each one of them. There 
 is also diference in combat abilities between them (e. x. Gimli is the better in melee combat, Legolas 
 is the ranged combat expert e. t. c.) . You would enjoy the battles in this game. There are many combos 
 you can perform to beat your enemies, many ways to finish them and you can use is some occasions 
 alternative ways to kill them such as shooting them with catapults. But, the true fun is the multiplayer 
 cause you can really feel the joy of battle. You can play stratigically covering one an another 
 , combine the combat abilties of your characters or fight side by side to take down your enemies. 
 Its a pretty nice and amusing game with nice graphics and great sounds and music that will definatelly 
 provide many hours of fun for you and your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helmdall
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 17, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The game's key aspects, are all pretty good. Especially the sound. I expect you'd have seen most 
 of the other reviews which entails the game's good points, so I won't go into that. Gameplay wise, 
 it's pretty decent, a bit simple, but it gets the job done.
  
  Now, I don't usually do reviews for games but I just felt like I absolutely HAD to write a review 
 on this. My main problem with this game? It's TOO FRICKIN' DIFFICULT! Even on the easy mode, I 
 had at least 50 gos on the top of the wall level with Gandalf before I actually passed it. I guess 
 it's the developers' way of prolonging the game, since the real meat of the game is granted rather 
 sparingly. It gets frustrating when you have to play the same level over and over again, and the 
 checkpoints, also sparingly granted, does absolutely nothing to help. The checkpoints are located 
 in odd and sometimes, useless positions. Checkpoints in the game have about 1-2 checkpoints per 
 level, and it's frustrating when you have to revert back to a vastly distant checkpoint when you 
 die.
  
  The AI in the game is absolutely disastrous. If you've played the game, you probably know what 
 I'm talking about. Especially apparent in The Black Gate level. You have to fight off hordes. Did 
 I say hordes? I meant even more than that. As in like MANY MANY MANY. A LOT. I mean like, HUGE 
 numbers. You get to choose Gandalf, Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli. The other three will help you 
 in the battle. Yay? Nah uh. When the levels gets down to the fending off HUGE NUMBERS of legions 
 part, they are absolutely USELESS. They're actually more of a hindrance. You have to protect them!!! 
 If any one of he die. IT'S OVER BABY. Back to the start. I really really HATE, no... LOATHE Gandalf 
 in this. Because he keeps dying. I've played it 47 times now (I counted) and I still can't get 
 Gandalf or Gimli not to die.
  
  That said, the ridiculously difficulty has it's pros. When you actually beat a level, you'll be 
 jumping up and down in glee. When I beat the Minas Tirith: Top of the Wall level, (IMO the hardest 
 level) I ran a few laps around my apartment screaming like a loony. Exact words might not be appropriate 
 here, but it ran along the rough lines of I WON YOU B*TCHES! HAHAHAHAHA! NOOB! PWNED YOU! NOOBA$$ 
 B*ATCH!
  
  I wouldn't say I'm a strong gamer, because I'm not. But I've played a lot of games and this is 
 by far one of the hardest I've come across. This game will make you tear your hair out, but if 
 you get past a particularly level. It's worth it. It's addicting alright, cuz you tend to bear 
 grudges against certain enemies you have trouble with. If you own the game and you're having trouble, 
 I suggest you stop for a while and play again later. Frustration really affects your gaming.
  
  I recommend you play this at your friend's house, or rent it. Buying it isn't really a good 
 rdeal cuz it's really short anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game first and foremost, is too easy. It takes you a day and you have completed the whole 
 game and unlocked all the extras. The extras are actually quite nice and are interviews with the 
 actors that you have not seen on the DVDs. The graphics are okay, but they are nothing special. 
 The sound is okay, it is the same thing over and over though, the gameplay, is nice for about an 
 hour and a half, and then it gets old. You do the same thing over and over and over again. The 
 gameplay does not change at all through out the whole game. This game takes no skill at all, you 
 run around hacking and slashing, and that is it. There are no puzzles, no change in the pace, it 
 is all the same. Even the unlockable characters are the same! They play the same way as the characters 
 you unlocked them with! This game is only for die hard LOTR fans. And even then I wouldn't buy 
 it, because I am a die hard LOTR fan, I've got all the extended edition movies, very nice hard 
 back copies of the whole series, I am a big fan, but this game is an insult to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiny9999000
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  i have spent the longest time to get to the end right as i was going to beat it it deleted my whole 
 profile. i know it wasn't my computer. becuase my freind has the game to and it deleted itself 
 also one mision took me three days and another 18 days and i play this game alot . i mean i want 
 to like it but i just cant i love the movies and the books but the game i hate it and the people 
 who made it. and all of my friends say that to and i have many friends. so this is a wake up cal 
 for the people who designed it. here are a list of things to make it better 1. the misions don't 
 make them so when your ten and you get the game it taks you another 40 years to beat it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great adventure game that's filled with great game play, multi-player and cool playable 
 characters. I had a great time playing this game. There are many different levels that you can 
 play over and over for fun. The best part is all the characters. Play as your favorite person, 
 such as Legolas, Aragorn, Gimli, Gandalf, The hobbits and many more unlockable characters. Destroy 
 orcs, urukai, Trolls, beasts, skeletons and much more. Each character has a different fighting 
 style, and different weapons. At the end of each level, you get to unlock special moves and such 
 if you fought well (defeating an enemy, you would either get fair, good, excellent or perfect) . 
 It's really cool if you pull of a special move fighting, it feels great!
  
  Playing multi-player is particularly fun, you get to co-ordinate your strategies with each other, 
 or fight to kill more enemies than the other person. I play with my sister a lot this game, it's 
 pretty fun together.
  
  This game has great graphics, sounds and features. Features include special unlockable levels, 
 interviews with the characters from the Lord of the rings cast and voices. I highly recommend this 
 game, as it is superb and lots of fun.
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Most of the time I'm either playing a shooter or a behind-the-shoulder game like Outcast or Academy. 
 These games have cameras that... uhh... move with you. So this is taking me a while to get used 
 to, but as soon as I can beat the *&amp;^% king of the dead, I'm hoping it'll be worth it.
  
  Gameplay: Fun. A few noticeable bugs, like some of the combos must actually be done in another 
 order than it says in your combo list, but it's a good game. People say the Hobbits are very weak 
 and no fun to play with... I'm still in the middle of the game, so I only have Sam, and maybe he's 
 better than the other ones, but I always do better with Sam! He advances into Excellent and Perfect 
 mode very fast and in general seems to be a better fighter than Aragorn or Legolas, who are still 
 stuck getting pwnt by the King of the *&amp;^% dead. Gandalf is very good, but you would kinda 
 expect that.
  One time when I was playing in Co-op mode I *did* beat the King of the Dead, but my friend hadn't 
 played much and we got stuck on the way back out of the cave. In single player I haven't done much 
 more than get him to 60% health, although I did survive many waves in the process.
  Anyway, luckily you can take the Path of the Wizard and the Path of the Hobbit to earn XP (XD) 
 to spend on upgrades, some of which are Fellowship upgrades. When Aragorn has a bunch of killer 
 combos (and Strength of the Fellowship) I'll try it again.
  
  Graphics: I wouldn't know. For some reason even though I have a good enough PC to run the graphics 
 on their highest settings on most games, I have to leave it down on a 640 x 480 resolution, which 
 looks even worse on my 1600 x 1200 laptop.
  
  Sound: Good enough. I don't really notice it at all.
  
  Value: High. It's got a lot to unlock, 
 so you'll be playing for a while if you like it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Very high. It's a fun game. (I think... @*#&amp; king of the !@*# dead.)
  
 
  One last note: Don't buy any individual upgrades that can also be bought as Fellowship upgrades: 
 it won't lower the fellowship cost. Just save up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings movie series was, lets face it, a huge success. If there was as much movies 
 as there was in Star Wars, it may have been the most successful Science Fiction series ever. EA 
 Games' Lord of the Rings: Return of the King, is the game based on Peter Jackson's third installment 
 in the series (or JRR Tolkiens if you think that way) . So, how did the game stack up. Well, sure 
 it is a fun game, but there are some things in the game that fall short of what you may think.
 
  
  When you first start the game, it goes to a cinematic, which takes you to the Battle of Helms Deep. 
 Since you first played the game, you have to watch the cinematic. At the very end of the scenario, 
 it starts to animated, and you start to play the actual game playing Gandalf the White. During 
 this first level, Gimli helps you through the level, telling the controls and in what situations. 
 When you defeat this level, you get to another cinematic. After that cinematic, you go to a screen 
 which displays all of the levels. You must complete all of the levels to defeat the game. There 
 are three different paths in the game, though you do have to play all of them.
  
  The path on the left is the Path of the Wizard, in which you take control of Gandalf in his quest 
 to Isengard, and the defence of Minas Tirith. There are three levels. The path in the center is 
 the Path of the King. In this path, you take control of Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, in their path 
 to summon the undead and to help free Gondor. There are five levelsThe path on the right is the 
 Path of the Hobbit is where you take control of Sam on their way to try and rescue Frodo Baggins. 
 There are three levels. And in the last level of the game, you take control of Frodo, and you must 
 kill Gollum (Smeagol) in order to destroy the One Ring. After you defeat the game, you also unlock 
 three new characters: Merry, Pippin and Faramir.
  
  In this game, you go into a level, and you must follow the path in order to get to the end. There 
 are only a few controls in this game. There are some attacks like a Quick attack, Fierce attack, 
 and ranged attack. To kill an enemy, you must knock it to the ground, and press the Kill button 
 in which your player jabs your weapon into the enemy, therefore killing it. However, there are 
 occasional enemies in which you have to dwindle its hit points to zero before killing it. For some 
 enemies however, can cause problems. For example, against enemies with shields, you must destroy 
 the shield with a fierce attack before killing it. Is it really necessary to have to destroy a 
 shield before killing someone in real life? It is probably to add an extra challenge, but I don't 
 know why.
  
  When you kill an enemy, you get points. The amount of points you get depends on the kills rating. 
 There is fair, good, excellent and perfect kills. How this is done, I don't know. To get perfect 
 kills, you must keep your perfect kill bar up. Thus, killing a lot of enemies in a very short amount 
 of time is how you do this. You can also do an instant kill combo in which you get a perfect kill 
 status, and every kill you do is deemed perfect . These skill points are used get you to new levels. 
 When you grow to new levels, you get access to buy combos which will kill your enemies faster and 
 easier (somewhat) . You must buy these new skills with the points you get during the game. However, 
 other than your new skills, your character doesn't do more damage or improves overall. And after 
 you pass level ten (the highest level is 20) there are no more skills to learn, which makes you 
 wonder why this even matters in the first place.
  
  In other game levels, you are often in a small area with countless enemies swarming at you, and 
 you must complete certain objectives in order to defeat the level. However, some of the levels 
 in the game fall up short of what you may think they are. For example, Pelennor Fields (arguably 
 the greatest battle in the Lord of the Rings series) is completely destroyed by a really dumb way 
 to defeat the level. There are other levels that come off a bit of a disappointment, like The Walls 
 of Minas Tirith.
  
  Another complaint I have in this game is the game's cinematics. There are way too many. They are 
 uncessesary in the game, and only waste your time. Also, if it is the first time you've watched 
 the cinematic with your file, they you are forced to watch it, which can really drive a person 
 nuts.
  
  Now, I will move on the Graphics, Sound and Value.
  
  The graphics in this game are quite good. The character models are quite well done, with the exception 
 with some characters like the Uruk-Hai. There are a lot of detail in some characters. The games 
 levels and landscapes also look great. However, there are some flaws in this game. For one, the 
 games backgrounds look quite bad, and they look like a background painting. Also, in the Black 
 Gate level, you will notice as the gate opens, the orcs actually walk through the gate (?) . There 
 are also some character with little detail in them, like some of the enemies. There are also are 
 quite a few other glitches in the graphics that you will find in the game.
  
  The sound is also pretty well done. Though the game doesn't introduce much music, as it is often 
 taken from the Lord of the Rings movies, it is still great. The Lord of the Rings music is great 
 anyway. There are also some good FX sounds in the game. From the quick swipes at an enemy, to an 
 unforgiving stab, there isn't a shortage of sounds. However, some sounds are also out of their 
 league, and sound nothing like they would in real life, like the kicking of a ladder in the Walls 
 of Minas Tirith level.
  
  As far as value goes, there is some value, but it could've been better. There are new levels that 
 are given to you after the game's end, which is nice. Too bad that there' s only two, and they 
 both suck. Other than that, after the games' end, there isn't a lot of new features, except cheating. 
 There is also some replayability, but not too much in it. Yes, you can play a game a second time 
 around, but you can't customize your characters, or do new things that make it any different from 
 any other time you've ever played it, therefore making this a category that one of the game's weak 
 points.
  
  In the end, The Lord of the Rings: Return of the King, can appeal to those who are die-hard Lord 
 of the Rings fans. But even to some Lord of the Rings fans, this game is likely to disappoint to 
 due the lack of replayability and lame levels. If you are itching to get this game, I say this: 
 though there are a few positive notes to it, Lord of the Rings: Return of the King, is likely to 
 disappoint an audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  The look and feel of the film has been nailed perfectly, the character models are faithful to their 
 real life counter part and you get to take on hundreds of worthless monsters and kill them with 
 a nice big sword.
  
  Their are plenty more attacks and powers to unlock in this sequel to The Two Towers as well as 
 a lot more characters to play with, the highlight probably being Gandalf in the siege of Minas 
 Tirith, you'll just get addicted to throwing fireballs and other impressive looking things at Orcs 
 pouring through the gates.
  
  However, their are some points in the game you'll tire of, mainly the ones that involve stopping 
 a little icon in the corner turning into a nasty shade of scarlet.
  
  However, the annoying bits are the game are soon forgotten as you earn new skills, very soon into 
 the game you'll be pulling off hard hitting attacks and killing enemies at a rate of 60 a minute 
 (or something similar anyway) . And the feeling of slaughtering a horde monsters in a couple of 
 seconds then wheeling around to pull off multiple attacks on a huge troll before felling him with 
 an angry, glowing blade is one not to be missed.
  
  A highly enjoyable experience, the best way to play this game is in short sessions, failing to 
 knock down all the ladders on the wall before the little circle in the corner turns red can get 
 annoying, but savour the Orc slaughtering goodness that will follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gollum92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  LOTR: Return of the King is a game recommendable to any LOTR fan and then any that like action 
 games. Although somewhat short, you'll enjoy every minute of it. You'll play in many locations, 
 including Gondor, Shelob's Lair, and Mount Doom. All the main male actors are playable, including 
 Aragorn, Legolas, and Gandalf. There are also players that you unlock by completing the game and 
 they are: well, that would be telling. The graphics are done very well, and even though they're 
 not top of the line, they get the point across. The characters look like the movie's characters 
 enough for you to recognize them, but other then that they fall a little short. Although there 
 aren't that many things the characters say, the sound effects are done well. You'll always hear 
 battle sounds such as swords clanging, fire, etc. Even with its few problems, the game is fun. 
 You enjoy hacking up orcs and jumping off walls, pushing down ladders, and firing catapults. There 
 are also a very large amount of combos that you can purchase, some of which are very fun to watch. 
 For example, the hobbits on a certain one will roll over the back of an orc, turn around, and slice 
 his head off.
  
  The game is rated for only violence, but when you hit an orc some black blood does go flying, and 
 when you are hit some red.
  
  When all's said and done, LOTR: Return of the King is a fun game that I would recommend buying 
 if you like LOTR or action games. The worst you'll get is a wasted $10, but most likely you'll 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a very cool game, there is a short video and then it takes you straight in to game play. 
 Anyone can start hacking away at Orcs and it's instant fun. The game has a very different view 
 from most games, where the camera follows and pans round your character as you move through the 
 level.
  
  Even on hard stages in the game you find yourself immersed enough to keep trying. The experience 
 points scheme is an excellent way to encourage the player to try harder and customise your characters 
 attacks.
  
  Only one thing that annoyed me from the start is not being able to skip cinematics, if you've seen 
 the Return of the King then it can be annoying watching clips of the film when you want to be playing 
 the game. Overall though, worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie765
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was quite fun. Some people can go out and whine about how it was simple and how it wasn't 
 like the movie. But if you are just looking out for a fun game then this is your match. I have 
 never had so much fun smashing down enemies and firing arrows in a game for quite a while. This 
 simple beat'em up may not have an advanced combat system or a complicated array of weaponry but 
 it is still a great fun at heart. However I was bothered by the fact that the game was all to short. 
 It's really fun and the voice acting is great but it is way to short. If the game was longer it 
 could have been better, but there probably weren't very many more battles left to fight. If you 
 get past the simplicity of this game then you will defintely have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  but what you ask? i shell answer my friends 
  but... this game is really short he just doesn't have a lot of levels in it but the levels are hard 
 and long... very long
  also... you're friend of the fellowship are stupid... thanks god they cant die in the game it self 
 because if the could you could never finish this game... but there is a level were there become 
 venerable and they can die and if they die you loose so watch out. lets see what did i already said... hard 
 game... YES... stupid friends... YES... short game... YES...
  so what else can i say about this game?
  you can't cheat in this game... only in the end of it... why 
 should i cheat in a game i already finished
  well you LOTR fan's will love this game... i like it... sorta
  i give this game a 8 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spykiller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Lotr is a cool game but too short and seems that it was made at hurry. The Multiplayer makes the 
 game too easy.
  They are much characters than i except and more battles. It can also have more lvl's to the characters 
 but with anothers kind of attacks. The characters have the same attacks but they are increased when 
 you reach a new lvl.
  The Scenario's are well done with the self destruction the actions points and everything.
  I 
 didn't try the cheats yeat but for what i've seen they look really cool. 
  The most funny awesome and spectacular part of the game is it's DAMN HARD!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsterjoe1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ok LOTR: ROTK was a good game and anyone interested in the LOTR movies and books will find this 
 has of stuff for them, lots of clips from the movies and so on. In the game you can play a total 
 of nine characters from the movies including, gandalf, aragorn, sam, and most of the orthers you'd 
 expect. There are three paths, the path of the wizerd, where you follow gandalf, path of the hobbits, 
 where as you might expect yuo play as the hobbits, and path of the king, where you play as aragorn, 
 logolas, and gimli. The gameplay itself is standerd hack-and-slash where you pretty much just smash 
 the buttons till your hands fall off, but there are some combos you can get after leveling up ( 
 one of the best parts of the game in my opinion.) these combos are not that hard so dont worry. 
 Theres no muliplayer exept for co-op if that is you have two controllers. The level design is good 
 but very linear, the environments look good, and the faces of aragorn, and gandalf were awesome. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who likes LOTR and action games where you don't have to think 
 much. Over all the game was def good, with good graphics, but way too short, and a rental would 
 be enough to play though the entire game, (even though i've played it for more than 20 hours. lol. 
 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kighod
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  What I expect from a LOTR was battle scenes of course because is about wars. In the game the battlescenes 
 weren't intense because you only get to be in one area whlie those monsters attacked like The Black 
 Gate. In Souuthern Gate is probaly the shortest mission where you just try to open a gate and through. 
 Plenor fields was wack why would the objective be to safe a lady when there is a battle going on. There 
 should have been battlescenes where 2 armies charged and start killing each other. There aren't 
 a lot of soldiers. Why the heck would EA make LOTR a Beat em' up? when is suppose to be a war game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chic-warmer
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 23, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  At first wen i saw the trailer for the game i thought it was the better than the first game (The 
 Fellowship of the Ring) and would be one of the best in 2003, but i was obviously wrong. ROTK has 
 alot of unique features like how the exact movie clip (which is shown in the movie) blends into 
 the graphics in the game, but EA games must understand not to improve on one thing; the gameplay 
 was hopeless!!! 'Beat-Em-UP'?? what were they thinking??? ROTK is therefore the perfect game for 
 rookie gamers and small kids from abt 5 - 11 years old!!! NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PRO GAMERS!!!
  
  Prodigy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  There I am, standing in front of Multimedia ( A local CD shop where I buy most of my games ) just 
 waiting for the moment the owner will come and open it. I ordered LOTR the return of the king a 
 day ago and i came to pick it up. Waiting... Sittinng... The moment will never come...
  So close, but so far away...
  And then he came and gave me the game just when i thought of throwing 
 myself under a train or something. I brought it home and Voila.
  
  Lord of the Rings features an amazing arsenal of things a gamer should enjoy.
  The game has awesome 
 graphics which was somthing of great value.
  Whenewer you play you can accually see the shape of everyones face changing as they speak - How 
 cool is that?
  
  The sound... hmm.. well nontheless the sound is awesome. Starting from the music, passing the SFX 
 and ending at the voices. Phew. They managed to find the original actors to give the voices of 
 the characters.
  So its pretty neat.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. I personally enjoy the new feature - Parry.
  I havent seen this in 
 ages.
  
  A lack of enjoyment in LOTR 3 is multiplayer.
  The game does support 2 player gaming but only if you have an joystick or a gamepad. It doesn't 
 have and online options nor LAN.
  
  Resolvation, Lord of the RIngs - The Return of the king is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decomposed35
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  This LOTR game is the best of the thre games that came out inspired in the movie. It can takes 
 you to middle earth to fight in the battles of the third movie and it does it right.
  If you are thinking that it's just an animated copy of the movie you are very wrong. The game takes 
 you to fights that are not shown in the movie.
  The way that the game is divided is amazing, giving you all of the paths of the fellowship, showing 
 what everyone of them did.
  The gameplay is also a lot better that in the other games. And now you have addicional powers to 
 increase your strengh.
  It's time well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  well this game gets hard at some times but is very easy you may think fighting trolls is hard but 
 actualy there easy to beat and they are fun to kill.'
  there are lotsof levels and you must play as the hobbits aragorn gimli legolas and gandalf you 
 can also unlock players by finishing the game they are faramir, merry and pippin.
  there are experience levels which you get by killing enemies.
  there is a maximum of level 20 
 for the PC version of the game.
  there is co-op mode which is great for two players to beat missions and get experience points.
 
  the game is moderate length and is easy to beat but it gets hardon the black gate level and the 
 top of minis tirith.
  you can beat this game in about 6 hours so it is easy.
  this game has good graphics and sound so it looks good.
  i like this so its ok but it could do 
 with more levels.
  so if you are a lord of the rings fan this would be a great game for you.
  
  written by doom_x107 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 11, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Ring: Return of the King, well graphics and game play are solid. Fantastic cut scenes 
 and power up abilities. The only draw back for the PC version was the COOP feature. OMG were these 
 people smoking dope when they came up with this idea? EA, when you have a franchise game like LOTR 
 and you do something that utterly ridiculous it's almost enough never to want to play it again 
 (almost) . Seriously if you are going to make a game with multiplayer capabilities then go all the 
 way dont half *** it. Gamers now a day want expandability to prolong the life of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is realy hard to beat without cheats. I got stuck on the last level Gandalf plays, it's 
 realy hard to beat. The cammera angles also needed to be adjusted, or not moved around as much. 
 I think the Two Towers for X-Box is much better, as far as cammera angles go. The thing that was 
 fun about the game is that you got to upgrade your character like the rest of the LOTR series. 
 The game also has pretty good movie clips and sound. I would get one of your budies over and play 
 muliplayer with consoles for the best game results. It's somewhat better gameplay on multiplayer. 
 Overall, I think this game would not be a good game to get hooked into, because lots of your friends 
 would make fun of you for likeing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect to encounter a LOTR game fleshed out like this, and I was extremely impressed. 
 Although the demo ran pretty slow on my machine, the full version seemed smoother and optimized.
 
  
  Graphics - This game is pretty much one of the most detailed you can get without delving into DirectX 
 9 stuff. The atmosphere and art of LOTR is hit dead-on, although I wish there would have been more 
 massive field battles... but that is attributed to hardware limitations.
  
  Audio - Incredible music and sound effects.
  
  Gameplay and Controls - The game has a very 
 intelligent camera system making sure you are always in 3rd person and the focus is on the the 
 task you need to do. Controls are great and melee combat is very intuitive.
  
  Variety of characters, missions and skills can give you days of gameplay.
  
  All in all, a 
 fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_primal
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Playing LOTR - Return of the King is like going through the whole movie again. This is one hell 
 of an experience, but movie clips consume too much time though. 
  
  The game is pretty exciting, with close-range battles and cool characters. 
  
  Graphics is 
 OK; not as detailed as other LOTR games.
  Camera view is poor. There should have been an option to change viewing modes. Saving your game 
 is a headache. It doesn't allow you to save your game at any point you like - you must find a checkpoint 
 in order to do so. But these do not stop me from playing. 
  
  Overall, this game is straining my neck everytime I play it. But not enough, though, to give me 
 sleepless nights (just like what LOTR - Battle for Middle Earth did) . Highly Addictive!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahshimi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings the Return of the King is one of the best games I have ever played. The game 
 is the last edition of the game series of the lord of the Rings and it follows the Scenario of 
 the Return of the King movie. The nice thing about the game that you can play with any hero character 
 such as Gandalf, Aragon, etc After completing a mission some extras are unlocked like interviews 
 with the film crew and so on. But the grand prize is after you complete the game and the secret 
 codes are unlocked. The game tends to be difficult form the moment you start it and its difficulty 
 keeps on increasing which is a thing that I like as I love challenging games. But at the end this 
 game deserves every hour you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blewin1
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  EA's Lord of the Rings: Return of the King utilizes its office LOTR license to the fullest. Great 
 cinematic cuts are played before and after game levels. Additionally, the actual actors' voices 
 are included in the gameplay.
  
  However the cinematic cannot be skipped before a level is completed. This is particularly annoying 
 because there is no saving except after the completion of a level. So if you do not finish a level 
 when you call it quits for the day, plan on having to sit through the same cinematic the next time 
 you play. Only after viewing the first time will you be able to skip it during this gaming session.
 
  
  The fighting during the game battle suffers from a lack of camera control. Let me restate that, 
 you cannot control the cameras at all. The auto pan does a mediocre job at best and thus has to 
 make your co-character transparent at times to allow you to see where your character is in relation 
 to the adversaries. A slight enhancement to allow a more sophisticated camera control would have 
 improved this game dramtically. 
  
  The fighting in this game is quite repetitive. Very little is done to move this beyond a hack and 
 slash fest. Due to the poor camera control it is often difficult to see where you are hacking and 
 slashing.
  
  I think this game is truly disappointing due to the fact that it is based on a fantastic film. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Im not a big Lord of the Rings fan, so I wasnt to dissapointed when I played this game, as I found 
 it slow paced and dull, despite some pretty good graphics, cutscenes and sound.
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Very dull, slow paced, unintersting, battles. The levels were seemed long, even 
 though they were short, due to the boringness. It may seem interesting to those new to the live 
 action RPG genre, but its nothing new to hardcore fans of this genre.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The graphics were fairly good, nothing to much to say here. No major improvements needed. But the 
 console versions shine here.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  A pretty good score for pretty good sound!
  
  OVERALL, THE PS2 VERSION STANDS OUT DUE TO CONTROL 
 LAYOUT, BUT OVERALL THE GAME IS JUST SIMPLY UNINNOVATIVE.
  OVERALL, THE XBOX VERSION DOES NOTSTAND OUT DUE TO CONTROL LAYOUT, BUT OVERALL THE GAME IS JUST 
 SIMPLY UNINNOVATIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fu_jables
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This gave had some great potential, with its graphics and game play. Unfortunately by about the 
 3rd level on any path it becomes just too difficult. Health points get to be smaller and farther 
 apart. Checkpoints become non-existent. Its impossible to save in the middle of the game. Game 
 play is great but when you get to the same level and you just can't beat it and you have to deal 
 with the same IMPOSSIBLE level over and over again, the gameplay becomes very predictable and boring. 
 I am at a point now where the levels have gotten too hard and gameplay has stopped and I have looked 
 for roads to cheat to help get through, BUT YOU CAN'T EVEN DO THAT UNTIL YOU HAVE BEATEN THE GAME 
 AT LEAST ONCE. DAMN THIS GAME!!! DAMN IT STRAIT TO THE FIERY DEPTHS OF VIDEO GAME HELL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Return of the King, the last chapter in the Lord of the Rings trilogy, sees the final battle between 
 the Saurons seemingly undefeatable orc army and the ragtag forces of men.
  
  Amidst this conflict, two Hobbits named Frodo and Sam carry the dangerous ring of power past Saurons 
 territory of Mordor and into the fiery chasm of Mount Doom. Their dangerous trek strays somewhat 
 as their guide, the devious and crazed Gollum, leads them into the lair of Shelob, a giant spider 
 that makes its nest in the land of Mordor, consuming any unfortunate individuals who happen to 
 wonder into her den.
  
  The Fellowship formed at the start of the first book in the Rings trilogy has become, by the third 
 book, quite fractured and strained. Young Aragorn, having accepted his destiny as the rightful 
 king of the land of Gondor, seeks out the only army capable of defeating Saurons forces, accompanied 
 by his faithful companions Legolas and Gimli.
  
  Gandalf, now resurrected from death to complete his task as a member of the Fellowship, takes up 
 arms along with the rest of the warriors in the city of Minas Tirith, the last fortified city of 
 men capable of withstanding Saurons orc hoard.
  
  Though separated by vast distances, these 3 factions of the Fellowship must work together to accomplish 
 crucial goals and fight the good fight, so they might achieve total victory and save their entire 
 land from the dark forces of Sauron.
  
  The events of Return of the King play out in much the same order and fashion as those in the film. 
 The game starts out with a bang, plunging you almost immediately into the fierce Battle for Helms 
 Deep, which takes place at the end of the previous LOTR film, The Two Towers.
  
  Playing as the elf warrior Legolas, you must take out numerous uruk-hai warriors that are coming 
 over the walls before they overrun and destroy the innocents within Helms Deeps walls.
  
  From there the game takes you through the action-packed highpoints of TTT and ROTK. Most of these 
 missions take place in between the events in the film, focusing in on some of the grand scale action 
 sequences and crucial plot points in the film. You can play as several different characters in 
 ROTK, most of whom are members of the original Fellowship.
  
  Levels are laid out according to the three paths taken by the remnants of the Fellowship. These 
 are The Path of the Hobbits, The Path of the King, and the Path of the Wizard. Levels corresponding 
 to each of these paths are laid out in distinct tiers, with each tier unlocked as you complete 
 enough of the previous tiers levels. Before starting a new level, you are often given a choice 
 of whom you want to play. Some levels, particularly those involving the wizard Gandalf, restrict 
 your choices to only one character.
  
  Each character has a basic set of skills available to them, ranging from fierce attacks and fast 
 attacks for speedily elimination of foes, physical attacks that will push back or knock down enemies 
 and finally killing moves for downed enemies. All characters have some kind of ranged attack to 
 be used against archers or distant enemies, as well as a parrying move to block enemy attacks.
 
  
  To supplement these standard moves, all characters possess various special moves, with each differing 
 from character to character. These skills are unique to each character, and can be augmented and 
 added to in the Fellowship upgrade selection screen.
  
  Each kill you achieve in the game is given a skill rating, determined by how quickly or effectively 
 you take out your enemies. These ratings range from perfect, to excellent, then good and finally 
 fair.
  
  At the end of each level, the various ratings your kills have received are translated into a point 
 total, which can then be used to purchase any of several available Fellowship upgrades, for improvements 
 in your characters agility, strength, and abilities. Players can also purchase special combo moves 
 for faster and better kills.
  
  Getting all these moves down right enough times will cause your character to level up, unlocking 
 new moves and skill categories that can be purchased for the various characters in the Fellowship 
 upgrades screen. Good gameplay will also trigger ROTKs perfect mode, wherein your character can 
 do no wrong and will kill all enemies with a single blow for a limited time.
  
  ROTK has a brimful of serious action with which to experiment and master these various moves and 
 skills. There is hardly ever a time when you are not mowing down endless waves of orcs or other 
 strange creatures. The game may not last very long (only about 6 or 7 hours of game play, at the 
 most) yet that time will most always be spent mashing buttons like crazy.
  
  In fact, you may become overwhelmed at just how many enemies you have to handle at once in ROTK. 
 Do not be surprised to find missions with seemingly endless waves of enemies. Sometimes there are 
 so many enemies on the screen at once that you may lose sight of your own character as they disappear 
 amidst a throng of orc soldiers.
  
  This glutton of opponents can taint the game, especially in levels where only you and a handful 
 of friendly AI are expected to handle an insane number of foes and tasks all at once, with little 
 or no assistance from the mostly ineffectual friendly AI scattered about in most levels. You will 
 often have other computer-controlled Fellowship members who can relieve some of the burden on your 
 character, though even they become ineffectual when numerous enemies are about.
  
  Still, even though the action can get out of hand, ROTKs gameplay avoids the child-like ease characteristic 
 of last years Fellowship of the Ring, which went in the opposite direction to ROTK and became 
 almost too forgiving much of the time. Given a few tries, most levels can be figured out well enough. 
 The games mostly linear path will further help you anticipate your opposition as well.
  
  In between each level, you are shown high-res clips from all three LOTR films, intended to set 
 the stage and explain the purpose for the levels that precede and follow them. Many of these scenes 
 feature new dialogue spoken by the actors who appear in the films.
  
  These clips, while quite good-looking and certainly entertaining in their own right, will become 
 annoying when you discover that they cannot be bypassed by hitting a key or mouse button. You basically 
 have no choice but to just sit there and watch them play themselves out. This can become annoying.
 
  
  Sure, the clips are helpful for those who are not familiar with the films. Yet, for the rest of 
 us who do know something about the movies, or those who want to watch the clips once or twice, 
 rather than every time you attempt a level, it is unacceptable not to have some way of bypassing 
 the clips when you want to.
  
  Graphics in ROTK are impressive, though also tasking for most computers. Many without the latest 
 hardware may need to do some tweaking with the games settings in order to get the best framerate. 
 Still, much of the scenery and level design is top notch, with effects and lighting that recreate 
 and reflect the visual design of the films very well.
  
  Most of the actors featured in the films have had their likenesses reproduced for their respective 
 characters in the game, all with varying degrees of success. For instance, actor Vigo Mortenson, 
 who plays Aragorn in the films, bears little resemblance to the Aragorn character from the game. 
 On the other hand, the games rendition of Samwise Gamgee does bear a striking resemblance to actor 
 Sean Astin, who plays Sam onscreen.
  
  Beyond the shortcomings with the various character profiles, the character models all look great 
 and depict a convincing array of movement. Whether they are running, walking, fighting or parrying, 
 the effect is totally convincing and all do a fine job of making the game look and feel more like 
 its cinematic big brothers.
  
  Camera issues are a big problem with ROTK. As is the case with most third-person games, one just 
 has to live with a certain number of perspective problems. Lately more and more third-person games 
 have managed to improve these problems. ROTK only seems to amplify these problems with rather strange 
 camera placement, namely sitting off to the side most of the time like a 2D scroller.
  
  This is a problem for a 3D game, where enemies can come at you from any direction. You often have 
 little or no time to anticipate attacks, and often face issues with combat when the perspective 
 swings wildly out of control as you move from place to place. ROTK designers countered some of 
 the games perspective problems by making objects become transparent if they are blocking your 
 view. Still, the games entire perspective seems rather off kilter and confusing throughout most 
 of the game.
  
  Sound in ROTK does a much better job. Much like the various character likenesses, the actors who 
 portray their respective characters in the films also perform their characters dialogue in the 
 game. Thankfully, the actors have maintained the spirit of their characters while performing their 
 dialogue in the game, avoiding the all too common trend in most licensed games for tired or weak 
 studio performances that pale when compared to their movie equivalents.
  
  Add to this quality voice work a vast array of sound effects and music, most of which has been 
 taken directly from the 3 feature films, and you get a licensed game that grasps the spirit of 
 its movie namesakes sound and visuals as well or better than most examples that have come before 
 it.
  
  ROTK features a cooperative multiplayer mode, allowing two people to team up together, one on the 
 keyboard and the other with a gamepad. This works well most of the time, especially if you have 
 a friend who's more into consoles than PCs to take up the gamepad. To make it fair, the game does 
 increase the difficulty a bit in co-op mode, though not enough to make it as difficult as the single 
 player game can be for just one person.
  
  Overall, Return of the King is a decent action game, with production values that far outpace many 
 other licensed games you will find amongst the racks at your local game store. Though it is in 
 no way perfect, ROTK still manages to capture what is most exciting about the films and place that 
 into a video game format, allowing us all to experience the fun and excitement of The Lord of the 
 Rings first hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: ROTK is a really good game. The graphics are great. Most of the stuff about the game is great. 
 The characters are great. Gandalf is my favorite because he can use special magic and because he 
 is cool! Legolas and his arrows are really good. Aragorn is really good too. Gimli, Sam, and Frodo 
 aren't too good but they still are fun to play as. It is cool hot you can buy new skills for the 
 characters. Like you can buy one that makes Legolas shoot two arrows at once and that helps alot 
 because if you are fighting someone big you can kill them faster. The game is a lot like the movie 
 there is only some things that weren't in the movie or there was some things that were in the movie 
 but were changed. Over all this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevanVercetti
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at Target for 10 dollars. Aside from some nice bonuses and an interesting Lord 
 of the Rings Atmosphere The Return of the King does not provide much (10 Dollars?)
  
  I am not a big fan of the "Beat Em up" style of gameplay. That may be why I got so bored with this 
 game so quickly.
  
  Some areas are not mapped out in a way you can enjoy it.
  
  Also It may not be the case for PS2 or Xbox but for PC the controls are pretty annoying. Although 
 it was only ten dollars, I wouldn't bother wasting the hard drive space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  the lord of the ring the return of the king is one of the best games of the lord of the rings series 
 of games that appeals not only to Tolkien fans but RPG gamers in general! it is a finely structured 
 game that can be played quite pleasantly
  
  let's get to the reviewable aspects of the game. first of all i must say that i was impressed by 
 the graphics of this game. they were breathtaking! the faces were designed in detail and the landscapes 
 were really beautiful. very few games have so good graphics. the sound was suitable for the game 
 since it combined many of the tracks we heard in the movie and the actors rent their voices to 
 the figures. the gameplay was simple and ven a new player could learn it really fast. one advantage 
 of this game was that the gameplay was enriched as you proceeded i the quest. however it wasn't 
 very challenging and it tended to be repetitive. the quest was designed according to the book but 
 it was quite short and one could soon finish the game.
  
  all in all i think that it is a fine game that can be enjoyed by gamers of all kind and you can 
 easily spend some of your free time on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caliFRAGi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Many of game that based on movie is terrible. But, this is one is different. It's the great "hack 
 and slash" games. Each levels has a different gameplay that makes you keep playing it and not getting 
 bored. Each level captured the important events based on the movie. You can feel the battle on 
 your room.
  Choose to play Gandalf, Legolas-Gimli-Aragorn, or Frodo. find a new characters, and buy a new combo. 
 pretty great sound, fine graphics, easy control.
  the problem is.... this game is fairly short, but it's hard. I played one level 9 or 10 times to 
 clear it. not just the orcs that hard to beat, but our friends A. I. is so stupid. you can't let 
 them die in the battle. but they're just standing around and getting himself beated by orcs. makes 
 me frustated!
  well, the game is hard and our friends A. I. is stupid. but that's not the reason to stop you play 
 this game. it's a great game that you should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helouv
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Lotr is a good game but is crap if u play one player but is fun as co-op. the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end 
 the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutch50002005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  I thought that the first two lord of the rings games just totally struck out but finally they got 
 it strait with Return of the king. With and fast action RPG feel and all the characters u would 
 want to be from the lord of the rings books it is easly the best game in the series. The killing 
 move was awesome and getting to do all the diffferent quests with all the characters was totally 
 awesome. I think that if your a lord of the rings fan and dont have this game yet then it is a 
 must buy for you because it is truly the best one the have made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fisheagle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  The screen shots are brilliant and the gameplaye very good only being spoilt by the lack of a quick 
 save. Having to leave the game for whatever reason means having to go back to the start of the 
 last section. Pity. Otherwise it is great. Giving the choice of characters with different story 
 lines really makes for a good long game with plenty of variety. The interplay with the movie scenes 
 blend in very well and it is as if one is in the film with Gandalf. I would certainly spend more 
 time with it if the **** on saving could be fixed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Archangel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game compliments the movie "Return of the King" very well. It is well done and well mastered. 
 I must say that I have never played a live action sword fighting game quite like this one. It is 
 a definate inprovement from the "Two Towers". I really like this. I love the combos, gandalf's 
 staff is the best by far!!! You will enjoy playing as frodo, Gandalf, legolas, gimly (dwarf) , sam, 
 pippen, and his companion. And once you bet it , the codes you unlock make going through the game 
 again, really fun.. 
  
  A game that is well enjoyed by all Lord of the Rings fans, young and old alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of the Lord of the Rings books and movies, I naturally expect a lot from the games 
 as well -- and Return of the King did not disappoint me. True, it could have been better in various 
 ways, but that doesnt keep it from being good, as I'll explain.
  
  You can play as Gandalf, Gimli, Legolas, Aragorn, and Sam at the beggining of the game (with more 
 characters unlockable later on) , and since this game is based on the movie they're easily recognizable, 
 with voice overs by the actors. Each character plays mostly the same way, with minor differences, 
 such as Legolas having a stronger range attack, Aragorn being the best at close combat, and Gandalf 
 shooting magical blasts instead of arrows. You can purchase upgrades for each character when you 
 beat a level with them; some of these upgrades give your more health or a better range weapon, 
 let you use a new combo, or power up your fierce attack. You can also buy fellowship upgrades, 
 which let characters use upgrades as soon as they level up, as opposed to having to wait for the 
 end of the mission. In addition, each character has a special ability, although these are for the 
 most part disappointing. Gandalf can conjure up a wicked cool shield of lightning which can take 
 out a lot of enemies at once, but Aragorn, Legolas and Gimili can merely increase their fighting 
 power, and Sam can turn invisible for a short time. In short, the only special move you'll be frequently 
 using is Gandalf's.
  
  The games combat is the hack-and-slash variety; you can use a swift attack or a fierce attack, 
 which will break an enemies shield or armor. Combos are frequently used, although you will probably 
 stick with three or four simple ones, since the more complicated combos can be tought to pull off. 
 Parrying arrows and sword blows is useful, but simply pressing the parry button repeatedly with 
 block anything the ememy can throw at you, so there's not much strategy. You'll have plenty of 
 enemies to fight, from the Army of the Dead (the weakest) , to orcs and urk-hai, to the Easterlings 
 (hardest) . You also get to take on as many as four or five trolls at once (hang back and shoot 
 them down!) , as well as Mumakil (giant elephants with a weakness for arrows) , The Mouth of Sauron, 
 and others. As mentioned before, the characters play mostly the same way -- even Sam, who can hack 
 through enemies just as easily as anyone else. This is rather disappointing since I was hoping 
 that the hobbits campaign would be more stealth based, but it keeps the pace of the missions fast. 
 Mabye a little too fast, since it goes by in a flash. There are certainly some hard missions -- Shelob's 
 Lair, The Pellenor Fields, and the final boss battle on Cirith Ungol -- but overall the game was 
 short and easy. 
  
  But after these complaints, I still came away loving the game. The movie clips which morph into 
 the game play give you the feeling that you are actually playing the movie. This is increased by 
 the epic feel of the missions. On one, you're on the top of the wall, kicking down ladders and 
 dodging catapult missiles while hundreds of orcs swarm about on the ground beneath you. You can 
 also see the burning wreckage of siege towers that you're shot down, which is very cool. Also, 
 you'll often be fighting alongside the soldiers of Gondor and Rohan, and watching the soldiers 
 of good and evil fighting it out to the death around you is an awesome experience.
  
  Like the movie, you'll be wishing it went on longer, however, while it lasts, it's an extremely 
 fun adventure game that I can recommend to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netjack
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Great Graphics, sound, gameplay and the dvd-style cut-scences make you wanna play it over and over 
 again!!!!!!!!11 great game and at futureshop you can get get this game freedom fighters, medal 
 of honour-allied assualt and black and white for only $24.99 ( i bought this bundle ea pack) so 
 get that pack but not the game on it's own. 
  
  Great Graphics, sound, gameplay and the dvd-style cut-scences make you wanna play it over and over 
 again!!!!!!!!11 great game and at futureshop you can get get this game freedom fighters, medal 
 of honour-allied assualt and black and white for only $24.99 ( i bought this bundle ea pack) so 
 get that pack but not the game on it's own. 
  
  Great Graphics, sound, gameplay and the dvd-style cut-scences make you wanna play it over and over 
 again!!!!!!!!11 great game and at futureshop you can get get this game freedom fighters, medal 
 of honour-allied assualt and black and white for only $24.99 ( i bought this bundle ea pack) so 
 get that pack but not the game on it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueFrisky
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  I didn't expect much from this game. I have recently watched the extended edition trilogy all over 
 again, and I felt that I need some more of it. So I bought the game, and I started playing. I find 
 the combat system very simple and good. I LOVED the character's levels thing and the fact that 
 you can upgrade all of your characters, and you can see the differences in-game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is probably the best part in the game. Most of the characters from the original 
 movie are there, the background music is beautiful and the sound effects are amazing. Nothing less, 
 nothing more - the sound rocks.
  
  Graphics:
  Well, this game came out almost 2 years ago, so it's hard to judge. Even for today, the graphics 
 are acceptable, and even good. I find them better than GTA: San Andreas in some aspects. 
  
  Value and Gameplay:
  The game isn't very re-playable, but when you are playing, it realy 
 grows on you. You feel that you are part of the movie and the whole ring journey. Though there 
 are upgrades, levels and a good combat system, in it's heart, LOTR: ROTK is a simple game, with 
 some advanced feauters. There are only few levels, and you can finish the game by 5-6 hours. But 
 on the other hand, It gives you the right feeling, and for me - that's enough.
  
  Overall:
  If you are a LOTR fan, you probably played this game already. If not, do it. If you 
 are not a fan, you can still find here a good action game, as long as it lives. VERY RECOMMENDED
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  This is the second and final installment of EA's Lord of the Rings series. There was no Fellowship 
 of the Ring game made, as most of that action was covered in the Two Towers game.
  
  Return of the King is a fun and enjoyable game, but can only really be played once, as it is quite 
 boring the second time.
  
  In Return of the King you can play as Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Gandalf, Sam and Frodo. However, 
 you will only go through three different sets of level, as Sam and Frodo have the same levels, 
 as do Legolas, Aragorn and Gimli. 
  
  Graphics are nothing extrodinary, but they suffice. Sound is quite impressive, especially with 
 5.1 speakers, and music from the original score adds to the atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay is simple and exciting. Combat is simple, and there are some very fun and challenging 
 levels, such as the Pelennor Fields and the Walls of Minas Tirith. Fighting hordes of Orcs, Goblins, 
 Uruk-Hai and Trolls is great fun.
  
  Return of the King is fun and immersive, though you won't miss that much if you don't play it. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Homer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  Wow, is all that I can say. When I first loaded up this game, I was completely blown against the 
 wall, because it wasn't what I was expecting at all. It's know common knowledge that movie to game 
 adaptations aren't very good, but have recently started to get better (i. e Spiderman 2 and this 
 game) . And this game furthers the fact.
  
  To begin with, I actually didn't seen the film, so I kinda got a sneak preview of the film, but 
 thankfully, I saw the film before I finished the game, so already saw the ending. Ironically, after 
 I saw the film, I finished the game. But just how good is it? Read on...
  
  (NOTE: For the rest of this review, I hope that you have either seen the films/read the books, 
 because I will not be making any effort to write a backstory. Go out and learn the story yourselves) .
 
  
  The game begins at the conclusion of the battle of Helms Deep (where the Two Towers movie ended) , 
 where you play as the white wizard Gandalf, and after watching a unnoticeable transition between 
 film to game footage, you are immediately thrust into action against hundreds of opponents. As 
 you complete the level, you have the choice to follow one of three paths (which don't alter gameplay) . 
 The Path of the Wizard (in which you involved in the Battle of Minas Tirith) , the Path of the King 
 (where you are involved in the Battle of Pelennor Fields) and the Path of the Hobbits (in which 
 you are involved in the destruction of the one Ring) . 
  
  The gameplay is that of a hack and slash game, modelled slightly after the Dynasty Warriors games 
 (which you should check out if you love these kind of games) . But unlike DW, there is A LOT more 
 action involved in the levels. I point this example to one of the Hobbits levels, in which you 
 fight in the ruins of a city. Soldiers are fighting against Orcs, Ringwraiths are flying in the 
 sky, explosions and demolitions are everywhere. It's a great atmosphere, and mostly faithful to 
 the film. Now, the big change in this game is now instead of 3 people to play as in the Two Towers 
 game, you can play as 3 times that much, also, there is a co-op mode, so you and a friend can take 
 on the forces of darkness to destroy the Ring. As you beat up more foes, you earn experience that 
 can be used to buy upgrades for one or all of your characters, the latter I believe is a great 
 idea and brilliantly implemented. The only problem with the game is that at times, it can be tough 
 because of the camera angles, which I'll get to in a second.
  
  The games sound, in a word, is perfect. Firstly, the game uses the same music that is used in the 
 three films, and the music in the LOTR films are some of the greatest pieces of music ever written 
 for a movie. The sound effects all fit the game well, and are well implemented. Finally, the game 
 also features voice acting for each of the characters, so Gandalf in the game sounds like Gandalf 
 in the movie, and all, although the acting isn't MGS type quality, is done really well. In short, 
 the game sounds perfect, and there aren't any problems.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game looks decent as well. The game also uses a cinematic style camera 
 to show the hundreds of people fighting in a level, but this can be a problem, because it can sometimes 
 get in the way of you completing your objectives. But still, it's a good looking game.
  
  I conclude with the fact that this is one of the best movie to game adaptations ever made, close 
 to the legendary Goldeneye. If you want to buy this game, get it for the sound and the gameplay, 
 the only main problem is that it's a short game, but you shouldn't get tired of it too quickly. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joechicken
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 3, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I mean, I like the game and all, but wow. This game is so hard to control I kept dying very easily. 
 I bought a joystick for this game and there isn't even enough buttons on it. The graphics and sound 
 are for the most part, as good as the console versions. The co-op play is complicated and overall 
 a little confusing. But the main problem for me was the controls. I loved the PS2 version and I 
 hoped the PC version was going to be as fast and easy to play as the PS2 version, but I was wrong. 
 Overall, good in all aspects except the tough to master and confusing controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 3:06 am PT
Review:  Before I start my review, let me say to all of you out there reading these lines, that while many 
 people are total fans of the Lord of the Rings' several products, (namely the movies, books, etc...) 
 I wanna point out that I'm not one of them. I liked the movies (The Two Towers one was kinda repetitive 
 but well crafted nonetheless) , and one curious day, I saw this game.
  Unbiased and with more than 100 hours into it, I cant tell you all folks, this is in my opninion, 
 how every action game should be done. This review would be shorter than you think, cause you can't 
 really point out technical problems or any drawback to ROTK, other than to say, this game is a 
 blast.
  In my opinion, from the graphics point of view, this game takes the price. Smoke, debris, real-life 
 mocap animations, dozens of uruk-hais and orcs on the same screen, incredible flow of movement, 
 amazingly designed stages, the game has it all. The graphics department is flawless.
  Sound department is... well... let me picture it for you in one word = THX. LOTR sountrack in the 
 highest sound quality you can have, war screams and warriors shouting on the background, clinging 
 sword and arrow sounds, etc... amazing.
  Gameplay is great as well, as you have read on gamespot's official review, this game is a must-have.
 
  Plus, you get tons of replayability with hidden characters and all.
  One thing that I must critizice this game is that they should've included ELROND as a hidden char, 
 he could have rocked, instead of the nearly identical merry and pippin.
  
  Get-this-game. Then you'll see the future of action games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyShaklexord
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2004 1:45 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is worth every penny, unlike the Fellowship of the 
 Ring, but I'll talk about that later. It has Hours and Hours of fun game play and even some extra 
 goodies too! There is no reason not to buy this game. There are so many fun levels like, Minas 
 Tirith Courtyard; you could play this level for Hours! I certainly have! Also, the Co-op mode will 
 provide countless hours of game play. The only thing that could possibly make it any better would 
 be a downloadable Tree Beard or Gollum Skin. What more is there to say? It's great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings, one if not the best movie I have ever seen, I bought the extended DVD and gift 
 set of each movie, I bought the book, and the game, and it was the right choice, the game is fantastic, 
 graphics very smooth and nice, gameplay was great and enjoyable, and above all, it capture every 
 moment of the original movie, I recommend this game to every person who loves the movie and loves 
 to SLASH and HACK kind of a game, you will not be bored that I guarantee, lots of fighting in this 
 game to keep you on guard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathcg
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 15, 2003 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I was exticed to play this game it sounded like fun and it looked great. But when I got the game 
 I found that while it was fun to play that fun was quickly dampend by the HORRIBLE clipping. Now 
 this may be a result of my video card (Nvidia Geforce FX 5600) but I have a hard time believing 
 that they didn't even test this game out on a Nvidia graphics card (considering they still have 
 the largest marketshare) . The clipping is so bad in some areas that you can't even see what's going 
 and and who your fighting. I think this game *COULD HAVE* been a great game and lots of fun to 
 play. But this is an unexcusible issue with this game. And as a result its worthless. 
  
  My suggestion is that ANYONE who has an Nvidia graphics card to stay away from this game and everyone 
 else I would check to make sure your graphics card doesn't have the same issues. EA should be ashamed 
 for releasing a game with this horrible level of graphics. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
