-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Last Express
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/lastexpress/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Broderbund
Developer: Smoking Car Prod.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If it weren't for a few gameplay issues, The Last Express could be among the best adventure games 
 ever. 

 Who would have thought that Jordan Mechner, the man behind such action classics as Karateka and 
 Prince of Persia, would design one of the most innovative adventure games of the last few years? 
 Upon closer examination, Mechner's involvement with The Last Express makes sense: Karateka was 
 the among the first games to be emotionally engaging, with small cutscenes adding a narrative layer 
 that was unheard of in the early Eighties. The Last Express is revolutionary in a similar way - 
 through its use of real time and brilliant writing, the game ups the ante for storytelling in gaming. 
 And if it weren't for a few gameplay issues, The Last Express could very well be among the best 
 adventure games ever.  

 Taking place on the Orient Express immediately before the outbreak of World War I, The Last Express 
 is a tale of international intrigue, a love story, and a murder mystery all at once. While this 
 may sound trite, the intelligent writing overcomes the cliches through its complex characters, 
 unpredictable plot twists, and some of the most convincing voice acting ever heard in a game. You 
 assume the role of Robert Cath, a fugitive American with a mysterious background who has come onboard 
 the Express to visit an old friend. You arrive and find your friend has been murdered, but trying 
 to discover the mystery behind his death will not be as simple as it seems. Despite this tired 
 premise, The Last Express never feels like a "Host Your Own Murder Mystery" party on a CD. The 
 plot plays out like a cross between The Maltese Falcon and the French classic Pepe Le Moko, and 
 it remains intriguing all the way to the spectacular ending.  

 The only thing that stands in the way of enjoying the story is the gameplay. There are some great 
 innovations in the play mechanics, but they come with a price. The game takes place in real time 
 -characters go about their business - going to dinner, having conversations in the smoking car, 
 and wandering the hallways - according to their own schedules. To pick up valuable info, you have 
 to be in the right place at the right time, but, with a few exceptions, it's never a life or death 
 necessity to see or hear everything that's going on - which would be impossible anyway. At any 
 given time, there may be people making small talk in the dining car while others discuss the political 
 climate in their private car and still others whisper about their personal lives in hushed tones. 
 The process creates an amazing sense of environment; just wandering up and down the hallways of 
 the train is a fascinating experience. But the real-time device has its price: There are times 
 where literally nothing is going on, and if you've figured out everything you need to do in this 
 particular segment, you simply have to wait for the next big event. Since there's no way to make 
 the time pass quickly, this gets a bit frustrating.  

 The Last Express' biggest shortcoming is that it tries to walk the line between being a traditional 
 adventure game and being something new altogether - and frustratingly ends up being both and neither. 
 It doesn't have enough puzzles for a traditional game, making the game zip by in under 20 hours. 
 On the other hand, the puzzles themselves are very traditional, forcing a jarring interruption 
 into the otherwise organic experience.   

 But anyone playing The Last Express will realize almost immediately that the game isn't about solving 
 puzzles. It's about interacting with characters and enjoying the environment, and it is hugely 
 successful in that department - especially considering the amazing ending, which will justify any 
 frustrations you've had along the way. The graphics are highly stylized, mixing photo-realistic 
 environments with roto-scoped (a process in which actors are filmed and then animated) characters, 
 and the animation follows a strange stop-motion technique. The result is effective, but it takes 
 a little getting used to. The sound is spectacular, combining the excellent voice acting with a 
 gorgeous score. For those who are looking for an enthralling experience rather than a series of 
 unrelated brain-stumpers, The Last Express is highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  The stage is the Orient Express in 1914 (just before the 1st World War outbreak) , a clear reference 
 to the iconic background made famous worldwide by Agatha Christie's crime novel masterpiece, "Murder 
 on the Orient Express". This unapologetic homage takes center stage as one of the game's driving 
 forces, a classic whodunit play where the player takes on the role of the investigator. And though 
 this is one of the most common themes in adventure games, leading into predictable alleys of narrative 
 development and linear gameplay, "Last Express" manages to avoid most cliches with a superbly written 
 plot, penned by Jordan Mechner himself (who also directs the game) . Like its contemporary, "Broken 
 Sword", the initial events are but a fuse that sets into motion larger events. However, unlike 
 "Broken Sword", "Last Express" avoids a fictional background, and uses historical events as a backdrop 
 for the action. By intertwining factual occurrences with fictional characters, the game manages 
 to come out as more realistic set piece, and it feeds on it to propose pertinent moral, political 
 and existential dilemmas that enrich the game's narrative.
  
  But the way in which the action unfolds also presents a unique approach to interaction and exploration. 
 The idea here, was to replace a mostly event driven time flow (present in most videogames) and 
 replace it for a real-time dynamic. Imagine, if you will, you're on a train, people swerving around, 
 talking to each other, going about their routines, living their lives, whether you care or not 
 to observe - your presence closer to that of a spectator than that of a "player". You can interact 
 by choosing which conversations to listen in, what cabins to explore, which characters you try 
 and engage conversation with, etc. This notion that events do occur, whether or not you're present 
 as they unfold is not only immersive, as it boasts a real life quality mostly alien to videogames. 
 In this regard, "Last Express" behaves more like a post-modern play, where the spectator is on 
 stage with the actors, voyeuristically observing the dramatic unfolding, but able to intervene, 
 to some extent, by addressing actors/characters, triggering dialogues and slightly affecting narrative.
 
  
  Perhaps the only letdown in "Last Express", is that it sometimes behaves like a normal game, more 
 so, a classic adventure game. In specific plot points you're obliged to meet some criteria in order 
 to move the action forward, and if you fail to comply, you'll get a premature ending. This becomes 
 unnerving because certain puzzle like activities aren't always obvious, and some border the nonsensical. 
 Visually cluttered screens sometimes have near invisible clues (with no visual cues to help you 
 find it) , scenarios have areas which are magically opened during some events (with more or less 
 logic) , some unpredictable events happen only at certain times, forcing you to explore the train 
 constantly in order to observe them, and some puzzles are the object of strange reasoning (or lack 
 thereof) . The game is much more enjoyable and interesting when it allows the free exploration of 
 the train throughout time, than when it wants you to do task A or complete puzzle B, just for the 
 sake of the plot moving along.
  
  There are also action sequences coupled with quick time events, where you're pushed into pressing 
 the mouse with specific timing and placement in order to survive. Though these do spice up the 
 exploration bits of the game, creating rising moments of tension, their simple design (press this 
 or die) is flawed and doesn't always result in an enjoyable experience. Thankfully, when you end 
 the game prematurely, you can still rewind the action to a suitable place in time that allows you 
 to alter your destiny (in similar fashion to the later "Sands of Time") . This technique is ingenious 
 and works well, and also allowed the designers to block any possibility of a save feature. This 
 means the end of the save/load routine, which considerably improves player's immersion, without 
 compromising enjoyment when he fails.
  
  To further enhance the sense of a breathing, living world, the game presents some of the more realistic 
 scenic backgrounds and character animations in the history of videogames; this is no doubt, in 
 great part thanks to the use of rotoscoping, a technique that helps design 2d images out of live 
 action pictures. The way characters are modeled is simply astounding, with small details like eye-movement, 
 clothes and hair fluttering as characters walk, all portrayed with unprecedented accuracy. The 
 art style used for the coloration of characters was made to resemble french "art nouveau", giving 
 it a nice finish and effectively transforming the wonderful 2D animations into moving paintings. 
 The interiors of the train, made to resemble the real Orient Express, also present a huge care 
 with detail and definition, making you feel that you really are inside the train. Unfortunately, 
 these techniques involved a lot work and money (as it was needed to shoot live action first and 
 then color everything up) , which made it impossible to produce crisp twenty three frame animations. 
 As a consequence, the animations resemble a slide shows, running at about one or two frames per 
 second. Even so, the game was still budgeted at around 6 million dollars, which is really, really 
 high for a 1997 game. It's not that it needed more frames, but the high-quality of the imagery 
 almost begs a fully fledged animation - it just wasn't possible at the time.
  
  The soundtrack is as carefully wrought as the visuals are. The train produces exactly the sounds 
 you expect it to as it travels: the blowing of the locomotives horn's, the rhythmic sound of steel 
 hitting the tracks, the wind fiercely blowing outside, all recorded and reproduced with meticulous 
 care. Voice recordings are also downright perfect, as each character's lines are spoken with the 
 acting quality you've come to expect from a feature film. The score by Elia Cmiral, composed out 
 of synthesizer melodies, enhances some of the emotional moods in the game, providing an eerie accompaniment 
 to the mystery unfolding and enticing action in the game's quick time events, as well as providing 
 some well placed auditive cues that inform the player of a specific clue or object that is needed 
 to inspect. The climax of the soundtrack comes in the form of a marvelous piano/violin concerto 
 - "Sonata for Violin and Piano in A Major" by Csar Franck, which is fully enacted in the game.
 
  
  "The Last Express" is an artistic gem to behold and a narrative experience like no other in videogames. 
 Jordan Mechner (the seminal creator of "Prince of Persia") not only produced a convincing piece 
 of art and story, as he did so by harvesting some of the most interesting qualities of videogames: 
 the exploration and immersion in realistic virtual environments. Sadly, at times it becomes hard 
 to distinguish "The Last Express" from classic adventure games, but the revolutionary nature of 
 the game's concepts clearly compensate the fact. It is also a shame that the game wasn't appreciated 
 by audiences when it came out, selling few copies despite its critical acclaim, thus becoming one 
 of the greatest commercial failures of gaming history. Because of that sad fact, Jordan Mechner 
 would only get to work again 6 years later in "Prince of Persia, The Sands of Time". Still, despite 
 of the failure, it remains as one of those rare videogames where cumbersome ludic dogmas are backstaged 
 by a heartfelt desire to translate narrative through the use of interactive space, image, sound, 
 and above all time. And that is exactly what "The Last Express" is, an absolute masterpiece that 
 will be remembered throughout time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  I picked up 'The Last Express' without high expectations. That was due mainly to the sheer lack 
 of 'hype' about this game in the adventure community. It isn't on the 'classics' list, it had no 
 follow up to its storyline. Yet after finishing it, I felt the all too familiar sensation of 'more' 
 that only the best adventure plotlines are able to cause. 
  
  The game takes place in the last Orient Express train to set out from Paris before the beginning 
 of World War I, and the early twentieth century atmosphere is present at every corner of the train. 
 From the clothing to the manners, every detail in 'The Last Express' seems to come from extensive 
 research and production. Your character, Robert Cath, an American running away from the British 
 police, comes on board the famous train after an invitation by an old friend, only to find him 
 murdered and involved in a political scheme. From there follows an intricate storyline involving 
 Austrian spies, Russian revolutionaries and Ottoman noblemen.
  
  Graphically, the game is - copying the Gamespot official review for lack of a better word - stylized 
 in stop-motion techniques and almost photographic environments. The characters, filmed in action 
 for later animation, are immensely detailed and highly memorable. Each has a peculiar feeling that 
 stands out from the rest. 
  
  The sounds are amongst the best ever found within an adventure game, from classical music interludes 
 to absolutely fantastic voice acting, you truly feel as if travelling in the world famous train. 
 Every actor's voice feels natural, from the fluent French speaking of high society ladies - fully 
 subtitled - to the rough English of a German businessman.
  
  Amazing plot, detailed graphics and fantastic sound work. Could you ask for more? Yes. The creativity 
 present in the graphics extend to the gameplay in the aspect that the action within game is done 
 in real time, which, while it amounts for a nice re-play factor - you want to go back to see what 
 you missed - makes it easier to miss important events to the main plotline. And while you may miss 
 certain things for being to slow, sometimes you'll have to wait for a long time for a determined 
 event to happen. While seconds can make the difference of life or death for Ms. Anna Wolf, you 
 will - depending on how fast you play - be stuck in a rear cart listening to a violin\piano duet 
 for almost half an hour.
  
  Just the same, the game's puzzles, while beautifully detailed, are rare and more often than not 
 depend on trial and error rather than a logical solution.
  
  'The Last Express' has all the marks of an instant classic, unfortunately while it does immerse 
 you in a fantastic plot, the progress of the game depends more on your presence at certain location 
 than any particular action you take. Still, it is far above the average game, and it's well deserving 
 of your playing time. Don't be afraid to buy it, if you truly are an adventure fan you'll thoroughly 
 enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kora_red
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  The Last Express hardly fits into the adventure genre. It's just to big for the term. The gameplay 
 in the Last Express is magnificent. In the game, you are Robert Cath, an American doctor who has 
 been invited on the Orient Express to meet your friend Tyler Whitney. It is your goal to avoid 
 detection as you are currently wanted for the murder of an Irish police officer. However, upon 
 boarding the train you find Whitney dead in his room. Now you have to find the identity of the 
 one who murdered your friend without losing your own life in the process. This is easier said then 
 done. At first glance the gameplay may seem rather simple. Click somewhere to move. To investigate 
 an object click on it. To talk to someone click on them. It's pretty standard, right? However, 
 despite the simplicity of the system you will soon find that the gameplay is based heavily on trial 
 and error. Need to get rid of incriminating evidence? Throw the corpse out the window. But now 
 you have blood on your coat, and the porter has just walked in to see you covered in blood because 
 you didn't think to lock the door. No doubt you will get capture or die countless times in the 
 game. Luckily it is established that time is not a fixed construct in the game. The moment you 
 get caught or die you will go back in time to the point right before you screwed up. Another feature 
 of the game that is worthy of praise is the intricate detail used in recreating the Orient Express. 
 The interiors of the train cars are impressive, and the art nouveau sytle in which the characters 
 are illustrated will not fail to impress. With it's unique gameplay, character interaction, and 
 elaborate storyline, The Last Express is, to this day, one of the greatest games to hit the market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Smiley4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, The Last Express is one of the few adventure games I've played, but it's all I need. Story:
 
  You are Robert Cath, an American doctor who was assumed to be a murderer of an Irish cop and is 
 on the run from French and English police. You are invited by your friend Tyler Whitney to go with 
 him on the Orient Express to Constantinople (now known at Istanbul) and except about 3 days from 
 WW1 breaking out. You miss the train departure in Paris so you board by jumping on it from a motor 
 cycle driven by a nameless friend. When you get to your compartment, Tyler is dead. Who killed 
 him? Why was he killed? What was the thing he had in the wooden box that looks like it holds a 
 giant egg? All of these you will solve while keeping your identity a secret and keeping yourself 
 alive. All I can tell you for sure is this: there is a love story, a story involving a former Russian 
 pollination and a Russian Communist revolutionist, and the murder mystery of your friend. The rest 
 of the story is up to you. I mean that in a literal sense. What happens, when it happens, and what 
 order it happens in is totally depending of what you do with people or things when. The game scrips 
 itself as it goes so no 2 games are the same. There are so many things that can happen, the script 
 for The Last Express is over 800 pages long. Even if you use a walkthrough like I did (I'll get 
 to that in a later) you will do something different by accident but end up with the same result. 
 The game has about 30 bad ending, i. e. you get caught or you are killed. There are 4 good endings 
 though. The ending I saw when I beat it was the best game ending I've seen to date. It was so emotional 
 that I wanted to cry but I wasn't sad enough to tear up. I also made my jaw take residence on the 
 floor from the beginning of the end cut scene to the end of the credits. It defiantly makes up 
 for any frustrations encountered in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  At a glance, The Last Express looks like your average MYST rip-off with a different story line 
 and actual people to interact with. But that is the farthest thing from the truth. The story line 
 becomes so intricate and interesting that the puzzles and action sequences just become an excuse 
 to advance the storyline. The characters on the train represent powers at play at the time the 
 game is set. A English spy, a German arms dealer who cares mostly about the Father Land (i. e. the 
 German Empire) , and a Russian Communist revolutionist. Thoughs are the best examples. The bad part 
 of the gameplay that keeps it from a 10.0 is about 1/5 of the time there is nothing to do. You 
 just sit there bored out of your mind waiting for whatever your waiting for to happen. I read through 
 about 2/3 of a Nintendo Power magazine in the 1/5 of boredom. Another bad part is the action sequences. 
 These are ok at first encounter with each, but after 4 or 5 times it becomes frustrating. Another 
 minor thing you can get over with a little practice is when you double click you go into speed 
 mode where you race down the hallway very fast to the next car. It is easy to do this by accident 
 when you try and reach a room at the middle of the hallway as fast as possible. But like I said, 
 this can be over come with a little practice. Everything else about it is perfect.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are out of this world of a 1997 game. It's a lush 3D 
 environment but is kind of ruined by the lack of anti-aliasing in the 90's. The people are fantastic. 
 The Last Express is the only game to date to use something call rotoscoping . Rotoscoping is when 
 you make a movie but the sets can be bland because detail can be added in later. Or you can use 
 blue screen like they did here. You take all of the important stuff on the screen (i. e. mostly the 
 actors in the case of The Last Express) , put it in the computer, turn that into a black and white 
 drawing like thing, and add color and detail. That gives the people in The Last Express the look 
 and feel you will never see in any other game. You know that lack of anti-aliasing thing I was 
 talking about. That also hurts the look of the Characters a lot at first, but after a while you 
 get use to it and you see the real beauty of them.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is a key aspect in The Last Express, which is why they spent so much time and money on it. 
 And it shows. You would not know if this game was from the mid to late 90's if you based it on 
 sound design. The sound gets stronger then fades realistically when the conductor comes through 
 the hallway announcing the dinning car is open or where they are stopped for how long. Sound is 
 also realistically muffled through walls, doors, and windows. The reason sound is so important 
 is because there is a lot of eavesdropping in this game to say the least and it is very important 
 to advancing the storyline. First time difficulty:
  
  The first time you play through is really hard because you have no idea what so ever about what 
 to do. So you will spend a lot of time looking at a walkthrough or reading the strategy guide. 
 Or you're a god at adventure games. After you beat it, you can go back and experiment to see what 
 happens and try different tactics. The Sad Reality:
  
  Although The Last Express got raves reviews from almost everyone, the game sold next to nothing 
 because of a few but huge forces at play. 1. No marketing at all. There was a trailer for The Last 
 Express, but that's all the marketing it got. No joke. The reason is Broderbund's marketing department 
 quit just weeks before the game was released. 2. Softbank, one of the publishers and distributes, 
 pulled out of the gaming industry, dissolving its subsidiary GameBank and canceling several dozen 
 titles in development, including the nearly finished PlayStation port of The Last Express. 3. Borderbund 
 was bought out by The Learning Company which was only interested in making educational software 
 (CURE YOU CRAPPY EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE!!!!!!) and forced Borderbund to stop production of all of 
 its video games. This happened only after a few months of production on The Last Express. It didn't 
 even make it to the holiday season of 97' ; ( The Re-release:
  
  The Last Express was revived in 2000 when Interplay bought the rights to The Last Express and put 
 it on shelfs as a budget title. Sadly, this also only lasted a few months because Interplay went 
 bankrupt. It's such a same such a perfect and revolution 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  There aren't many game that can suck you into an immersive story, unique characters and a so many 
 possibilities; The last express is definitely a game that can.
  the environment is maybe a bit lacking, but is full with different characters, story-lines and 
 mystery. Almost every character contributes to the plot, which gets more and more complicated as 
 the game goes on, making you feel lost and helpless at times, as you try piecing clues together 
 and figure out a murder of a friend (among many other weird developments) .
  
  The voice acting is surprisingly good and every character sounds (and looks) very life-like, down 
 to the random excuse me while passing you by.
  The background music only appears when something dramatic or plot-changing happens, and the sound 
 effects does a pretty good job at alerting you, like a knife being drawn behind you, or a clock 
 ticking on a hidden compartment.
  
  the most remarkable feature of The last express is the game's re-play value. there are a lot of 
 things to do, see and hear on the train, and an average player will probably need three trips to 
 uncover all the clues, or maybe even to get to the ending of the story-arch. Plus, the game is 
 really, really fun to play (and to re-play) .
  Go get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Well you'd be wrong. Because it's The Last Express that is the greatest adventure of all time. 
 You don't know it? Never heard of it? Don't even know who Broderbund is? (The publisher) . Doesn't 
 matter. This is still the greatest adventure ever written. This game is the proof to the question 
 "if a tree falls in a forest with no one around, does it make a noise?" Yes that tree does. Just 
 like this game, seen by nobody, surrounded by nothing, just sitting in a dusty attic ignored and 
 forlorn is still the greatest adventure ever written.
  
  The few tens of thousands who had the sense to buy this game all must have fell in love with it 
 and keep it in the above attic. But not ignored, and not forlorn, but loved. Truly loved. I know 
 this because you just do not see copies of this game anywhere. Maybe on ebay twice a year. I saw 
 it once, and while I was surprised to see it, I was not surprised that with 2 days to go the bid 
 had already got to $87.50. Someone must have lost their copy in a fire and knew the price it would 
 take to get it back. That is how great this game is. So I cannot say "go out and get it", because 
 you probably won't find it. Instead i'll say "save your pennies". Because when you do eventually 
 find it, you'll have to pay for the privileged of owning this absolutely genius of a game that 
 just happens to be.... The greatest adventure ever written. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwint
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Can this game still be found today? It is truly a classic for its design and innovation: Art Noveau-like 
 graphics that combine the fluid motion of film with turn-of-the-century art, a story that unfolds 
 in real-time, requiring the main character (you) to eavesdrop on conversations to pick up clues. 
 Sneaking around on the train is not only encouraged, it's required in order to complete the adventure. 
 If you simply remain in one place, time continues to pass, people continue to plot and gossip, 
 and you could miss out on critical conversations. Aside from all these technical innovations and 
 eye-candy, it's got great voice acting and memorable characters. Find this game on EBay if you 
 can. You'll find this top-notch production worthwhile, even after almost 10 years since its realease.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackalmeida
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all I would like to say that if you haven't played this game go out and buy it this 
 very instant. This game is great, but not well known.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game starts out with you missing your train and riding on a motorcycle trying to catch it. 
 You jump on and enter the train. It's all uphill from there. People overlooked this game because 
 you're on a train the entire time, but that's what makes it fun! It's easy to keep track of where 
 everything is, and the puzzles are just so much more fun that way. The basic story of the game 
 is your trying to find out who killed your friend Tyler, who you were supposed to meet on the train 
 in the first place, and you end up getting wrapped into this conspiracy your friend was in. The 
 story is very well done and keeps you hooked from start to finish. The train is fun to walk around 
 in, and things are always happening. In some parts of the game you have to do something in a set 
 amount of time. You never see a timer, but you can pause the game and see a clock. When you do 
 these things you get so into the game that you never want to stop. The game is of a pretty good 
 length, and a very challenging experience. The challenge never takes away the from the entertainment.
 
  
  Overall I give the gameplay 10-10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics aren't realistic in anyway, but they look like an old painting that captures the feel 
 of the game nicely. The game is just plain beautiful!
  
  Overall I give the graphics 10-10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is one of the best aspects of 
 the game. It's perfect for every moment in the game. Whether you just found out that your friend 
 has died or your trying to find a bomb, the sound nails the feeling of the game no matter what.
 
  
  Overall I give the sound 10-10
  
  The Last Express was a great game that didn't get the attention it deserved, but it's still one 
 of the best games ever.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
