-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II, The Rise of the Witch-King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battleformiddleearth2witchking/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New campaign introduces interesting real-time strategy missions.
 improvements to dynamic campaign reduce tedium and add continuity to conquering Middle-earth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some mission designs lead to frustration with difficulty level.
 Angmar faction is nice, but the expansion doesn't feel like it's set in Middle-earth's distant past.
 short amount of gameplay unless you're a big multiplayer fan.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,702 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Rise of the Witch-King is a fairly standard expansion that adds a brief campaign centered around 
 one of the more enigmatic characters from the movies. 

  Over the course of two Battle for Middle-earth games, EA has managed to thoroughly explore the 
 events of J. R. R. Tolkien's  Lord of the Rings  novels, seen most famously in Peter Jackson's movie 
 trilogy. The first game let you command the armies of good and evil, as well as re-create the events 
 and battles of the movies, while Battle for Middle-earth II took place in and revolved around events 
 in the north. With the Rise of the Witch-King expansion, EA mines uncharted territory by digging 
 deep into the past of Middle-earth and centering the action on one of its most enigmatic characters. 
 With the new campaign and new faction, The Rise of the Witch-King is a standard expansion pack. 

          The Angmar faction is the main new addition in the expansion, and it's playable in a brief 
 single-player campaign and in multiplayer.     

  For the uninitiated, the Witch-King is the dark lord Sauron's main lieutenant and the head of the 
 Nazgul, the sinister black-robed generals of his army. The expansion is set after the epic battle 
 that was seen at the opening of the film  The Fellowship of the Ring . After Sauron was defeated 
 by the alliance of men and elves -- and his powerful One Ring was lost -- the forces of evil were sent 
 reeling in defeat. Centuries later, the Witch-King rallies evil once again. The campaign, which 
 runs around seven missions, chronicles how the Witch-King stages a comeback by uniting the various 
 evil factions of the north to form the kingdom of Angmar and crushing the ancient kingdom of Arnor 
 in the process.  

  Angmar represents the only new faction in the expansion, because Arnor is basically a recycled 
 Men of the West faction with a handful of new units. Angmar is a troll-heavy faction, so instead 
 of horse cavalry, you get to stampede the enemy with formations of trolls. There are sorcerers 
 who cast powerful spells, though they must sacrifice followers to power that magic. And then there 
 are thrall masters that can summon a variety of different units to the battlefield instantly, such 
 as wolf riders and spearmen. Angmar can also summon a powerful and huge spectral wolf, which is 
 sort of the equivalent of the balrog, as well as huge avalanches that bury enemy battalions. When 
 you get down to it, Angmar is a very powerful and hard-hitting faction.  

  Though relatively brief, the campaign deserves some credit for veering away from the standard real-time 
 strategy mission design of having you sit back for 30 minutes and build up your army before crushing 
 the enemy. For instance, in one mission, you're in a race to recover shards of a broken palantir 
 crystal, which means you're trying to desperately build up and defend your base from attacks while 
 intercepting enemy units that have recovered crystals. In another, you have to basically conquer 
 and hold as many burial mounds as possible to allow your sorcerers to corrupt them. These new missions 
 offer a fresh change of pace, but they also pack a fair amount of frustration. For example, in 
 the burial mounds mission, the victory objectives require you to hold the mounds long enough for 
 your sorcerers to corrupt 1,000 souls before time runs out. It's a challenging objective made harder 
 by the fact that the game does the cheap trick of constantly spawning enemy formations all over 
 the map. But even worse, you might manage to reach the objective with seconds to spare only to 
 discover that it turns out you need to accomplish the mission with a couple of minutes to spare 
 because there's another objective that's  never listed , which must be achieved to advance. So 
 you've got to replay the mission over with that in mind.  

  Siege weapons and siege warfare remain clunky in the expansion as well. It's not much use to build 
 walls because catapults can knock them down in a couple of hits. And siege weapons are so overpowered 
 that they can pretty much level everything and everyone. In fact, much of the strategy revolves 
 around building siege engines, protecting them with battalions of other units, getting them in 
 range to do their thing, and then repeating the process again until you win. This is exactly what 
 you do in the last mission, which is a long, drawn-out battle that reverts back to the traditional 
 real-time strategy mission design and is basically 90 minutes of slowly grinding the enemy down. 

  It's a bit hard to distinguish that this is all supposed to be taking place in the distant past 
 of Middle-earth. The Angmar faction doesn't look or feel all that different from the existing evil 
 factions in Battle for Middle-earth II. The men and elves that you battle against are also almost 
 the same as before. Meanwhile, the graphics, while still pretty, haven't changed much. If you were 
 hoping for a more epic feel to the gameplay, you'll find that the scale remains the same. You command 
 armies that consist of battalions of a dozen or more units each. This is in line with the previous 
 Battle for Middle-earth games, though nowhere near the scale of the battles seen in the movies. 

          The turn-based strategic layer sports a few improvements, notably the ability to transfer 
 armies from real-time battles to the strategic map.     

  The War of the Ring dynamic campaign, which lets you try to conquer all of Middle-earth as one 
 of the factions, has been improved to eliminate some of the issues found in the core game. For 
 instance, armies can now move twice per turn if in friendly territory, which helps eliminate some 
 of the tedium of moving armies around the map. There's also some persistence between the real-time 
 battles and the turn-based strategic campaign; you can transfer units created in battle to the 
 map, provided that you have enough money to support them. This helps address one of the biggest 
 issues with the original campaign because there was a very sharp disconnect between what you did 
 in battles and what you did in the strategic campaign. Still, this isn't a particularly deep campaign 
 when compared to some of the turn-based strategic layer found in something like Medieval 2: Total 
 War. For example, the scale of the overall campaign isn't that large, considering the number of 
 provinces and the fact that there are only two or three build slots in each province. The campaign 
 does offer a dynamic single-player experience, and you can play a number of War of the Ring scenarios 
 (based on the events of the movie) or the historical Arnor campaign, which features Angmar, men, 
 and elves.  

  The single-player skirmish mode lets you pit all the factions against each other, and you can play 
 with up to seven other artificial intelligence factions. Multiplayer supports online skirmish for 
 eight, and that's certainly where the bulk of the action will be found. Battle for Middle-earth 
 fans will appreciate the Angmar faction and what it brings to the skirmish table. The addition 
 of dwarven heroes and other units for the existing factions helps balance things out even more. 
 Meanwhile, the dynamic campaign remains playable in multiplayer as well, though the amount of time 
 required makes this an option for only the most serious and dedicated of players.  

  If you enjoy playing Battle for Middle-earth II online and want to keep up with the rest of the 
 multiplayer crowd, purchasing the expansion is a no-brainer. For casual fans, this expansion is 
 purely optional. For single-player fans, there's nothing here that's particularly compelling, unless 
 you're a huge fan of Middle-earth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: theta-omega
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The BFME series has always been fun to play and this is no exception. The new faction of Angmar 
 is fun to play, with a variety of trolls, wolves, and some cool new heroes, it stands up pretty 
 well for itself. The snow trolls can cover ground quickly and are very effective in fighting basic 
 infantry, while the hill trolls are fairly good at fending off cavalry charges, the wolves are 
 good at swarming enemies and providing backup for stronger units. The thrall master can summon 
 orcs, pike men, wolf riders, and axe throwers, making him a very important element of any army, 
 and the dark rangers are perhaps the best archery unit in the game, along with their sword wielding 
 brothers who are fairly cost effective and efficient. The heroes of Angmar are also as interesting 
 as they are versatile, and the goblin's power has been cut back. Also every faction except Angmar 
 has been given a mini-hero units, which are very effective. The game play has not changed much, 
 and there are several new maps to play with, the games campaign is fairly short and challenging 
 and isn't really anything that will hold your attention for long. The new expansion doesn't really 
 add much, but what it does add is worth playing as each faction has been given some interesting 
 new units and the new faction should prove pretty entertaining. Overall it is an enjoyable experience 
 that will probably replace BFME2 in your collection, and gives you the thrill of controlling several 
 unique powers of Angmar, in addition to giving you some cool new heroes for several factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack allows the player to relieve the Fall of Arnor and a new faction, Angmar. However, the 
 new faction is incredibly buggy. There isn't a lag but some of the soldiers and heroes look as though 
 their lagging. Other wise the new faction would be quite good. There is again, new units for the existing 
 factions. There are also new heroes. Nazgul is no longer a single unit, it is merged into 6 riders. The 
 Nazgul on the fellbeast are named. One is Morgomir, the other Khamul. They also can land now. Riding 
 on fellbeasts also occupies your CP point, which is something new. Existing units need more CP than 
 ever. Wights are also significantly much weaker and can be killed by a regular level 1 unit, though 
 it involves casualties. The power list for the existing faction is re-arranged and replaced in some 
 cases. There are more maps than ever. There are several minor and major changes in the game. The Barrage 
 power is updated, it now looks like bluish flaming meteorites instead of the red flaming ones. There 
 are no significant changes to Ring Heroes. Glorfindel can now use Blade of Purity with WindRider 
 when mounted, which makes him able to kill Sauron if it's a one on one. Volley abilities for archers 
 have less radius as well. There are also "Mini-Heroes" for each faction excluding Angmar. Mini Heroes 
 are hordes that are very powerful and costly as well. Lone towers are also significantly weaker 
 in defence as well as size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  EA has done a good job with the Lord of The Rings license so far. A number of good games have spawned 
 off the storyline and characters excellently portrayed in the Peter Jackson directed movie trilogy. 
 The highlight of the games based on LOTR franchise was the RTS game called "Battle for Middle Earth". 
 It had everything a LOTRS+RTS fan could dream of, and few could imagine that another game could 
 be made.
  
  But EA proved them wrong and brought out BFME 2. It had new factions, more heroes and a decent 
 campaign. The best part of these LOTR games is the unique abilities of the heroes. As the army 
 size is limited, micro managing is not too tough. Instead, you can focus more on levelling up your 
 hero characters and using their special abilities to turn the tides of battles. 
  
  While BFME 2 was a good game, it exhausted any story line that could relate to the movies. However, 
 J. R. R Tolkien's Middle Earth is a huge world, and it had many heroes and battles that were still 
 left to be digitally immortalized. 
  
  Thus The Witch King, who was actually killed by Eowyn in the "Return of The King" movie is featured 
 in this expansion. While the movie showed the fall of the witch king, this game shows the rise. 
 It is loosely based on events touched, but not elaborated in Tolkien's classic. The new faction 
 Angmar is a unified race that waged battle against mankind.
  
  Angmar's special units are spell casting priests, which is a new thing. All other factions have 
 direct battle units whereas the priests can be viewed mostly as support units. 
  
  Apart from introducing the new faction, the existing factions also received a few heroes; most 
 notably the dwarves whom were painfully lacking in heroes and also mordor and Isengard also got 
 their own share of new heroes. Apart from that, the custom hero feature has been enhanced to some 
 extent, albeit still far, far away from being anything even nearly close to the create a character 
 modes usually present in fighting and wrestling games. If there's another LOTR RTS game, EA should 
 definitely work in this area.
  
  The game still uses an upgraded engine the now "quite old" C&C: Generals game. Still, the game 
 looks really nice and detailed in Ultra settings. However, the environments are pretty, but non-interactive 
 to a great extent. You can see dogs and other stray animals moving around, but no matter how fierce 
 the battle is, nothing seems to scare them away. And characters often get stuck and it gets a bit 
 confusing when many different types of characters are seen together in the battlefield; the movement 
 of the characters become awkward and they don't seem to respond to mouse clicks; i. e. no matter 
 how much you want them to attack the tower, they keep on fighting off nearby assailants instead.
 
  
  The single player AI is very cheap and stupidly predictable. In skirmish matches, the only thing 
 they do is build up a small to medium army, come to your base, and start attacking all your resource 
 buildings. As soon as one farm is destroyed, they move on to another. No matter how much you attack 
 them, they won't attack back. They would keep on demolishing the building. It is highly annoying, 
 as you can't actually concentrate much on anything other then defending the resource buildings 
 at the beginning of the match. After fending off the pestering enemies, when you go out and start 
 fighting back, they will retaliate with siege weapons.
  
  If you have read the GS review, you will know how crucial (read cheap) siege weapons are in this 
 game. No matter how majestic or robust your opponents (and yours) castle and the surrounding defences 
 are, it won't take more than 2/3 rounds of catapult barrage to demolish them. If you are playing 
 as Men of the west, all you need to do is build 5-10 catapults, Eomer and the Theoden King, 3-4 
 legions of Rohirrims, 2 groups of fire archers and you can simply win the match by protecting the 
 siege weapons and continually firing at the buildings. 
  
  It sounds easy, but it actually is tougher than that. The campaign is okay; and I don't think anyone 
 would play it twice. If you don't have a fast internet connection, you will stuck with the skirmishes. 
 The maps are well detailed, and there are plenty of them. Most recognizable locations from Tolkien's 
 world and the movies are present; with additional new maps. However, AI issues are so prevalent 
 that even the most dedicated LOTR fans will also lose interest after a while. 
  
  With a few factions, you can mix and match different types of units and create an interestingly 
 assorted army. But as I have already said, the AI is very cheap. If you bring in some archers and 
 pikemen, the horse units will simply ignore the pikemen and keep on attacking the archers. Also, 
 they will always bring counter units to your favorite/most preferred unit. 
  
  There is a difference between cheap and challenging AI. Due to the immense popularity of multiplay 
 in RTS games, it seems that game developers are becoming less interested in designing a challenging 
 single player AI. 
  
  As a nice tribute to the LOTR franchise, the game gets an 8. But AI issues can break this game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sMeAgOl_VaDeR
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  LOTR: BFMEII Rise of the Witch King is THE expansion pack BFME needed to make the game better. The 
 expansion pack adds a mixture of strategy and action which combine to make on excellent game. The 
 story takes place as the Witch King as he rises to power. You play as the Witch and you go terrorizing 
 all the cities of Men until they are all laid to ruin. The story was pretty easy and short, but 
 wasn't at all disappointing. It was filled with action and planning, which makes you want to relive 
 the battles again and again, in even harder modes. 
  The skirmish battles are amazing! Not like the story mode, you can choose from different classes 
 (men, elves, dwarfes, orcs, uruk-hai, goblins and angmar) . you can choose from many different locations 
 in which you want your battle to take place. You can choose from different difficulties and crush-be-crushed 
 the enemy.
  You can also create your own character, with the upgraded list of features, powers, apperances 
 and a new class to choose from. creating characters is addicting, and there are endless ways of 
 creating your super/over-powered character.
  The disappointing part of this game is that the difficulties are too easy! even if you put it on 
 the hardest mode it's too easy! 
  Going online and playing against friends is a LOAD OF FUN! you don't know what to expect and you 
 are preparing your army, which makes the experience all the better.
  Well, i conclude my review by saying: IF YOU LOVE RTS'S AND LOVE LOTR GET THIS FRIGGIN GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This expansion is really good. There are loads of new units to use and there are more new campaign's!
 
  
  Graphically there are no changes to the game that the player will notice and there are no new gameplay 
 eliments. The game still stays true to the RTS genre and itself as a game. I have but one little 
 problem with this game, some of the voices features in cut scenes and on units are terrible, not 
 all of them but some are just terrible, they sound so stupid and really dont fit into the game. 
 Having said that this expansion pack adds new stuff to an already good game without braking anything 
 good.
  
  Recomended for any fan of this game and the RTS genre. 
  If you didnt like the original game then this isnt for you. 
  
  I did not put much effort into 
 this review as this is an old game and i really dont play this much anymore. 
  
  I appologise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomdragon200
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  The game Lotr BfME was a fantastic game especially on pc, then came the expansion: Rise of the 
 Witch King this expansion is not all it's hyped up to be it basically add's a few maps and a new 
 faction (not saying that the new faction Angmar is not great!) it's still a pretty good expansion 
 however if it's you're typ of game. Overall by now the expansion is about 20 bucks pretty cheap 
 and fair price for this expansion I would not recommend going to Ebay or Amazon or any other site 
 like bidding because ive seen ones that were priced at 30-50 dollars way over priced. The main 
 campaign however where you control Angmar in taking over Arnor is pretty fun but at times I found 
 it a little hard but definitely worth it. And the new create a Hero class of Trolls was not the 
 best thing for me it was cool but not that great and did not seem realistic (Troll's can leap?) 
 and the snow trolls i thought were pretty ugly In all this is a pretty good expansion and might 
 be worth you're time playing the create a Hero isent all that improved and the campaign is pretty 
 fun (more so than the rest) however if you want to spend 20 bucks on something you'll actually 
 want and use for awhile then this might not be for you.
  This was my first review so dont blame me if i made some mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles194
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The single player is well done with a variety of differnt missions and an ok story line. The ai 
 though in normal matches needs a lot of improvement they do not use castles and other defenses 
 at all. They also dodn't know to stay in a ally's castle. The computer player just gets themselves 
 killed on places like helms deep by leaving helmsdeep and walking into the enemie. The game does 
 excell at the fact that you can make your own hero's wich does add variety. The archers in the 
 game are too good. They can easily take out soldiers before they even reach them. Espcially the 
 elven archers who take out entire armies in a matter of half a minute. The graphics are not bad 
 or good and the music is repetive. Back to the ai they make there builders walk up to your armies 
 undefended and will only make them leave when they are attacked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 2, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  BFME2 is an impressive game, over all due to its big scope and its immersive recreation of Middle 
 Earth. But in RTS terms, BFME2 is someway poor. Someone could expect that ROTWK improves this part 
 of the original game, but it doesnt. So there are things that make the RTS experience little 
 satisfying. For instance, there is just one way to know which units forms your army, and it is 
 your memory. But could happen that one of your cavalry squadron attacks directly a group of pikemen 
 without your permission and without you take notice of it, so then you remember to have a cavalry 
 squadron, but they have been killed instantly and you are unable to find it. And this is another 
 flaw: how to find your units in the map? You must check the entire map to find where your units 
 are. You can give a quick access key to groups of your army units; but once more, your memory is 
 your only tool to remember what army corresponds to each number. For me all these features must 
 be indicated on the screen, just in a Company of Heroes manner. So ROTWK doesnt improve 
 the strategic aspect of the game, but in spite of this, makes the Middle Earth scope of the original 
 game even bigger. ROTWK adds some interesting new units to every existent faction, and introduce 
 the new semi hero units, very powerful units that could be enough to beat your enemy down. Obviously 
 the great adding of the expansion is the new Angmar faction and its campaign. Angmar faction works 
 a little bit different from the others, it is more magical, but often take profit 
 of soft magic, I mean, it will stop, demoralize or move away your enemies, instead 
 of kill them. However, it is an enjoyable faction. Nothing to say about the new campaign, it is 
 just more of the same, but perhaps in a less immersive manner than the others. Finally, this expansion 
 really improve the Battle for the Ring play mode, allowing you to use siege units, and to conserve 
 the army created in the RTS battles, among other improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pat52085
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The skirmish battles are fantatstic, and I loved the storyline... up until the Barrow-downs mission. 
 It was impossible. I think I'm okay at the game (I play against brutal computer level on skirmishes) 
 but I just couldn't beat it. I don't know, maybe it's just me. The rest of the game is very simply 
 one of the best expansions I've played in a long time. It builds upon the choppy war of the ring 
 aspects of the first Battle for Middle Earth II and the new faction is great as well. It really 
 opens up people who haven't read Tolkein's other books to a grander sense of the history and layout 
 or Middle Earth as he imagined it. Hopefully, we'll se more of these fantastice games later on. 
 Possibly a remake of the original story, but with the new factions and vamped up graphics. That 
 would be best-case scenario for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game owns! I dont like the campaign in this one but the multiplayer is great. Multiplayer 
 against the computer is good until you have played a game online. I love playing the maps that 
 are made by people if they are good. The reason I dont like campaign that much is because I dont 
 like playing as Agmar. When i face the comp I like to be Isengard but online I play as Mordor. 
 You will enjoy this game if you like RTS games. When you play online you have to be patient because 
 it takes a very long time to find a game and once you do it takes a while for people to ready up; 
 but once your playing you will be having alot of fun! When your not playing a game you can talk 
 with people and have a conversation that you probaly never have one like it again. If you dont 
 like one of the maps there is probaly a map made by a player that is like a totaly other game (i 
 enjoy those the most) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleaver426
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  This a bad game in so many ways! totaly let down I mean the Campaign is just horrible for this 
 and the ONE before this. now the first ones Campaign was awesome it had the whole Lord of the rings 
 in it. This has Angmar and for me I really dont care. EA should have never made this game just 
 left the first one as the final. I was expecting a way better game. I can almost tell this is an 
 excuse for the first one in the sequel. Morgomir looks like an ice man not a wraith in white cloth 
 like it states in the book. As they fitted in the Gamespot Reveiw no more Gondor or Rohan I, m talking 
 for the second one to though. So now you can, t build elves anymore and it, s basically all Gondor 
 except building the Rohan horseman. Powers are quit boring except for the wolf which is, nt that 
 powerful at all. Stick with the first one dont bother buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack adds and destroys many thing that I loved in the original game. The game adds 
 a new faction called Angmar, which has nothing to do with LOTR. This Angmar faction is ran on magic 
 powers and spell casters. This race is a great and fun race to play as and is ultimately unique 
 over all the other races. The War of the Ring mode is way better because now it feels like a true 
 TBS game. There is also a new campaign which is pretty good but, also has nothing to do with the 
 LOTR movies. Also, many smaller things are fixed like for example, the command points of Goblins 
 are decreased.
  
  This game does limit some things that made the original game awesome. Heros don't have a fixed 
 cost of 2000 gold. Their cost is counted by their abilities so that means, no more super-good heroes. 
 The Goblins in this game lose many of their good features. The Dwarfes are made to be almost unbeatable. 
 The game also got harder, which isn't bad for me but is bad to people who want to learn to play 
 the game. 
  
  Although the game takes away many good features that I and many other people came to love, it's 
 still a great expansion. With the new faction, better War of the Ring mode, and other small fixes. 
 I suggest to any player who liked the original Battle For Middle Earth II to buy this game soon 
 because this is a excellent expansion pack. And the fact that the there more people playing the 
 expansion online than the original is now.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Despite being a good adition to the BFME series in terms of gameplay, this game is just not middle 
 earth im afraid. as a great fan of tolkeins, i thought that bfme 2 was pushing it with Drogoth 
 and Gorkil , but this is truly ridiculous. no matter how good the game is graphically or how good 
 the gameplay is, nothing can get past the fact that this game feels as though the resercher spent 
 more time in bed then reading through the lotr appendices and related books. The game advertises 
 itself as Command the rise of evil in middle earth , then i ask you, where is Melkor? How in the 
 world can this be depicted as the rise of evil when it starts in the 2nd age, not the 1st? im aware 
 they couldnt get the lisense for the silmarrilion and im now very glad of that.
  
  How long will it be before EA stop making games purely for the money and start pleasing fans? this 
 is certainly a game made for profit and i expect its hype to be dead in late 2008, unless of course 
 its amazing community can help it out a bit.
  
  Ok, rant over, this is a decent game i suppose, its got all the makings of a good rts, but i played 
 c&amp; c 3 today for the first time and see that it has far more depth than this. its got 7 factions 
 which is good. now try balancing them.
  
  It sounds harsh but dont buy this game, BFME 1 is so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Nothing much has changed except there is a faction and new hero customization and spells. 
 The new campain is pretty darn short and uniteresting.
  
  Graphics: Again nothing new, the icy inviroments are kinda cool looking I guess.
  
  Sound: 
 Still the same awsome war sounds and music.
  
  Tilt: Pretty much if you like the original alot this is a must have but its not really needed because 
 it only adds a few things. Tho the new hero customization options are a must have for hero freaks 
 like me :P.
  
  Value: If you like the original the value its pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Even if I am biased towards the LOTR Battle for Middle Earth series, I still find it easy to claim 
 that the Rise of the Witch King expansion is a good game. The new campaign is enjoyable and brings 
 a fresh taste to the game. The new faction, Angmar, brings with it new heroes, units, buildings, 
 and traits that provide a fun new twist in the LOTR series. While I don't find the Angmar faction 
 to be my personal favorite, I think it is still better than some of the previous choices (Goblins?) .
 
  
  I found the additions/tweaks to the War of the Ring mode to be the most enjoyable. Custom heroes 
 now have more options and choices, siege weapons can now be built and are more heavily utilized, 
 and enemies will now retreat rather than fight a hopeless battle.
  
  The Rise of the Witch King expansion complements the original game well and should be strongly 
 considered by any LOTR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok , I will not say anything different thatn I've already said for BFME2. Tolkien's book have always 
 been a great inspiration for all. This game come to add some images in what's already in our minds 
 from the books.
  A really nice touch all this icy idea. A plus is the option it gives you for the new custom heroes. 
 A brilliant idea that one. Witch-King was always one of my favorites. I liked the upgrades in the 
 castle and buildings. Very interesting and useful as well.
  Campaign is good and I enjoyed getting those trees of life destroyed. Cool new units, nice campaign 
 , great multiplayer and custom maps. It's all here! Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucASPrime
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  In the beginning everything was OK, the game was promising, a new race ,new units added to the other 
 races and so on. Then we played the single player campaign on the side of evil. Interesting but short 
 and somehow un-challenging... And with no hope for good (there was no good campaign as we were used 
 to) . Then the multi player games with a lot of balancing problems. And the absence of patches to 
 fix it... I haven't seen a patch for the game in months. We still love this game, we played all the 
 3 parts of it : always shorter single player campaigns and the absence of patches to fix the problems 
 and balance the races. When I play skirmish I'm still afraid to play against Isengard because of 
 that ' Crazy Berserker ' with little life that destroys everything in its path and cannot be killed. Neither 
 hero nor ability can kill or convert it and it spoils the game. You have 2 options: destroy the 
 enemy base in a rush or abandon the game... and speaking of rush; I really miss the 1st game where 
 you couldn't get near a fortress without proper siege weapons and heroes. I really miss ladders 
 and fighting on the walls of the fortress. Special units are OK but Angmar has none. There is no 
 hope for the evil archers and some units good or evil are useless on the map although they are 
 'Good against archers'. Good units may benefit of all the upgrades while evil not (see axe throwers 
 Dwarfs/Isengard) . The quote 'You cannot kill a dwarf ' is true ,It's almost impossible to win against 
 a dwarf player using another race (a good one) and impossible against a team of dwarfs. These are 
 a few things we discovered while playing the few we did remember. If you really love this game PLEASE 
 DO something about that.
  With respect M9 Klan TGV Romania 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek_Squad
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The battle for Middle-Earth II: Rise of the Witch-King was a failure. I pre-ordered it at extra 
 price to get this game and when I got it I started playing. You know when you first buy a game 
 you just can't stop playing it? Well, I didn't feel it with this one. The gameplay is easy. War 
 of the ring is very, very easy on BRUTAL! There was 5 other armies attacking a stronghold and I 
 had two garrisons there they retreated. It's almost too easy to win the only real fight is when 
 they only have one territory to defend, but it's still really easy then too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordlink
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for single player. You get a new race (you don't see things like that in mere 
 expansions usually) and a new campaign. While the singleplayer, especially skirmishes, are usually 
 very fun, the game has a key flaw which still hasn't been fixed by the huge patch: balance.
  
  While the game is very fun in its own right, the balance is severely flawed. Broken units like 
 the Knights of Dol Amroth ultimately ruin the gaming experience online. While modifications such 
 as GameReplay. org's Director's Cut patch fix these imbalances, these is only a modification, and 
 is impossible to play online with. And EA is taking its usual we finally did something, so shut 
 up now approach. The singleplayer is worth the buy, though, so if you have the original game and 
 the cash you should get RotWK. But when going online, stick with BFME2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Shame On You EA.
  
  I Don't Wan't To Even Talk About It. But I Half To Make 100 Words Or I Can't Save This Speal. Good 
 Thing It Was Only $39.00
  
  This Should Have Been An Optional PATCH For LOTRBFME 2.
  
  This Expansion Pack UN-BALLENCES The Game. Duplicates Heros (mainly the witch king) , Mixes Time 
 Events With The LOTR Universe. Adds ONE Thing to Custome Heros That Makes It Noteworthy. (hero 
 cost depends on the layout of how you build your hero) The Advertiseing For This Game And The Actual 
 Game Is Pathetic. All New Heros - 1 with 1 new catagory New Outfits &amp; Clothing - One Or 2 Per 
 Hero. YOU CAN T EVEN KEEP YOUR OLD HEROS AND BRING THEM FORWARD!!!!! I Don't Think Ive EVER BEEN 
 SO DISSAPOINTED IN AN INTISAPATED RELEASE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This was a favorite of mine right here. LOTR BFME II Rise of the Witch King did really well. I 
 loved playing on the new Angmar missions and War of the Ring is fun as well. The armies rock playing 
 as Angmar, Men, Elves, Mordor, Dwarves, Goblins, and Isengard. The units are easy to use and getting 
 resources is easy. You can also use epic heroes like Aragon, Legolas, Gimli, Gandalf. I also loved 
 to use the support powers when you level up. They are all very unique on all sides and are all 
 very useful. Creating your own hero is fun too. My favorite was the wizard and I created one that 
 costs 5900 Gold. In the end this game did an awsome job and I say that this game can stand up to 
 many RTS games and beat em. This game is up there with the Command and Conquer Series. Its also 
 better than the 360 version, but 360 version is good too. Well there is no PC version of Rise of 
 the WItch King. =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bob1247
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Although the more advertised features of this game were the new faction and its campaign, the real 
 value in this expansion are the upgrades to previously underdeveloped mechanics- War of the Ring 
 and Create a Hero. Create a Hero got a minor overhaul by allowing the player to not choose a new 
 power for every level and basing the hero cost on the amount and choice of powers (as well as giving 
 a few more appearance options) . War of the Ring got a lot of great changes. Hero armies can now 
 move through two ally territories a turn, which helps there to be an actual battlefront and aids 
 reinforcements. Additionally, over-world command points have been thrown out in favor of the traditional 
 periodically produced resources. Finally, each player starts with an additional hero army and siege 
 units can be produced on the over-world. Angmar, in my opinion, is not that exciting. It's just 
 another race. The real goodies are in the new WotR and CaH features, and it makes it worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacaron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Some people may say this expension pack is not worth what it cost, it stills bring something new 
 to the game. What i was happy to see in this game is that the war of the ring mode have been upgraded. 
 You can now keep your armys you build in a map. You have ressources to build and buy units and 
 that makes the game more realistic. The new hero class of trolls is good but they should have putted 
 more features in this. They only add some clothes and a little bit of everything everywere. The 
 multiplayer is as good as it always was. The angmar faction is cool to play because of his large 
 sorts of units the sorerers are cool. Like I always think, the sieges are not good and may have 
 been upgrade. Maybe there will have a patch for this maybe not. I do not feel that being inside 
 of the fortress of Helm's deep procures me a big advantage. The big wall is only there to stay 
 in the movie and book vision... I have never seen a comp attack this wall. This is a good game 
 but like I said, I'm not sure it is worth that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadly-brute
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  you have time for strategy games like this one and love the lord of the rings trilogy buy this 
 now!!! just one thing you have to buy battle for middle earth 2. i spend hours of playing this awesome 
 game, because of its cool gameplay. first of all i love the lord of the rings and creating your own 
 army to destroy the enemy is fun as hell. very creative way to create a strategic game like this. though 
 it has a few faults that i try to ignore.1. loading takes about 2 minutes to get the create a hero 
 or single player story.2. its multi-player really sucks, but its fun playing against the computer 
 l. o. l.3. slow game play... every character or unit seems to move very slow makes me impatient. besides 
 what i said it has the potential a really great strategy game like Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  GAAAAAAHHHHHH! i cant stand this game they have no idea what they are doing! first of all the civilizations 
 are extremely unbalanced! dwarfs are easily the best followed by the new faction angmar who will 
 rush you in 2 minutes. also the whole create a hero thing WOULD have been great but they made the 
 troll heros SOOOO unbalanced it ruined it. every time a troll attacks it is a wizard blast power! 
 but the all time worst thing about this game is the awful, terrible, AI. this AI is unquestionably 
 the worst AI in any RTS. The hard and brutal ai will completely ignore your army to destroy your 
 resource buildings! even if you build one as far away from them as you can as soon as its built 
 they send an army to destroy it! this wouldnt be so bad if they hadnt made so they ignore your 
 army attacking their army! so i say dont get this game until you know they have released a good 
 patch because ea shouldnt ruin the lord of the rings trilogy with this garbage! stick with empire 
 at war (and forces of corruption) AOE II and AOE III and last but not least AOM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rookie89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth 2 was already a good game. The extra content makes it better. There were 
 some nice bug fixes and some much needed improvements, but it still leaves much to long for.
  
  The new faction is great. It's added a little something extra. It's about the only faction 
 i've played on this expansion. The new campaign revolving around this faction is quite interesting. 
 It gives you the chance to explore the northern regions in a time shortly after the Last Alliance 
 including Amon Sul, Mount Gundabad, and Carn Dum the Witch-King's stronghold. That being said, 
 the new maps are great. New fortresses and cities make for more of that beseiging fun. And some 
 of the terrains are great for the skirmishes.
  The War of the Ring has had some improvements. When your AI enemy is outnumbered or thinks its 
 not going to win, it will retreat right off and save both of you the trouble of losing units. It 
 gets a little frustrating when you can't kill your opponents but it adds a bit of realism. There 
 is also the new advantage of being able to move over two territories that are controlled by friendlies. 
 There are also historical campaigns that are kind of fun to play through. There are some new heroes, 
 not to mention all the new heroes from angmar. The Witch-King is about the only hero in angmar 
 worth having, he is now land-based and rides a horse and is pretty nifty looking, and the massive 
 amounts of damage he deals out are definetly worth having him around for. The other factions also 
 recieve some new heroes. Isengard recieves Wormtongue, Goblins get Aazog the goblin king of the 
 north. The Angmar heroes are lacking, most are slow and don't deal out very much damage at all. 
 About the only two good ones are the Witch-King and the Troll hero, but other than that you're 
 better off with a create-a-hero.
  
  And yes, Create-A-Hero does have some new options. There are some new options for appearences and 
 a couple of new types including Snow Trolls. There is also a new price base system that determines 
 how much a hero costs to create by what skills they have.
  
  Each faction recieves some new units. Men get Knights of Dol Amroth and a new spearman class. Goblins 
 have Half-Troll swordsmen that are quite impressive looking. Mordor has new units that are creatable 
 in the Haradrim palace, archers. And thats just to name a few.
  
  Overall it is very much the same as the original with a couple of improvements and a new faction 
 that is very much worth playing. If a person were to want to enhance their experience it is worth 
 the low price. I personally enjoy the new improvements and look forward to many more hours of enjoyment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  This game.... good.... but i thought it would be much better, when i watched the commentary from 
 producers or whatever, they over rated how good this game was, its not as if its a master piece. 
 I wouldnt say this has done much credit to the work that tolkien created, thought this game did 
 bring a new faction and some new units into it... well thats about it new units, new heroes and 
 a faction its not exactly entirely a new experience therefor players would get bored thats why 
 i only give this a 7.6, POINTS OF IMPROVEMENT:
  1. I think they rushed the production of this game a little therefore no making the best outcome
 
  2. To think better ideas of gameplay and units, and much more new maps.
  3. Next time making one of these games, then all round just take more time and be more attentive 
 to what the gameplayers want in their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  This expansion does not bring all that much extra to the game, especially for the price. It is 
 way to expensive for what you are getting.
  
  In this expansion you get a new faction. Angmar. This is the Witch King domain. In the Campaign 
 you have basically play as the Witch king as he grows to power.
  
  The Campaign is based on events before the movies. It has about 7 or 8 Scenario's that all differ 
 in difficulty. Most of them are not to difficult, but they take a while to complete. The new Powers 
 that are to your disposal are not all that new, and nothing that we haven't seen in the original. 
 There is an added power that you can use to summon a Giant Wolf and an Avalanche. These are great 
 powers.
  
  The new Units are not as straight forward as the rest of the factions. Most of them require upgrades 
 and research to use their special abilities. Sother units you buy 1 of and for a fee you can summon 
 4 different types of units. The new Hero's are cool. The Which King obviously being the strongest. 
 His powers are not all that impressive, but he is quite powerful so you don't always need the powers.
 
  
  The expansion also adds a few new units for the Elven faction and some new hero's for some of the 
 other factions. These new units includes units like the Knightes that give your Cavalry units Armor 
 and Attach enhancements. As I mentioned before, this game is ok and if you are not a BIG fan of 
 LOTR then I would not suggest it, but if you really liked the original game and you need to stay 
 up to date with the Online people, you can't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_schiffer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The graphics from this game are pretty much the same as they were in the previous game. However, 
 this can only be a good thing, as the graphics were approved by many. Of course, as a sequel, there 
 are a few new effects for attacks, powers and so forth. As the game utilizes several new factions, 
 designs for their buildings and unit types had to be innovative, and I'm happy to say that their 
 improvisations are top-notch and passable. As far as the terrain, rather than just grasslands and 
 savannah, a whole score of new terrain is available and looks gorgeous, especially when coupled 
 with the lighting and shading effects upon buildings and units AND terrain.
  
  Balance wise, this game is very well done, and the newer features, such as shifting positions from 
 attack to defense, to being able to have your forces get into formation, are implemented perfectly 
 into the game. The resources change, which converted from having set points to build buildings, 
 have now been replaced with placing those buildings at points a distance from each other to achieve 
 maximum gathering. While this may be disappointing to some, it should be noted that doing this 
 is not as difficult as it seems, and more often than not, you will find yourself building resource 
 buildings more to expand you reinforcement count rather than your resources. It also adds a new 
 element in strategy by forcing you to consider where your buildings should be. Added in also are 
 defensive buildings such as archery towers which can now be used to garrison troops within to increase 
 firepower, balancing out the resource change.
  The Hero units that were added increase the depth even more, as now they are not free to build- 
 they now take up space in the army. Their abilities more than make up for this, of course, and 
 a few new abilities from those new units allow the game to stand up to it's glory as a good sequel.
 
  
  The game is fairly easy to get into, even if you haven't played before. The game includes a basic 
 and advanced tutorial to aid new players. Hotkeys are also available to those who enjoy using them, 
 and like most real-time strategy games, they sport creatable hotkeys using ctrl + (number) . The 
 camera options are easy to use and manipulate.
  
  This game was reaching for a lot of places, and it is to be commended for doing as much as it did. 
 It keeps the spirit of the previous game while adding in a number of new elements, and while not 
 all of them are done right, or seem incomplete, one could say that the game needs only a little 
 polish to be complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle-Earth II, despite being rough around the edges was a solid EA RTS game set in 
 the widely known and loved Lord of the Rings universe. Despite being more streamlined than its 
 predecessor, Battle for Middle-Earth II was fun, but it definitely had its flaws; unfortunately 
 Rise of the Witch-King only fixes a handful of them.
  
  The campaign in Rise of the Witch-King is set a long time before the Lord of the Rings books, movies, 
 and the first and second BFME games. The story chronicles the rise, and fall of the Nazgul leader 
 - the Witch-King, during his golden age. This may sound interesting, but like the BFME 1 and 2 
 campaigns there is very little actual story since it is after all an RTS game. Still, if you are 
 a fan of the Nazgul, particularly the Witch-King, this expansion's campaign may intrigue you, but 
 don't go in expecting anything Earth shattering.
  
  Rise of the Witch-King, being an expansion, obviously plays just like Battle for Middle-Earth II. 
 There are a few additions and changes, however. The most notable addition is the Angmar faction, 
 which is a fairly unique faction for players to master. Other changes include new Hero squads for 
 the existing factions, such as a new powerful group of Knights for the Men of the West, and the 
 Black Riders for Mordor which are more useful than their solo hero incarnations in the original 
 BFME 2.
  
  My biggest issues with the original game are still present. Farms still only provide fifty to the 
 command limit, and they still punish you when you build more farms. Still, it's not game breaking 
 and you learn to live with it. I would have preferred a better Command Limit system, though, since 
 the battles as they are still don't feel epic. There are also some changes to the Create-a-Hero 
 system, a hero's price is now decided by what abilities you give him\her, there's also some more 
 clothing choices to choose from, but it's still a fairly pointless feature.
  
  Besides some new skirmish maps, RotWK fixes up the fairly entertaining War of the Ring mode from 
 the original game, and expands upon it. There is a new region called Forodwaith which includes 
 some territories in, and around Angmar. You can also move your armies over two friendly territories 
 now making moving from one territory to another much easier. You can also now bring surviving armies 
 you trained during an RTS Tactical Battle onto the Living World Map if you have the resources to 
 support them. The additions and changes to War of the Ring were very welcome in my opinion, and 
 makes RotWK a must have if you're a WotR mode fan.
  
  Besides changes to the actual War of the Ring gameplay, you also have more options when setting 
 the game up. You can now change victory conditions, and select from two new scenarios. One scenario 
 is Historical which supposedly takes place after Aragorn and friends reach Rohan, this game mode 
 gives all races them their historical starting positions, and territories. Strangely enough, Boromir 
 is still alive. The second new scenario is the Fall of Arnor which is supposed to be a more free 
 form version of the story based campaign, unfortunately it's just the Angmar faction versus the 
 Elves and Men of the West thus making characters like Aragorn, Boromir, and Theoden available in 
 a time where they probably weren't even thought of. This laziness on EA's part makes playing the 
 Fall of Arnor scenario fairly pointless if you at all care about storyline logic.
  
  The graphics haven't really been improved since BFME 2, but that's not a problem since BFME 2 was 
 a nice game to look at to begin with. The new Angmar faction, and the new hero squads for the other 
 factions are all nicely detailed, so EA gets kudos for that. Unfortunately the Arnor faction in 
 the campaign is little more than a reskinned Men of the West faction, which is extremely disappointing.
 
  
  The audio hasn't really changed, either. The new voices are fitting, and the Witch-King actually 
 speaks when you use him as the Angmar faction, but other than that there is no real new music that 
 plays during the game. You'll hear the same Lord of the Rings film\Battle for Middle-Earth 1 and 
 2 scores you heard in the original game.
  
  Rise of the Witch-King is difficult to recommend unless you are a hardcore Battle for Middle-Earth 
 II, or Lord of the Rings fan. The new campaign can be intriguing if you care about the one dimensional 
 Witch-King, and the War of the Ring mode features some very welcome improvements (which are not 
 really anything more than patch material) , and the new faction may appeal to some... but it's obvious 
 that EA was either lazy, or rushed this expansion out the door... or both. Buy it if you really 
 liked BFME 2, but if you were only a casual fan then there is little reason to pay $30 for this 
 expansion, it may be better to wait until the price drops, or until EA releases a patch addressing 
 some of the expansion's issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniak_Jakk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  its a good expansion, i tried it at my friends house and needs to be put on the consoles. If it 
 is put on the 360 make sure you get it! but if for the pc i wouldn't bother unless your computer 
 is amazingly good becasue of the massive armies and all the things running at once. It adds alot 
 of cool units and heroes to the game. Incuding all the spellcasters they put into it. Story line 
 is good to. Its fairly short, but kindof cool seeing the witch-king with a little more depth and 
 story in him. Cause he's kinda crazy awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur-ruyam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The rise of the witch king is based after the one ring is destroyed. In Campain mode you have play 
 as the witch king and gather armies, conqueor Angmar and destroy the kingdom of Isildur's heirs.
 
  And after you complete campain mode you unlock epilogue where you play as the good side taking 
 Angmar back and destroying the Witch King.
  The game is great challenge even on easy mode. There are 7 levels in the game. I would reccomend 
 this game to players who have played other Lord of the ring games.
  The rise of the Witch King is a good game overall and i would recommend it to people who enjoy 
 Lord of the ring games and/or strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alastair05
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Very fun, had quite an enjoyable time playing. Great time playing the new campain, was really hooked 
 on trying to get the epiloge availible. Love the new faction with all the new tricks. Also a great 
 addition to the older factions with the more powerful units. when i first played i was really interested 
 in getting all the new heros to lvl 10 and checking out there new Powers. Fix on some graphic glitches, 
 maps and all the units looking sharper. Amazing multiplayer with all new great maps, have had plenty 
 of time playing on them. Looking forward to your next installment. Great job EA keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praetorian565
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  I have to say I was excited when I heard that the expansion pack to BFME was coming. This game 
 is just.. mediocre. The new faction, Angmar, doesn't truly add much to the game, and in my opinion 
 is one of the worst races to play. Although EA had some good concepts for Angmar such as the thrall 
 masters it turned out disappointingly. My main complaint with the original game was that the graphics 
 were somewhat outdated and the expansion does nothing to improve upon the engine. In fact, the 
 terrain looks somewhat worse in this game, and the animations of some units such as Angmar's foot 
 soldiers look pretty choppy. The gameplay of this game is nothing too exciting either. It turns 
 out to be a mass building contest against you and the AI. I always found myself building a large 
 force, having it destroyed, rebuilding, etc... Although there is a little strategic depth to the 
 game it is linear and leaves no real freedom. The only real concept of value in this game is the 
 music. Truly engrossing and it definately does LOTR tribute. Overall, save your money and stick 
 to the original game.
  
  If you want a true strategy game skip the BFME series completely and go buy Medieval 2: Total War 
 or Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  (copied from my review of BFME2 - I bought them together)
  
  I was pleasantly surprised when I discovered that EA was making another Battle for Middle-Earth 
 game. I really loved BFME, and still play it today. The unique base building options, focus on 
 capturing of strategic points on the map, shockingly good voice overs and music score, and beautiful 
 graphics in the first BFME game were what really made me love the series. And, I'm a big Middle 
 Earth fan.
  
  So, this Christmas I decided to pickup the new BFME2 game, and it's expansion pack, Rise of the 
 Witchking.
  
  ... and I was totally let down. Many of the things about the first BFME game, things that made the 
 game unique and revolutionary, are noticeably missing from BFME2 and the Witch King expansion. 
 Base building is now your standard RTS formula, which is boring and unimaginative. The music is 
 still great, and the production values are still superb, but the graphics somehow look worse to 
 me in the new game! Yeah, there are more units, but, they look like they are smaller now with lower 
 polygon counts. I ended up selling both games on eBay after playing them for only a couple days. 
 I tried, really tried, to enjoy the new BFME game, but, I ended up going back to the original, 
 and all the great mods that are out for it, instead.
  
  Unless you are a huge RTS and Middle-Earth fan, I would suggest skipping the second game in this 
 series and just play the first... I like it way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtron1320
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Its a long awaited game , played and finished it . Franky speaking it didnot match the expectation 
 because there is nothing new . The EA games did a fare job. It adds a new faction and jus 1 or 
 2 units to all factions and nothing more , they didn't do ther homework well on this occation , 
 they should hav taken there time in making hte game but they did it rather fast and okay. Frankly 
 speaking i hav played better mods than the expansion pack . Nevertheless its a must hav for all 
 Battle For Middle Earth fans . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazinscorpio
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game does plenty for me. I mean geez it IS part of the BFME II series. but with all due respect 
 I say that if it was an expansion (at this standard) for another game it would be a disappointment, 
 so I like to call this game lucky . Its carries the cliche and almost expected extension of a new 
 race and new campaign story with welcomed (to me) add-ons to the Create-a-Hero mode, which will 
 make your Lord Of the Rings RTS experience that much more fun, except it stands on the threshold 
 of having not enough new content and just enough new content, giving me the bitter taste of 'been-there 
 done-that or this looks like it was made in a rush. For all those players who think they will never 
 get sick of your BFME II this is a must-have. For those who have played the previous game to its 
 full-extent this is also worth buying. But if you are on of those people who was not WOW ed by 
 BFME II or are completely sick of it, don't be expecting anything comlpetely new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovako
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game overall. I was reallly impressed with everything in a nutshell...
  I loved the campaign, but by far making your own hero and customizing him was the best. I played 
 this game a lot and the overall look of it was buetiful. = = j j kl k j hg m n hjkn hjknju n jj 
 j j g k n jg kn g k mn hjg knjg mkn hg bj bh jk jkkk b k b jkufjyt hj g g hj b j g g h hb yu f 
 ui hfgh jyg jh gf gf yu gj f f y u fhf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra_dan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth II: Rise of the Witch-King is the game with the biggest 
 name... The game good parts conquer its bad parts. First of the good parts: Excellent graphics, but 
 the same as Middle-Earth 2. Considering its an expansion it doesn't matter.
  Sound is almost perfect. Great music, nice battle cries.....
  New substantial additions make 
 for even great pleasure.
  A new story never seen has come to light..
  Now the bad parts:
  The game is very unbalanced. The new Angmar faction is overpowered and other factions are underpowered. 
 Walls are almost useless. Even if Witch-King is the leader of Angmar, is useless as other heroes.
 
  The create a hero is still overpowered.
  The campaign is boring, and some levels are too hard for casual players.
  
  In the end: The 
 game is great for hardcore Middle-Earth 2 players, and nice for strategy fans but mediocre for 
 other players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game by any means. If you are a big fan of the source material, especially the last BFME 
 game, its worth the $30. As in the last game, the official license brought an exciting edge to 
 an average RTS game. Even then, you may be able to pass. Unless you still play the game alot and 
 would really appreciate the updates which resemble a big patch more than an expansion, you have 
 to buy it based on the campaign, which is alright. The campaign chronicles the Witch Kings take 
 over of the Northern Kingdom long before the events of the movie. The final mission tells the story 
 of his retreat, to apparently Minas Morgul. It pretty cool... for a fan of the material. The cammand 
 point limit has been raise to basically unlimited in this (100X) and the ultra graphics settings 
 from the last game are in there. Add the movie sounds, which never get old imo, and you have a 
 good game from graphics and sound standpoint.
  
  This is a game for the fans of the last LOTR RTS game. I for one, hated the action games based 
 on re-acting the movies, but the last RTS was good and so is this. If you are no fan of the LOTR, 
 this is an obvious pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalX5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Well i got the expansion a week ago, and I've finished the Campgain ( There are 8 missions) . I 
 have recently discovered some of the changes from BFME2 to ROTWK. Melee infantry (Not Calvary) 
 attack some what slower and their animation is fuzzier when they attack, i think EA did this so 
 that it would not cause so much lag when playing a say 3v3 or 8 ppl FFA. Most of the aspects are 
 good in this game. They added a new archer feature which i think most Archer units have that allows 
 you to fire a large volley of arrows anywhere in the map, with a long long cooldown, it has a large 
 range, but the downside is that you cannot attack with the archers for about a min after you do 
 it. The new Angmar faction is pretty balanced, they have their ups and downs. The only thing about 
 this game that has frustrated me is the Multiplayer Online. Usually every game that you join you 
 will find someone who cannot connect, or has really bad ping, and if your on a firewall like me, 
 you won't be able to host. I tried everything. I openned all ports, disabled all firewalls and 
 still can't host. Don't get me wrong, playing online is lots of fun, just finding a good game with 
 good pings, and people who can connect is kinda hard :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Graphically the game is good enough in 2006, but the game-play is broken.
  In the Original game the game-play is good and interesting but, if we attack the enemy (like a 
 brutal force) but we lost that force and we destroyed the 80% of the enemy base, the enemy won't 
 stand up and fight back, just buy the units that it can buy.
  
  The Rise of the witch King is worse... the sounds and musics are the same... game-play the same, 
 and this will get me bored the game after 4 hours playing. I scored the Original game for 8.6 but 
 the expansion is near the same as the original, only news: new units....
  
  Boring, and try but you wait until March 28 and play C&amp; C3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontaktin
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Did'nt the Witch-King die in The return of the king ? How in the name of Pepsi can he resurrect 
 after the destruction of the ring and evil itself???. and I don, t care what the story says in the 
 game because it's not Tolkien's story. I think that all these new crappy expansions to The lord 
 of the rings are unnecessary and they ruin the LOTR spirit for many people (if you know what im 
 saying) . The only one who can change the story is the one and only Tolkien but he's dead so please 
 stop making expansions! ! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an expansion pack that does what all expansions should do: it improves upon the original 
 game and adds new content. While RotWK does not revolutionize the basic gameplay of BFME2, it is 
 a worthwhile addition.
  
  Gameplay: The expansion simply adds more to the intense, visually stunning RTS that is BFME2. The 
 single-player campaign introduces the story of the Witch-king's rise to power and allows you to 
 play the bad guys, which is fun in this instance. There are 8 mission, plus an epilogue that allows 
 you to play the kingdom of Arnor (a carbon copy of Men of the West) . The campaign, at least on 
 normal difficulty, can be quite hard in places, and you might be surprised to find yourself repeating 
 a few of the missions. Overall, it is an adequate diversion, which will take about 5-6 hours to 
 complete.
  
  The create-a-hero system is much improved. Now, you can create your own in-game avatar using a 
 power-purchasing system that makes sense and will allow for some diversity in the game. You can 
 make a cheap hero, who can be afforded during the early game, or make an expensive one that will 
 almost rival Sauron. A few new powers have been added, along with a troll class and some more clothing/armor 
 options. Truthfully, the new power-purchasing system should have been added with a patch, so that 
 people with the original game could receive this fix. In any event, the new system here is much 
 welcomed and makes player-made heroes more balanced and interesting.
  
  The best improvement of the original gameplay comes with the changes to the War of the Ring (WotR) 
 mode. Now, the armies that you create in the RTS skirmishes carry over to the strategic map and 
 can be moved around with your 4 heroes. There is an upkeep cost that keeps this army persistence 
 feature from getting out of hand. Also, you can build more things from the strategic map, such 
 as siege maps and unit upgrades. Finally, the AI plays a bit smarter. For example, it will retreat 
 when it is losing a fight. Also, AI opponents put up a better fight than before and will build 
 walls occasionally. The WotR mode also has about 10 new territories added to it.
  
  The major addition to the game is the new Angmar faction, led by the Witch-king. It is a mixture 
 of fallen men, trolls, and sorcerers. It's distinctive enough to be truly considered a separate 
 race. The most fun unit is the thrallmaster, who can summon a squad of units on the fly to fit 
 most any situation. The sorcerers are interesting too, but fragile and require some close micromanagement. 
 Angmar's heroes are decent, with the Witch-king and Rogash (a powerful troll) being the best ones. 
 Each of the existing races get a couple new units, including an elite mini-hero horde, which is 
 not always worth the high cost (compared to just recruiting a new hero from the fortress) .
  
  Graphics: Basically the same as BFME2, which is to say that they are quite good. On a good 
 computer, you'll be able to enjoy some beautiful textures, convincing unit animations, weather 
 effects, and other nice graphics. Sound: The music is based on the movie soundtrack, which is great. 
 Voice acting is pretty decent. As with BFME2, the ambient sounds, unit acknowledgements, and combat 
 audio are well done.
  
  Stability/technical issues: The game has been quite stable on my machine. I used to get a crash 
 or two on the WotR strategic map, but no more. The manual does a decent job explaining the new 
 faction and improvements to gameplay. Replayability/Value: With the improved create-a-hero system, 
 more persistent armies in the War of the Ring Mode, new units for existing races, and the new Angmar 
 faction, this expansion gives the original game even more longevity. The single-player campaign, 
 though a challenge, is largely forgettable. However, it's the skirmishes and the WotR strategic 
 game (finally fixed!) that will keep you coming back to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorNisse
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, with ALOT of crappy things. I whould rather call it an expansion to the first 
 game then it's own game. All EA has done here is remove the building style and given it a classic 
 building style, and also given it a crappy way of making money and being able to build soldiers. 
 They have also made it more unbalanced for Mordor then it was before. Now every race except mordor 
 can build walls. The removal of Rohan was the dumbest thing they could think of. The one who brainstormed 
 that idea should be shot, thats a total violation to the books and the movie, wich the game is 
 suposed to follow.
  Actually Battle for middle earth I and II has both been great games but historicly disapointing. 
 For instance, Peter Jackson added the character Lurtz (the one who killed boromir) he does not 
 exist in the books at all. Second, the one who is actually leading the group of Uruk-Hai who captures 
 merry and pippin is called Ugluk. and is not killed in the fight to capture the hobbits, he is 
 killed in the fight vs the rohirrims. He is in the movie aswell (he says, looks like meats back 
 on the menu boys ) but has no place in the game. Another BIG misstake they've made in both the 
 games is just calling the Nazgh&ucirc; ls what they are, when they infact has individual names, 
 and the witch king is Actually called Er-M&ucirc; razor - The first of the nine . The expansion 
 packs adds two names to the game, one is correct the other one is just a plain wrong guess. Khamul, 
 or Khamul the easterling exists in the books. the other one, Morgomir, is just a bad guess by EA. 
 Morgomir is actually the true name for the Mouth of Sauron. The name he had once he was a living 
 man, before he became a dark sorcerer for Sauron. The way this game presents the Uruk-Ha&iacute; 
 as an independant race is wrong. Uruk-Ha&iacute; is an improved type of orc, it has the things 
 that Melkor (Morgoth) , Saurons creator and the vala who created all the evil in middle earth, forgot 
 to add. Melkor put all of his darkened heart intothe elves wich he corrupted and created orcs. 
 Uruk-Hai is not as dark as orcs, they are better adapt becouse they can move in daylight, wich 
 common orcs can't, common orcs hate the daylight and refuses to be outside when the sun shines. 
 Uruks does not care, they are also better equiped the mordors orcs, since Saruman allows his servants 
 to forge better blades and armor then Sauron does. One character who you can't complain on is Gothmog. 
 The ugly fella who leads the orc assault on Minas Tirith.
  The game is both good and bad. They should really try and get some information on what they are 
 doing rather then guess and follow the movie so much, alot of the game actually strides away a 
 looong distance from both the book and the movie. For example, the expansion pack happened thousands 
 of years before even Sm&eacute; agol (Gollum) stole the ring from his cousin D&eacute; agol, and 
 they've put that in the same time as the war of the rings.
  It's like making the ancient greeks battle the U. S army today, it makes no sence.
  
  Heres 
 a list of ALL the nine Nazgh&ucirc; ls
  
  Er-Mur&acirc; zor - The Witch king - First of the nine
  Kham&ucirc; l the Easterling - Second of 
 the nine
  Dwar of Waw - Third of the nine
  J&iacute;&shy; Ind&ucirc; r Dawndeath - Fourth of the nin
  Akh&ucirc; rah&iacute; l the Blind Sorcerer 
 - Fifth of the nine
  Hoarm&ucirc; rath of D&iacute;&shy; r - Sixth of the nine
  Ad&ucirc; naphel the Quiet - Seventh of the nine
  Ren the Unclean - Eight of the nine
  &Ucirc; vatha 
 the Horseman - Ninth og the nine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  glut of real-time strategy. A surfeit. A plethora even. Thats what 2006 feels like: one crispy, 
 creamy confectionary after another. Well brace yourselves, here comes another, shining the light 
 of Elendil onto an original that hardly needed it. Rise of the Witch-king is such an all-around 
 quality follow-up to this springs The Battle for Middle-earth II that if you missed the original 
 release, the expansion is all the reason youll need to pick up both. Developer EA LA could have 
 simply turned in the new Angmar faction, here led by a younger version of everyones favorite no 
 man can kill me Nazgul, the Witch-king. It could have held the line with the new campaign that 
 follows the Witch-kings northland ascent through missions - like one in which you have to strategically 
 take out different Mallorn Trees that give your enemy devastating special powers - that rate as 
 some of the best youll play in the genre. But no, EA LA had to likewise resuscitate the board-gamey 
 War of the Ring mode and finally make it worth playing by adding features like units that carry 
 through RTS battles, a smarter economy based on generating (instead of waiting for) resources, 
 and a computer A. I. that attacks more judiciously and backs up in a pinch. It couldnt resist tweaking 
 the power and cost systems in Create-A-Hero mode to let you design more strategically nuanced walking 
 nukes for either early or late game bombshells. Even multiplayer, with all the same match modes, 
 is blessed with a dozen new maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Pretty much what you would expect from an expansion, new units for each side, new campaign, new 
 faction and a host of tweaks to the mechanics. Unfortunately EA made the expansion which should 
 tell you something right off the bat. It's broken, archers are too powerful for words (you really 
 don't need any other units including heroes, the new units are all horribly OP'd to varying extents 
 (knights of dol kill heroes in 2 hits and fortress in about 5 and are  
 and fast) and basically all of the checks and balances that were designed into the new mechanics 
 don't work unless you're playing the AI. Other than the now (more) broken mechanics of the RTS 
 the game holds up decently, great graphics, great sound, and a decent gameplay for SP and MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Highcom1177
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  The game is quite good in my opinion, people are being little jerks about how the game now is even 
 more unbalanced, maybe it is but this is an EXPANSION PACK, I mean seriously one unit could screw 
 the entire games balance and this packs has got loads of units. Many of the things on the game 
 are all looks, I find the new faction to be kind weak actually. Some good things are the is in 
 the create a player, in the first BFME2 trolls would use their weapon to take out 1 unit in a group 
 at a time (which didn't make sense at all) but now they can attack groups and take out more enemy's 
 with their weapon like they do in the movies. In addition to the create a player theres now more 
 armor and such to choose from making your create a player more distinct. New factions got a different 
 style of gameplay to it as well, such as summoning a unit from a unit which you will find out, 
 and a mage group which uses special attacks as its overall attack. Story is interesting you learn 
 more about Middle Earths past and about the Witch King. Other factions received new units as well 
 which are quite powerful, youll like them too, Mordor now has horseman, sweet feature for Mordor, 
 and they now have Black Orcs, that can be upgraded with heavy armor and weapons AND they added 
 Gothmog as a hero unit. YAY! But as far as balance its the usual crap Men of the West is more overpowered 
 then ever. No complaints on graphics its just how I pictured it to be. Sound is fine in my opinion 
 as well. This game is very addictive, I couldn't believe how fast my days go by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  What's Going on? Didn't you here, The Expansion of Lord of The Rings the battle of Middle Earth 
 II is here! It adds a lot of new features, a beautiful and unforeseen storyline! Just Amazing! 
 Previous gamers of BFMII will detect a huge difference. Why? Here is why:
  A Splendid Storyline, it's based after 1000 which the one ring was lost. A Force... will not ruin 
 it for ya!!
  So? What how does it make a difference? See:
  Things that are changed | Improved | Added:
  - Bug Fixes
  - New Faction: Angmar.
  - Improvement 
 to old Factions
  - A (besides of the upper) werewolf!
  - Maps
  - A minor change in music
  - Improved the war of the ring mode
  - Create A hero improvements.
 
  
  The Angmars: The Angmar Faction is a MEN look a like faction. But there is load of differences. 
 There are differences in unit: Fewer - Lighter Cavalry. Dwarves-like Strong Infantry - A Troll-Based 
 Catapult - Sorcerers - Thrall Masters - Dark Rangers... Sorcerers have followers (Acolytes) , sorcerers 
 can be taught spells. And when they use them they consume a follower (S) depending on the spell 
 type.
  There is in the Ring Power Menu a werewolf, a huge one! With it you can eat up the enemies! A Witch 
 King Hero! : His is strong spell user! But it is so real that he may hit your own units! And a 
 sub-hero has been added to all factions!
  In Create A Hero Mode: New Features, Powers exist, but they cost points more than usual!
  ||||||||||||||||
 
  The Improvement in the War of the Ring is that something is changed, graphically, and they put 
 strategic points, and made you think more
  
  
  And as usual EA Games Always brings out games 
 that are leading in Musical Graphical Values!
  If you had any comment or abuse to report! Please remember to report it to me to prevent myself 
 to make another one! zellwwf@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Expansions are common for most RTS games. What is it then which makes this one different from the 
 rest? Apart from the immense new content it adds to the original, this expansion, The Rise of the 
 Witch-King, tells the story of a Middle-earth unseen and nearly unheard of before. For fans of 
 the books in particular, this is a dream come true. And for those whove only watched the movies, 
 its even better, as the storyline is totally unique. The Battle for Middle-earth II has already 
 garnered a huge fan-following, and this expansion will definitely make it even bigger.
  
  The Rise of the Witch-King is based in a time roughly a thousand years after the One Ring was lost. 
 During those thousand years Middle-earth was in peace, but a new and evil force was slowly, but 
 surely building up. The Dark Lord Sauron, banished from Mordor was again beginning to regain some 
 of his lost power and under the leadership of his fierce general, the Witch-King of Angmar, the 
 leader of the Nazgul, was getting ready to wreak havoc again on the realm of Men. Corrupted by 
 greed and power, the kingdom of the North was constantly deteriorating. It was in this time that 
 the Witch-King released his cruelty and malice upon them, and ended the Realm of the North. This 
 game recreates the huge battles and final stand of the Men of the North.
  
  The expansion has added a lot of new content to the original. The most prominent among them is, 
 of course, the new faction of Angmar. Though it does consist of men, it is not a corrupted form 
 of the Men of the West faction. It is a totally unique faction with its own unique units, powers 
 and gameplay. Angmar is very light on cavalry, relying mostly on slow, but hard-hitting infantry, 
 sort of like the dwarves. However, the presence of Sorcerors among their foray provides a magical 
 boost to their army.
  
  Among the new units Thrall Masters deserve special attention. They come quite cheap but prove to 
 be invaluable. The reason is that they can instantly summon additional units into the battle-scene. 
 The additional units can be spearmen, axe-throwers, wolf riders or simple warriors. This allows 
 for a lot of flexibility as you can form an army based on what your opponent has. The thrall masters 
 are however weak and as the summoned units die if the thrall master is killed, they must be kept 
 at the back for protection. Still, proper use of these units can give you a big advantage over 
 your enemy. Only one thrall master can be trained at a time, unlike most of the other units which 
 come in battalions.
  
  Sorcerors can be taught magic spells. Though the spells alone can not win the battle for you, they 
 do give your army a big boost for a certain duration of time. A Sorcerer battalion consists of 
 a single Sorcerer and his Acolytes. Each spell a Sorcerer casts consumes the souls of one or more 
 of his Acolytes. Other new units include Dark Rangers, Black Numenorians, Trolls and Wolves. Theres 
 even a troll-powered catapult for you to lay siege on fortifications with.
  
  The Witch-King is your main hero unit. He can deal a lot of damage to enemy units but may also 
 hurt your own units in the process as well, and so must be used with a certain amount of caution. 
 There are quite a lot of sub-hero units as well. These are a lot stronger than the regular units 
 but not as much as your main hero, the Witch-King himself. These include Rogash who is a troll 
 hero, Morgomir whos also a Nazgul, Hwaldar whos a hill chieftain, and finally Kharsh, the most 
 mysterious of the lot.
  
  Angmar also has its own unique Ring powers. They range from the simple blight to reduce the enemys 
 resource income, to strong gusts of icy-winds to scatter enemy troops, to summoning a giant Werewolf. 
 The latter is highest-level power and can seriously turn the game in your favour. Comparable to 
 the Balrog in size and power, the Werewolf can literally eat the enemy alive and at the same time 
 is fantastic to look at.
  
  Apart from adding a new faction, the old factions have also been improved and their bugs and shortcomings 
 have been most effectively removed. Sub-hero units have been added to all the factions as well. 
 Apart from factions, other features of the game have also been spruced up. More maps have also 
 been added. The biggest improvement in the expansion over the original is the War of the Ring mode. 
 What looked like a rushed and incomplete feature of the base game comes out brilliantly in the 
 expansion. A lot of strategic planning is now required to effectively conquer it. There are strategic 
 points on the map which give you added bonuses if captured and there is a lot more army movement 
 and control involved this time around. Custom heroes now play a bigger par in this mode.
  
  Create-a-Hero has also been hauled up. A new cost system has been implemented under which more 
 powerful abilities cost more than the average ones. While you had to fill all the open power-slots 
 for custom heroes earlier, you can now choose to let some remain unused if the cost of your hero 
 is more on the higher side. This makes the multiplayer mode all the more interesting as well. A 
 lot more strategic planning is now involved which makes the gameplay all the more intense. The 
 graphics of the game are superb. Rise of the Witch-King successfully manages to capture the Middle-earth 
 feel. The landscapes look a bit darker in accordance with the overall theme of the game. The building 
 and units are also a bit somber. However the effects for the use of Ring powers are a treat to 
 watch, in particular the Werewolf. Battles look more of less the same as they did in the base game.
 
  
  Sound in the game is also top-notch. Clashing of armies and the general battle sounds are all first-grade. 
 The normal background music has a slight dark tone to it, primarily because you control the evil 
 side in the game, but it blends in nicely and isnt all that noticeable. Battle music is fast and 
 goes well with the clashes.
  
  The Rise of the Witch-King is a great expansion for a great game. Not only does it add a lot of 
 new content to the original game, it also hauls up its shortcomings. The improved War of the Ring 
 mode and Create-a-Hero feature add a lot of strategic depth and longevity to the game. With its 
 great graphic and sound effects, this game offers a complete and truly satisfying gaming experience. 
 Such quality and precision is hard to come by in an expansion and should not be missed. The Rise 
 of the Witch-King is truly the Battle for Middle-earth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1701
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Recently I was invited to EALA for the Battle for Middle Earth 2: Rise of the Witch-King Community 
 Summit . The summit took place on November 15th -18th and was hosted at EALAs massive office in 
 Playa Vista. This summit was a bit different than the previous events I have attended, as instead 
 of getting a glance at the game while in development, we were able to play the final build of the 
 game. To give you an overview of my impression right of the get-go -- I am very impressed with 
 what EA has done with this expansion. The game improves many aspects of the game such as; War of 
 the Ring, Create-A-Hero, massive AI improvements, new evil campaign, new heroes, and the units 
 adds a great in-depth look into the story of Angmar and the fall of Arnor.
  
  First off, I would like to thank EA for the event and of course NVIDIA for all the awesome goodies 
 that were given out. But now lets get into the nitty-gritty of the entire event. The event kicked 
 off on November 15th and I was the only person at the event who lived close enough to drive, so 
 my trip was not all that spectacular, but the 1 &frac12; hour drive went by very quickly and I 
 arrived at the Ritz Carlton in Marina Del Ray around late afternoon. I checked into the hotel room 
 and than headed down to the lobby area to meet up with the rest of the Summit attendees. Being 
 fortunate enough to have been at the BFME2 summit I was hoping to meet up with a few old friends. 
 As time passed and a few delays were encountered, EA Predator showed up and we were off to dinner. 
 The meet and greet was a bit odd at first since they tried to fit 13 of us in an area that really 
 could hold only 8! So, they were forced to semi split us up and shove us outside. Once settled 
 in, David Silverman from Marketing joined us and helped keep the other tables questions to a minimum. 
 After dinner we took our short trip back to the hotel and turned in for the next days big events.
 
  
  As I woke up to recover from the night before, I headed down to the lobby where we meet up with 
 EA Predator once again to head off to EALA offices. The normal check-in process took place while 
 walking past the guard shack, but non-the-less we walked into EA without alarms going off HeXetic. 
 As we entered the main lobby we were greeted by a huge banner that sported the cover art for the 
 Rise of the Witch-King. We than headed to the EATS Caf&eacute; for some breakfast. EATS Cafe has 
 always provided and awesome meal every time I have visited so the french toast was a great meal 
 for me once again. But enough with the food and the semi tour, lets get to the Rise of the Witch-King 
 information.
  
  We headed down to the training room to get our eager hands on the game, but we were suddenly hit 
 with a delay as NVIDIA sent the summit PCs to EA Redwood Shores and they were in route to be delivered 
 that morning to EALA, but still havent been delivered yet. So in the mean time EA pulled out a 
 bunch of backup PCs to fill the void. During this wait time we were able to sit down for a presentation 
 mainly done by Producer, Amir Raimi and backup by Lead Development Director, Jill Donald. The presentation 
 kicked off with the entire back story of where EA got the idea for Rise of the Witch-king. Now 
 interesting enough we were able to find out the first storyline for the expansion was not Rise 
 of the Witch-king, but instead was the Battle of the Last Alliance. But ultimately EA choose the 
 story of the Forces of Dark. Which brings me to think, EA might just have another expansion up 
 their sleeves for the Middle-earth series.
  
  As the presentation went on we found that EA was able to get a bit more creative with the overall 
 storyline, as the true story of the Rise of the Witch-king only takes 3 pages at most in the books. 
 For a brief overview the game campaign runs through right after the King of Arnor was killed and 
 his sons split the Arnor kingdom into 3 regions. During this time the Witch-king was able to muster 
 forces and start his rise on the weakened Arnor areas. To read the full presentation notes click 
 here.
  
  After the 1 hour presentation we were able to head on down to the training room to start are in-depth 
 look at the Rise of the Witch-King. Our first task was to play though the campaign. Now take in 
 mind, I started off the campaign thinking it was going to be easy as pie, as the BFME2 campaign 
 was. I figured the campaign would kick off being a tutorial for the most part and the units were 
 just going to be small squads etc Boy was I wrong! The first mission wasnt hard per say, but 
 it offered a challenge and told a story in a way that no other BFME campaign has before. The story 
 kicks off with awesome art and then gets into detail about each unit of the Angmar faction. In 
 the first Mission you have 3 objectives which at first glance look to be basic and easy until you 
 actually approach them, the armies are much bigger and the AI is much more intuitive over the BFME2 
 setup. As I completed the 3 tasks I figured that was going to be the end of the 1st mission, but 
 once again I was very wrong, I was now tasked with more objectives to protect my setup bases against 
 a coming opposing force. Now this wasnt a 5 squad Army, this army probably had 30 squads along 
 with some siege to counter your efforts. Luckily I built up a semi upgraded army and I was able 
 to push them back but I was only playing on medium settings, I could only imagine what it would 
 be like on brutal.
  
  After I completed the first mission, the story continued and I moved onto the 2nd mission. The 
 bulk of my Army carried into the 2nd mission with 1 or 2 heroes missing as they went off to do 
 something per the Witch-Kings request. This mission started off pretty easy but ended up in being 
 much crazier than expected. Your first objective is to take out a few camps, with the forces you 
 start with this task is not a difficult one. But once those tasks are done you are greeted with 
 a whole slew of new objectives to take over a few castles and 2 massive armies. During this time 
 the Arnor forces also take the liberty to rein havoc on your new base with more than adequate sized 
 armies. The fact they used upgraded units along with Powers to me was a definite improvement over 
 the campaigns we have become accustom to. After the massive battles that took place I was finally 
 able to gain an upper hand and defeat the Arnor Forces and move onto the 3rd mission of the campaign.
 
  
  Now the 3rd mission starts off by showing you your overall objectives and gives you a nice peek 
 at the massive army and powers you will be facing. I have to say this aspect of the campaign was 
 beyond anything EA has ever given us in a campaign mission. The Objectives in this mission are 
 very complex and offer a challenge to even a well seasoned RTS player. I was able to get maybe 
 20% into this mission before our time was up on the campaign side of things, but that was when 
 I realized I only completed 2 &frac12; mission on medium settings in 3 &frac12; hours. Now this 
 could be because I was not use to Angmar as a faction, but I believe even if I was playing with 
 MOTW I would still have had a good challenge in this campaign. I am very much looking forward to 
 completing the rest of the missions in the ROTWK expansion.
  
  After the campaign we were able to score some free time for a few multiplayer matches vs. the other 
 community leaders. I of course played a game with Pyros from Planet Company of Heroes. He choose 
 the Angmar faction and I was being curious to see what the other additions in the factions would 
 be like, so I choose Men of the West. I am by no means the greatest BFME player in the world but 
 I like to think I can hold my own in a good game. I will say Pyros and I did share a great multiplayer 
 game and the gameplay was extremely fun and engrossing. I was able to use most of the additions 
 to the Men of the West such as the new Rohan Spearmen and the Knights of Dol Amroth with success, 
 and some failure. One thing I did find out when playing verse the Angmar faction, you have to use 
 almost all your units in a mixture to stop them. They have such a diverse mix-up of units and powers 
 it is almost impossible to attack with just a few unit types, as those Thrall Masters can call 
 out counters to your units very easily and effectively. Irregardless the battle went back and forth 
 into each of our bases and we ended up running out of time as the tournament was kicking off so 
 we had to end our game not knowing who would have won the match.
  
  We then moved onto the next aspect of the summit which was the 1v1 tournament action. Now the tournament 
 ran pretty well for me in the first round as I was able to overcome the match with my Angmar forces 
 and take the win. But than I had to face the Germans well that put a block wall in front of my 
 hopes to win a full scale Witch-King sword. But during the tournament I realized how much Angmar 
 really adds to the battlefield with each of its units. I was able to play around with the Sorcerers 
 and the different types of units the Thrall Master can summon and was very much impressed with 
 the style of play the Angmar faction will be bringing to the table. I can honestly say Rogash is 
 the most over powered hero in the game as his leap jump is just devastating to an opposing force 
 that is bunched together. Also mix that with Fell Wind and say goodbye to your army. In all the 
 Angmar faction is very well rounded and well worth the cost of the expansion.
  
  EAs Development team has also added a ton of new units with the new expansion which can be seen 
 here, all of which attribute to the new level of units, which breaks the factions up with Regular 
 Units, Elite Units, Mini Heroes, and Heroes. This unit dynamic offers a much more compelling game 
 as each faction has a much more defined set of units, and allows you to break apart different types 
 of tactics in the early game and late game. With adding this dynamic it really ties into what patch 
 1.05 did for BFME2. Allowing buildings to withstand attack vs. small infantry and fall vs. the 
 bigger units such as Trolls and Knights. Rushing single type units is pretty hard to pull off especially 
 with the building buffs.
  
  During my elimination somber time I was able to jump into War of the Ring for a bit to see what 
 the new features offered. I started off with one of the Historical setups just to allow a good 
 overall match, and right of the get go the addition of the 1 extra hero and being able to move 
 2 territories over friendly territories was a clear A+ addition to the game, Much like the reviews 
 and comments over the last few months have said, fighting lines were formed and a more strategic 
 game play is now offered. I wasnt able to get into the nitty-gritty of War of the Ring, but from 
 what I have seen thus far it already proves itself to be a much more complex Risk style game over 
 what the original BFME2 offered. I will say once again I am very disappointed that EA did not increase 
 the amount of human players allowed in WOTR, but overall I still think WOTR will make a great feature/addition 
 to ROTWK.
  
  The next big feature of the Rise of the Witch-King would be Create-A-Hero. With time constraints 
 pushing down on us during the summit I was not able to mess with the new Troll class, but I was 
 able to see how the cost of powers has changed the face of Create-A-Hero. The custom heroes will 
 finally be able to make there way into multiplayer games without a huge bias as the powers that 
 you assign each hero will be tied to a cost, which will make super heroes cost what they should 
 instead of being offered at a nominal 2000 resources. This feature also allows you to pimp your 
 heroes out with basic powers so you can either create a cheap scout hero or possibly a huge Gandalf 
 type end of game hero. Once I have my hands on the expansion I will write a bit more about the 
 Create-A-Hero features, so stay tuned for more info.
  
  As the summit came to an end, I was able to hang out with the ever famous Witch-king of Angmar 
 which I will have more pictures of in the next few days once EA sends us our Photo Ops. But after 
 the Summit we were able to head down to Medieval Times in Anaheim California and have a heck of 
 a time once again. There is nothing like a good meal with tons of drinks and massive battles on 
 a real playing field. I honestly think the night overtook me and well I made the Green Knight cry, 
 The poor guy got picked on so much he stated to talk trash back to us, but the fact remains the 
 Blue Knight killed the Green Knight. I think the coolest part of the night was when we found out 
 that the red and yellow Knight and the Princess both play BFME2. Yeah that was a shock!
  
  Once the event was over we headed back to EA where we received a cool thank you package. The package 
 was a nice gift pack that anyone would love to have. It included items such as a NVIDIA 7800GT 
 and a tons of LOTR stuff such as shirts and playing cards which will be given out in future contests 
 here at MEV , but the crown jewel of the package was the 3 DVD set of the LOTR Trilogy. I have 
 all the sets already but this set was the newest Limited Edition, the discs contain both the regular 
 version of the movie and the extended version on one disc along with another disc full of tons 
 of extra commentary, which isnt on any of my previous discs I own. If youre a lover of the LOTR 
 series you must buy these disks, they have provided hours of more info about the series.
  
  So to sum the entire Rise of the Witch-King Summit up, we had a great time playing thought the 
 single players campaign well the missions we got to the new features such as a more complex AI, 
 useful Siege, War if the Ring, Mini Heroes, additional units for each faction, and the regular 
 hero additions such as Gothmog and Azog offer a huge bonus to the previous BFME2 we loved. If I 
 had to give the game a score between 1 and 100 I would assign it a 92. As the game is by far the 
 best of the BFME series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
