-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings: War of the Ring
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordoftheringswarotr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 1,114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 4, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
War of the Ring is a competent, if lackluster, effort that will probably appeal to Middle-earth 
 fans and casual gamers who haven't played a lot of real-time strategy before. 

  Frodo? Check. Gandalf? Check. Balrog?  Big  check. It looks like the entire gang made it for The 
 Lord of the Rings: War of the Ring, Vivendi Universal's real-time strategy game set in J. R. R. Tolkien's 
 seminal Middle-earth. It's not hard to imagine that Vivendi and developer Liquid Entertainment 
 hoped to cash in on the Lord of the Rings craze with the release of this game. Unfortunately, despite 
 the presence of some recognizable characters, that's what the game ends up feeling like. War of 
 the Ring has gameplay that could have been lifted straight out of any generic fantasy-themed real-time 
 strategy game from several years ago.  

          If that's Frodo, then this must be the Fellowship.     

  War of the Ring is split into 
 two 10-mission campaigns, giving you a behind-the-scenes look at the epic conflict from both sides. 
 Playing the good campaign explains how it was that Legolas, Gimli, and Boromir all managed to show 
 up at Rivendell just in time to join the Fellowship of the Ring. Meanwhile, the evil campaign tells 
 how the forces of Sauron managed to break out of Mordor and besiege the city of Minas Tirith.  
 

  The game conforms to the traditional real-time strategy model that you've probably seen and played 
 before. You start off with a handful of units and must immediately establish a base and begin collecting 
 the game's two resources: wood and ore. Then you start churning out units while you pursue the 
 upgrade path on the research tree. When you've finally amassed a large enough force, it's time 
 to venture out and attack the enemy. It's a tried-and-true formula that does offer visceral thrills 
 when you crush your opponent, and, if done right, it's a formula that can be very challenging and 
 rewarding.  

  The problem is that War of the Ring suffers from a limp artificial intelligence and bland level 
 design. In essence, the easiest path to victory is to simply outproduce your opponent. The end 
 result is that beating most missions involves hunkering down in a defensive position and researching 
 all the upgrades you researched in the last mission just so you can pump out the game's uberunits. 
 Churn out about a dozen of these, lasso them with the mouse, and click on the enemy's base. Sit 
 back, relax, and repeat the process in the next mission.  

  At the default difficulty level, the AI is ridiculously easy to beat in the good campaign. For 
 the majority of the missions, all it does is send token raiding parties your way every few minutes, 
 just to keep you honest. These raids are easily beaten back, and they never escalate in scale or 
 threat to you. This behavior is puzzling considering that in skirmish mode, the same default AI 
 is actually pretty aggressive and will stomp you if you're not careful. You can't help but get 
 the feeling they've nerfed the good campaign so that it appeals to casual players. However, if 
 you want more of a challenge, you have to play the evil campaign, which was made for veteran players. 
 There the levels are designed in a way that force you to venture out early to locate and secure 
 secondary outposts that you must then defend. More importantly, the AI plays a much more aggressive 
 game. The end result is that you experience some very harrowing missions, especially a defend-the-Alamo-style 
 battle where your orcs have to repulse consecutive waves of Gondor horsemen.  

          Huorns in action, or, "When Trees Attack."     

  The developers did add a twist to 
 the real-time strategy formula, which they called "fate." Basically, this can be thought of as 
 a karmic system of sorts. The more damage you inflict on the enemy, the more fate points you're 
 rewarded. You can use individual fate points to acquire bonuses for your heroes, like getting Frodo 
 his sword Sting, or you can even use them to recruit a new hero, like Aragorn. The real treat happens 
 if you save up a large reservoir of fate points. Then you can cast some epic spells that play a 
 decisive role in combat, such as the "murder of crows" spell, which summons a swarm of the black 
 birds to encircle your units, absorbing all missile attacks. By using another spell, you can summon 
 a gigantic creature, like the Balrog.     

  Skirmish and multiplayer have a wide range of options, from the obligatory deathmatch to a few 
 exotic game types. The best of these is catapult, which is based on one of the game's single-player 
 missions. As the name suggests, there's a gigantic catapult on the map somewhere, and the goal 
 is to locate and seize control of it so you can rain gigantic boulders on enemy bases. The trick, 
 of course, is trying to keep your base adequately defended while at the same time trying to seize 
 and maintain control of the catapult. This is difficult, of course, because your opponent will 
 throw waves of attackers at you in a desperate attempt to seize it for himself. It makes for some 
 good fun as you try to race forces around the map to where they're needed most.  

          Using fate points to bolster troops with a defensive spell.     

  Graphically, War 
 of the Ring suffers somewhat from the fact that it's built on the Battle Realms engine, which is 
 2-year-old technology. They've spruced things up a bit, like including shiny water and seas of 
 grass that part as your units run through them. However, most units and buildings look blocky; 
 especially when you zoom down to get a close-up on the action. For instance, faces on dwarf units 
 are badly plastered onto a single polygon. There are some graphical highlights, though. Most of 
 the hero and villain characters look pretty good, and it's fun to see the nazgul gallop into battle, 
 swords swinging. But the best-looking creature, by far, in the game is the Balrog. Just imagine 
 a lumbering, Godzilla-like fire demon snapping a flame whip! That's pretty much what Liquid's re-created 
 onscreen. It's just a stunning moment when he first appears, and it makes you wish that the rest 
 of the units looked as good. That said, the game runs smoothly, even with lots of units on the 
 screen, and the big melees can be impressive -- with spell effects going off everywhere. Additionally, 
 the developers have done a nice job of paying attention to the little details, like bloodstains 
 on swords.  

  In terms of audio, the music is appropriately folksy for the good guys and similarly menacing for 
 the bad guys. The voice acting is adequate, even if the main dwarf hero does sound like an evil 
 version of Steve Irwin, the "Crocodile Hunter." (Just to make things clear, War of the Rings isn't 
 associated with any of Peter Jackson's stunning movies. Vivendi performed an end around and flanked 
 New Line Cinema and official game license-holder Electronic Arts by getting the Tolkien family 
 license. So, while War of the Rings is an "official" Lord of the Rings game, don't expect Ian McKellen, 
 Elijah Wood, or anyone else from the movies to provide any voices.) For what it's worth, Vivendi 
 and Liquid also did a good job of delivering a game that seems relatively bug free; the only minor 
 problem that came up was when our orcs couldn't complete a building, a problem that went away after 
 we restarted the level and never cropped up again.  

          The Balrog eyes some buildings for some smashing fun.     

  In the end, though, you 
 can't help but feel that this is a stripped-down Battle Realms with hobbits, as it feels like virtually 
 every other real-time strategy game that's been produced in the past five or six years. As it is, 
 War of the Ring is a competent, if lackluster, effort that will probably appeal to Middle-earth 
 fans and casual gamers who haven't played a lot of real-time strategy before. If you're a real-time 
 strategy veteran looking for something fresh and exciting, don't look here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mowmoocowcoo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, as a concept, this game is fantastic. the artistic theme it has is rather compelling, and it 
 has very nice lighting and effects. the sounds are fairly fun and it has a decent soundtrack. as 
 well as this, many of the units are very fun to play around with, and with special abilities and 
 upgrades to earn, you would really think a game like this would earn it's spot in the top players. 
 wrong. the game, with it's fun effects and upgrades is highly imbalanced, the campaigns are short 
 and a few levels are unnecessarily difficult, while many others are absurdly easy. the resource 
 mines empty far too quickly, forcing a player to expand, negating many strategy options regarding 
 building up defenses. the game simply has a ton of little errors, and though innovative, gives 
 no long term sense of accomplishment with victory. 
  in short, it has potential and is fairly pretty, but fails in actual gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opaca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is really not bad. The gameplay is took from great titles like warcraft but it is still 
 kinda original, the graphics are decent for that time and the phisics are good too with the "knockback", 
 but there is only one problem I recall. The game AI in campaign is horrible.
  Not horrible of bad, horrible of HORRIBLE. Its the worst AI i have ever saw in a RTS. The difficulty 
 changes a few the AI actions. They dont have any strategy, always send a few units per attack. 
 Where is the magic of LOTR? It should have lots of soldiers fighting like some of the pictures 
 behind the box. But instead u have a copy of warcraft population and fighting style. Except in 
 warcraft the difficult is better and the stages are not repetitive.
  The tech tree is solid, but why does it need to be so small? And some of those units have no use 
 in any strategy. Back to warcraft 3, you had certain units per race. Each of them has its own strategy 
 or use in another strategy. No unit was left off, even the peons had an use. But here some of them 
 are a complete waist. Like the goblin spearman. He is a waist, there is no situation in the whole 
 game you will need that goblin.
  Well, despite those minor problems, the game is solid, playable and its kinda funny to see a dwarf 
 discussing with an elf. In the end, its a game marketed for LOTR fans and RTS starters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game suffered horrifically because it actually had a degree of negative hype, it was obviously 
 cashing in on the release of the lotr movies, without actually paying the actors etc for voices. 
 Its incredibly cartoony when compared with official movie games like battle for middle earth, but 
 it does deliver quite solid gameplay and, unlike bfme 2, it is balanced as it only has two factions. 
 There are a good selection of maps, 3 difficulty settings and units that become progressivly stronger 
 depending on the level of your fortress (Like the age in age of empires) , so its basically just 
 a cartoonistic, tolkein related take on what every other strategy game has done before, so its 
 basically only good for fans of middle earth.
  
  Now that bfme has come out, that instead and forget this game ever existed, as it will not be remembered 
 for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  well this game was the first RTS for LOTR which was to some degree a good thing and to some degree 
 bad. The good was that the game has rather fun gameplay though not entirley the best. The campeign 
 mode was good, however the evil campeign wasn't so great, mainly do to the fact that the evil teams 
 resorces are alot slower coming in then the good teams. But the fact that blood showed up on the 
 weapons after orcs etc got killed was a nice touch. The music to this game is great, it really 
 sets the mood, atmospher etc of the game. The bad however, even for it's time the graphics were 
 cartoony and dated, but that didn't stop it from being a fun game. Online gameplay wasn't very 
 good either, as there was alot of server lags and you could never get a good rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The quest to destroy the One Ring continues in the first real-time strategy game based on The Lord 
 of the Rings saga. Massive battles erupt as the forces of light and darkness fight for control 
 of Middle-earth. The more units you destroy, the more experience and visual enhancements you earn. 
 Play as the forces of good and valiantly fight for the ring's destruction or play as the forces 
 of evil to claim control over Middle-earth forever.
  Though it capitalizes on the momentum generated by the recent films, War of the Ring uses the original 
 books as source material and extends the conflicts beyond the core story of the Fellowship. Displaying 
 the same level of personality and animation found in Liquid's previous game, Battle Realms, the 
 world of Middle Earth comes to life with vast grassy plains, gathering storm clouds and the blight 
 of Sauron passing over the land. Players are able to take both sides of this conflict as they extend 
 Sauron's reach over the lands of Middle Earth or try to battle his minions back to the gates of 
 Mordor. Fielding units from hobbits to Balrogs, you'll have the chance to refight some of the classic 
 battles from the series including Helm's Deep, Edoras, Cirith Ungol and Dol Guldur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  First off, if you have Warcraft III (or any Warcraft for that matter) don't bother with this game 
 - it's more or less a very watered down version of Warcraft. Even if you're really into LOTR you 
 will likely be disappointed, too as there is only a casual link between this game and the books. 
 Basically, Sierra slapped this mish-mash of poor story telling and completely UN-epic gameplay 
 on some old RTS engine they had lying around and popped War of the Ring out just in time to make 
 a few bucks off of the last Peter Jackson flick without having a movie tie in license. That kind 
 of cynical marketing is just plain crass and the product is just as offensive to any intelligent 
 consumer. For all of it's shortcomings it's not at all miserable to play if taken for what it is 
 - a generic RTS. The visuals are flat, yet they have a hand-drawn appearance that lends the game 
 some charm. The game engine was clearly intended to be used for small skirmishes and not the large, 
 epic battles that make up the War of the Ring in Tolkien's books and the recent movies. if this 
 game came out in 1998 and was not a LOTR license it would have been pretty good. Unfortunately, 
 it came out in 2003 and is a complete turd in 2007.
  
  If you find it in a bargain bin and you can spare the dough, fine - but don't even think about 
 paying even $10 for this coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasGray
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Deja-F******-Vu, Warcraft III anyone? its like looking at a pair of adidos or nyke .... Very lame... 
 a game made for people who don't really care what they're playing as long as they get to hack &amp; 
 slash through levels like a hot knife through butter... disappointing... good thing i rented, which 
 i suggest you do too. LoTR fans beware... disappointment ahead, the rest of you, well... you need 
 not be warned, fer ye know ye strategy games, :D why is almost every film-to-game franchise doomed 
 to fail? i really don't know, it's kinda sad actually, LoTR itself, the book &amp; the movies were 
 awesome only wished someone would bring out a decent LoTR game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  What a bad impulse buy !!! jesus ... now i only got 24$ on my Edge Card!!! there goes a nice psp 
 game!!!!
  
  Gameplay: Very much like warcraft III but .... just crappier. The game it self is pretty slow. Can 
 get very boring.
  
  Graphics: The reason i gave the graphics an 8 ( which was what probobly saved it from a terrible 
 score ) was because it looked similar to warcraft III but again.... crappier.
  
  Sound: the sound is ok... nothing that stands out... typical RTS sound ( except for DoW )
  
  
 I bought it and wasted my money ..... this was probobly the worst impulse buy since goblin commander 
 ( dont buy that game ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Lotr: The War of the Ring is the first real time strategy game for the Lotr trilogy. The good side 
 campaign is pretty much what Legolas, Gimli, and Boromir did before the Fellowship of the Ring. 
 Not exactly the War of the Ring. The evil campaign is about the War of the Ring though. It has 
 you leading the forces of evil against Gondor and eventually attacking Minas Tirith. The graphics 
 can be a little chunky and blocky at times and when you zoom down the faces look very unrealistic. 
 There is one unique part of the game though. It's called fate. When you get in battles you get 
 fate. It can be used to buy heroes and powers such as summoning an Ent or Balrog as well as other 
 spells. This game is fun at some times and at others not so much. My suggestion is that if you are 
 looking for a good Lotr RTS go for Battle for Middle-earth l or ll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: War of the Ring was the first RTS game based on the LOTR universe. Since 
 then, two more LOTR RTS games have been released (BFME I and II) , and needless to say, both those 
 games are much deeper strategy games, and would offer a better choice for the hardcore strategy 
 gamer. However, for casual strategy fans and most importantly LOTR enthusiasts, this game can provide 
 a good amount of excitement as well as a different take on the LOTR saga.
  
  Like I previously mentioned, the game is a very simple RTS at it's core. I would actually say it 
 feels more like an action game played in RTS mode. That's not necessarily a bad thing, and it's 
 not impossible for a hardcore strategy gamer to enjoy the game. You would simply have to toss aside 
 any pre-conceptions you have about other RTS games, such as unit formation, unit aggressiveness, 
 a deep tech tree, as well as resource management and massive armies. You can play as both the "free 
 people" (the good campaign) or as "sauron's army" (the evil campaign) . Both sides are very well 
 balanced and there's an equivalent for almost every unit on each side. There are also lots of hero 
 units for both factions, and these heroes can be very fun to play with, since they can cast some 
 pretty cool powers or spells in the middle of the battle. To make use of these powers, you'll need 
 to use fate points, which are earned as you defeat enemies and destroy their camps. There's also 
 the option to cast other fate powers that don't require the use of a hero (although this will cost 
 fate points every time you use them) , as well as to summon some "uber" units such as the Giant 
 Ent for the good side and the Balrog for the evil side (the Balrog is a truly stunning creature, 
 and the first time it shows up is really awe-inspiring) .
  
  The heroes in the good campaign are the members of the fellowship, while the heroes in the evil 
 campaign are mostly characters that don't show up in the movies (except for Gollum and Saruman) . 
 All hero units are vital in the battleground, although in some missions their death isn't a great 
 loss, since they can be respawned at your camp.
  
  Playing both campaigns is a lot of fun, and there are certain battles that are inspired from the 
 movies (like Helm's Deep) , but most of them are actually taken from Tolkien's books. The battles 
 don't require much planning, as the basic strategy to use through the whole game is to max out 
 your army and overwhelm your opponent. The battles can be very satisfying, but it's a shame the 
 game has such a low population cap, set at 100 (and most of your units take more than one population 
 slot, so your armies really consist of about 25-40 units) , since this takes away some of the epicness 
 from the battles. The evil campaign is overall more enjoyable and is suited for more experienced 
 players, although it's not dramatically more difficult than the good campaign (which is clearly 
 aimed at casual players) . Both campaigns consist of 10 scenarios and each scenario gradually increases 
 in difficulty. I highly recommend playing both campaigns, even if the notion of playing against 
 the fellowship could turn you off at first (for the record, and this is a MINOR SPOILER, you never 
 actually do battle with the fellowship in the evil campaign) .
  
  The graphics in the game are appropriate enough, although they aren't necessarily spectacular. 
 The evil units are much more detailed and they don't seem as generic as the good units. The Balrog 
 is by far the best looking unit in the game, and most of the movement from your units as well as 
 the casting of spells and powers are very well animated. The locations are also very nicely detailed, 
 although there's not much to interact with in them. Finally, the game runs very smoothly, even 
 during the large battles (watching fate powers being cast from both sides simultaneously can be 
 very fun to watch) .
  
  The sound is really great; the music changes according to the situation you're in. As you enter 
 battles the music tempo rises, and this really elevates the intensity of the combat. The regular 
 ambient music is also very good and appropiate for each side. The only aspect of the sound that 
 can be a little lacking is the voice acting from some of the heroes (none of the actors from the 
 movies participated in the voice acting of this game) . But that's just a minor complaint, and overall 
 the sound is a great aspect of the game.
  
  War of the Ring is overall a good game. Even if it may not appeal to hardcore strategy gamers who 
 demand a little more depth from their games, the target audience of the game (casual strategy gamers 
 and LOTR enthusiasts) should have little problem enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  War of The Ring is pretty cool. You can add skills and things to your army or hero's. It is a fun 
 game to play and you can find yourself saying ok then, just one more level , but it's not the best 
 Lord of The Rings game and its not the best strategy game by far.
  
  The character voices are a bit rubbish and it can be tedious at times to get through a level. When 
 it was released, it was a good buy but there are far bigger and better RTS games on the market 
 now. Even within the Lord Of The Rings sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings War of the Ring is a rts for the pc developed by Liquid Ent. and published by 
 Sierra Entertainment . in War of the Rings you can play as two different factions , the good side 
 where you play as elfs humans and the like and evil where you play evil monsters such as orcs goblens 
 and more. War of the Ring has three ways to play , campaign mode where you play as ether good or 
 evil and play through the story of the lord of the rings, online mode where you play against other 
 people and skirmish mode where you set up a battle the way you want and then play said battle. 
 The good campaign is much easer than the evil one so if you are new to the rts games you should 
 start with the good story. while I was playing this game I spent most of my time in skirmish mode 
 because of all the game play options so if you just want to play a few rounds against the a. i this 
 is the mode for you. The graphics in war of the ring looks good when the camera is zoomed out but 
 when you see things up close it does not look so good. The game play in War of the Ring is very 
 fun and easy to learn but it is a good idea do play the tutorial. The sound is also very good but 
 it does not have voices from the movie which might sound weird to some people. I bought this game 
 two years ago and I still play it and I think you will play it as long as me if you buy this game. 
 In short Lord of the Rings War of the Ring is a great rts that any Lord of the Rings fan should 
 play.
  
  Thank you for reading this review I hope you found it helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcAngelKemuel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game at first looks great but one you start playing it for a while this game get a bit boring, because 
 you star doing the same stuff over and over and over again. The campaign mode lets you play for 
 both side, the campaign map are big, but you can only built on some areas, because most of the map 
 is fill with ruins and mountains and other stuff. The side of evil is cool but the bad thing is 
 that you can only built on ares that are corrupted and that can only be done by placing some "evil" 
 pillars (I don't really know what is the name of the pillar on the game) . In the game you have a 
 limited amount of food and rock so that make your army limited and building. The campaign is a bit 
 short and some times boring (well almost all the time) . The graphics are good but the details on 
 the building and stuff like the villager are a bit low. This game could've been much much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 10, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  LOTR: WAr of the ring:
  There is a porblem i would just like to state to other reviews at this station... this game is 
 not meant to be compared to the Film... it is created by J. R. R. Tolkiens family members who brought 
 the game to life with the BOOKS! Now thats out of the way onto the reviews.
  
  I enjoy many RTS's, building towns, collecting artifacts and taking art in epic battles surely 
 does rock my boat. Though rumours were arrising of a new RTS based on the LOTR books. LOTR is highly 
 popular as it has now been highly recongnised by youths to adults in its fantasy, war genre. Though 
 the game could have been better. There was not enough missions for the good side and you rarely 
 got to command the fellowship together. The ending resolved into fighting the Balrog??????? which 
 is not actually in the books and kind of messed up the game. The evil campaign was so much more 
 enjoyable though only one epic battle was recognised through the whole game and that was Helms 
 deep! War of the ring staged many great effects such as grass swaying as your units moved through 
 the colourful forests, water splashing as you glided your mouse over it though this was not all 
 it cracked up to be. There were few buildings and few units to build and a maximum poulation limit 
 of 100! Quite poor in comparison to Age of empires 1&2 and age of mythology and Warcraft 3! And 
 also no-one is ever online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings game are usually good but war of the ring isnt. First off there is no official 
 movie clips or any proper charachter voices and its too short. The games graphics are pretty good 
 but the sound totally sucks. The game also has some moments when you just want to smash your pc 
 with a sledgehammer (well at least i did) . The game also has its good moments like the fantastic 
 and i mean fantasic helms deep level but it doesnt make up for the rest of the games failures. 
 Overall if you are not a big LOTR fan get this but if you are a big fan get battle for middle earth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianguy7
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I initially reviewed this as a 5.0 because I was shocked to have it end at Helm's Deep (movie 2 
 of 3) and the screenshots were deceptive with the number of units you can support at once. However, 
 it is truly not a bad game, and I can honestly say I often want to go back and replay it. 
  Helm's Deep is well done, it is great fun to manage all 9 fellowship memebers, and the voice-acting 
 is decent (more from the texts than the movie scripts) . I am a big fan of the books, and I don't 
 consider the recent films to be "gospel" so it's not bad to have other interpretations out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoarse_lord
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  The game bugs me it's slow paced! The levles are Far too short it's not even good the graffics 
 are rather dissapointing. I can't find a worse Lord of the rings. I find this game annoying the 
 music dose my head in. it's not good at all thats why i say DO Not Buy! Really Lord of the rings 
 needs to be much better and not as Silly and pointless as this game. What a good Lotr RTS? Get 
 Battle for middle earth 1. It's really good, fun to play and not pish like this game. So if you 
 like easy get this the good campain can be done in 2 hours. Evil is a little harder but not really, 
 trust me get EA's you'll be glad not to get this and last i wish a good new game would come out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  War of the ring is the worst strategy game belive me ive tried the game before and it was uselless 
 the game is like a redo of warcraft i mean this is crap man since the graphics stinks and the enemy 
 is to easy to be deafeted 
  
  the graphics are bad and when you see from the screenshot i mean sure its nice but soon when you 
 play it the game is bad as hell i cant take this crap no more thats why i gave it a poor because 
 to its bad use of graphics and bad use of gameplay i think you all should not buy this crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Indeed, the game was great. It had a comparatively easy learning curve and more or less followed 
 the plot and characters of the trilogy - well, I think less would be a more appropriate one. 
 
  
  War of the Ring controls were very similar to Battle Realms but personally I did not have much 
 to gripe about Battle Realms except for the campaigns getting ultra hard. It did not really bother 
 me that there were no air units in the game. 
  
  But the War of the Ring is another thing. If it is to be faithful to the trilogy, air units should 
 have been included (e. g. the nazgul and the eagles) and the undead to aid the good side particularly 
 because the good side's units are outnumbered by the bad side and also surpassed in clobbering 
 ability by the presence of the stonethrowers. 
  
  I hope just like what happened with Command and Conquer Generals that did not have initially have 
 sea units but provided an expansion that had them, the War of the Ring could have an expansion 
 containing the said units I mentioned above. 
  
  These would definitely bring the game to a new level and would increase its novelty. That's all... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings is the second best selling book in the world, after the Bible and the movies 
 have made billons for the movie industry so in this day and age its hard not to a Lord of the 
 Rings fan. The Lord of the Rings: The War of the Rings fails to live up to the standard of the 
 books and movies and also fails as a game in general. This is a game that feels like you played 
 it a hundred times before if you play a lot of other RTS games and only way this game is going 
 to sell is because of the Lord of the Rings tag on it. 
  
  Gameplay,
  If you have played Warcraft III then this game will seem like a complete clone, but Warcraft III 
 is better in every way. If you have played Warcraft III to death then War of the Ring will get 
 boring real fast. There is one thing new in the game and that is fate, but calling it a revolution 
 in the genre is going way too far.
  
  Fate is what you get when you kill a large number of enemies and when you get enough of it you 
 summon power and creatures to help you in battle and like the gameplay it gets old fast. 
  
  Graphics,
  The game is running on the Battle Realms engine which was made in 2001 so the 
 tech that is running this game is very limited. When you get up-close to the units it not very 
 nice to look at and the environments in the game are nothing special. There are some very good 
 looking units in the game, like the Balrog but you will rarely see it in the game so its sort 
 of a waste.
  
  Sound,
  The sound in the game is OK but nothing special, the sound effects when you are in battle are bland 
 and sometimes boring and the voice acting in the game is good considering they dont have the actors 
 from the movies to do there characters for them. Overall the sound is OK but nothing new or special. 
 
  
  Value,
  The game has two campaigns, the good campaign and the evil campaign, they are fun and it tells 
 you how some of the charters (Like Legolas, Gimli, and Boromir) got to Rivendell. Apart from that 
 there is nothing special about the games campaigns but its fun.
  
  The skirmishes are good and the AI can be very smart if you have the difficulty level on high or 
 above but below that the AI just does some stupid things. The multiplayer in the game s he best 
 part of the game and the auto-match system in the game is well done but I found myself just going 
 back and playing Warcraft III online so dont expect the online to keep your attention very long.
 
  
  Overall,
  This game is boring and you should only play it if you want to learn more about Middle-Earth but 
 if want to have fun go play Warcraft III. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toyotahoward
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  It strays from the storyline. The gameplay was very easy. It seemed all the enemies knew where 
 you were all the time. There was not any sneek attack on your part. It took like two seconds to 
 figure it all out. The game in itself was very cheesy. I only played the demo and I'm glad I did 
 because I would have not forgiven myself if I had paid to play this game. The demo version is enough. 
 I played it for like two minutes and I found myself falling asleep. Don't waste your time or money 
 with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game I bought just because of the name. I love the movies and this one is nothing like them. 
 I think it is based more on the books as well as some elements from The Hobbit book.
  
  The game is extremely colorful. It's like playing a Lord of the Rings version of Warcraft 3. The 
 units are okay. I've seen better. There aren't really that many different available units and the 
 upgrades feel like they are never ending. 
  
  The landscapes are also big and bulky like the Warcraft series. The game is good and it is a good 
 game to keep you occupied while waiting for Battle for Middle Earth. 
  
  It's an Okay game. More aimed at novice players with no realy challenge in it. Fun game to play, 
 but Battle for Middle earth makes you forget it even existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a short review, manily because there is virtally nothing to say about this 
 game that hasn't been said about every other fresh-out-of-the-mold RTS of the past.
  
  The game does offer some interesting stuff, like a game type which has your racing to control the 
 insantly powerful catapult, or super heros like the balrog and ents, but these features are few 
 and far between.
  
  Speaking of heros, they're actually done pretty well, even if Gandalf's speicial abilities look 
 cool and suck.
  
  If you're looking for a good RTS set in Middle-Earth, go with The Battle for Middle Earth. It's 
 infinitly better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  WTF! This game blows balls! just dont waste your time! DONT DO IT DONT DO IT DONT DO IT! The characters 
 look like crap. The rangers' sword are twice their height. The good dudes all wear blue armor. 
 They have viking lookin helmets with horns. I absolutely hate this game. HATE IT HATE IT HATE IT! 
 The elves look homo, the uruks dont even have swords! they are used as archers. Some dudes called 
 bearoings are in this game. they have tthe ability to turn into bears. this game just flat out 
 sucks. The trolls are pretty kool lokin and thats about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought this game wasn't really bad. This is the third strategy game i've ever played 
 on a pc. others being red alert 2 and war craft 3. The gameplay is very simple and easy to learn, 
 compared to war craft 3 which is much harder and difficult. I thought the campaigns were fun and 
 entertaining, although the graphics are a little cheesy and bad. The sound is quite good, but i 
 think the gameplay is mainly what you gotta focus on. I played this game for quite a while, at 
 least 100 hours, and i thought it was really fun. Although i don't really recommend you to get 
 this game, i recommend you to get Lord of the Rings, the battle for middle earth (or you can wait 
 for 2) , which is a much better improvement on lord of the ring strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devilz5
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  BAsed on the wars taking place after the destuction of the ring the story of the war of the ring 
 is good although the graphics are horrible!! the sounds itself could drive a player mad! I made 
 an experiment i recorded all the sounds from the game and made my bro listen to them and guess 
 what!. in half an hour my bro had a fever and for some reason diarrea. ITS ALL TRUE. not only that 
 its a very short game. i finished it in 3 hrs! thats right. other than that it is a decent game 
 and should be tried before buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  the war of the ring is one of the games that were published as a result of the great success of 
 the LOTR movies however it seems to greatly let down the real strategy gamer. although in the beginning 
 it seems to be a little bit challenging it turns out to be really boring.
  
  lets's start. first of all the graphics of this game are disappointing and really don't seem to 
 have followed the development of technology in this area. when i saw them they reminded me of older 
 games with really simple graphics. the gameplay is simple that is good on the one side on the other 
 side it doesn't attract the veteran of real strategy games. sound was remarkable and improved in 
 a way the situation. the campaign mode was rather boring with long missions that were however really 
 simple and you got bored very soon! let alone the custom mode that was poor (despite the existence 
 of a variety of maps) and not challenging at all. however i must mention that it was one of the 
 first games that gave the player the possibility to choose which side he wants: the good or the 
 bad guys.
  
  all in all war of the ring is a real strategy game that appeals to beginners who want to know the 
 basics of such type of game without being disappointed of its difficulty. it has its value as a 
 LOTR game and collectors of games related to LOTR should have it in their collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealover8
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  I have to admit when I first saw the box and opened it up to see that scene of an entire army of 
 elves dwarves, soldiers and many other creatures rushing toward the Balrog I was very impressed. 
 One year later I bought the game and played nothing else for about a week. After that I despised 
 the game and the 30$ dollars I spent on it. You'll get maybe a maximum of two weeks fun out of 
 it. Then your about ready to spit on the thing. The entire game could have been so much more. Like 
 Age of Mythology you get some special "God Powers" there are 5 in all. None of them especially 
 significant in my opinion. It's also hard to gain fate (Their take on Favor.) The graphics are 
 adequate from far away but zoom in (Yes the game has the zoom in option) and you'll see cheaply 
 animated expressionless faces. Now for all of you fellows out there who want to control the almighty 
 balrog you won't be dissapointed there. When you summon him he emerges from the ground sending 
 units all around him flying. His wings are well animated and have holes along them giving off a 
 very evil aura. If as much detail went into every character as much as the Balrog the game could've 
 have very well been a classic. Unfortunately it was not to be. The music is upbeat and somewhat 
 countryish for the good guys. For the bad guys it's dark and ominous. You'll find a few good effects 
 here and there such as sometimes when you have a hero in a group of units he or she will shout, 
 "Charge!" Your units will then shout and rush forward. Also grass and flags all blow in the wind 
 with suprising realism. All in all you'll find maybe a week of fun then nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_boobs66
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 30, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is an obvious rip off of Warcraft. It also has the worst single player I have EVER played 
 and multiplayer. I've played Big Rigs and Big Rigs pwned this piece of crap. Do not buy this tripe, 
 you'll waste money.
  
  Graphics are terrible, gamplay I puke on. The sound sounds like pong from the 80's. Value is hardly 
 any becuase you'll destroy the CD before even passing the first mission and how much it sucks. 
 
  
  These should all be burnt and thrown down the gutter, what a waste of time. I hate this game and 
 you will too.
  
  Don't enjoy this tripe and just, don't buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitaniumAlloy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 25, 2004 2:02 am PT
Review:  Although I am a huge fan of all things LOTR, and I thoroughly enjoy RTS games like Warcraft, this 
 game was a great disappointment.
  
  Just like any other RTS, it consists of gathering two different types of resources until you have 
 enough to build troops, which you will order at will to defend your outposts or attack the enemy. 
 A selection of different allies and enemies, rather diverse troops to build makes this game appear 
 interested and will keep you playing for a while. Differing heroes include famous and infamous 
 characters from the LOTR books, all with unique abilities. Also a bit of fun is the use of magic, 
 which is earned by fighting.
  
  You can choose to be Good or Evil sides in both Campaign and Multiplayer, changing both your required 
 buildings, troops and heroes. The campaign offers a lot more in terms of spells, buildings, concepts, 
 heroes, troops etc. and can be fun for a while. The multiplayer however offers barely anything 
 new to differentiate from other RTS other than the novelty of being LOTR. You can make your own 
 Multiplayer maps, which can be quite interesting and complex in terms of quests involved which 
 can make them almost like the Campaign. But in basic Multiplayer and custom maps, there is a troop 
 limit to 200 maximum, which was the biggest let down for me.
  
  So all in all, this game is a bit of fun for a while, more so for LOTR fans, but a great disappointment 
 and lacks in... fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 12, 2004 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is very basic and even though I am a fan of the books and movies I find myself wretching 
 when I try to launch this game. While the whole build up your base and army has been done 1000 
 times before every good game adds something new to the genre. This game added nothing.. as a matter 
 of fact it took away 3 days of my life trying to like it. I expect more out of LoTR and Sierra 
 brand names than this. Graphics arent bad and neither is the gameplay really, it is just so basic 
 and easy that I find myself falling asleep at the keyboard... maybe I will use it when I have trouble 
 sleeping. 
  
  This game is good for a child to play and might even be challenging for them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 11, 2003 8:17 am PT
Review:  The intro was one of the most anti-climactic, low-production intros for a videogame I've seen in 
 years! Absolutely dismal. The voice acting sounded like an amateur actor; Max Payne almost has 
 more inflection in his voice! The music in the intro sounded like a college student with garbage 
 midi tones wrote it; I almost didn't even start the game because the intro was so low-production; 
 I cannot stress that enough.
  
  Textures have the "rainbow-color-palette" of Warcraft. Opening Good Campaigns terrain was not very 
 distinct; depth perception not very immediately-recognizable; many areas of terrain that look as 
 if they can be easily-traversed are not accessible; disappointing.
  
  Character voice acting pathetic as well.
  
  Low depth for us "builders" in the game.
  
 
  Characters are indistinct visually except for the color combinations. Super-low polygon count 
 per char. Nothing exciting; killed the Orc Captain; he just took a pummeling quicker but looked 
 no more terrible than a regular orc.
  
  Second CD is chock full of "art" - who gives a rats a$$?!?! What a waste. I knew guys in high school 
 that had better artistic skills than about 1/3 of the included drawings. Some of these JPGs were 
 enormous - 4MB for some Balrog picture that I could dumb-down to 200kb and fit my screen w/no loss 
 of quality - who put these JPGs on there and why? I'll never know.
  
  Oh I am so underwhelmed, so disappointed and so frustrated that not a single truly great game has 
 been inspired from the last great storyteller - Tolkien!? It is just an absolute travesty. Shame 
 on Liquid Entertainment.
  
  Of all games the concept of WotR had the greatest flex and meat and is quite possibly the worst 
 (as far as PC LotR games are concerned) !
  
  Booo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_best_sarek
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2003 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is in the higher half of RTS games. The game is a good mix of popular elements people 
 want to see in a modern RTS. 
  
  The gameplay is good, but could have been enhanced by simple things, like when you give commands, 
 you don't always have a mark confirmation (the attack move when you set the game in left click 
 mode) . The game is user friendly, as the units surround the target by themselves. That's a good 
 and a bad thing depending of the hunger of players for micromanagement. Most skills require a head 
 to use, that add a bit of strategy and possibility to get better at the game. The interface is 
 classic, so easy to use. I haven't played multiplayer game yet but the game system should be good 
 for a good fight, since it promotes attacking to get Fate Points (Fate points are a special kind 
 of ressource used to summon heroes and use special powers  la Command and Conquers : Generals) .
 
  
  The graphics are the down side of the game. While being not bad, they are lower then what you can 
 expect for a game today. The faces are single textured. The animation of the characters feel choppy 
 from time to time and when there is a lot of action in the screen you wonder what is a unit and 
 what is the ground (especially when fighting over the Evil Side special ground) . The water and 
 grass effects are cool enough to make the maps look more alive. But they could have work this to 
 add special advantage for being in the grass (maybe cover from ranged attack or something like 
 this, but I'm dreaming here since there is nothing of that in any game) . The spell effects are 
 good too (especially the Fate Powers)
  
  The voices of the units are clear and good. Exactly what you expect in this game genre, even though 
 they lack originality (there is some exact Warcraft III sounds with almost the same voice) . The 
 music fits the theme. 
  
  If the multiplayer is as it looks to me, the game value should be good enough. But the game will 
 need a patch to increase a bit the AI. The computer is competitive, but have really strange strategies 
 (like attack when his base is being razed) . the 20 missions are entertaining and any LotR fans 
 will love to control Gimli, Legolas in action.
  
  One sure thing, casual RTS players and LotR fans will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabernac
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2003 7:55 am PT
Review:  Yet again, Gamespot is off on this one. Grant it, WOR is a Warcraft III clone with little novelty. 
 But if you liked Warcraft or Age of Myth and are looking for a fun game to play, pick this up. 
 Graphically, I'll agree that it is not as pretty as Blizzard's hit but still looks good. The effects 
 are cool, some of the terrain desisgns are very nice (moving grass, shiny water, cliffs and mountains. 
 WOR has some interesting elements like massive melees, large groups, and ultimate spells (fate 
 points) . The pace of the combat is very fast, buildings and units get mowed down quickly, which 
 means you don't have to agonize watching a base being torn apart like other games. It's smooth 
 gameplay... no bugs. If you're a veteran RTS fan, play it on the difficult settings... very entertaining. 
 Palin and simple, you're an RTS fan... get it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
