-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battleformiddleearth2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced real-time strategy with authentic Tolkien flavor.
 War of the Ring mode lets you really battle for Middle-earth.
 Excellent production values, beautiful graphics, great sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaigns are fairly generic.
 War of the Ring mode suffers from many weird logical gaps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 7,473 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 2, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Battle for Middle-earth II improves on 2004's game with a better strategic mode and a much broader 
 scope that encompasses the whole of Middle-earth. 

  With the  Lord of the Rings  movie trilogy more than two years in the past now, it seems a bit 
 weird that EA is still pushing ahead with its Lord of the Rings game franchise. After all, 2004's 
 The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth already covered all the ground from the movies. 
 EA's solution, though, was to unify the movie franchise with the general Tolkien license, so now 
 the games can feature content from both the movies and the many Middle-earth books that J. R. R. 
 Tolkien wrote. Armed with this unified license, EA has gone about and created The Lord of the Rings, 
 The Battle for Middle-earth II, a real-time strategy game that features  all  of Middle-earth, 
 and not just the stuff we saw in the movies.  

          Battle for Middle-earth II features new battles in both the north and south of Middle-earth. 
 The original game focused just on the latter.     

  Battle for Middle-earth II focuses mainly on the northern part of Middle-earth, where elves, dwarves, 
 and goblins battled it out while those pesky hobbits trekked to Mt. Doom. That means there are 
 new races and factions that we didn't get to see in the original game, complete with their own 
 heroes and specialized units. The elves are supreme archers, the dwarves are miners who build giant 
 war machines, and the goblins rely on spiders and sheer numbers to swamp you. Battles take place 
 in familiar places, such as the Shire, and in unfamiliar places, unless you've read the books, 
 such as Dol Guldur. And if you liked the factions and settings from the original game, don't worry, 
 because they all appear in the game's overarching War of the Ring mode in one form or another. 

  The two single-player campaigns in Battle for Middle-earth II, one for good and the other for evil, 
 are easily the weakest part of the game, in that they consist of the same, cookie-cutter real-time 
 strategy missions that you've probably played countless times already. There's little here that 
 hints at originality, a situation made worse by the decision to remove some of the more unique 
 ideas from the original game, such as building nodes. In the first Battle for Middle-earth, you 
 could construct buildings on only a few predetermined points of the map, which eliminated the base 
 sprawl problem seen in most real-time strategy games. It also forced you to spread out in order 
 to seize the remote building nodes, which meant that your forces were usually stretched thin trying 
 to defend remote outposts. While Battle for Middle-earth II does try to force you to spread out 
 by the way farms and mines work (you can't concentrate resource centers because it limits their 
 cumulative effectiveness) , you usually needn't worry, because all you really need to do is build 
 up a huge core base and defend it. So basically, much of the strategy in these missions involves 
 "turtling up" in a defensive shell until you manage to research all the unit upgrades, and then 
 sending out a massive force to sweep the enemy off the map.  

  While the single-player game is fairly generic, it is at least saved by some of the rich Tolkien 
 mythology. Once again, you command armies in the form of companies and hero units. Soldiers, archers, 
 and cavalry come in company formations of about 20 to 30 units in size, and they form the bulk 
 of your army. Your hero units include notable characters from the books and movies, such as Aragorn 
 and the Witch King, and they're far more powerful than regular units, with special abilities that 
 they can bring into play. They're also far more expensive to purchase. Meanwhile, once again, you 
 can draw upon special army powers that you purchase by accumulating certain points. These powers 
 can range from summoning a fiery balrog to instantly turning a portion of the battlefield into 
 a lush forest, which confers bonuses to any good units in its midst. Also, it's worth noting that 
 the artificial intelligence is better than it was in the original game, as it's usually pretty 
 good about hitting you where you're vulnerable, which means that the computer can send units around 
 you from the sides.  

  The good news is that things get really interesting once you play with the new War of the Ring 
 mode. Essentially, War of the Ring links all the real-time battles to an overarching strategic 
 campaign, but one that's deeper than the superficial strategic mode in the original Battle for 
 Middle-earth. There are a number of different War of the Ring scenarios to choose from, but the 
 basic goal is that you will try to lead your side to victory by conquering all of Middle-earth, 
 province by province. You can re-create the entire epic scale of the war, with the elves, dwarves, 
 and men battling the goblins, Mordor, and Isengard -- you control one of the factions, while the 
 computer controls the others. Or you can set it up so perhaps the dwarves and elves battle each 
 other, or any combination.  

          The War of the Ring mode lets you try to battle for all of Middle-earth, your way.     
 

  The strategic mode in War of the Ring looks and feels very much like a board game, such as Risk. 
 This isn't a complex or incredibly detailed strategy game, and EA keeps the overall management 
 rather light. Your main job is to manage territories and move armies around the map. And since 
 there are only two building nodes per territory (and only four building choices) , you have to make 
 some basic decisions about each territory's role. You might want your rear territories to house 
 all the farms, which lets you recruit larger armies, while your front-line territories contain 
 barracks to pump out units and fortresses to provide defense. Each territory confers certain bonuses 
 to take into consideration as well, so that may go into your decision making. In addition, if you 
 conquer whole regions, you'll gain even more bonuses. When two opposing armies meet, you can choose 
 either to have the computer automatically generate the battle results or to play the battle yourself 
 in real time. If you do play the battle yourself, you'll drop down to the province map and have 
 to play it out just like you would a regular skirmish game, though any units or strategic buildings 
 that were in the province at the beginning of the battle will show up on the battlefield. Needless 
 to say, to win, just wipe out the opposing force.     

   

   

  War of the Ring does suffer from some issues, though. For one thing, the world's not as persistent 
 as it should be. You can develop a huge base in a territory during one battle, but if the enemy 
 reinvades that territory, most of your structures will disappear and you have to start from scratch 
 again. And while it's understandable that this is so (a contest between a fully developed real-time 
 economy and a nonexistent one isn't really a contest) , it's a bit frustrating, not to mention illogical, 
 to have to rebuild everything all over again. The same goes for armies on the battlefield. Only 
 the units that you build on the strategic map are persistent, which means that the huge armies 
 you may build during a battle disappear once the battle is done. And while those strategic units 
 gain experience, it still doesn't make much sense to see fully developed armies suddenly vanish 
 in the middle of war. It's these kinds of issues that prevent War of the Ring mode from being the 
 ultimate Lord of the Rings strategy experience that many of us have been waiting for, but it still 
 makes for a good lightweight strategy game.  

          You can still summon superunits, such as the balrog, and these can turn the tide in a battle. 
     

  EA has made some changes to the battlefield gameplay mechanics, though not much has changed. Naval 
 warfare is a pretty addition, thanks to the shimmering reflections of ships on the beautifully 
 rendered water. However, ships are featured only a handful of times in the campaign, and they don't 
 come in most of the time during the War of the Ring mode, since most territories are landlocked. 
 Meanwhile, the new emphasis on being able to build defenses such as walls seems a bit misplaced, 
 since walls can be incredibly easy to knock down and defensive towers are something of a joke, 
 making their value suspect. Other new features in Battle for Middle-earth II aren't fully fleshed 
 out. For instance, the new build-a-hero function is pretty lightweight. Basically, you can create 
 your own hero or heroine, and he or she appears as a hero unit in the game. However, the actual 
 build-a-hero function is quite limited, since you can't alter your character's appearance aside 
 from selecting between a few armor types, weapons, and colors -- you're stuck with the physical features 
 that EA gives you. Normally, this wouldn't be a big thing, but since practically every other EA 
 game features a much more powerful build-a-character mode, Battle for Middle-earth II's build-a-hero 
 mode comes off as disappointing.  

  The game's multiplayer suite is also one of its strengths, though be prepared for some brutal and 
 wild matches online. You can play in the customary skirmish game in one-on-one matches or in teams. 
 The new resource model becomes the huge linchpin in multiplayer skirmish, since you have to spread 
 as many resource-gathering centers as possible over the map. This means that the winner is usually 
 the side that can quickly eliminate a handful of the opposing side's resource structures, which 
 is an incredibly easy task. After that, it becomes a huge battle of attrition, as one side has 
 a resource advantage to bring to bear. Heroes and other powerful abilities also come into play 
 quite a bit more during multiplayer, since human players are much smarter about using them than 
 the AI. Hero units like Gandalf are worth their weight in gold, as they can quickly wipe out swaths 
 of an opposing army. Meanwhile, the War of the Ring mode is also playable in multiplayer, though 
 as you'd expect, these games take a long time to play through (we're talking days, not hours) . 
 Thankfully, you can save a game's progress and pick it up at a later time. EA has also done some 
 good work in terms of making games easy to find online -- the server browser is nicely organized, 
 and the game persistently tracks performance so you can easily gauge your chances against a potential 
 opponent by examining his or her experience level.  

  Visually, Battle for Middle-earth II packs a few graphical improvements over the original. For 
 instance, there seem to be a few more shader effects at work, so surfaces such as ice have a nice 
 sheen to them. There's also some improved lighting and shadowing at work. But in general, the graphics 
 haven't evolved much from the first game. That's not a bad thing, though, as the original game 
 still captured the look and feel of Middle-earth quite well. Though the battles are nowhere near 
 as large as those seen in the movies (or in the game's own cutscenes, for that matter) , you still 
 get a sense of the clash of arms as companies of human soldiers clash with hordes of goblins and 
 orcs. And, once again, the biggest units in the game are some of the best looking -- you can send 
 impressively rendered dragons and fellbeasts into battle or watch the noble eagles swoop down from 
 the sky and rip apart an enemy building with their talons. It's interesting to note that the in-game 
 cutscenes taken directly from  The Lord of the Rings  have disappeared in the sequel, probably 
 because the developers would have had to recycle the same cutscenes over again given that there 
 has been no new movie footage since the first game.  

          The build-a-hero mode isn't as powerful as it should be, but at least you can still create 
 your own avatar in the game.     

  The sound effects also remain strong, and Howard Shore's memorable music from the movies echoes 
 throughout the game. Meanwhile, some of the voice work from the original carries over to the sequel, 
 and die-hard  Lord of the Rings  fans may feel a chill down their spines whenever they hear Ian 
 McKellen's Gandalf or Christopher Lee's Saruman declare victory after a battle. And EA managed 
 to find decent substitutes for the other big-name roles.  

  The Battle for Middle-earth II is certainly a better version of 2004's great strategy game. With 
 that said, for all the things it does new or differently than before, some aspects feel a bit undercooked. 
 Still, this is probably the best Lord of the Rings RTS available, and by encompassing the whole 
 of Tolkien's mythology, it really lets you battle for all of Middle-earth this time around.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (391 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  Crazy awsume
  -grahpics good
  -online gets kind of anoying
  -heros are beast
  -Freaking great price
  -cant find the expansion in stores
  -hero creator is cool
  -campain 
 is fun
  -for some reason you cant conect to online without administrative acses 
  -ents take way to mutch time spawning lol 
  -the abilitys you can get are sweet
  -editors confuseing 
 ( or atleast just for me)
  -Freaking great price
  -o war of the ring isnt that great
  +castles are fun to play brutle enimes in
  -in the campign it was a drag not being hummins in 
 it
  -can play humans in skirmishis and the yell lot more than the other races
  like get down or somefing like that
  --- probobly suks on the xbox 360 AN RTS ON A CONSOLE WHAT 
 IS THAT
  -overall like an 9.2
  
  your fellow gamer Mike1238
  Or mikey1238
  Or aldaris0
  Or aldaris1238
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  Being the successor of the first game, you'd expect the BFME series to improve and guess what, 
 it did. All I've got to say is that this is one of the most coolest strategy games i've played 
 ever. Why do I say this? Well, lets find out.
  
  First of all, the presentation is very good for a 2006 game, perhaps it was one of the best in 
 RTS at that time. The visuals are simply amazing and the character animations make the game look 
 more real. so if your a graphics whore looking for a good RTS, look no more because BFME 2 will 
 sweep you off your feet and you'd be playing it for hours.
  
  Secondly, the gameplay has just gotten much better. Aside from the campaigns and skirmishes versus 
 the AI, a new game system called War Of The Ring has been introduced to the series and it is fantastic. 
 It's pretty much a dumbed down version of Total War but you would have to fight for territory against 
 your enemy. Whenever you engage with an opponent, you could either play the battle in real time 
 or just simulate it but beware, you could risk the entire region if you do simulate it.
  
  Last but not least, the story is set onto other characters in Lord Of The Rings , and basically 
 it's about what really happened in the North while the Fellowship were in the south, fighting armies, 
 walking through dead marshes or simply just eating salty pork.
  The art direction really went well for this one and LOTR fans will not be dissapointed with this 
 game at all. If you are one reading this, then I'd recommend this game, it will be a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zekeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This is overall a very good game. The campaign mode is epic, especially the evil campaign. The 
 Skirmish mode is not all it's cracked up to be, though. The developers could have done the AI a 
 lot better than what it is. The AI focuses on building units and not a self-defending fortress. 
 
  
  Graphics wise, I'll say this: If you don't have a very good graphics card, prepare to have either 
 an extremely slow-going game or stick with very low detail. I have a bad graphics card, so I have 
 to go with the low levels of detail. 
  
  This is overall a really good game, but it might only appeal to gamers who like to play this genre. 
 If the gamer does like the genre, there is a high chance that it will become very addictive to 
 that particular gamer. Also, the game is worth the price as long as it is less than $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've played through Starcraft, Warcraft (I II & III) , and others I can't remember right now, but 
 I have to say this is the most enjoyable RTS I've ever played. The good and evil campaigns are 
 good, but the real meat of this experience is in the War of the Rings mode, where you pick a race, 
 team up with an online buddy, or the computer AI, which was challenging to me, and try to take 
 over Middle Earth. You are able to create your own hero, design their appearance, weapons and abilities. 
 My favorite was Krulgar, a troll hero I created that could call bands of trolls to aid him. Well 
 known heroes from the trilogy lead your war bands, Gandalf, Aragorn, the Witch King, Saruman, just 
 to name a few. The voice acting and graphics are terrific, and with each race you have to learn 
 which abilities and strategies will best serve your purposes. The balance is a little skewed toward 
 some races, but with a change in strategy you can compensate for weaknesses.
  The only thing that could be improved upon (and I've read that this was upgraded in the expansion 
 pack) was the lack of your RTS battle actions on the battle map. If you create new units in the 
 RTS battle, they won't show up on the overall battle map. So, room for improvement, but overall 
 I have to give this game a huge thumbs up. I've played and replayed, almost every race, just a 
 great RTS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  In single player mode, it describes the Battle of the North. There are new  
 and Gondor are merged to be Men, Mordor have more units, Isengard is also updated. There are also 
 more powers for the existing and new factions. Each faction also displayed their own strengths and 
 weaknesses. However, walls are thin compared to the previous game so you cannot mount archers on 
 top of the walls. How ever there are new maps and castle maps which allows the player to relieve 
 the battles of both the movie and the book itself. There are also more heroes and there is only 
 one type of resource unlike other strategy games, thus, making the game simpler in some ways yet 
 still as fun. The game is very challenging when you play in hard or brutal mode so for those seeking 
 a challange yet do not wish to play online, you'll be pleased. There is also a Create-Your-Hero function 
 which allows you to create your very own Hero. Either a gallant Captain of Men or a towering Troll, it's 
 your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuesian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Really fun, love playing it. It is a great game, maybe some things they could improve but I think 
 it is alright. The multiplayer needs work, I cannot play becuase of registration problems it says 
 my code is wrong. I would probably say it is 10 for rating if my multiplayer worked. Overall its 
 a great game. They should make a BFME 3 that would be cool. I think the game play would be a 5, 
 it is great and I cannot think of any problems, the Graphics and Picture would be a 4, they could 
 have done better and the Start-up and technical stuff (menu, options, multiplayer) would be a 3 
 too me becuase I do not know what multiplayer is like and there could be some more options. I rank 
 game play from 1-5 1 being the wors and 5 the best. I love the battles in it and the level thing 
 on your profile is cool. I do suggest that EA make a third game or another expansion, it would 
 be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  The game isn't 100% canon, but it's also not totally inconsiderate of the source material. There 
 is some mixing of the second and the third age of Middle Earth. The units seem to be minor revisions 
 of each other. The upgrades are very similar, 1 armor upgrade, 1 melee weapon upgrade and one archer 
 upgrade. The unit types are not very varied either. The elves have cavalry, Isengard has cavalry, mordor 
 has cavaly; it's predictable. The siege units are pretty unique, the elvish ent and the Isengard 
 crossbows are quite different. The evil side has an unending supply of trolls and half trolls which 
 are very annoying. Some balancing could be done, and some rethinking of units would be in order. 
 I'd personally like to see more difference in the civilizations. It's not perfect, but it's not 
 bloody awful either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTuokki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  I think the rocks big time! Graphics look awesome, gameplay is well put out and the story line 
 is fun to play through. I havent tried the multiplayer myself, but some people say it's the best 
 thing to happen in their lives, and then there are some who say it's no that great really... I 
 believe, that when battling against an equal playr to your skills, it could be a whole lot of fun. 
 Of course it's also fun to thrash lower skills level players for good, but a good challenge is 
 often much more fun. ;)
  A part of this game, to which I will not get tired of for a long long time, is the singleplayer 
 mode. I've beat it for over a hundred hours and still not tired. I could say i've become quite 
 skilled, but I can only say that, when I've played against other players.
  All there is left to say, is that it's a great game. Worth searching, worth buying and of cource 
 worth playing! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samstherealhero
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  this is a very good game exspecialy at the low prices you can get it for it rather fun it kept 
 me playing off and on for a year off and on in this case is spending al my free time on it. very 
 good graffix and decent storyline (if you have read the books its better) very good units but wildley 
 inaccurate stats like mirkwood archars are better than the golden woods archers all in all this 
 is a great play for lotr fans but maybe a bit droll after only two weeks for people who no longer 
 remember who elrond is or the capital of rohan also you can be multible factions isengard mordor 
 goblins on the bad side they all have trolls or half trolls on the good side you have men elves 
 and dwarves they are very hard to stop with out archers and since i need more characters ill just 
 uuum ya now do some q and r stuff 
  
  
  q hi r how are you 
  
  
  im great q tadda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle-Earth 2 is a fun game. It is a strategy game. If you like Age of Empires, Warcraft 
 or Star Wars: Empire at war then this game is right for you. Even if you don't know what Lord of 
 the Rings is... You can still play Battle for Middle-Earth 2. you can customize your own hero and 
 play as them... Or... Command an army good or Evil... Build, Expand, Upgrade, Attack, Defend, and 
 have fun!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Play real battles on real maps from the movie... like defend Minas Tirith... 
 Attack Minas Morgal.. invade the Shire... So Play this game! It may not have the best mutiplayer 
 but this game rocks!!!!! Buy this game now and you can begin the battle for  
 The fate of Middle-Earth is in your hands... Shall you destroy it .... Shall you save it.... Or 
 shall you just tear it apart.... Good Luck!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEDman_X
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  
  I've always been quite intrigue by the LOTR series. Aside from that, I am a big RTS fan, and I 
 almost got the game when it first came out.
  
  Eventually, I got it for $9.99 after two years it came out. Unfortunately, I still found it to 
 be a regretful purchase.
  
  Starting with the good, the graphic is gorgeous, and music is also quite amazing. Also, the epic 
 scale of the battle is also accompanied with a few innovative feature, such as purchasing upgrades 
 and using spells. However, as a whole, I was more than a bit disappointed with it.
  
  On the other hand, the campaign is quite short and even a bit redundant. Further more, instead 
 of being rewarded with the usual epic cinematics upon the completion, you get some poorly narrated 
 lines as the camera pans through some still pictures.
  
  The units are also limited. Despite the difference in graphic, each faction plays pretty much the 
 same, with very little differences. However, in my humble opinion, the online features made me 
 urge you to skip this game.
  
  The online setup is extremely unforgiving, due to the fact that you can only register one name 
 per CD key. If you messed it up like I did, too bad.
  
  I worked as a computer technician before. With that said, I had plenty of experiences calling up 
 tech support to assist my clients. However, EA customer support is BY FAR, THE WORST customer support 
 I've encountered. It's nearly impossible to find its phone number of the website, which gave me 
 the impression that EA is doing everything possible to prevent you from calling. Furthermore, the 
 automated message repeated the sentence "we are currently experiencing high volume of calls, please 
 stay on the line or call back later" continuously with about a 2 second interval in between (it's 
 not a direct quote) ; it drove me crazy.
  
  The customer service people were not helpful at all. After being transfered again and again for 
 more than an hour, I decided to give up. Even to this day, I never had a chance to experience the 
 online gameplay.
  
  As far as I'm concerned, the love of the novels really won't make you enjoy this game much more. 
 To sum up, it's unfortunately to see a game with such a great potential delivers such a poor result. 
 You might just enjoy Warcraft III or Age of Mythology a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomanlol4
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game to play if you like/love REAL-TIME STRATEGY games. The graphics is pretty good. 
 There are many factions that you can play, all with their uniqueness, and strengths and weaknesses. 
 They added many new things to "Battle for Middle-earth II" that were not in the first one. They 
 also modified a lot of things. I think that the campaign was pretty fun. There are many maps that 
 you can play. There is way more to do in this game than its prequel, like building ships, new units 
 and vehicles, and buying new powers. I loved how you can create your own hero in the game. You 
 can customize what it is (human, elf, dwarf, orc, etc.) , and change its armor and weapons. You 
 can even give it the powers you want it to have. The War of the Ring mode is okay. I guess there's 
 a lot more strategy you have to do in that mode. The gameplay may get a little boring if you play 
 for a VERY long time. This is a very exciting game, overall. You should play it if you get the 
 chance to.
  
  If you would like to contact me, my GAMESPOT is yomanlol4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gondor235
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  The game itself is easy to play, graphics are good, but the one thing that gets me each time is 
 the quality of the game. ever since the numerous issues i had with the sims i was always extremely 
 cautious about buying games from EA. I read excellent ratings about BFME 2, after playing the game 
 for awhile i was quite pleased. Up until the game started deleting its own files. For a couple 
 of days i monitored the game, and each day i would get all sorts of errors. This had nothing to 
 do with my PC seeing as i had just re-formatted it. The game itself was somehow deleting files. 
 To those of you who are looking to purchase the game, all i want to say is don't waste your money, 
 this game was made horribly and replay value is very poor. And to those other gamers, do not buy 
 games from EA they are crap and don't work, they will always have glitches! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunnHippo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The First Battle for middle Earth, had me addicted for months. Large battles, great graphics, astounding 
 audio, great campaign, and finally: Castles with walls. I was so hyped about the sequel, new races, 
 new units, enlarged squad sizes, new heroes, create a hero, and vice versa. After seeing lots of 
 demonstrations (via video) it made me buy the collector's edition.
  PROS
  The graphics look better than BFME1
  War of the Ring mode
  More larger battles
  Create a 
 Hero
  Still fun but not as fun as the first
  
  MIXED
  Ships were fun but is a very overshadowed class of units and has a minor role in the game (Hoped 
 for some huge ship vs. battles in skirmish)
  
  CONS 
  Collector's Edition is worthless
  I was kinda disappointed at the main menu when you compare it to the Eye in BFME1.
  Unit sizes 
 are somewhat too big which makes the units occasionally hard to control in a large battle
  Campagin felt repititive and boring.
  Weird bugs: Eowyn's horse's textures stretch for some reason, 
 some units (espeicially the calvary) aren't accurately hitting their opponents (the lance is stabbing 
 into air)
  Rohan was missing (I dislike the dwarves and elves sadly)
  The game doesnt feel like Middle Earth (film version) , it felt too fantasy-like like Warcraft 3: 
 the singing guy, dwarves/elves, underground fire-breathing serpents, tornadoes, earthquakes, etc.
 
  No castles (Biggest letdown)
  
  Overall: It could've been a better game if the ships had a much larger role, bugs were fixed, they 
 had Human/Mordor/Isengard campagins, units still had the ability to combine, and finally: Castle 
 with walls. In the end, it's still fun, but lacking alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutherb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, and perhaps one of the most enjoyable RTS games I have every played. I just 
 don't get Gamespot's mediocre rating of LOTR2 or the first LOTR for that matter. Just like the 
 first LOTR, this game has a great story, interesting characters, well done dialogs, and - most 
 important - very fun units to play with in well designed scenarios. It is another well conceived 
 and designed adaptation of the LOTR world a la Peter Jackson.
  
  This game is a significant enhancement over the first LOTR game. No longer are you confined on 
 building layout and placement. Furthermore, LOTR2 now includes an interesting strategic level game 
 as well. My only complaint is that units created in the strategic level tactical engagements cannot 
 be migrated into the larger strategic campaign. Nonetheless, this is a very enjoyable and well 
 designed RTS game which you can purchase at a bargain price of $9.95 (the last time I checked) . 
 It really is a complete steal at that price!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Quanstars
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings games hadn't had a very good track run until the first battle for middle earth 
 game came out which suprised some people by actually being worth playing. This sequel inproves 
 on the original and certainly has alot of fun references to the books. As far as single player 
 modes it has both good and evil campaigns both of which i personally found to be a little short 
 and just a little bit too easy. their isn't really much of a challenge until the last mission of 
 the good campaign. In addition to the campaign you can also play skirmishes against the computer 
 which are much more difficult than the campaign but the real challenge lies in the war of th ring 
 mode. This mode is very reminiscent of a board game and is pretty challenging and is very strategical. 
 You can play both the war of the ring and skirmish modes in multiplayer aswell. on the graphical 
 side the game looks great though there are some noticeable slowdowns when there are alot of units 
 on the screen. For me their was also some added value to this game for having tom bombadil in this 
 game because frankly that dude is amazing. I loved that he was one of the special powers
  This game is totally worth playing so try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noctoural88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It has an in depth story and replays battles that took place throughout the 
 entire LOTR trilogy (not just the movies) . It is basicly the Lord of The Rings fanboy's dream. 
 If you are a fan of the trilogy, or RTS' in general this is a great choice. The gameplay is just 
 great. Well balanced castle building and battalion style combat make for a great experience. It 
 would be alot better to control more troops though. I doubt the elite orcish horde consisted of 
 30 warriors and 10 archers. The character creation is is a really fun and interesting feature, 
 but the fact that you can't change your character's appearance is a fallback. and very un-unique 
 skills mixed with only a couple of classes make for a very generic character that always equals 
 the same as other create-a-characters. Overall the game is fun and any person who has an appreciation 
 for RTS' should pick it up. 20$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of the LOTR movies, in fact, I can't stand them. I only bought this game in the 
 first place because it was an RTS. 
  
  The first game in the series was, in my opinion, terrible. So much lacking in that game made me 
 very cautious about this game. I first got this game on the Xbox 360 about a year or so ago and 
 I loved it. I know own the PC version and still play it every now and then.
  
  Having no interest at all in the movies the game was suprisingly fun and kept me interested for 
 a long amount of time, the game play is nothing new but the units that you can controlle in the 
 game are really awesome and perform there duties very well. You are able to build anywhere you 
 like in the game whitch should be an RTS basic requierment now-a-days sadly this was somthing you 
 was unable to do in the first game. 
  
  The graphics are nothing special and there is no new gameplay eliments that you can say are featured 
 in this game but that still doesnt mean that this game is very good and will keep you entertained 
 even if you do hate the movies like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  "The game EA should have released two years ago!"
  
  This game does a hell of a lot more in the second time around. Better graphics, gameplay, story, 
 maps, online gaming, and soundtracks are just a few to mention.
  
  Three new factions have been included in BFME 2 but two previous factions have merged together 
 whie two others have stayed the same. The three new factions are: dwarves, elves, and goblins. 
 Rohan and Gondor have merged together, and Isengaurd and Mordor have pretty much been lefted untouched.
 
  
  Each of these factions have unique abilites and heroes that can be attained as the game progresses. 
 However, some of these abilities and hereos can bring balancing issues during the gameplay. 
  
  LIke going back to Warlords Battlecry II in this game you are allowed to create your own hereos. 
 In this feature you can customize your hereos race, armor, appereance, speciality and skills. While 
 in game play your heroes will level up and earn skills.
  
  Gameplay has quickened its pace and forces you to play faster and smarter. The A. I can either be 
 easy or very hard. 1 vs. 1 can be a great challenge. However, including 4 or 5 other players and 
 you can have a really amazing battle in your hands. However, those balancing issues can come into 
 effect. Furthermore, naval combat is totally worthless. Controlling ships in battle is a complete 
 pain. Those ships are overly powered and you can accidently sink your own ships with different 
 abilities.
  
  The campaign is satisfactory in lenght, but a tad repetitive in story. Cut scenes are a nice touch, 
 but would have been better if they were animation quality. That being said the graphics are much 
 better then the previous version of the game, but it not revolutionary.
  
  I recommend this game to any RTS/ Lord of the Rings fan. However, you guys won't be finding yourselvese 
 to playing this game for a long time because there are better RTS games out there on the market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: With the first Lord of the rings: battle for middle earth in 2004 pretty much most of 
 the battles and adventures have allready been covered. The fight for Middle-earth is still the 
 focus of the campaigns, but the structure has been changed pretty dramatically from the first game.
 
  There are 16 campain missions on each the good side and the evil side, which are intresting enough 
 to keep you occupied. Also there are also 40 skirmish maps to play. Many of them provide very cool 
 settings to play in like Rivendell, Celduin, Erebor, and The Shire and most are constructed to 
 fit the fiction and progress the action and technology. What I liked about this second installment 
 was the ability to create heroes in this game. Depending on what side you on, you can customize 
 your character from the color to what abilities they have. There has been some gameplay changes 
 for Battle for Middle-earth II, now it has more of an old school feel to it. Bases can now be built 
 free-form instead of the set base size with a number of build plots like in the first game. Now, 
 since walls can be built and buildings placed anywhere, changes were made to what can be constructed 
 and how resources are collected. Walls become a huge strategy for certain races (though they're 
 usually very expensive to construct) . There are also some new races to play such as the elves, 
 Drawfs and the goblins.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been improved, especially for the xbox 360 version it just seem to 
 be enhanced by the system. Everything is well detailed and has great camra angels. 
  
  sound: Well the sound is great in this game. It uses some of the music from the movie which is 
 nice and the voice acting sounds great aswell along with the sound effects such as the arrow shots 
 and stuch.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good sequal which is rare these days. What i disliked was the cookie 
 cutter type gameplay this game EA gave us, secondly I did not liked during the campaine it was 
 much like risk and when you lost a area and got it back again you had to re-build everything. All 
 in all this was a good game which I enjoyed though it did seem a little underrated. I give this 
 game 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Bosmer
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  After loving the first Battle for Middle Earth game, I find myself in total confusion as for why 
 this game was so badly made.
  Out of the box this game looks awesome; new races, building and units. I fire up the game and start 
 a skirmish. I look at the maps and notice 'Helm's Deep'. One of my favourite things from the first 
 one was turtleing up in a castle and trying to defend it from hordes of free and angry orcs. Yes, 
 free because in the first game they realised that orcs were pathetic and shouldn't have cost, now 
 they do. Anyway, at Helm's Deep I build a base with builders. I then notice a bunch of goblin soldiers 
 coming (they are one of the new races) . I close my gate to not have my village burnt. When the 
 goblins reach the gate they start hacking at it and causing damage. WTF!!! Little goblins with 
 puny swords destroying my main gate! The first game didn't have that crap you needed a battering 
 ram to do this. I try to forget this treason from EA and build some archers to defend my gate. 
 When the first one is built, I notice that they have three squads instead of one, all the better 
 I thought: WRONG! I place my archers on a wall near the gate; they hardly fit but start shooting 
 the enemy. I realise that they suck more than before even if their numbers are tripled.
  I build a second squad and move then to the gate. This is where the HORRIBLE AI of Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2 kicks in. For some reason EA doesn't want to have more than two units hitting each other. 
 Let me explain. My two archers are trying to shoot a squad of goblins. Only one can, the other 
 will run around in circles like a four year old trying a FPS for the first time. Two squads of 
 goblins archers come up the bridge, they start shooting at the archers running in circles. I noticed 
 that both goblin archer squads were shooting. My archers getting shot slowly die because they can't 
 hit the goblins because their range sucks. After loosing both archers and having my gate hacked 
 away, I mobilized some swordsman (notice I'm using the 'men' race witch is Gondor and Rohan. Trying 
 to fuse a race isn't a good idea. Anyway all that's left of Rohan are Rohirm and Heroes, the rest 
 is Gondor.) So I place my three swordsmen squad at the gate and notice that they have to be 50 
 meters apart. So I have one squad where I want em and two at the back far from the gate (one was 
 trying to get on the wall.) . The single goblin squad starts attacking my first squad; I'm not worried 
 because in the first game the Gondor swordsmen could take on two uruk squads, not in BFME 2. Only 
 the first of the three lines attacked while all the goblins did. I try making my other soldiers 
 help but they just ran around in circles (probably where on strike) . All my soldiers and archers 
 were killed by the second squad of goblins that came threw. I than gave up skirmishes to do the 
 new War of the Ring mode witch is like Star Wars Empire at War but with turns. Let me get this 
 strait, this is a bad mode. You have maximum three armies to move and conquer territories all lead 
 by a hero. You can build up to two buildings on each territory and build one unit per turn. It's 
 all bad because when you start a battle you have a **** army and two basic buildings that can be 
 built in three seconds. The strategy then becomes more than useless.
  The thing that killed all my interest for the game was the walls. You can build em how you want 
 but you can't place soldiers on top. They then become pointless. Even worst they are as sturdy 
 as a palisade made of Popsicle sticks because they can be hacked down with ease.
  If you liked the first game you will hate it and if you never played the first one you'll hate 
 it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozzieman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The campaigns are too short ... 8 battles is just not enough ... certainly when compared with the 
 first game.
  
  Agreed their is the war of the ring, but if that is less you piece of cake, I feel a bit cheated 
 with this game.
  
  Plus certain controls have changed and that is definitely not for the better.
  
  You can't 
 merge battalions anymore, which is a real pity. Some of the attack commands have changed, which 
 is really confusing in the beginning.
  
  Another silly thing is that you cannot place determine the rotation of your castles ...
  
  
 It's also confusing to have to constantly switch between the different races, certainly with so 
 little campaigns, this makes it really difficult to build experienced groups and really get to 
 know the strength and weaknesses of the different battalions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I reluctantly bought this game for some reason and as soon as I started playing it, I soon got 
 sucked in to the immersive gameplay and authentic LOTR features. I also really liked the fact that 
 the main storyline was not based completely based on the films but on thebattles for the northern 
 regions of middle earth, especially the Dwarven and Elven realms. The sequel adds three new completely 
 different races with their own styles and strategies. My favourite feature of the game which carries 
 over from the original is the power of the evenstar and the one-ring. Every races powers are different 
 for example isengard relies on industry and wildmen bands whereas the dwarves focus on bolstering 
 their economy and groundshaking destructive powers. The gameplay is very fast and gripping and 
 its not long before you get swarms of goblins or herds of trolls rolling into your base. BFME2 
 is just a fun and exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a great and exciting sequel to a game that was already great, and it improves on the 
 originals in a number of ways. First of all, there are around 8 levels in each campaign, and there 
 is also a war of the ring mode which lets you play on a map similar to that of the original's. 
 The online in this game works great, and chatting in it is pretty easy. Though the only problem 
 I noticed with the text in the game is that when there's a pile of words atop one another, the 
 words at the bottom are a little cut off, and the game says the toolbar is all the way at the bottom, 
 but it's not, and that makes reading some words frustrating. This game lets you choose from a number 
 of factions, including men, elves, isengard, mordor, and others. The multiplayer is great, allowing 
 up to eight players to beat the snot out of eachother's fortresses. This game is kindof hard for 
 the beginner, but is eases up as you go through it. All in all, it's a fun, great game to get for 
 your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOOM3OWNAGE
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The lord of the rings the battle for middle earth 2 is a very fun game. It has great graphics and 
 great salection of heros and armies. Also You can create your own hero and use him in skirmish 
 battles. Sadly you cant use him on campaigne but you still have a great salection of heroes like 
 Legola, Aragorn, Gimli, Gandalf, The Goblin King, The WiTch King, any of the Wraiths or Nazgul, 
 and even Sauron, the dark lord of Middle Earth. All of these heroes are just a portion of all the 
 heroes. Also like I said you have a great salection of armies. You have the army of Mordor or orcs, 
 the army of the Uruk-Hai, or Isengard, the army of the elves, the army of dwarves, the army of goblins, 
 and the army of men. Each of these aries are very powerful. I would probably say that men are the 
 weekest but thats just my appinion. If you want to buy this game i would. Or if you just want to 
 try it you can just rent it, altho it is very hard to rent a pc game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay... Lord of the RIngs: Battle for Middle-Earth 2 is a great game to play if you enjoy RTS. 
 Te graphics are okay in the game but it does bring the battles into your PC. The game introduces 
 you to the Lord of the RIngs universe, with epic battles, huge trolls, flying Nazguls, Rohirrim 
 Riders, orcs and Uruks and many more.
  
  The game's battles are really great though if you look up close, you'll see that they won't hit 
 each other with their weapons but with the massive no. of soldiers battling each each other on 
 te battlefield really brings you the LOTR movie battles.
  Each race a has heros from the LOTR universe. The elves has the heros Legolas, Arwen; The humans 
 have Aragorn or Faramir; you could call Gimli or a Nazgul, or even the WItch King himself. Ech 
 hero has different abilities which can help in the battlefield.
  
  The game also brings back lots of the battles you've seen on the ig screen. Their are maps of Minas 
 Tirith and Pellanor Fields; There's a map of Helm's Deep and Minas Morgul. which gives you loads 
 of fun fighting orcs. One advantage is that the cavalr can run over infantry or at least push them 
 off balance which is a good delay tactic.
  
  The campaign is a different story from the movie and is really teaching you how to play. To top 
 it of, RTS fans must try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GsusZealot
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of strategy! It has amazingly good graphics and is very very addictive! The 
 career maode is way too short! I wish it was longer but the other stuff is still a lot of fun! 
 Try playing around with all of the different factions, and boost your levels in skirmish mode. 
 Try to play everyman for himself on an 8 player map, it takes a long time but is really fun all 
 the whole time!!! The only way to beat the hard teams is to start out in a fortress that gives 
 you a lot of working space! Play this game alot! Get used to some of the factions! A personal favorite 
 of mine is Isengard! Morder's weak are cheap and strong are expensive so discover a gameplan when 
 using any of the factions! Discover weaknesses and exploit them!! Overall, this game is fun!! For 
 anyone who is a fan of LOTR , this game is a mast have!! Get the whole series!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I'd say I'm somewhat of a PC gamer, but I can surely say I love real time strategies. They're simply 
 fantastic concepts that some how are never done right. Now heres Battle For Middle Earth II. It 
 uses the same general formula, but really lets you build a huge army, out of Lord of the Rings 
 characters.
  
  There are a few game modes to play. Two campaign modes, good and evil, both are fun. Skirmish, 
 just set up a battle anyway you like. War of the ring, which takes a risk map and lets you do a 
 longer skirmish with more tactics. Then there are the multiplayer modes and online. A lot.
  
  Thats whats good about the game, though the campaigns only have 8 levels each (good and bad) 
 theres tons of content here, plus tons of LOTR characters. You Elrond, Gandalf, Frodo and a bunch 
 not mentioned in the movies that take you behind what most know.
  
  Right away the menu treats you to those excellent orchestrated tunes famous from the movies, and 
 they play throughout the game itself. Voice acting is top quality, and so are the sound effects 
 themselves.
  
  The graphics are good (right now a bit dated for PC) with these cool artistic intros that fade 
 flawlessly into the games rendered graphics (play to find out what I mean) .
  
  The great RTS formula is there. Build some buildings to generate your army of assorted styles and 
 techniques, than either defend or attack. There is also that RTS bittersweet element of limiting 
 your soldier count. There are these command points, you get a max of 1000 and a group of fifteen 
 soldiers counts for 60 command points. The limit isn't as bad as I've seen in other games, but 
 every time you play it will hit you in the face. 
  
  You can summon all kinds of cool creatures, the eagles, ents, trolls, dragons, wraiths and all 
 kinds of heroes.
  
  Speaking of which, there is a little hero creation, I say little because it isn't that great, but 
 for skirmishes it is fun to make your own elf or troll.
  
  The trolls somewhat outway soldiers, but with the command point system it evens out things.
  
 
  I can understand that most real time strategies just get to warfare and all, but a little more 
 customization and creation to make an actual city would have been really cool. Also these limits 
 need to be fixed. You can get a very big army together for stuff, but you always wind up cringing 
 for more.
  
  BFME is like that, gives you great stuff for a few minutes, then you have this craving for more.
 
  
  I love it though, and I picked it up for 8 bucks at wal-mart. If you game a little on PC and like 
 LOTR than get this cuz its sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Battle For Middle Earth II (BFME2) is a real-time strategy game developed by Electronic Arts (EA) , 
 and is a sequel to the earlier Battle For Middle Earth game by the same company. Based on the immensely-popular 
 Lord of the Rings franchise, BFME2 seeks to improve certain mediocre aspects of the original game 
 while retaining and building upon the latter's impressive gameplay structure.
  
  Plot (7/10)
  
  The episode of The Battle For Middle Earth II runs concurrently with the events 
 in the Lord of the Rings trilogy - albeit the whole affair takes place in the north. While Frodo, 
 Gandalf and company departs south in a heroic quest to destroy the One Ring, Lord Elrond of Rivendell 
 assembles an army of elven and dwarven alliance to counter the vile army of the Dark Lord Sauron 
 swarming in from the northern regions (do note that the War of the Ring does not only revolve around 
 the Fellowship, but rather spans the whole of Middle Earth, hence the title of this game) . If you 
 play as the Good side in the campaign mode, you will oversee the elven hero Glorfindel and his 
 dwarven counterpart Gloin's valiant attempts to thwart the northern invasion with their respective 
 elven and dwarven armies, and drive the forces of evil out of the north. Siding with the evil faction 
 will put you in charge of the orc and goblin factions (led by the Mouth of Sauron and the goblin 
 king Gorkil respectively) as they lay siege to the northern lands.
  
  Since both the plots of the good and evil side run contemporaneously and are not a continuation 
 of one another, contradictions with the original story is unavoidable. In this case, the storyline 
 of the evil campaign clashes with the tale of the Lord of the Rings trilogy; suffice to say that 
 the ending of the evil campaign results in Sauron being triumphant and the Fellowship, despite 
 succeeding in destroying the One Ring, is ultimately defeated. The Good campaign, on the other 
 hand, does not oppose the original LOTR storyline.
  
  Hence, the overall plot might not sit well with ardent fans of Tolkien's LOTR series of books who 
 believe whatever is inscribe in the Trilogy novels to be the one and only chain of events that 
 ever took place in Middle Earth. More pragmatic followers of Tolkien's works, however, might find 
 the twist in the storyline refreshing and rousing. And as for strangers to Tolkien and his inspirational 
 works, this game can very well double as an introduction tool to the world of Middle Earth.
  
  When taken by its lonesome, the plot of BFME2 is credible and does not offer many avenues for 
 players to gripe about, though there are other minor inaccuracy issues like the fact that Glorfindel's 
 hair, which I understand to be originally gold in colour, is portrayed as white in the game; and 
 that Lorien archers, who are generally regarded as having superior bow mastery over the Mirkwood 
 archers in Tolkien's world, is the weaker of the two archer types in the game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  
  This is the category where BFME2 matters most. The RTS game that is BFME2 
 plays like any other respectable RTS titles out in the market: you collect resources, expand your 
 base, generate an army and wipe out the oppositions' base. However, BFME2 also scores in the originality 
 department. BFME2 probably boasts one of the greatest number of sides than most other RTS: with 
 six factions composing of men (known as Men of the West) , elves, dwarves, goblins, orcs (Mordor) 
 and uruk-hai (Isengard) to choose from (each logically containing its own potencies and flaws) , 
 it is not surprising for players to be spoilt for choice over which division to specialize in.
 
  Having a large faction number, if anything, also boosts the fun factor and replay value of the 
 game.
  
  Next is the fact that the majority of units in BFME2 come in battalions of ten or more instead 
 of by its lonesome, thus allowing seemingly large-scale battles that would take RTS heavyweight 
 Starcraft around a half hour to take place, to occur in minutes. Now imagine the scale of the melee 
 that would transpire when BFME2 is played for half an hour!
  
  BFME2 also features a unique resource acquisition concept: workers need only to build 'resource 
 buildings'; such structures will automatically generate resources for you at every regular interval, 
 so workers do not have to continually poke mine axes into mineral ores to obtain those coveted 
 materials. Furthermore, there is only one resource type in the game. These factors enable you as 
 a player to focus more on producing units of warfare and formulating battle strategies rather than 
 concentrate on resource gathering. However, there is a catch: resource structures will only function 
 at its optimum if it is built on a large expanse of land, i. e. there are no other structures in 
 a certain radius surrounding the resource building. The more cluttered the region around the resource 
 structure, the fewer amount of resources it will generate at every interval. This forces you to 
 choose between spacing out your resource structure organization at the expense of defence - for 
 it is surely harder to protect your buildings from enemy assault when it is spaced further from 
 one another - or pack them close together and limit your resource acquirement at the advantage 
 of security.
  
  Point number four: Heroes. 'Well games like Warcraft III and Starcraft also have heroes', one might 
 counter. True, but in this game heroes are about as significant as regular units in terms of their 
 existence: For the most parts of the campaign, the game does not end with the death of a hero; 
 slain champions can simply be revived at your fortress. This again forces you to regard the combat 
 mechanics of BFME2 as a whole instead of reserving the majority of your attention on the heroes 
 and making sure they do not perish, for they are about as expandable as your other units.
  
  Heroes do not lose levels when they die; when resurrected, all heroes retain their level and 
 experience as when they were last slaughtered in battle; on the other hand, the experience and 
 levels of regular units naturally disappear with their death, for there is no way to revive them. 
 In this respect, normal units are somewhat more valuable than heroes. However, heroes have far 
 more hit points than the average unit as well as abilities like self-healing over time, leadership 
 bonuses and special attacks that make them more precious than regular battalions in the eyes of 
 players who value these qualities, so the worth of an average hero and unit battalions is roughly 
 balanced.
  
  Furthermore, while in most other games heroes are only present in campaign modes, in BFME2 you 
 can also employ heroes in skirmish games; they can be 'trained' just like any other unit (from 
 the fortress) . This makes heroes part and parcel of a skirmish match, adding more flair and vivacity 
 to battles. And no, allowing heroes in Skirmish is not an 'optional' matter; there is no way to 
 disable it. It is, as mentioned, a natural part of the gameplay mechanics that make up BFME2. The 
 choice of churning out battalion after regular unit battalion or saving up for a regal hero is 
 entirely up to you.
  
  In addition, you also have the opportunity to create your own custom heroes. By selecting your 
 race, gender, appearance, colours and skills, you can effectively construct a Legolas-like elven 
 bow master, an extremely hardy dwarven veteran or an epic wizard with prodigious spells that would 
 make both Gandalf and Saruman envious. Your custom heroes can also be brought into online games, 
 allowing you to exhibit the potency of your heroes to your rivals.
  
  My eighth point is with regards to the power tree. Kills by your units will grant you skill points 
 that are used to purchase powers from the power tree. Powers come in four tiers, with the first 
 one being the weakest and the fourth the most practical. You have to buy first-tier powers before 
 you can acquire those from the next tier, and so on. Also, whichever power you bought on a tier 
 will determine the type of powers you will and will not have access to on the following tiers (which 
 is why it is called a power tree) . Power effects range from granting an armour and damage bonus 
 to your troops, to immobilizing enemy forces, to a straight-out annihilation of enemy units and 
 structures in an area. Renowned creatures form the LOTR books and films, like the abominable subterranean 
 kraken (aka the Watcher in the Water) , the vicious balrog and the majestic giant eagles of the 
 elves (similar to the one that saved Gandalf from his fall in the beginning of The Two Towers) 
 can also be summoned using their respective powers.
  
  BFME2 also utilizes the standard rock paper scissors-style of strength and weakness concept for 
 its unit types. In general, all units belong to one of 6 types: swordsmen, archers, elite archers, 
 pikemen, cavalry, siege units or monsters. Swordsmen are your standard and usually the cheapest 
 foot soldiers and probably the first unit type you will produce, and are considered strong against 
 pikemen and siege units (since the latter cannot attack enemies at close range) . The ranged archers 
 have a natural attacking advantage over swordsmen and pikemen, while the 'elite' variety that some 
 factions possess also have a damage bonus versus monsters. Pikemen are natural cavalry- and monster- 
 slayers; cavalry trounces every unit type except the pikemen, certain siege units and monsters; 
 siege units, besides excelling in demolishing structures, also shine in taking down enemy archers 
 because the former out-ranges the latter; and monsters, most of which also double as siege personnel, 
 trash everyone apart from the pikemen and elite archers. This strength-weakness concept adds a 
 fresh dimension to gameplay tactics and forces players to generate a wide variety of army types 
 in preparation for switching battle schemes on the fly to counter the various unit types of the 
 enemy.
  
  My next point (really, I feel that BFME2 introduces a whole bunch of innovative concepts to RTS 
 that I have to touch every one of them) is with regards to neutral structures, which are present 
 in certain maps and must be 'conquered' by a unit battalion or one of your heroes to exploit its 
 benefits. There are four kinds of outposts: Inns, which can produce units to aid your side for 
 a price; Signal Fires, a flaming tower that when captured speeds up the recharge time of your powers; 
 outposts, which generate extra resources for you (1 outpost is equivalent to a minimum of 2.4 resource 
 structures) and shipwrights, which allow you to construct ships for naval warfare. All these buildings 
 are key to wining battles since they provide an obvious advantage to you upon capture, and on maps 
 where some or all of these structures are present, most battles are usually fought for control 
 of such buildings. Neutral structures thus serve as secondary objectives in skirmish battles that 
 players scuffle over for control in a bid to gain the upper hand, which I feel is a nifty concept.
 
  
  My last factor deals with the famous War of the Ring (WOTR) mode that EA so dynamically promoted 
 prior to the release of this game. WOTR is principally a conquest game (very similar to the board 
 game Risk, it is said, but I've never played that before) . The idea is quite similar to standard 
 RTS gameplay - you expand your base (or in this case, territory) and attempt to overpower your 
 enemy - only that in WOTR your conquest takes on a world scale. Although this feature seems like 
 a side attraction for players, I think that there are many who prefer the WOTR mode over the standard 
 RTS game due to the former's encompassing, sweeping concept.
  
  Okay, enough of the praises, now let's talk about the wretched elements this game has to offer 
 : ) . First of all, the campaign mode is short. There are only 16 missions in total: 8 each for 
 the good and evil campaigns. Even though certain missions are indeed testing, it does not make 
 up for the lack of gameplay hours for the campaign, which can be completed within two days at the 
 highest difficulty setting for the hardcore gamer (I finished it in four) . Furthermore, not all 
 the six factions in this game are featured in the campaign; you, sadly, will not have the chance 
 to play as the resourceful Men of the West or the devious Isengard faction in the campaign, though 
 you do have the opportunity to spar with them during the course of the missions.
  
  My next gripe is with regards to enemy AI. Even at Brutal level (highest difficulty setting) , the 
 AI is disappointingly abysmal. When facing the computer, it is almost as though you are playing 
 against a player who is both blind and deaf. Sneak up on a group of enemy melee units with your 
 archers, and the former will just remain motionless getting shot (since the computer seems not 
 able to see that his units are getting slaughtered by arrows nor hear their death grunts) until 
 the computer decides, "Okay, it's time to mobilize my units for an assault on the enemy base", 
 at which point whatever remaining units of the battalion that your archers so happily butchered 
 will start marching towards your base. but of course they would be slain before they even got halfway 
 near it since half their squad has already been decimated. Also, the AI seems to prefer targeting 
 structures over units, often having the tendency to march past and ignore my legion of troops, 
 intending to take out my resource building. and of course getting themselves massacred in the process. 
 To wrap it all up, the AI programming is really depressing and anyone seeking a true challenge 
 would be much better off venturing online instead.
  
  Lastly, there have reportedly been programming faults with this game that prevents it from running 
 normally on certain computers or graphic cards, which (at the time of writing) EA states it is 
 trying to rectify. However since I have not encountered such problems it would not be appropriate 
 for me to draw on the above complication to lower the overall review score of this game.
  
  Challenge (9/10)
  
  Overall I would rate the difficulty level of BFME2 as being moderately 
 challenging. The main struggle you will experience in campaign mode stems mostly from a couple 
 of tricky missions; once you become familiar with the layout and devices of the enemy, and consequently 
 begin to develop winning strategies for the said missions, the entire campaign will become a breeze 
 even at the highest difficulty setting, and you should have no trouble overcoming it time and again.
 
  
  The single-player skirmish aspect does not fare too well in the challenge department either. As 
 above, master the stratagem of the enemy AI and consider the battle over. As mentioned above, the 
 computer has some notoriously self-destructing tactics like ignoring your combat forces and not 
 moving its units away from dangerous areas (like an zone of fire) that, when exploited, will spell 
 the enemy's doom faster than it can say 'good game'.
  
  War of the Ring mode, I feel, is what significantly jacks up the challenge rating of this game. 
 Since WOTR is a turn-based issue, it is logically easier to program the AI and as such, programming 
 blemishes present in the AI in skirmish battles are not found in WOTR. The difficulty itself too 
 is superb, for it is virtually impossible to beat the AI in Brutal setting unless you are an awfully 
 competent player exceptionally well-versed in such 'board game' stratagems.
  
  Soa mediocre campaign and skirmish mode and a comparatively better WOTR feature. But does that 
 warrant a 90% rating in the challenge department? My answer is no; or at least, no until you take 
 into account the fact that both the skirmish and WOTR aspects can be played online - that is where 
 the real challenge begins. The reason is pretty obvious: human difficulty levels know no bounds. 
 Since you never know if you are going up against an untried newbie or a seasoned veteran, you will 
 be constantly under pressure to improve your skills or be 'left behind'; and certainly no one wants 
 to be left in the dust. So once again: the true reason why this game reaps such a high challenge 
 score is simply due to online play!
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  
  The visuals in BFME2 are for the most parts rather credible. All units in the game are rendered 
 brilliantly, from the coarse, jagged texture of the troll's hide to the timbered and grassy bark-like 
 skin of the Ents. Also, all units are portrayed in such a distinct manner that it is all but impossible 
 to mistake a particular unit for another one, a problem that sporadically occurs in certain second-rate 
 RTS games.
  
  Next, unit animations are also rather fine, though not the best I've seen. Most units in the game 
 only possess one attack animation, making battles, especially large-scale ones, seem decidedly 
 unrealistic (a bunch of swordsmen executing a similar slashing motion with their blades in a synchronized 
 approach cannot possibly look rational) .
  
  However, one plus point with unit animation is that, when left inactive for a period of time, certain 
 units will slip into 'idle mode', where they will perform certain (usually amusing) acts. For example, 
 leave a group of orcs unused for some time and two of them will start brawling with each other, 
 at which point the rest of the orcs will form a ring surrounding the two combatants and spur them 
 on. Two trolls near one another who have been left inactive will start slapping each other in the 
 face, while certain other units left stationary will pace about restlessly after some time (or 
 so I have heard) .
  
  This game also does not disappoint when it comes to environment art. When playing in maps with 
 fine weather you can see leaves from stout trees swaying with the occasional wind, little animals 
 native to the lands scurrying about occupied with their own agenda, and the many structures that 
 are built reflecting off the golden rays of the vibrant sun in multi-faceted glory. On maps with 
 a depressing and gloomy atmosphere, like that of popular LOTR locales Minas Morgul and Dol Guldur, 
 dust and debris resulting from centuries of unwashed land can be observed swirling to intermittent 
 zephyrs, haze from the murky sky blankets certain areas in a foggy blur, and in particular areas 
 with a high degree of dirt accumulation you can even see foot imprints being left on the ground 
 by units. On winter maps, all structures are creatively coated with a layer of snow that subtly 
 modifies their overall appearance to marvelous effect, evoking a deeper 'frosty' feel to the game.
 
  
  Also, the water graphics has been vastly improved from the prequel. Instead of just exhibiting 
 slight waves intermittently, sea waters now display churning surfs and frenzied water movement. 
 Sea waves also sort of realistically 'recoil' when it crashes against the base of ships, and naval 
 vessels that have been struck as such will rock to and fro temporarily, reeling from the force 
 of the capricious waves.
  
  Audio (8/10)
  
  The music composition of BFME2 is one of the more impressive ones I've heard so far. Comprising 
 of scores ranging from the hauntingly serene tune reflecting the atmosphere of the elven community 
 during the hours of dark to the brusque, jocular melody typical of dwarven tradition, the music 
 of this game is an inspirational blend of radiance and iniquity, of grace and coarseness, which 
 will leave you craving for more of such stirring tunes during gameplay. However, that said, it 
 must be noted that the music will not be heard playing for every second during the course of the 
 game, as it appropriately should not. Typical junctures where you can hear the music of BFME2 being 
 played is during the start of a match, as well as on occasional intervals in the middle and nearing 
 the end of a game. The music is composed in such a manner as to charm you with its simplicity without 
 affecting the overall mood of the game, which is what I feel makes it stand out from that of this 
 game's competitors.
  
  The sound effects department of BFME2 did not disappoint either. Every unit comes complete with 
 varieties of its own distinctive voice when it first emerges from the structure of its arrival, 
 when it is being selected and when it is ordered to advance, attack or retreat (any move order 
 that takes a unit out of a certain proximity surrounding your fortress is classified as an 'advance', 
 and the reverse is a 'retreat') . Voice-acting, most notably the melodic vocals of the elven units, 
 is also brilliantly done, replete with the appropriate emotion, intonation and volume. Background 
 sounds like the crashing waters of a waterfall can also be heard.
  
  Controls (9/10)
  
  Controls in BFME2 are pretty much similar to other RTS titles. Left-click and drag to 'lasso' unit 
 groups together, double left-click to select similar units on the screen, right-click to move your 
 forces, etc. You can also assign hotkeys (from 1 to 10) to particular battalions. Choosing a unit 
 and tapping E twice will select all similar units throughout the entire map, pressing Q lets you 
 take command of all offensive units throughout the battlefield, and hitting O puts you in control 
 of all your heroes; all of which are really basic practical stuff. Controls are for the most parts 
 unoriginal and standard with little innovation being introduced, but as long as it functions soundly 
 I'm not complaining.
  
  Fun factor (8/10)
  
  Well a game of this magnitude and promise is always fun. Even though the single-player aspect of 
 this game is emphatically below-par and might not keep a gamer glued to his computer screen for 
 long, the online feature would probably make up for it. If you are concerned that below-par online 
 latency (which is another negative factor in this game) will ruin your game performance, you can 
 always venture into the turn-based War of the Ring mode where battles can be auto-resolved and 
 the whole match can be played at a more relaxed pace.
  
  Replay Value (10/10)
  
  This is an RTS game, and RTS games, unlike its role-playing cousin, typically has a high replay 
 value due primarily to its timeless skirmish feature that allows a player to jump into a match 
 with minimal fuss. Battle for Middle Earth 2 is in my opinion one of the more remarkable RTS games 
 of all time (not forgetting the fact that there have not been any other recent RTS games released) , 
 and as such its positive qualities should attract and cling to both fans of the genre and to a 
 lesser extent general gaming enthusiasts for a significantly long while. until a better RTS game 
 comes their way.
  
  Best Part of Game
  
  For me, the best part is when you triumph over an opponent with a higher skill level than you in 
 online play.
  
  Since this is a war game, the only logical avenue of player satisfaction lies in vanquishing your 
 enemy. And it does not take a genius to figure out which of the two enemy types  enemy AI or online 
 players  offer more kick. If that is the case, it is no fun if you thrash the hell out of an inexperienced 
 amateur; beating someone with a comparatively similar skill level as you will certainly yield contentment; 
 but overwhelming a player who is noticeably more skillful than you is the real deal. Just try to 
 keep your buoyancy in check after the glorious victory and make sure it doesn't venture into the 
 'over-confidence' zone.
  
  Conclusion
  
  A definite must-buy for any RTS, Tolkien or general fantasy fanatic. if you are absolutely certain 
 the game can run on your PC. Being one of the most commendable RTS games in history - as well as 
 the best fantasy RTS game produced in recent times (after the mediocre Armies of Exigo released 
 earlier last year) , BFME2 dazzles with its quality gameplay, concrete graphics, polished audio 
 and introduction of numerous fresh concepts that certainly merits this game as being one of the 
 most original productions to date. However, BFME2 is nevertheless marred by technical glitches 
 (that would most probably be fixed with future patches.) so it is vital that you have a machine 
 that can meet the strenuous (and at times even unreasonable) demands of this highly-rated real-time 
 strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vodo-Baas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  From what I have played the game is great. I just about played about every Lord of the Rings game 
 except for Lord of the Rings on-line and I have to say this is the best game out of all of them. 
 It is allot better than the first one and I love that you get to build your own fortress. The graphics 
 are great and even playing War of the Ring auto-resolving all the battles it is still fun. The 
 new factions are awesome and the campaign is pretty good. Also, I really like creating your own 
 hero. You can make just about as many as you want and you get a good choice of powers although 
 not many choices of hair color, facial features, and height and weight. Their is quite many units 
 to choose from and sea battles are really cool. I highly recommend this game and if you don't already 
 have it, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Games12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth II is better than the first BFME because it lets you build your buildings 
 wherever you want. There are 6 factions now:
  
  Good Factions
  
  -Dwarves
  -Elves
  -Men (combination of Rohan and Gondor)
  
  Evil Factions
  
  -Goblins
  -Isengard
  -Mordor
 
  
  Each faction has their own heros, buildings and units. There are new fortress upgrades and new 
 hero powers for the existing heros. Also in BFME II you can now create your own heroes with their 
 special powers and stats. Depending on how you powered up your hero is, they could cost from 1000-5000 
 upwards.
  The war of the ring campaign is a great new addition but it still needs to be worked on. 
  The 
 war of the ring and the weaker civilization (goblins) are the only faults in this game. Also it 
 requires plenty of space (6 gb for data and more for saved games)
  BFME II is the best Lord of the Rings game ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkosto
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  highly addictiive
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! A A AAAAAAAA A A A A AA A A A AA A AAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAAAA 
 A A A AAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAAA A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A AAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAA AAAA A 
 A A A A A AAAAAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA A A A A A AA AA A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A AA AAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAA A A A A A A A AA AAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarCraft-Klown
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I can play this game flawlessly without interruption, but sometimes right as I'm getting 
 into the heat of the battle (even with a high performance computer) it's gone... Horribly annoying, 
 although the game IS a masterpiece of recreating the original glory of The Lord of the Rings Trilogy. 
 No doubt to that, but if one more patch could finally do a complete stabilization of the game, 
 I would be so much more content.
  But beyond the con, and base pros, the game is great! Look at the graphics, they are breathtaking... 
 The RTS style gaming is no doubt flawless, not a 12 unit (or batallion) limit such as in StarCraft 
 or WarCraft 3. Nobody get me wrong, other than the bugs, this is one of the greatest games I have 
 played, and its very challenging. I knew it would be worth the wait from BFME 1, and it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiMcHiMaN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  first let me tell you how good the game is, its really fun and you get to recreate lord of the 
 ring scene for most of the map. so basically EA got the full permission from the lord of the ring 
 series of books. Now you can control some units that aren't in the movie. Now this is the best 
 part, you get to create your own hero! yay! so when you play the game, you level up your hero (max 
 is level 10) and use skills against your opponents. its kind of like warcraft but is LOTR style. 
 there are 5 races for you to play, human, elves, isenguard, mordor, goblins and dwarfs. and each 
 races have the pros and the cons but I'm not gonna tell you that, its gonna ruin the fun=) . there 
 are 5 single player mode, skimerish (i think thats how you spell that..) war of the ring, and campaign 
 (the good and the bad) . so yyea now you gget to play lord of the rings rts have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SsJay_Frieza135
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  gameplay 6/10
  character is not quite enough and the powers are not many (5) some onli 3. the point is y we cant 
 just buy balrog, hobbits (sam, pippin...) so boring if u hav to get many experience to purchase 
 themand the god damn wall so weak!. the building looks like it cant repair themself (so slow) and 
 the money in the begining is "a lot"... and tat gollum is so hard to find it keep disapearing. other 
 than tat is fine with me. oh ya the create a mode sucks and when the created troll attack it onli 
 can kill one enemy (so dumb) .
  
  graphics 8/10
  not pretty enough for a rts game. c&c is much better the soldiers is not clear enough and balrog 
 is not beautiful enough. the environment is so dull and nothin special about it just a piece of 
 **** others just right.
  
  sound 8/10
  some charaters voice acting s**** and so fake. the music are all taken from the three movies and 
 i like it but they play at the wrong time.
  
  OVERALL
  not bad but i adviced u to rent it 1st before buying this bull ****. lets see how lotr bfme 3 looks 
 like... im a lotr fan so i gave it a 6 but remember think twice bfore buyin tis piece of **** !!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game, even though I bought it for what I thought was really cheap, then 
 saw it cheaper somewhere else.
  
  No.1 reason: The landscapes, they are much more detailed than the first game, especially the castles, 
 I LOVE the castle maps e. g. Helms Deep, Minas Tirith, Bara-dur and my favourite, Minas Morgul.
 
  
  No.2 reason: New armies. There are now six armies to choose from, Elves, Men (Gondor + Rohan) , 
 Dwarfs, Goblins, Mordor (Orcs) , and Isenguard (Uruk-Hai) .
  
  No.3 reason: Create-A-Hero. I love making heroes in this game, though I would have liked a little 
 more customization options, but it is still great, also, when you use a created hero in a game, 
 the are more hi-res than the heroes already on the game.
  
  No.4 reason: It's addictive and really fun!
  
  Cons: Battle or Army points are annoying as 
 some armies have more than others, this sometimes really annoys me as I do not have enough units 
 to fend off the oncoming waves of enemy units.
  Frustration often overtakes you if you are losing or you do not have enough army points and they 
 have a lot of units.
  
  This is my favourite PC game to date, but I really want Crysis or Call of Duty 4. This game is 
 awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  BFME2 is a great RTS, you will enjoy it even if you have heard anything about Tolkien universe, 
 but if you are a Lord of the rings nut you will love this game. You will be able to control almost 
 all the Lord of the rings heroes; even you will be able to create your own ones, although they 
 usually are extra powerful. You have three kinds of gameplay to choose; first of all the campaign: 
 there are two campaigns, the good and the evil, both are enjoyable and amusing, but don't hope 
 to see any relation with the Jackson trilogy. Secondly the skirmish: well, here is where the game 
 fails, essentially the game copies the Jackson representation of the Lord of the ring, this is 
 what the people want and it's ok, the problem is that in BFME2 the developers have introduce things 
 never seen in the movies, for example new factions. As a result we have a very unbalanced game; 
 the evil factions are weaker than the good ones, and among the good ones, the Men of the West are 
 the most powerful faction. So you could enjoy yourself playing a skirmish, but if you play with 
 the Men it will be too easy, and if you play against them it will be difficult, especially with 
 an evil faction. In addition, in BFME2 there is the possibility to construct walls, very powerful 
 walls, so if you play a multiplayer skirmish you could find adversaries who frequently use the 
 annoying turtle strategy. EA have release a lot of patches to solve these kinds of problems, and 
 I think that with the last one they have achieved it. Finally, you could play a Battle of the ring. 
 This is a turn based strategy game played on a middle earth map, and with the option to play the 
 battles in a real time strategy mode, just similar to the Total War series. This is a very interesting 
 option, but it seems a little uncompleted, for example you cannot use all the units and the AI 
 don't seems clever enough, and you are unable to save a multiplayer game, so you must start and 
 finish a game at once, but a game could last hours. Even so, this is the most entertaining and 
 immersive mode, and its greatly improved with the Rise of the Witch King expansion. Summing, BFME2 
 is an amusing RTS with some weak points, but EA have done a great job with the patches, and the 
 Witch King expansion add more content and solve some original problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Man, this game has some of the most lavish graphics I've seen in my day. Anyone who plays this 
 game will love it's jaw dropping graphics. At the time I was playing this I had a ATI RADEON XPRESS 
 200, which is not that great of a graphics card, and the graphics still turned out great without 
 me putting on super high graphics levels. This game has an amazing group of factions you can choose 
 from. There are six factions, which are pretty diverse. The music in this game is outstanding. 
 Almost better than the Lord of the Rings movie soundtrack which is also extremly good. The game 
 also has a very cool online play. Many people online who are ready to battle you and many people 
 who want to battle on your side to tough computer players. There is also a hero creator mode which 
 is a very neat tool in this game. You can choose your hero's abilites and his/her strength. Battle 
 for Middle Earth II also has some role playing options online. People play hero duels and many 
 other fun "alone-hero" battles. If any of you Star Wars fans are out there you love this feature 
 I'm gunna tell you about. The feature I'm talking about is called War of the Ring mode which is 
 like exactly Galactic Conquest mode but a bit different. A very diffucult to use map maker is usable 
 too. 
  
  However, this game has a good number of flaws. The campaigns are only 8 missions each. Also the 
 game has a good number of bugs in it. Luckily, theres patches for this game to fix those bugs. 
 I suggest this game to any player who is tired of playing Warcraft or loves fantasy strategy games 
 or just strategy games in general. 
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuitChicken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  this is one great game. in most games you have to go collect food, then wood, then stone, then 
 gold, then u have to upgrade buildings, then do a lot of other stuff before actually making a good 
 sized army. but in this game you can actually make armies within a few a minutes, so u dont have 
 to waste your time collecting resources. yes, you do still have to collect resources and you want 
 take out your enemies resource production, but you can build a lot faster. Also, instead of building 
 one unit at time, you actually build whole battalions at a time (unless your building a troll or 
 something which you to build in ones.) Also, it is much more exciting because there are much larger 
 armies. in most games a few cannons can win the battle, but in this game you have to make armies 
 of hundreds of men (or they could be elves, dwarves, goblins, uruks, or orcs) I recommend this game 
 to ANYONE who like stragety games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a good addition to the series, but there is a lot of problems and unbalances. They 
 added thenew factions Elves, Dwarves, Goblins, and turned rohan and gondor into The men of the 
 west (there is still mordor and isengaurd too) . One of the new features, building walls, has its 
 ups and downs    Alows more costumization, but then again they are too easily breached by the goblins 
 faction. There are many new units in every faction (not mentioning them all) like spider riders, 
 mountain giants, corsairs, and Wild men. I like the fact that they have made a new gameplay mode 
 ( Ring Wars) , but it has way to many small problems and isn't exactly the most exciting and logical 
 gameplay mode. Back to new features, the new Create-a-Hero is a great little bonus, except they 
 are extremely overpowered playin online, and are better for playing Gladiator style costume made 
 maps. I have alot more to say about this game except I have to go now so for the finally I have 
 to say this game was a fun while it lasted, but i still prefer BFME 1 far more. 
  
  p. s.- sorry for any bad grammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle-Earth II has everything you could ever hope for from an immersive RTS game - 
 great graphics, fantastic pacing, a solid story featuring all your favorites from LOTR, and even 
 tons of extra value with the Risk-model War of the Ring added game.
  
  Some key features:
  
  - solid graphics give life to everything from the orc rush to the flying 
 Felbeast
  
  - excellent integration of resource management linked to pushing forward your front line
  
 
  - solid single, skermish, and multiplayer capabilities, as wel as the War of the Ring - Tolkien's 
 take on Risk (worth learning how to play! - a GREAT feature that could have been stand alone and 
 delivered the value) .
  
  - all around great combat, character and gameplay balance.
  
  One of the best improvements over the original is the ability to now build where ever you want, 
 adding in more strategic fun and player choice. Do you go turtle style with heavy defense, moving 
 your front line slowly but with a solid line? Or will you prefer the rush, relying on key super 
 powers and hero movements to turn the tide of battle?
  
  Either way - expect epic battles and alot of fun.
  
  This is CNC3 meets LOTR all the way, and 
 will not disappoint! BFME2 is one of those games that will likely revisit many times in the future.
 
  
  - Doctor Cream
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liltigger
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is just unbalanced to the bone. Men of west, Elves and the dwarfes are simply way more 
 stronger then any other evil force. Men of West have the strongest cavalry and also strong archers. 
 Elves -  silverthorn arrows = enough said. They can simply defend and offense just with archers... 
 wth what kinda game has that kinda vision, something must be wrong with the creators. Dwarfes they 
 are so though to kill that they can simply walk you over with a single army! The evil forces are 
 fun but simply dont stand a match against any of the good forces. So you're stuck with playing 
 with the good forces on multiplayer or skirmisch on the hardest lvl. Bleg how lame is that?. Sure 
 its fun and has some really good things, but an unbalanced game in forces and strenght is just 
 a waste of time! So this score isnt based on graphics, sounds or whatsoever. Its only based on 
 GAMEPLAY because thats the most important thing for a GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Well if youre a big lord of the rings fan i think you'll be quite satisfied with this game. Theres 
 everything that you would expect if you'd played the first one cept you can now build all over, 
 which believe me isnt all that great. Resource gathering is simple, combat over all isnt that exciting 
 theres no real stratagey involved just point click combat. The create your own hero is nice, theres 
 some fun things to do online. I think most people will enjoy onlineplay much better than the campaign. 
 Graphics are simple and theres nothing all that great about them, the only thing remotely cool 
 is the ragdoll effects on the men otherise your men just hack at the bases of others... lame. Music 
 is great really puts you back into the movie, there are quite a few problems with online such as 
 unresponsive people and making an account is a useless hassle, and the ranking system sucks. if 
 youre an rts fan you'll fine this game it awful, unless as i said you love the movies or books. 
 OVERALL DECENT GAME GET THE DEMO FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  couple of years ago, ea games released BFME and people didn't know what to expect after the mediocore 
 War of the Ring. BFME did accomplish and caught eyes of many players and turned out to be a great 
 rts game that was worth the money and time. Now, BFME has been out, and in my opinion turns out 
 to be a better game than its predecessor.
  
  Gameplay: It's pretty solid, just watching gondor soilders clash with uruk-hai is always cool. 
 The heroes are all balanced for the most part and all the units' abilities are fair. My only problem 
 is the ships. They are a great new thing to come to this game, but it just doesn't feel right having 
 them in the game. The ship battles are pretty forgetable, althought the AI does a good job keeping 
 you busy.
  8/10
  
  Graphics: Really, really solid. You won't be dissapointed although it's not the best looking rts 
 game. The water detail and enviornments are top-notch. Some of the units though do look spotty 
 and ugly. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: One of the best movie soundtracks. You can't go wrong with that. The music fits the battles 
 and they have a nice soft tune to a thunderous symphony of mordor. 10/10
  
  Presentation: Well done. The intro cutscene is pretty good, and the game menu will blow you away. 
 The fantastic enviornments and great music makes you feel like you're really in middle-earth.
 
  9/10
  
  BFME2 is a superb game and you'll probably have no reason to dislike it unless you downright hate 
 rts games, or these kind of fantasy games are a turn off to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbealo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  LOT 2 is an intense, immersive game with great variety and engrossing gameplay. The graphics are 
 great, with excellent, realistic detail. The skirmishes are just as exciting as the main story 
 gameplay, if not better, as you can focus on one battle and replay it to fight it differently straight 
 away. The music is superb and adds to the atmosphere, from the sweeping orchestral pieces to the 
 haunting elven songs. When I first played this game I went for 4 hours straight. I played it again 
 4 weeks later, starting at 8.00pm and didn't notice it was 1.00am till my wife came in and said, 
 What ARE you doing!! The need to build defences and provide troops to battle well is great fun, 
 and adds to the overall realistic effects of RTS. I would go so far as to say that this game is 
 better than the 3 movies for entertainment and engagement. It will become a classic RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Bugs, bugs and more damb bugs. online is pretty bug-ridden, dont forget about the bugs if i hant 
 mentioned that already.
  
  I suppose its wat can be expected from EA nowedays. bfme 1 had the movie to give it strength, but 
 this only had the books. in theory the books should have given it more than the movies gave bfme 
 1, but that would be crediting EA with the ability to read...
  
  When i first heard of this game i was like Omg it will be so cool , i even got my laptop repaired 
 because my computer doesnt have XP. the thought of goblins, dragons, sauron etc. if only they had 
 kept the game like bfme 1 though and just labelled it an expantion or something. i prefer solo 
 play to online, and the AI made me so annoyed. why the hell isnt there a setting to turn it back 
 to the good ole' days of bfme1 where it actually recognised your units rather than disregard them. 
 i know this is how humans act online but it would have been nice to have the option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba41025
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Hi My Name is Lachlan
  I am doing are view of this game. I would recomend to get this game. It is awsome. I play it all 
 the time. Mosl of the lord of the rings games anre really good. The reason it is awsome is because 
 you can make a huge army. You can get really good heroes. It is better than the witch king game. 
 Get this 1. It is better. Gandalf is really strong. It is the best game. My friends play it aswell. 
 It is 1 of the best games of lord of the rings. If you go on to cheat planet and type in lord of 
 the rings battle for middle earth 2 it will have some hints. It really all this fun. nothing near 
 as fun as GTA 4. They is the best game ever and will always be the best game ever. So dont sit 
 down and pplay lord of the rings. Get ya sel; f an ps3 or xbox360. I am doing that
  Thanks for reading.
  Lachlan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this for about a week and I am loving it. It has tons of new features that 
 the first game didn't have such as new armies such as goblins, Elves, and Dwarves. Creating your 
 own hero is fun, better online, and great graphics.
  
  The story is great! I have been playing Good Mode and I am loving it. A great engaging story that 
 with some great cut scenes in between levels. Excellent and definetly great for fans who want to 
 delve deeper into the Lord of the Rings history. 
  
  Graphics rock! If you have a good video card then you will love it. On my computer the game did 
 slowdown with big battles and a lot of troops on the screen but then again my computer isn't that 
 great. 
  
  Gameplay is great. EA has added more strategy to the game. New powers and instead of making structures 
 on a little circle, you now have builders who can build structures anywhere. Difficulty is now 
 a bit more harder and enemy AI is smarter than before. Overall the gameplay is the best aspect 
 of the Battle for Middle Earth 2. 
  
  Overall this is a great game that has great online, nice graphics, and awesome gameplay. You can 
 pick it up at Target and other stores for $9.99 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Much improved over the first. A game starts off slow, you get two builders and some resources 
 and you have to build some resource gatherers, like Malorn Trees or Goblins, then when you get 
 some resources you build some troops and either send them to there death or use them to defend 
 and build a massive army then attack the enemy. IF you have enough resources you can make a hero, 
 you can make your own hero its not too deep but deep enough to make you customize for hours (at 
 least me :P) you can change its look (gender depending on the class) and then you go choose some 
 armor and then put some points in skills like Health armor and Damage, after that you choose the 
 skills whitch there arent too many to pick from but enough to have a impact on the choices and 
 build several of the same class. The Online mode is probly the best in the game due to the sheer 
 epic awsomeness of eight armys charging at each other with constant action. Graphics: There are 
 some really good graphics in this game, tho they arent the best top of the line Dx10 but they are 
 still really good. The details on the units is a little drab but you are rarely zoomed in anyways.
 
  
  Sound: The music really gives it and epic feel but I really like to listen to metal while playing 
 :P. The sound of screaming units and whirring of arrows is really a treat to the ears.
  
  Tilt: If you like RTS games, this is a must have, if you like massive battles, again this is a 
 must have its also very accessable to RTS newbies because its not too complicated to new players 
 yet it has enough deph for RTS vets.
  
  Value: Great value due to awsome online and limitless charecter creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PauloII
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Even tough many would say that its history is weak, it ACTUALLY is weak, as its not based on the 
 books, but on EA's will... like instead of using a well-known dragon for the goblins faction, they 
 prefered to make up Drodoth the dragon lord what actually sucked.... but still if u dont consider 
 the campain itself, but instead the other features like the War of the ring mode or just the races 
 themselves, or the create-a-hero system (what is my fav part) , it can be a extremely good game. 
 The 2 major problems are just its weak history and the fact that, after learning how to create 
 a strong hero (on the good side, evil sucks) , u can actually win the game on brutal dificulty with 
 him alone.... nonetheless its an above-overall game for tolkien-lovers or RTS-lovers...
  
  warning: spoil ahead
  
  if u got it try making either a capitain of gondor with shield crush, 
 throw spear and summon reinforcements or a wizard with fireballs, call the herd and word of power... 
 makes the game a LOT easier... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickstartYOSHI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  After the brilliance of BFM 1it seemed there was little room for improve for number 2. Where could 
 they extend the game, or do somthing different with it?!? Well, lets see... they had only covered 
 4 forces of middle earth in number 1. So guess what! now in BFM 2 you can command 3 more forces. 
 In all:
  &gt; gondor
  &gt; rohan
  &gt; elves
  &gt; dwarfs
  &gt; goblins
  &gt; mordor
  &gt; isengard Another fun feature they have included is the ability to create your own heroes of 
 any race: name them, arm them, and give them your chosen powers and special abilitys!
  
  In the sequel your missions take you to dozens of new locations all over middle earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are outdated. And the game is very short and very easy. I think I beat the whole game 
 in under 10 hours. Played multilayer for a long time, but mainly playing custom maps, map packs, 
 or mod campaigns. The 300 custom map is fun. And, this game doesn't cost that much, so the cheap 
 experience matches the price. Had some fun time playing LAN, and the game doesn't take long to 
 load up. But the graphics and the storyline! AGGH! Not as good as the first LOTR BME game. Hope 
 EA doesn't make another game or any game like this ever again though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  In land of Mordor, In the fires of Mount Doom, the dark lord Sauron forged in secret a Master Ring 
 to control all others and into this Ring he poured his cruelty, his malice and his will to dominate 
 all life. One Ring to rule them all. One by one the Free Lands of Middle-earth fell to the power 
 of the Ring. But there were some who resisted. A Last Alliance of Men and Elves marched against 
 the armies of Mordor and on the slopes of Mount Doom they fought for the freedom of Middle-earth. 
 Victory was near but the power of the Ring could not be undone
  This short paragraph is the main story of The Lord Of The Rings. Somehow, all the games of LOTR 
 have been related to war of the Ring, but LOTR BFME 2 is about the war in the north at the same 
 time of war of the rings.
  The story begins when goblins of Dol Guldur ambush to the Elves and Dwarves cities and destroy 
 everything.
  In BFME II you can be good or evil. Each side has 8 wars in their campaign. After finishing each 
 level you will see a demo that shows the events and your next move. In this game unlike BFME I 
 you can build structures everywhere in the map. In every mission you have enough money to build 
 your fortress where you want.
  There is a new ability that gives you the opportunity of making a new hero. Also there is War Of 
 The Ring campaign. In this part first you choose your race then you see the map of Middle-earth 
 after that you should conquer other states.
  As I say there are two groups, good and evil. Good races are elves, dwarves and humans, the evils 
 are orcs, goblins and uruk-hais. Humans are mix of soldiers of gondor and rohans horsemen.
  Everything in the game, from structures to rivers looks wonderful. Blooms effects are superb too. 
 Once asteroids fell from sky all the structures get bright.
  Indeed you have to have a powerful system. If you havent you should play the game without visual 
 effects.
  Sounds and music like before is very nice. Most of the voices and songs are from LOTR film.
  
 At the end if you love LOTR and have a powerful system, I recommend to you this wonderful game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is like a second storyline to the movies. In it there are two campaigns evil or good 
 both featuring to landscapes and characters not featured in the movies. Each campaign has different 
 missions and objectives including bonus objectives. You may play as the Elves and Dwarves in the 
 good campaign and the Goblins and Mordor in the evil campaign. Each faction has its own units, buildings 
 and magic powers. The powers vary from shooting a powerful volley of arrows to launching molten 
 rock from the sky to summoning the Balrog. The graphics are moderate in gameplay but better in 
 cut-scenes between levels. In the PC version the game often freezes but it isnt unbearable as it 
 unfreezes after a few seconds but it gets annoying sometimes.
  Sound is good and clear.
  The games characters are much like the ones in the movie. The Dwarf Gloin is much like Gimli. More 
 new characters are Glorfindel the Elf, The Mouth of Sauron and Drogoth the Dragonlord. Some original 
 characters are included such as the Witch King and Elrond.
  Well I say, this game is a must-have. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  I played a lot of LOTR games. I played the first Batlle for Middle Earth. It was all about the campaign 
 in the South... the one in the movies. The game was long and boring except for some missions. I expected 
 this one to be better.... and it is.
  The stories are different for each faction (good and evil) . It is based on the war in the North. There 
 are 6  having it's unique units. In my opinion 
 the best units are the elven Mirkwood Archers when upgraded with silverthorn arrows.
  The gameplay has changed. No more slot building... you can build freely. A good thing. The buildings 
 are structured the same as in the first one. The powers are more now. There are new heroes (Gloin, King 
  the Dragon Lord, Gorkill the Goblin king) and you get Sauron in 
 the last Evil mission. The combat remained the same but flanking bonuses were added. The beasts cause 
 damage when falling on troops. The graphics are very good. The sound is good itself, especially the 
 songs.
  Overall it's a good game. It must be played. I miss Gandalf in the campaign though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Is Quite simple. Gather resources build a base and train your soldiers ( various types 
 from calvary and huge monsters to giant eagles) and go kill you enemy and destory there base. Its 
 simple RTS gameplay with lord of the rings added to it. Graphics are not the best in a RTS ive 
 seen but not the worst either it ranks up pretty close to Company Of Heroes Graphics. Espically 
 on the higest settings. The graphics mainly focuses on the enviroments and not the units and buildings. Sound 
 is great as well taking the exact noises from the movie and implementing them into the games battle 
 sounds and cutscenes. The game is a cheap price of only 19 bucks and its expansion at around the 
 same price. Overall the game is pretty good.
  
  The Good: Great Gameplay and long campaign mode. Lots of sineplayer bot matches as well. Pretty 
 Enviroments.
  
  The Bad: Graphics not up to todays standars.
  
  The Ugly: Horrible Unit Detail and camera control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsher1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short, ok? LOTR BFME2 is an awesome game. The hero collection is 10 times larger 
 than the first. Not only that, but you can also MAKE YOUR OWN HERO! More buildings, wall CREATION, 
 AND more civilizations. The gameplay has also improve quite a bit. More moves to choose from. When 
 I got the first game I thought it was the best thing ever. Now that I have numero dos ( which means 
 2) , the first one looks like, ahem, crap.
  I have the LOTR BFME Anthology. You should definitely get this one.
  Look at my ratings on my 
 page!
  -marsher1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Love the game Lord of the Rings Middle Earth II ... It's great to play.... Great resolution.... 
 Great every thing about this... I have already palyed the Lord of the Rings 1 and 2 both... 1 is 
 also good but the 2 is the best.... GO and play this is for every one here... It's worth playing... 
 Every night it takes 4 hours from me, and I just can not resist my self from playing the game... 
 It is just like a attraction of home.. This is a suggestion to all the lovers of good games just 
 go to the store and purchase the game and just go playing night after night... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  You can take control of fantastic beasts and heroes from the Lord of the Rings series in the real-time 
 strategy sequel, The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II. New races, heroes, and 
 battlegrounds let you command battle in all-new ways. Build your own castle or hero and command 
 your forces on land and sea with new smart formations and battle lines. In addition to playing 
 through the campaign mode, you can challenge other gamers to battles online.
  is unusual for a pre-established series like The Lord of the Rings to successfully take on a sequel, 
 but EA Game's LORD OF THE RINGS: THE BATTLE FOR MIDDLE EARTH II for the PC proved this theory wrong. 
 This game manages to take the well-known mythology surrounding the story and focused on the war 
 in the North between the elves, dwarves, goblins, and Mordor forces that is only touched upon in 
 the book and is left out completely in the movies. LORD OF THE RINGS: THE BATTLE FOR MIDDLE EARTH 
 II plays out much like the game of Risk in that players must move their armies around a board that 
 is covered in territories. Players will find that this new battle between good and evil takes place 
 on a much grander scale with six different factions combining to against the forces of Mordor. 
 Players can also combine forces in multiplayer mode to get the most out of the fights. This ability 
 to customize the fighting options makes for a great game no matter what type of mood the player 
 is in. All of these factors make playing the second installment in the Battle for Middle Earth 
 series just as exciting and entertaining as the first time around, without the worry that players 
 will just be repeating the game in a different format. LORD OF THE RINGS: THE BATTLE FOR MIDDLE 
 EARTH II is perfect for Tolkien fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroididiot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  What really makes this game for me, is the multi-player ability. Me and my next-state-away cousin 
 play this game all the time together. Wether our armies are going head to head or side by side, 
 it is always as fun. The power ups, special abilites, castle creation, all make this an incredibly 
 enjoyable experience!
  
  But if multi-player just doesn't work for you, don't be discouraged. The single player is euqally 
 as rewarding. Skirmishes are my personal favorite, but the campaign is a lengthy-enough adventure 
 to occupy one for a time. And then there is the War-of-the-Ring mode. That was sort of a push for 
 me, personally. But if you like commanding troops from the perspective of a map, that is for you.
 
  
  But the coolest addition of all, was the ability to create your own hero! From Trolls to Wizards 
 to Elves to Dwarves, and alot more! You can customize things right down to the color of the Hero's 
 accesorries!
  
  So to put it simply, this game is awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If You Don't Play Multi-Player LAN Take This Rateing Of 7.5 &amp; Don't Read Any Further.
  
  This Game Is Mostly For Those Who Were Hooked On The Multi-Player. The Game Mixes It Up A Bit 
 By:
  1) Combining Gondor with Rohan To Make The One Faction Of Men 
  2) Adding Dwarves As A New Faction
  3) Adding Goblins As A New Faction
  4) Changeing Hero Layout 
 &amp; Properties (golem is no longer playable, insted he is cloked, Computer Controled, and runs 
 around the map with the ring. (you know... That ring....)
  5) Custome Heros. Oh Yea!!!!!!!
  
  The Game Still Supports MultiPlayer DeD Server But As Usual You Still Need A Seperate Copy 
 To Run It. I Am Dissapointed That They Still Leave It In A Player Slot &amp; Don't Seperate It. 
 (8 players max, even if one is a dedicated server)
  
  This Game Is Purely A Money Maker. This Game Has Nothing To Do With The Movie Or Story Line. EA 
 Even Sold 2 Types Of Media For The Game. The DVD Version With A Map (crappy piece of letter size 
 paper with one side good and the other side bad. the bad side has mistakes in the wording as if 
 it were made for the good side) What Burns Me About This Game Is How EA (basterds) Said Over &amp; 
 Over That You Could Not Use The Dragons Or The Special Last Summing Power Unless You Had The Special 
 Edition (DVD version) . But, When One Of My Friends Showed Up For a LAN Party He Had The CD Version. 
 Guess What? He Was The First Person In Our First Match To Summon It. Single Player Is Nothing Special. 
 Don't Let EA Fool You On Haveing more units on the battlefield They Just Change The Property Layout 
 Of Each Unit So The Maximum Number Looks Bigger. Its Close Enough That They Should Not Have Said 
 Anything. It Takes A Really Long Time to Build A Huge Fortrace To The Size Of What The Guys @ EA 
 Where Showing Off. Its Pretty Much Un-DooAble Unless You And Your Friends Play A Babys Game Of 
 Don't Attack My Town 'Cause Im A Sissy Who Bla Bla Bla.
  
  The Only Point Of Buying This Game Is If You Were A Fan Of Part 1 And You Want To Spice Up The 
 Multi-Player. Custome Heros Are By Far The Best Part And Only Resign To Buy This Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznshawn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Alright, the gameplay is the same as any other rts out there in the market. Collect resource, 
 then attack. Same old, same old.
  
  Graphics: Well it depends all on your graphics card, for great graphics, you need at least ATI 
 Radeon 8500, with that the graphics are breathtaking. But with low graphics card, leads to average 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is awsome! Great sounds, everything sounds great; the river flowing, birds flying 
 around, the rage of the dwarf when selecting them. The best sound I ever heard in a trs game. Not 
 only that but the background music is great, uses music from the movies, and some that goes perfectly 
 with the game.
  
  Value: Well... at first it was 50$, now the preice got all cheap and only 20 bucks. Good game for 
 a good price.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Well this, hmmm I have no idea what to write. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  First of all, this is a really old game. Its a prequel to Battle for middle Earth 1, which kinda 
 sucked, but BFME2 sucks even more. Sure, most of the gameplay is better, but war of the ring was 
 a bit screwed up and boring, the fact allies suck compared to enemies of the same difficulty is 
 kinda stupid, and the campaign is so crap. I prefered the old BFME1 campaign where you chose what 
 territory to visit, and the stroyline was better. War of the Ring is stupid because upgrades, new 
 units and buildings don't carry on from battles so you don't get a feel of continuality, and the 
 auto resolve definately sucks. It is just one guy dies on each team for each guy in the other. 
 The team with the most units wins. Hero levels, nor batalion levels don't matter, heroes aren't 
 better than batalions (worse actually, since a hero counts as 1 guy while a batalio has several) .
 
  
  The gameplay is alright, but not exactly very competitive. Nice graphics for buildings, but units 
 are a bit less good. Graphics are the best thing in this game, and they aren't that great.
  
  Also, the fact PCs don't attack you enoguh is so stupid, you can just build a mass of resource 
 buildings and you can always win. Which brings me to my next point, resources are unlimited, save 
 trees, but that doesn't matter.
  
  Also, the handicap is so rigged, an ally is weaker than an enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supereraser
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The game has really good graphics. It also has some of the best multiplayer action and the new 
 races are very good. They make the game much better by adding races from all over Faeurn thand 
 just Men and orcs. The AI could have been a little better but it is not bad. But overall I think 
 that this game could rank with Age of Empires the Conquerors Expansion which was one of the best 
 rts games of all time. Hopefully you all feel the same way I do. Okay i don't want to write any 
 more. Ha hahaha ahah aha hah ha ha ha ha ha hah ah ha hha ah ha hah ah ha hah ah hah aha ha hahah 
 ha ha hah ha hah ahah ah ha h hah ahah ah ahahha ha ha ha h ha ha ha ha h h aha hah ha ha hah ah 
 h aah h a ahah ha h aha h ha hah ah h. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rstoor
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 27, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best ever RTS for the Lord of the Rings, it is so much fun and challenging. 
 The AI is smart at times and makes the game all the more fun. If u like to send ur heroes out to 
 the front lines and take on hordes of Orcs, this game is for u. It has the biggest battles and 
 incredible units. The units and factions are all fairly balanced. Many people underrate this game 
 including gamestop. I thought it was the most fun RTS i have played. Yeah maybe the special powers 
 are a bit weird, but come on, if u have ever played AOM then u would know how much fun it is. I've 
 also heard people complaining about the Trolls. Well duh, their powerfull, their huge and dumb 
 but hella powerfull. It's the same as the Elephants from AOE II. I would say this game is terrific. 
 Im a huge LOTR's fan and this is one of the best games out for the PC. Halo 2 was such a dissapointment 
 since it came out for Vista only and has only DX9 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan2214
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  Since i didn't have the original bfme i just decided to give this game a go as it looked cool and 
 i hadn't played any other lotr games. I am so glade i made the desicion to give this game a go 
 as it is great fun to play single player and amazing to play on multiplayer.
  The single player side of the game has a lot to offer in this game. You can play an evil or good 
 side campain. The campain in this game focoses on the war in north which i think is great as it 
 allows you to see things that you didn't see in the movie. The cutseens in the campain also realy 
 bring the story to life and look fantastic as they use the game engine. You can also play skirmish 
 mod with up to 7 computer players. You can play as mordor, isengard, goblins, elves, dwarves or 
 men in this game and they are all realy well balanced. The computer in this game is a bit to easy 
 though for my liking. Unless you are playing against many of them. Your allies never help you as 
 well when you are in trooble which is realy anoying. In the single player side of the game you 
 can play a war of the ring mode which is great fun. This mode is kinda like a total war game just 
 a lot more simple and also the fact that you are fighting over middle earth not a country or the 
 world. And also the fact that you can build on the battle field you are fighting on in the real 
 time battles that you fight when you attack an area. The war of the ring mode does have some flaws 
 however such as hero wehn they die just come back to life for you to use again later. Also the 
 battles are no where near as big as the battles in the movie on this game which is a bit disapointing.
 
  
  The multiplayer area of this game is fantastic as it is ver easy to use and is great fun. It is 
 also extremly saticfying to just send a huge army of orcs or what ever into the enamy base and 
 watch your enamy crumble. I have been playing this game for about 9 month now and it is still great 
 fun to play online. Even though the expansion pack know so i just play the expansion online know. 
 Online you can play a quick search macth to find up to 3 people to play with or your can join or 
 host a game ith up to 8 players. You can add pc if you wish as well. People also create new maps 
 as well so there is map where you can play though the movie controling heroes. You can also play 
 war of the ring online but i don't play that so i can't say anything about it. I just know you 
 can save the game and go back to it later.
  
  The graffics in this game are amazing and have there own unick style. Only problem is you will 
 need an amazingly god pc to play this game on highest grafics but it stile looks great on medium 
 or above. The animations in this game are also top notch and the effects of spells and so on look 
 amazing.
  
  The sound is excelent as well with sounds from the movie and sounds that ea have added as well. 
 The sounds of battles are great and the voice work is very good as well.
  
  All together this is a brilliant game for any one who wants a fun rts that will keep them hooked 
 for hours or someone who is just looking for a bit of middle earth fun.
  
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonhartt
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 16, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  As a rts game, it does not offer the best experience for Lord of the Rings fans. One thing, this 
 game is plagued by unequal power between the different factions when it first came out. Several 
 patches that make changes to gameplay has been released by EA. But it makes the game much more 
 difficult to learn.
  
  As for the characters, yep, you can expect to see famous heroes such as Gandalf the White and the 
 Witch King. But one thing i really dislike about the game is how Gandalf the White has an awesome 
 level 10 power while some of the other heroes who are supposed to be as strong has none.
  
  The good:
  - Features almost all of the characters seen in the LOTR trilogy
  - For LOTR fans 
 and diehards
  
  The bad:
  - Lousy campaign story
  - Existing balance problems between factions, units and heroes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 12, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Our farms are under attack (repeat while: 1&gt;0)
  I love Lord of the Rings, and watching the movies get me so excited to play this game every time 
 I watch them. Fast forward 30 minutes, I am visibly pissed despite being victorious, and can't 
 believe I was tricked into playing this accursed AI. Facing the computer in BFME2 holds no greater 
 lasting enjoyment and appeal than that of a Happy Meal toy, and after the ROTWK finally being patched, 
 after a nearly unending series of months, failed to correct it, the AI belongs in the trash faster 
 than a car-ish block of plastic with a broken wheel. That noble opponent was apparently bestowed 
 with a 6th sense to know precisely where to sprint anywhere in the fog to rip apart your paper-armored 
 resource buildings. Build them to the side? Behind an ally on other side of the map? Hidden by 
 itself in a corner? There is no wit, only a full army, that has a chance to bring temporary safety. 
 I still recall one game having two batallions of spearmen built immediately to protect my fledgling 
 economy, only to find that a single batallion of angmar cavalry (remembering that this is 2 spearmen 
 vs 1 cavalry who inevitably ignore my units and go straight for buildings, and bonus vs cav go 
 to spearmen) were only killed after they left two resource buildings (yielding yet another net 
 loss for our team) destroyed and were damaging a third. My mistake... I guess outnumbering with 
 a rock beats sissors unit to defend a building beyond the limited range of my citadel is simply 
 out of the question in this game, oh wait, it is designed so that you cant make more than chump 
 change unless you also build away from your base, hooray.. Maybe cost prohibitive cavalry to defend! 
 Nope, their army is almost always pikemen and they utterly crush our cavalry. Even in victory against 
 the computer, there is no satisfaction beyond the release of stress from having your farms/mines/tress 
 incessently attacked by crappy units that 80-90% of the time destroy them even if you provide military 
 support. Despite the computer having perfect sight through the fog, it looks like we drew the short 
 stick again as our brilliantly competant soldiers apparently lack any sort of survival instinct. 
 Its not uncommon to leave for a few seconds to send a few men to fail in protecting a resource 
 building, and come back moments later to find those strapping young lads taking it easy, being 
 shot by arrows from the fog, remembering their duty to reform the formation for the fallen comrades, 
 then taking 5 until they too are shot dead. Playing against a legitimate human opponent holds the 
 only redeeming value in this game. However, there is considerable modding problems and glitching 
 from the modest amount I have played in the online community, but networking with a friend is fun, 
 especially since you GET to buy the game extra times b/c you cant install it on both your computers, 
 oh heavens no. Maybe with all the extra cash they are bagging from that keycode garbage, they can 
 invest in finally including competant programming, or just sell their license on LOTR to the guys 
 who made the Age Of Empires games. You cannot even compare the quality of the AI and economy in 
 Age of Mythology, for example, to this game. That game is a shining example of balance, design, 
 logic of use, and control of what is happening. AOM holds lasting appeal, and give satisfaction 
 in victory rather than repressed fury and a stomach ulcer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur-ruyam
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 12, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  The game features battle that happen in the north. In good mode you must fight as elves and dwafes 
 thwarting the attacks of goblins , mordor and even isengard. In evil mode you will play as Goblins 
 and Mordor trying to take over the North of Middle Earth. They're tutorials for bigginers. Multi 
 and online playing and Skimrish games where you can choose your battle field and oppent (s) .
  You can also create your own character. But the appearence is basically always the same ,never 
 changing... (bad thing) .
  I would rate this game 8/10 and every character group or army will have speacial powers so when 
 you complete a mini-task or fight in a battle you should level up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoarse_lord
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 4, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings is a decent game. But not wurth wat people are giving it. Tha game is full of 
 new features. Build your own hero is won. But it still lacks wat the first game delivered. Its 
 kinda repeative and gets a bit boring also the whole concept of taking your army wit you is gone, 
 The gaphix are good and the gamplay is decent but it aint brillaint. So I'd suggest the firsts 
 one over this one anyday. Good-
  -Build your own Character
  -New factions
  -New Maps
  -New Characters
  
  Bad -Gameplay too short
  -Reaptive
  -Take your army with you is gone
 
  -Some factions are stronger than others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  A superb game like this should not be missed. It is just like other RTS games, except that it's 
 LOTR and you can make heroes, such as Gandalf or Legolas. You can make your own hero, but it's 
 not as good as you would think. You don't have enough options for the customization. The best part 
 about the heroes is that they have special powers. The powers will get more powerful as the hero 
 levels up. Some of the heroes have a larger than necessary price, and some heroes are too cheap.
 
  
  The graphics are nice and pretty, especially the water.
  
  The sound is cool.
  
  The campaign, War of the Ring, Skirmish and On line are all going to last you a long time.
  
 
  It's fun so buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  It's been a few years since the Lord of the Rings topped off with its finale of The Return of the 
 King, but that doesn't discourage EA from dishing them out at will. This latest installment is 
 the sequal to 2004's Battle for Middle Earth. This game one-ups its predecessor in almost every 
 occasion. With the new license EA has acquired, Tolkien's world of Middle-Earth is heavily expanded, 
 therefore you will see a lot of land that was not shown in the movies. Battles can take place in 
 familiar areas such as The Shire, all the way to Dol Guldur which is not quite as familiar unless 
 you have read the books. Another improvement to the game is the factions, quite a few more races 
 are added along with special heroes and specialized units. Speaking of heroes, they have incorporated 
 a hero design system system that allows you to create your own hero. The customization however 
 is limited; if you were hoping to re-create yourself, you will be sourly disapointed. The combat 
 system has also been revamped. You can now build outside those annoying walls from BFME, giving 
 a much broader horizon for gameplay.
  
  Heroes are also very powerful and influential. They can turn the tide in a war to your advantage. 
 There is also a unique style of warfare that moves away from plain skirmishes. Designated War of 
 the Ring , it looks and feels very much like a board game; Risk in particular. The sounds a very 
 good too; great voice-acting on all the troops and heroes.
  
  Overall, a vastly improved combat system, along with a broader playing field and factions, Battle 
 for Middle Earth II is better than its predecesser in every way, and is a damn fun Real-time strategy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is very nicely made but there's a couple of problems.
  like......
  If you want good graphics this game will work very very slow.
  Kinda like slow motion and It 
 just crashes on me sometimes.
  And EA forces you to buy another version of this game only to play LAN,
  and if you want to play 
 multiplayer online you gotta pay $4 a month. Whats the point of all this?
  But now to the good stuff. You can create your own character! Plus the campaign are awesome. You 
 can play a campaign kinda like LOTR Risk but, here you get to fight battles. Now the two other 
 campaigns you get to watch lil movies and play like normal gameplay but with objectives and stuff. 
 Like usuall you know. But here you can play a campaign for both good or evil.
  Also in the original Lord Of The Rings Battle For Middle Earth it's kinda better fealing to play. 
 Here when you play where there's fortresses your walls end up being smashed to pieces with catapults 
 and stuff and so the enemy rushes in unlike in the movies where they use ladders to attack and 
 stuff.
  But if you attack the fortress you end up the one being attacked. But this game is fun to play.
 
  Has good graphics. I recommend it. But the old Battle for Middle earth original is better. Plus 
 they could of had a better sound system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ser_Zim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This great game couldn't get much better ok you can always hope and dream to win a war of the ring 
 game and playing with 8 teams on brutal in mordor and wining might be nice but that will probably 
 not happen ever. The single player is great could be a little longer or harder in both good and 
 evil.
  Create a hero would be better with more races to chose from but still good over all. The multiplayer 
 and skirmish modes are the best though you can own people online and kill the comp and both ad 
 to your heros stats (i know someone that has all the awards on the back page he's so white you 
 can barely tell he's not albino he still has some slite coloration in his hair nothing much but 
 its there.) The hardest thing to deal with is when you have the best army ever and some one summons 
 a dragon and souron to crush you and you get blasted to peices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJedi165
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  If you played the Battle for Middle-Earth one, then you probobly know that it was missing the huge 
 battle ellement potrayed in the movies. Well that time is passed. The Battle for Middle-Earth II 
 is a great game that mixes the ability to build where ever, with a masive battle scene. Batalions 
 no longer have just one line, but four! And the ability to play on any historic map in the the 
 Middle-Earth saga is a big plus.
  One of the most notable of the changes though, is the new teams. When I heard that EA was going 
 to make a Dwarf and Goblin team, I feared that the teams would not feel Lord of the Rings. Thank 
 goodness I was wrong. The dwarf team felt very out of the books . And the Goblin team looked like 
 somthing that had crawled out of a cave. Very good job EA!
  The new hero's are great to. People like Glorfindel and King Dain are great representations from 
 the books and look about right. Also, the ability to create your own hero was a great factor. I 
 would have liked more options, (Like a ranger class for the men) but I did have alot of fun creating 
 a hero that spawn an army and lead charges. The animation is amazing. The water reflects people 
 and buildings and looks real! Also, you can turn animation up, to the point where everything looks 
 like the real thing. (Only do that if you have about 5 gb's of RAM)
  The downsides would be the fact that the Fortress's are very weak. They are easy to take down with 
 enough units or siege equipment. Also, you cant put men on your walls and the catapult towers dont 
 reach as far as normal catapults. Ship battle, for lack of a better way to say it, sucks. All your 
 ships do is float around shooting arrows at people. And the Campain was dissapointing to. Also, 
 once you get good at the game, it becomes rather easy to beat the enemy teams. All in all however, 
 the animation, gameplay and outrite coolness of the game beats out the downsides completely. Difenatly 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is one of the best RTS strategy games that I have played. It's still not in 
 the league of C&amp; C, C&amp; C Red Alert, Age of Empires (original) Starcraft, or Rise of Nations 
 (original) , but it has captivated me lately. The graphics, are pretty good. Although they are getting 
 a bit dated, especially compared to games like Supreme commander and Company of Heroes.
  
  I suppose part of the reason that I like this game so much is because I am a LOTR fan in general. 
 I love how they have incorporated music from the movies into the game. If you have a good sound 
 system, it will really add to the experience. The game play is a bit different than most classic 
 RTS games, since you command batallions consisting of multiple troops instead of single units (except 
 for builders and heroes) . I think, in this case, the batallion sytem helps the gameplay. It allows 
 you to control many groups of units easily.
  
  One of my favorite things about this game is that it has incorporated just about all of the major 
 characters in the LOTR universe. It is tons of fun to know back 20+ troops with Gandolf's wizard 
 blast, or to use Aragorn to summon the Army of the Dead. It should be quite obvious that you will 
 not like this game a great deal if you do not like Lord of the Rings. My biggest complaint is the 
 upgrade system (in terms of armor, weapons) . First you have to build the structure that supplies 
 the upgrades. Next, you have to upgrade the structure to gain access to all of the upgrades. Then 
 you have to upgrade each batallion individually with each upgrade. It would have been easier to 
 just upgrade all of the troops once the upgrade is researcehed, but I suppose this could have made 
 the gameplay unbalanced (with massive amounts of troops getting upgrades all at once) . Anyway, 
 it's not a big deal; it just adds to micromanagement elements. As a final point, I would HIGHLY 
 reccomend buying the PC version instead of the XBOX 360 version. Now, I own a 360, and I love it. 
 I even think that the 360 of this game is very well done. However, the slow-down and lag on the 
 360 version can make the game unplayable at times. Also, the PC version has more maps and a few 
 patches that make the expereince better. If you don't have a PC that can run this, it is still 
 worth playing on the 360 (perhaps a rental) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  LOTR and RTS genre is always a great combination and the second installation: Battle for middle 
 earth 2 doesent dissapoint. From Great graphics to awesome sounds. But i have 1 slight complaint 
 some sounds are just from the movie would it hurt if they compose new sounds? .this game has all 
 the great elements of an RTS game. This game has the epic lotr feel. And adds a new mode war of the 
 ring. Though nothing much new here. but there's a new plot in the campaign mode and new characters. the 
 best part of this game is the large scale battles. Soldiers fill the screen .this is bfme2 at its 
 best. BFME2 is a solid RTS games And it wont dissapoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partydude1085
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  just to get it out of the way, the graphics are great for its system requirements and such
  overall gameplay is fun and i really like the way that when you train units a whole squad comes 
 out (which makes the battle seem larger rather than warcrafts smaller ones for example)
  i like the single player campaign very much (lovin the story)
  and the war of the ring mode is 
 really fun i think
  i like the upgrades like summoning tom bombadil, it adds a nice depth
  
  my 2 main problems are this...
  the minor problem is that i dislike the way each battalion 
 must seperately purchase upgrades
  
  the major problem deals with the otherwise perfect online play...
  they always become hero wars, 
 no one bothers to raise an army, they just send out their custom heroes and crush everything, its 
 pretty dam annoying
  and u can pick games that dont allow custom heroes... but they are pretty dam hard to find
  
 
  but this is definitely a solid game and should be played by mostly any RTS fan and/or if u like 
 tolkien or fantasy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefawn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  any way you look at it, this game was/is really good... i enjoyed playing the different types of 
 armies, the goblins were a little difficult to play with but against... they are too easy. theres 
 the good sides and they are all good except the men i dont like those guys they are bad. the elves 
 i enjoyed killing people with them because the archers were really strong. i have created heroes 
 that were archers, i make those first thing then start making small amounts of archers and i start 
 destroying people... i have friends with this game and they play very deffensively, they build walls 
 wherever they can, and then defend and let the enemy make the first attack. i let the enemy attack 
 me until i have a strong enough army to split them up, 1 flanks left (if possible) , 1 flanks right 
 (if possible) , 1 goes dead on straight thru everything to attack them, and few more battalions 
 to defend my castle. i give this almost a perfect score this was a really nice game to play and 
 i hope that EA games can make a Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth III i hope we can all 
 enjoy these games for ever... thank you EA games for another great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought it would be an improved version of part 1. But it is a totally different game! 
 This one gives you the ability to build anything you want and everywhere. The factions are awesome 
 and the graphics amazing. The different campaigns are definetely a plus, although I belive that 
 apart for the purpose of the storyline on Good and Evil campaigns, if you've played War of the 
 Ring once you feel satisfied. The greatness of this game goes down to the heroes. As always very 
 strong, powerful and various abilities to choose from when making a custom one. What is better 
 than playing a character you've created through the war?! Even better to play a multiplayer map 
 vs others! Great fun, with a complete RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martythegiant
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  When The Lord OF The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth came out it conjoined the Lord of the rings 
 universe and RTS gameplay creating a great gaming experience. But now it's back with the sequel, 
 TLOTRBFMII, or in words The Battle For Middle earth 2. The gameplay is pretty much the same as 
 its prequel but has a lot more factions to play as, so altogether they are: (Good) Elves, Dwarves 
 and men (Evil) Goblins, Mordor and Isengard. The new factions are great as they have many different 
 abilities and advantages when playing each one. The campaign mode is similiar to BFME1, kill the 
 evil side or kill the good side, but a whole new story has been planned out following the dwarves 
 and the Elves or the Goblins and Mordor. This grabs you immediately as this story is not in the 
 films, so your interest grows more and more with each mission. There is again the Skirmish mode 
 where you can pit yourself against different enemies, but the greatest thing about BFME2 is the 
 multiplayer mode. When i finished the game I got bored of it, but when ( stupidly) i figured out 
 there was a multiplayer I jumped straight to it. You can play with anyone around the world if you 
 have a good modem or broadband. I learned many different tips and tricks from the people i was 
 playing against. Great stuff! The Graphics are very good on the highest level of course but as 
 my video card was a bit old i went for the medium level. I was amazed. There was even great detail 
 on lower levels of graphics quality too! Every hardcore Rts fan should buy this game its just genius! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagitus2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The reason for saying this is that i couldn't play more than 2 minutes in skirmish mode. Why is 
 that you ask ? Because the game instantly kills me even if i'm not attacked. Another huge bug is 
 that in the tutorial the army doesn't want by any means to capture a building... and the scenarios 
 asks you to do that. So It's CRAP !!! Definetely not worth playing... the fact is that the game 
 doesn' t let you play more than 2 minutes. This is a shame because it looks better than the first 
 one and the way you fortress is made is way better than in the first one where you could only build 
 close to it. So play the first LOTR because is much better. The only way tom ake it work was with 
 the 1.06 patch and it took a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised when I discovered that EA was making another Battle for Middle-Earth 
 game. I really loved BFME, and still play it today. The unique base building options, focus on 
 capturing of strategic points on the map, shockingly good voice overs and music score, and beautiful 
 graphics in the first BFME game were what really made me love the series. And, I'm a big Middle 
 Earth fan.
  
  So, this Christmas I decided to pickup the new BFME2 game, and it's expansion pack, Rise of the 
 Witchking.
  
  ... and I was totally let down. Many of the things about the first BFME game, things that made the 
 game unique and revolutionary, are noticeably missing from BFME2 and the Witch King expansion. 
 Base building is now your standard RTS formula, which is boring and unimaginative. The music is 
 still great, and the production values are still superb, but the graphics somehow look worse to 
 me in the new game! Yeah, there are more units, but, they look like they are smaller now with lower 
 polygon counts. I ended up selling both games on eBay after playing them for only a couple days. 
 I tried, really tried, to enjoy the new BFME game, but, I ended up going back to the original, 
 and all the great mods that are out for it, instead.
  
  Unless you are a huge RTS and Middle-Earth fan, I would suggest skipping the second game in this 
 series and just play the first... I like it way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 is a RTS set in the world of Middle Earth. But this 
 time the game focuses more on war in the north. The campaigns in this game are more like regular 
 RTS campaigns, much different than the old BFME. They are still fun despite how awesome it was 
 starting a mission with a huge army. There are 3 new factions. These are Elves, Dwarves, and Goblins. 
 Mordor and Isengard are still races you can play. Gondor and Rohan were pushed together to make 
 one faction, The Men of The West. Each has their own style of play. For instance, the dwarves are 
 hearty and tough and can take a beating while goblins will consume their enemies with swarm after 
 swarm of troops. There is a create-a-hero mode but it is really bland compared to other EA games 
 create-a modes. It is fun to make heroes anyways and I believe they are just to give you an extra 
 hero to recruit during skirmish games. There are many skirmish maps to play on and even if you 
 get board of those you can create your own. There is a new mode of play called War of the Ring. 
 It's a Risk style game where you try to take over the territories of Middle Earth. On each territory 
 you can build barracks for more troops or farms for more command points. It is a pain to move armies 
 around considering they can only move one territory at a time but nontheless it's a fun game. Granted 
 you have a nice computer or video card the graphics are fantastic. You will never see a block shape 
 in BFME. The sound is very nice as well, especially in battle. BFME2 is one of the best RTS's I 
 have ever played and hope others will enjoy it as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Bfme2 is a great game that has a whole alot of strategy. if you have played warcraft or starcraft, 
 you will know immediately that you will have to start getting used to the new strategy in this 
 one. there are total of 6 factions in this one. men of the west is mainly made up of the previous 
 gondor and rohan in the first game. mordor and isengard are mainly the same but the unit skins 
 have been improved. elves, dwarves and goblins are the new factions in this sequel and the story 
 centers these 3 races. building plot is different from the RTS you seen in warcraft or starcraft 
 and ven in the original bfme. this is because each structures you build is far away from your other 
 buildings. this forces the player to expand their base instead of building everything inside like 
 in starcraft or warcraft and do the usual turtle. dont get me wrong you can still turtle but in 
 this game expanding is key to victory, buildings more resources structures that auto0collects resources (cash 
 to buy upgrades, train units and stuff) this review is only 1% of what the game even has to offer 
 maybe not even less than 1%. you got powers for each race. you will need power points to obtain 
 these powers and each power depending how strong it is what need time to recharge. you can also 
 capture flags to get more resources, speed up recharge time (hero revival, power recharge, hero 
 skills anything that has acharge or time will be charged 2x fast) which forces you to scout.
  
  1 more thing you also get heroes in this game. motw got about 8 or more. boromir and aragorn 
 are favs in bfme2. elves got legolas and thranduil (legolas dad) dwarves got king dain and gloin 
 and gimli. goblin got shelob (spider from two towers, isengard got lurtz (the guy that killed boromir) 
 and mordor got fellbeast, witchking, nazguls) each races has about 3-8 heroes. it's just too much 
 to list. plus this review is alot anyways.
  
  have fun with the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Allthough the graphics aren't too much to look at, and obviously aren't as nice as the 360 version, 
 the game runs smoothly without framerate issues or lag or anything of the sort. The game uses a 
 group techinique that I'm not used to, where you train maybe 10 units at the same time and that 
 group of 10 cannot be seperated and is upgraded together etc. I am used to the Age series where 
 you train groups of units, but they are seperated once completed their training. The upgrade part 
 of the game is prob the worst part. To get the an upgrade for let's say the goblins on spiders, 
 I would have to build the right building to train them, upgrade the building 2x, train the spiders, 
 build a seperate building to buy upgrades, upgrade THAT building 2x, purchase the upgrades from 
 that building which then allows me to buy the upgrade for my group of spiders. And then I have 
 to buy the upgrade for every group of units that I wan't the upgrade for. Once you have it, it's 
 not worth the loooong wait and cash. The story is not too unique, but it is cool live the battles 
 that were not in the books or movies. Good game, get this version over the 360 version if you have 
 the choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth is 1 of the best RTS games of our time. The multiplayer is great adding 
 new maps every month. The campaigns are great offering some pretty exiting moments. And the fact 
 that the campaigns are about the less mentioned elves, dwarves, and goblins is pretty cool. Some of 
 the bad things about the game are 1. Soldiers tend to bunch up being no match for a power such 
 as wizard blast. 2. Soldiers tend to run around on the walls on levels such as Helms Deep and Minas 
 Tirath. Some good things are 1. HUGE battles are fun to look at. 2. The soldiers have better abilities 
 (such as stealthing) . 3. Being able to expand and make buildings almst anywere on the map is a new 
 twist. And lastly 4. All the armys have special things that make them different , for example Mordor 
 has horrible infantry but they have very strong monsters such as trolls and fallbeasts. Altogether 
 BFME2 is a must own for any big RTS fan. (dont listen to the people that gave the game like a 2.0.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atg1993
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings battle for midlle earth 2 is a very good game at first and has an excellent multiplayer 
 to play online you get upgrades and everything costs less (yay) . But i thought that it got a bit 
 boring after a while. I prefer doing skirmishs as you get to raise a massive army and the crush 
 them in one blow it is a lot more amusing. But evan that gets a bit boring. My favourite army is 
 probaly men or elves because i like a strong set of swords men and mordor or the goblins have terrible 
 foot soldiers. I also like the elves and men because there is lots of heros to choose from like 
 gandalf legolas and aragorn. This is game worth playing but better playing at a friends house than 
 buying for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos1479
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  ITs a ok game just the music isn't very good its your classic rpg music or lotr music. The gameplay 
 is fun if you likerunning around a whole mission mostly but the online play is fun on some maps 
 because on some maps you get rushed right off by the enemy and get demolished to quickly so the 
 online play is fun when you are not playing a map where everyone was scrunched up. The graphics 
 are good for a a RTS game its graphics are better than the warcraft 3 graphics. BFME 2 is weak 
 in some spots the campaign mode isn't that great because you don't stay as one person or army you 
 switch all around I mean after the fifth or sixth mission you play as king dain which he sucks 
 at all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuilazNaples
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  It is very nice when you play at higher diffcult, and 6  
 are goods but if you want to play at normal difficult the game become too easy.
  If you are a lover of LOTR or of Strategic games this game is perfect for you, but if you are a 
 game master this game is too easy.
  I Like the heroes creator where you can create an hero that fight in battle, but he become too strong 
 and invicible at level 6.
  The campaign doesn't involve me but the war of the rings is very nice, like a table game and i love 
 the fortress of the middle earth like Minas Tirith ,they are a very good map to play and you can 
 stay in this fortress where you build your barracks and troops to annhilate the enemy!!
  Well, it is still the best in series and it look very nice especially the very good EAX sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free2loveonly4u
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  wat 2 say just wow wow wow Dis is d best strategy game i have ever played. Game play is so addictive 
 dat 1's u get in d game u will forget everything else lol. Sound Superb well if u have a gud quality 
 speakers. Graphics amazing but req. a gud quality graphic card n atleast 1gb ram. Campaign mode 
 is a bi disappointing not in gameplay or storyline but cauz of its shortness .. its too short like 
 u can finish it in 1 day only wid 6-7 hrs of play .. DIS IS D MUST BUY GAME !!! Best in series Best 
 in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series 
 Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best 
 in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series 
 Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best 
 in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series Best in series 
 Best in series Best in series Best in series ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  This is truely an excellent strategy game with so much strategic options!
  
  The good: There is loads of different strategic features; you can now play in tons of new levels; 
 the graphics are stunning; you can create your own hero or pick from dozenz such as Aragorn and 
 Gandalf; you can play online; you can save replays of your entire match while in network mode
 
  
  The bad: campaign is very short; hefty system requirements to see the graphics at their full potential; 
 the fighting from close up looks pretty stupid
  
  If you are into lord of the rings or strategy games, then you will definitely like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I like to think that the original Battle for Middle-Earth was a solid game. I enjoyed the building 
 plot system as it forced players to use more strategy and only build structures that they really 
 need. Still, BFME had a disappointingly weak campaign mode, and the long online sieges when Gondor 
 and Rohan players used castles could get irritating. Battle for Middle-Earth II attempts to fix 
 some of these problems, and for the most part succeeds.
  
  The story for the good and evil campaigns focuses on the so called War in the North that takes 
 place at the same time as the War in the South that we all know and love from the Lord of the Rings 
 books and films. Both campaigns feature a cast of original characters, film\book characters, and 
 book characters such as Glorfindel, King Dain, and Tom Bombadil. The Good campaign takes you from 
 Rivendell, to the Misty Mountains, the Lonely Mountain, Lake Town, etc. as the Elves, Dwarves, 
 and Men of the Dale fight off Sauron's assault on the northern territories of Middle-Earth. The 
 Evil Campaign naturally focuses around the Goblins, and Mordor as they fight for conquest of the 
 north, they even go as far as attacking the Shire. Still, the story isn't as strong as the books 
 or films since it's an RTS game, but for fans of the books and movies who wanted to see what some 
 of their favorite book characters who didn't appear in the movies look like, and what they were 
 up to, it's good enough. Still, the campaigns are short, and quite frankly, not very interesting 
 unless you're a hardcore Lord of the Rings fan.
  
  The gameplay is actually different from the original games. Instead of build plots, BFME 2 lets 
 you build anywhere you want with the traditional builder system. Resource gathering is still structure 
 based, so to prevent players from building hordes of resource structures the developers used an 
 efficiency system where in order to have these buildings produce the most resources possible you 
 have to place them quite a ways apart. This can create a problem, however; as most skirmish maps 
 are simply not large enough for you to have any more than three or four of these structures. The 
 biggest problem with this system, though; is that resource buildings also function as command limit 
 buildings. Your command limit (basically a fancy way of saying population cap) increases by 50 
 with every resource structure (and 25 for every level that the structure achieves) , so if you limit 
 yourself to only a couple farms you won't be able to have a very large army. Even with four farms 
 your army will be small because even the most basic of soldiers takes up a large amount of your 
 command limit. This makes the efficiency system a big pain, because in order to have a large army 
 you'll need to sacrifice a lot of potential necessary resources (everything in BFME 2 is expensive) , 
 and in the end you won't even be able to afford maxing out your command limit.
  
  BFME 2 features three new factions, two good and one evil. The Elves and Dwarves are the new good 
 factions, and the Goblins are the new evil faction. Gondor and Rohan make their return as a combined 
 forces of good faction called the Men of the West, and Mordor and Isengard return as evil factions. 
 For the most part, the new factions are well made, and the old ones well modified to fit into the 
 new BFME 2 play style.
  
  BFME 2 also features a new game mode called War of the Ring which is fairly entertaining if you 
 disable real time battles which are no more than skirmishes. War of the Ring mode takes a less 
 active Living World map that was used in the original BFME campaign, and lets you place two to 
 all six factions somewhere on the map and split the factions into two teams. After the game begins 
 your goal is to rid Middle-Earth of your opponents by conquering territories, and building up your 
 armies. It would have been nice if standard armies could have conquered land, unfortunately only 
 armies under the command of a Hero Leader can do this. It also would have been nice if they let 
 you view the world map without all of the bright colors filling in every landscape.
  
  BFME 2 also features a new Create-a-Hero mode which was one of the most hyped up features. Unfortunately 
 the mode is pointless, and since all heroes cost 2000 resources you can easily create an imbalanced 
 super powered bringer of the apocalypse. This gimmick of a feature also lacks any real customization, 
 as you can only select one face, and the helmet, chest, shoulders, arm, and leg selections are 
 extremely limited. At least you can have fun giving them strange color combos. I didn't want to 
 embarrass myself online, though, so I made my Captain of Gondor entirely bright pink.
  
  The graphics in BFME 2 are only slightly improved over their predecessors. Still, the graphics 
 in the original were excellent, so even a slight improvement is welcome. BFME 2 features new snow 
 environments for mountain locales, and these environments are truly a wonder to look at on Ultra 
 High. Water also now reflects the sky, so you'll be able to see the blue sky and clouds passing 
 by if you take the time to observe rivers, lakes, or the ocean.
  
  The audio is just as great as before. Solid voice acting with some of the actors reprising their 
 roles, and great substitutes for the ones that did not. The sound effects are superb, weapons sound 
 as they should, and excellent ambiance such as strong winds, and the calm sound of the ocean. The 
 music is once again a combination of the excellent Howard Shore film score, some of the original 
 score from the first Battle of Middle-Earth, and an all new score for the sequel. The music is 
 definitely one of the best parts of this game.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth II is a little rough around the edges. The campaigns are fairly uninteresting, 
 War of the Ring mode is pretty fun but has several flaws, Create-a-Hero is pointless, and the new 
 resource\command limit building combo is a significant problem. Still, it's a fun game that will 
 provide Lord of the Rings, and casual RTS fans alike with many hours of skirmish, and online fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 12, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  The Battle For Middle Earth II (BFME II) offers new items that the previous game should have had 
 however there are some bad things about the BFME II which EA should just never had done. Here is 
 my Review.
  
  Create your own hero can give you the chance to make your own unique unit and use him in your battles 
 against the enemy. There are many races to choose from such as a Gondorian or Urak-Hai. You can 
 also choose what armour they where however the armor selection can be quite limited is ome cases, 
 which lets down this option. Also you can choose what class he is Swordsman, Archer or Wizard. 
 Also like all heroes your hero will have skills. You choose these skills and there is a big variety 
 to choose from.
  
  Build your own castle gives you the chance to hide behind walls that you build instead of hiding 
 behind a circle. This is a nice option but in my opinion I prefered the circle. It may not be as 
 big but it just felt like something was out of the way, so you could spend more time building and 
 upgrading. Overall I don't like the new castle building.
  
  Elves, Dwarves And Goblins are now included in the BFME series they have new units and powers to 
 offer. I still think they should have added this in BFME I in a patch or mod. But it is nice to 
 see them in the game as they are a part of Middle Earth.
  
  The story for BFME for both evil and good is too short... as I managed to complete both stories 
 in one day. I like the fact that EA have gone away from the movie story and changed to the books 
 story a little. However they could have made it longer. I was dissapointed.
  
  The Game itself looks beautiful, sound is good as well. However I prefer the gameplay of number 
 1. But it is a nice game and should be enjoyed by all Tolkien and LOTR fans. (Except my Dad) To 
 sum it up A Game Which Could Have Been Better But Is Still Awesome Stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hulamadula
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  the campaign mode is way too short and too easy to complete. a huge plus is all the new possibilities 
 in multiplayer. before it was the person who got to the outpost first who won the games now its 
 the person who gets an army first and that is a lot better. the new addition of a lot of new heros 
 is a good thing but it would have been nice with a little more variation of abilities for the heros. 
 what i think is a little minus is the that the RING is now a part of the game. i think that eliminates 
 a bit of the fightning in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a good, fun game, just like the first one. With a few more added elements. Such as new 
 hero's, the battle for the ring, new maps, and new units. It can bring up the fun rating a bit, 
 but just to let it right out. There isn't a whole much difference from the first one. The graphics 
 may be tweaked just a bit better on the whole, but for the elements, it plainly remains about the 
 same. The battles are basically the same that you will run into, nothing different. They did make 
 it so you can set your buildings up wherever you want within certain points now, so that makes 
 a much better improvement. And they did improve on a couple other things, but nothing huge. If 
 you honestly have to choose from the first one, or this one. It's the obvious choice of this one, 
 and it will be fun. But if you were expecting a whole new game, with a whole new set of features, 
 then prepare to be disappointed. So my review leads to the point, it's a fun game, but it's nothing 
 more amazing than the first one. -Mack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IDont-Give-Damn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This Game (The Lord Of The Ring's: The Battle for Middle-earth II) Its Very Good Game With Very Good 
 Game Play. If you are the The Lord Of The Ring's Fan's Its So Great.
  The Lord Of The Ring's: The Battle for Middle-earth II Have a very very good multi-player game play 
 its so good me and my bro play it many time's.
  its better than every The Lord Of The Ring's Strategy game's.
  if you dont buy it. im think if 
 u are The Lord Of The Ring's fans its so great to buy it. try its so good. im play it many time's.
 
  but im think this game can be made better. its so better than The Lord Of The Ring's: The Battle 
 for Middle-earth But its can be made better.
  its so better if they do somthing for unlimited Biuld Soldiers. we cant biuld 2 many. its so good 
 if they do somthing for it. then we can play like real The Lord Of The Ring's Movie's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TravOOO0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok. LOTR: The Battle For Middle-Earth II
  
  
  
  
  
  BTW For people who don't know, The MAIN reason behind this game is that in the first one, The diddnt 
 have a license from The company that holds the copyrights for the BOOKS. NOT the movies.
  
  And before you give it a horrible review because it *quote* It recycled all the content from the 
 first one*End quote*
  
  First, Do your Homework about the game first
  
  second, No, It did NOT use exactly the same content from the first one because on the first on, 
 they diddnt have a book license.
  
  That is just my two cents on the subject
  
  Now on to the real review,
  
  
  Game play
  
  Pretty nice, The main single-player missons 
 could be longer.
  The Siege weapons (Ballista, Catapault etc.) Are Too strong.
  
  Graphics
  
  Unless your blind, you can see that they are great.
  
  Sound
  
  Good. Why 
 does the mouth of Sauron have that wierd accent?
  
  Overall
  
  A Very Good game. Not much to whine about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I haven't played the first Battle For Middle earth so I don't know to compare this with that.
 
  
  The game basically is not that much. It's not Age of Empire style gameplay as in you don't have 
 to move in to ages, it's just about collecting resources and making the army.
  
  BFM2 requires that you spread along the map capturing key resource points to maximize your resources, 
 collecting resources from anyplace you wish and hanging around camp won't help you have to spread.
 
  
  The GOOD: The graphics and sound are awesome really get in to the mood of fighting a war. The game 
 play is good you just build a army and fight off the bad guys. As a standalone game the game is 
 very well built good graphics not much of requirements needed.
  
  The BAD: Yes I said it's just about building an army well this might not be enough for some of 
 us who are used to Age of Empires, there is not much in to building a city, just the key buildings 
 to help you fight off the bad guys, the campaign is easy and short for a strategy game (increased 
 difficulty levels are very good) , there isnt that much of a story line just defend this capture 
 that, attack there (but strategy games have always been that so not much of fuss) . Some glitches 
 such as walls not building properly, those are there in all games, some basic strategy to keep 
 in mind
  
  Overall the game gives you some entertainment but for a limited period if your playing the quick 
 matches and there is a war of the ring where you have to capture territory, which is again easy 
 but would take you some time and a bit of strategic game play. There is replay value in when playing 
 multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Just like most RTS games on the market, BFME2 has you going through the steps of building your 
 army and trying to conquer the other side. What isnt like other RTSs on the market is the War 
 of the Ring mode. This new mode of Risk type play leads you into territory wars with the other 
 teams, where tactics and strategy come into play. This new game mode is very impressive and addictive, 
 planning where and when to send your troops for the battles to come. This mode alone is worth the 
 cost of the game, and will keep you occupied for hours on end.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in BFME2 are better than your average RTS, the cut scenes bring you plots and scenes 
 from the movies. While not breathtaking, this isnt to be expected from a real time strategy game.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds in the game are quite pleasing, they dont get respective quickly and sound good while 
 doing major battles.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  The replay value is very high, not only because of the multiplayer mode, but because of the War 
 of the Ring mode. This mode is great, I cant say enough about it.
  
  Recommend ? :
  
  I would recommend this to anyone, fan or not of RTS games, or of the movie trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tribeskhas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Well i have enjoyed the LoTR movies a lot. When BFME1 first came out, i thought the game was dam 
 fun, although in terms of units size, a tad bit underwhelming.
  
  Anyway, BFME2, is a great game in its own right. The game uses a highly modified BFME1 Engine, 
 which is also originally a Highly Modified C&amp; C Generals engine. The game features some decent 
 graphics, nothing special but, it still look pretty good. The game has really good music (LOTR 
 music) but i did wish, that some of the unit responses were more varied . The game features a decent 
 campaign, nothing too spectacular but it can take you some time, depending on your skill level 
 to go through the campaign missions. For the most part, the ride is interesting, and since the 
 campaign employs a story, different than the one features in the movies, well it is interesting 
 to play it.
  
  After finishing the campaign, you have 2 choices, skirmish against bots, or go online and kick 
 some ***. Now my biggest gripe is with the bots of skirmish mode, they literally ignore your unites, 
 and just aim for the damn buildings. This is an annoyance, because for some weird reason, in the 
 game, the buildings can get destroyed in a few hits, even my normal infantry. The game has a very 
 huge faction variety, you have Elves, Dwarfs, Goblins, Humans and then the Orcs. So there is some 
 variety in the factions.
  
  Create a hero mode, which was hyped a lot, is simply a HUGE disappointment, you cannot change the 
 faces of your character, and it is simply just equip a preset skin. Not a Create a Hero in my opinion. 
 IF you can ignore some of the minor flaws of the game, then you are in for a treat. Because this 
 one fast paced, and fun RTS game, and you will not be disappointed with the purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazynotstupid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  It took 3 yrs for a game to completely satisfy me since Frozen Throne. With a few balances i think 
 Battle for Moddle Earth 2 can be just as good if not better. The graphics is almost beyond belief 
 and that's not nearly the best part. The only thing that may be a bit dissapointing is that the 
 factions could have had more units and buildings. The skirmish mode is superb and so is the war 
 of the ring. But the campaign seems a little mixed up. As a real Lord of the rings fan i'm finding 
 it difficult to compare the game with the story or the movie. Anyway, within itself the game is 
 truely great and i'm really looking forward to playing the Rise of the Witch King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Battle for the middle earth is the best game about Tolkiens world that have ever made. Its fantastic 
 play whit all races of Middle earth (humans, elves, draws, orcs, uruk-hai,) you like you were into 
 the Tolkiens book or into the Peter Jacksons films
  
  It has got beautiful graphics and a wonderful music and sound effects. The game is very playable 
 and you can play in three ways (campaign, smirks, and the war of the ring) . Perhaps the war of 
 the ring would be better and I miss more units.
  
  Sorry, I have to leave you; the middle earth is waiting for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidum
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game is probalbly one of the best games out on the LOTR genre...
  
  GAMEPLAY: this game features endless hours of playing... for example... war of the ring... like fight 
 for all of middle earth in some board game type way, so cool... and if you th8ink u have finisherd 
 it, get all races up to level 10 and complete everymap on Brutal... I am still doing it now lol
 
  
  GRAPHICS: only bad thing on this game... theres so many little men and sodiers running aruond they 
 all cant be PS3 style... there isnt a good enough PC lol
  
  SOUND: cant really rate the sound but one way of gettin awsome sound is plug it in suround sound 
 and listen to it all day VALUE: worth every penny
  
  TILT: i would if i could rate it 11/10 but i cant... shame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for my English :/
  
  So... The Lord of The Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth 2 is an incredible real-time strategy... Probably 
 one of the best RTS ever made... This game has great graphics, good sound and voice acting, fantastic 
 gameplay and amazing storyline (well, since this game is about ''The Lord of the Rings'' the storyline 
 has to be good) ...
  There are five modes for playing- Skirmish, Evil Campaign, Good Campaign, War for The Ring abd 
 multi-player...
  In LOTR: The Battle for Middle-Earth 2 you can play as Forces of Good ( Elves, Men and Dwarves) 
 and as Forces of Evil ( Goblins, Mordor and Isengard)
  LOTR: The Battle for Middle-Earth 2 is not that so hard...
  Once you started to play it you will 
 never bored...
  So, if you are looking for the good RTS - LOTR: The Battle for Middle-Earth 2 is right for you... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  the LOTR battle for middle earth 2 is the continuation of EA's big success battle for middle earth. although 
 in the beginning i thought that it wouldn't be much different it turned out to be a lot different 
 a quite an interesting game.
  let's get to the various aspects of the game. the graphics of the game were awesome, carefully designed 
 with many details for a strategy game and if you zoom in you can notice the improvement compared 
 to the first game. sound is the classic Howard shore soundtrack that ,although is not a novelty, still 
 is quite beautiful and adds in the whole LOTR atmosphere as well as the voices of the actors participating 
 in the movie trilogy. the most disappointing part of the game is its gameplay. the skirmish mode 
 is a classic one and well organised. however the campaign mode is bad. the campaigns are very short 
 and their stories are not very solid. the war of the ring mode it reminds me of the Total War system 
 but it is very primitive and after a couple of times you get bored of it. finally the hero mode 
 is quite good but could be greatly improved and add many more points to it. the fact that there 
 are many more factions in the game makes it more interesting since they have different abilities, troops 
 even powers but they are not actually equal in strength since men, the strongest faction in my opinion, can 
 overwhelm any opponent and dwarves are really weak, so there isn't much challenge in the game
  
  All in all the game can be added to any strategy games gamer although it isn't a must buy it 
 game. it can be played quite pleasantly but only LOTR fans will love it. hope the next part the LOTR 
 battle for middle earth THe rise of the witchking will be much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebeast78
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The first LOTR: BFME was a great game. It certainly had its flaws, but all that didn't really matter, 
 for it excellently succeeded in bringing the world of the Lord of the Rings movies to your computer 
 screen. I felt sucked into Tolkien's (and Peter Jackson's) world, in awe of the game's inpressive 
 atmosphere. For those less captivated by this, the game was likely nothing really special.
  
  Part two keeps most (not all) of this great atmosphere, and adds better gameplay, a risk-like 
 war of the ring mode, and three new factions (Elves, Dwarves and Goblins) . The graphics have gotten 
 a lift, too. Mind you, you can only fully appreciate these marvels when you have a pretty heavy 
 machine (I myself have to play on the 'medium' setting, but it still looks great) . The new factions 
 are a great addition, although in my opion the elves got a pretty rough deal (they seem the weakest 
 (new) faction, but I might be mistaken) . The only thing I felt a bit sad about in this area, is 
 the fact that Rohan (my favorite faction in the first game) is now incorparated with Gondor in 
 'the men of the west'. You still have most of the Rohan units (even better ones -&gt; the essential 
 rohirrim unit can now use both bow and axe) , but it somehow lacks the feel of the first game when 
 playing. Anyway, this is a minor (and very personal) point. In general, the new factions (especcially 
 the Goblins) are well implemented, and are a great addition to the game.
  
  Gameplay itself had changed somewhat, and for the better, mostly. You can now build where you want 
 to (although farms and such need some distance from each other) , and this gives the player a much 
 broader freedom to implement strategic choices. You can also build walls, a very cool addition, 
 which, unfortunately, is not well executed (I'll come to this) . The war of the ring mode enables 
 you to play on many more maps, all over Middle Earth (like the Shire, for example) . The animations 
 are great (like part one) , especially the dragons and other bigger creatures. The special powers 
 have gotten a lift too, giving you more options. The War of the Ring mode is great to play, since 
 it adds a broader strategic level to the game, on top of the 'real-time strategy'. It can be improved 
 (you can only build two structures in a region, build up armies during RTS disapear after you've 
 won a battle) but is already a very nice, and very important, addition.
  
  This brings me to the weaker points of the game: the campaign is so weak (especially the 'good' 
 side) that you really need a War of the Ring mode to compensate for it. The campaign is short (only 
 8 missions each) , has a uninteresting (for the most part) story line and is way too easy. I played 
 on the highest difficulty setting and had no trouble completing the campaign in a few hours time. 
 &Iacute; haven't yet completed the evil campaign, because the campaigns are very uninspiring. The 
 skirmish and war of the ring battles are so much more interesting and challenging. Another point 
 is the fact that walls (and most structures in general) are much too weak. They can be torn down 
 in a matter of seconds. While walls are quite expensive, and the fact that some (Goblin) units 
 can easily scale the walls, this made me give up building them altogether. This makes the option 
 of building huge fortresses more theoretic than practical (if you have the money to build a huge 
 fortress with walls, arrowtowers, and so on, you must already have your opposition at your mercy 
 for quite some time) . This is easily corrected with a patch, I guess.
  
  In conclusion: a great game, which keeps most of the strong points of part one, and adds a lot 
 more, in the first place three more factions and a war of the ring mode. It still has some weaker 
 areas (campaign, slightly unbalanced factions?) , but these don't distract too much from it's strong 
 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bar-Dul
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Needless to say, this is one of the greatest games based on the wild and wondrous world of Middle-Earth. 
 I'll break the whole thing down for everyone so that were on the same page. In the main screen, 
 your given a few choices of what you can do. The tutorial is a great help for those who are relitivily 
 new to the game. Even though it seems like a complete waste of time, I would suggest to try it 
 anyways, because the interface of the gameplay takes some time to correctly master. After you have 
 done the tutorials, you can enter single player or multiplayer. In single player, you can either 
 move into a skirmish with a computer player, or you could choose to fight in either the Good Campaign 
 of the Evil Campaign. In the Good Campaign, you follow the Elven lord Gorfindel and the mighty 
 dwarf Gloin, on their quest to rid the northern lands of Middle-Earth, which takes you to the Grey 
 Havens to the mighty fortress of Dol Guldur. For the Evil Campaign, we follow the Goblin King Gorkil 
 is releasing his vast army of goblin warriors on the free peoples, slaying elves, dwarfs, men, 
 and hobbits alike. In a skirmish battle, just choose your faction, your custom hero (which i'll 
 talk about later) , your team, and colour. Then select your opponent and their difficulty, and repeat 
 what you did before for yourself. Then enter the battlefield that you wish to play on and your 
 in. This works the same way with multiplayer, just select the faction, hero, team, colour and wait 
 for your friends to enter, and you are on your way to experience the full Lord of the Rings experience.
 
  
  The gameplay is a whole other story, and from the first time you play it, you should be thinking 
 What am I doing wrong? and How come I'm being attacked again? A word of advice for all those new 
 to these sort of games. For your first skirmish, I suggest that you start of at Isengard, inside 
 the fortress, there you will have command of two outposts and a pre-built wall, where you can place 
 archers for stratigical defence. The computer is very unit happy . What I mean is that the computer 
 takes whatever resources and purchases when ever it has enough. You could be attacked by a large 
 group of gobin warriors at one point and minutes later, a horde of half-trolls is charging at your 
 base. My solution is to make a couple battalions of archers and upgrade them with fire arrows or 
 silver-thorn arrows, but them in stand ground position, and the advancing army will be held back. 
 If you find yourself low on resources, build more production buildings such as farms, mine shafts, 
 malorn trees, tunnels, or slaughter houses, and make sure that you get the most production outcome 
 so that you get the most out of the area. If your armies are being decimated by the opposition, 
 consider what units you're using. Just like real stratigy games, units have bounses and weaknesses. 
 Mounted units are good against archers and swordsmen, not pikemen. Archers are good against swordsmen 
 and pikemen, not cavalry. Pikemen are good against cavalry, not archers. Swordsmen are good against 
 pikemen, not archers and cavalry.
  
  Heros in your army can be a tremendous help, it can also be a pain in the ass if your enemy has 
 one. I love having a extra edge in battle, so I usually employ all my heros into the final attack. 
 I do have a major problem with having mordor or the goblins as my enemies. They may have really, 
 weak units besides trolls, half-trolls, and giants, but they have really buff heros. For mordor, 
 they have two fellbeasts, and the witch-king on fellbeast. These three can spell utter destruction 
 for you armies if you dont have archers, but it also is a great way to have early raids if you 
 learn how to control them properly. For the goblins, they have Shelob, and Drogoth the Dragon Lord. 
 Shelob is a tank! She just runs through everything, even trees and on-coming troops. Drogoth is 
 a flying unit, just like the fellbeasts. He can turn your battalions into burning matchsticks if 
 your not careful. In the game, you can use created heros in your skirmish, they can be useful, 
 depending on how you play. In the main screen, there is a button called Create-A-Hero, where you 
 can make a hero of any type that will assist your armies. Just a word of wisdom, good heros can 
 play with evil factions, and vice versa for evil heros. Only wizard heros can play on either side, 
 depending on you. I prefer dwarf heros because they are powerful, and have good abilities such 
 as Toughness (Increase in Health) , and Earth Shaker (a large radius attack which sends enemies 
 flying!) .
  
  If you have any questions, just add a post and I'll answer them.
  
  -Bar-Dul the Necromancer- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoon13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  The obvious high-point of this game is multiplayer-if you don't have broadband then you lose half 
 the fun.
  The campaigns are brilliant but a bit short-at least in bfme2 borimir isn't fighting at helms deep!!!!!!!!!
 
  Create a hero is a great feature because it adds a whole new aspect 2 online gaming, like the 
 hero duels maps and '5 custom heroes against waves of.......' however when people mod their cah 
 then it can ruin the game-like an elf with powers that belong 2 dwarves
  war of the ring is a bit of a dissapointmen but hopefully the are improving that in the expansion.
 
  so you can tell i love this game, i would say buy it definately for &pound;20 and under and if 
 you enjoyed bfme1 the buy for &pound;30++++
  sorry americans but i have no time to convert this
  buy it on ebay 4 &pound;7 pirated
  dont 
 bother with the collectors edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunammer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequal to the first LOTR: BFME. I haven't played the first one but I really don't care, 
 because this game is just amazing compared to other strategy games I have played so far.
  Basically there are two campaigns (One for good and one for evil) and there is the War of the Ring 
 campaign, which is like a middle earth version of risk in which you try to conquer all of middle 
 earth with your armies. I found that more enjoyable than the actual story campaigns (Story is still 
 fun to play) .
  One of the things that I like about this game is your custom hero. You can't use your hero in the 
 story campaign but you can use them in the War of the Ring which is pretty much the only thing 
 I play now. When you create your hero, you choose the race/faction, the looks, stats, and then 
 the abilites of your hero as well as their name then you're done. Not that hard now is it? It's 
 really fun when I start using them in the war of the ring campaign. Some people find them a bit 
 weak and useless but I found them to be quite useful and if you feel that they are useless there 
 are mods which you can use to change that.
  
  Pros:
  - Great Graphics! I love the graphics! Might not be the best but still great.
  - Sound is great 
 as well. There are songs from the movies as well as a couple of new ones I haven't heard of before. 
 They are all good and makes playing the game that much more fun.
  - Fun and engaging story. The evil and good campaign intersect which is what I found intriging. 
 It was a delight to play and I will probably play it though once more for the fun of it.
  - War of the Ring Campaign is what I found really shines this game. Pretty much unlimited replayability. 
 You can choose where you start, your teams and conditions for victory. You can pretty much set 
 every aspect to your liking.
  - Custom Hero... Do I need to explain this? It's your own hero in LOTR!
  - Big battles. Each time 
 you build a unit, it will have about 15 or so soldiers. That's a lot of people. There may be less 
 depending on your race but the average soldiers, archiers and calvery have 15-20 people each! That's 
 a lot. The battles can be huge!
  - Easy controls and interface. I found everything to be easy to use and the game was easy to learn. 
 The interface was great. I had no problems here.
  
  Cons:
  - The game crashed a couple of times when I was installing some mods. It was fixed after the patches.
 
  - When I loaded the game for the first time, it took a REALLY long time. I don't know why this 
 happened. It may have been my computer but this has never happened to me before. Luckily, when 
 I loaded the game after that first time, it was fast and pretty much loaded like all the other 
 games.
  - Game Intro. The intro movie you see in every game before the game actually loads is usually fun 
 and full of explosions. Not the case with this game. I expected something similar to the movie 
 but it was nothing but the coming of darkness using the ingame engine. It's nothing that serious 
 but I sorta wanted something cool to look at.
  
  I haven't played multiplayer yet but I'm betting that I will be 10 times better than the single 
 player. Right now I'm just playing solo and it is soo much fun. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone even having an interest in fantasy or strategy. This game really owns and I promise you 
 that you won't be disappointed, unless you're those people who complain about every game that comes 
 out. IF you hear about those who are dissappointed because the first game was better, don't even 
 listen to them. There will always be people like that, because they have nothing better to do. 
 Then again there will always be people like me. Those who actually like the game for what it is. 
 Anyway just try out this game if you are interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't a big fan of the first installment in the BFME series but the first game delevered some 
 promising aspects to the RTS genre. The same can't be said about BFME 2. This game is pretty much 
 just the first one re made and is a perfect example of EA's marketing team milking their brand 
 names. There wasn't really any reason to make this game and it really shows in the final product. 
 BFME 2 lacks little new content and the content that is new is very unoriginal and creatively uninspiring. 
 Gameplay in BFME is repetitive &amp; linear. In my opinion it is almost like someone has used a 
 map editor and fast tracked it's production sacrificing quality. Hero creation tool is also very 
 basic and has little options.
  
  In regards to graphics and visuals, they have just been recycled from the first installment of 
 this series with afew high res textures thrown in for good measure.
  
  Serious Lord Of The Rings fans and casual RTS gamers may find some qualities in this product but 
 for the hardcore RTS gamer it leaves alot to be desired.
  
  The fact that this game was penned for X-Box could be the reason why we saw such sub-standard quality 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  EA had done a movie game as it should be. They got the rights for the books and movie, and got 
 all the small things that the hardcore LOTR fans will love. Theres new characters, maps, buildings, 
 and a whole new stoeryline. The gameplay is just as good as the previous Battle For Middle Earth 
 Game. Its like any stragatey game you've played. Only in BFME, you can create HUGE armies that 
 acatully look like an army. It is vry rewarding when 500 orcs burst through the gates of Helm's 
 Deep and you have flaming catapult rocks flying through the air and trolls throwing people around. 
 When you have a decent army, the game is just exhilerating to look at.
  
  The new thing is the War Of The Ring that has you fighting for the whole Middle Earth world. It 
 is a turn based thing that requires a lot of thinking and plannung, but its solid for those who 
 are looking for something new.
  
  The online play is awsome. Like I said before about the huge armies, its even when there are like 
 6 huge armies battling it out. Thats when the game becomes one of the most exciting, rewarding, 
 and just plain fun stratagey game ever.
  
  If you want a solid LOTR stratagey game, look no farther than Battle For Middle Earth II, because 
 it well deserves a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tolinoli
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  -------------------
  This game is the sequal to The Lord Of The Rings The Batlle For Middle Earth. The game is a widely 
 populare Real Time Stragety game. The players can play the campaign in the battle of the North 
 . This is meant to be the war which was happening while the trilogy was taking place. New features 
 had been added, Create A Hero, War of the Ring and very soon the expansion pack will be out!
  Armies
  -----------
  The armies have changed quite a bit since the 1st game there is now 6 
 armies instead of 4. Rohan and Gondor have joined together to make Men Of The West. Elves and Dwarves 
 are also new additions. Whilst the evil sides still have Mordor and Isengard, Goblins now join 
 the forces of evil.
  
  Men Of The West (MOTW) Heroes
  ----------------------------------------------
  The MOTW heroes are Boromir, Eowyn, Eomer, King 
 Theoden, Faramir, Aragorn and the wizard Gandalf.
  MOTW have the most heroes and many of them can mount and have leadership. MOTW'S most used hero 
 is probaly Boromir and/or King Theoden, Boromir is liked for his horn which makes enemy troops 
 stay still and can't attack. Theoden for his glorios charge ability which makes allied cavelry 
 units take only 10% of damage which means it takes about 10 times longer to kill them!
  
  The troops
  ---------------
  The troops are very Gondorish with hardly any Rohan in it.
  
 There are Gondorian soldiers which are troops from Gondor which you see in The Return of The King 
 film. Tower Guards, you see these troops protecting the white tree, the tower guards act as pikes. 
 Gondorian archers, these are the basic archers for MOTW and are seen in The Two Towers and The 
 Return of The King. Rangers, are the elite archers who are seen in The Two Towers with Faramir. 
 Gondorian knights are the basic cavelry and are seen charging to Osgiliath with Faramir in The 
 Return of The King. The Rohirim are the best cavelry in the whole game and can switch between bow 
 and spear. These are the ONLY Rohan based troops in the game. Powers
  -----------
  The best powers for MOTW are earthquake and The Army of The Dead.
  Earthquake is very good for 
 destroying buildings (does what the name suggests) . The Dead Army is good for destroying troops 
 as they can destroy full armys without dying themselves.
  
  In other words, it owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvievo2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game to play...
  a fine strategy and a fine power of armies
  a good graphics also
  the first time i played this game, i was confused and lost many times
 
  but then, i started to learn some strategys..
  
  there are some LOTR heroes and heroins, such as Aragorn, Legolas, The Witch King, Nazgul, etc...
 
  
  there are some maps that has maximum players in it..
  
  the point of this game is to defeat the enemy by destroy all of the buildings and army... we can 
 cast some magics to help us in a battle, we can use our speciality and we can cast a monster like 
 dragon, or the demon lord...
  
  try to play this game, it's nice... the first time you play this game, you might have some difficulties 
 or maybe you can beat those difficulties... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Just to get things straight, i love this game and all the other lotr strategy games. When i read 
 the reviews i thought this game would be great. Wich it is, but after a week the game was boring, 
 the gameplay and graphics are the same of the first game. The new factions and units are very nice, 
 and thats the only thing giving the game a good value.
  So to sum up: Great units, good graphics, not so good gameplay...
  I am looking forward to the 
 expansion pack of battle for middle earth 2, but what will it bring? New units and/or factions, 
 it will make the game fun for 2 weeks and then its boring again. The gameplay does not change, 
 but still its fun!!
  Keep up the good work EA :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  With BFME2 it improves on the original in a few areas, but also makes it worse in others.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as the last game with the exception there are no building 
 plots so you can build anywhere basically, which is both good and bad in its own way. For instance 
 players can now build in your territory and can cut you off from the rest of the map and vice versa, 
 but now you have more options with the creation of your base (s) . The single player isn't as great 
 as the last game, as a matter of fact it is pretty short as each side (Good and evil) only have 
 7-8 missions. The added new risk gameplay style of War of the Ring is pretty fun, but could have 
 been better implemented. For instance once you do battle in a territory, all units and bases, which 
 were previously setup at that location will be gone the next time the enemy attacks that same territory 
 and so you will have to start all over from scratch again. The new create a hero option is a nice 
 feature, but just like the War of the Ring mode could have been improved upon as there is only 
 a limited amount of hero types you can create. Another cool new feature is the ring hero, which 
 is just basically a super powerful unit (Sauron for the evil side, Galadriel for the good side) 
 that will turn the tide in a game instantly.
  
  Some nice improvements to the gameplay though is that they added the ability for your army to be 
 in formation, which is good when they are standing still, but the formation instantly breaks apart 
 when you order them to move. So it basically defeats the purpose other than ordering your units 
 to face the right direction of the enemy so they dont get flanked, which causes extra damage if 
 achieved. The game is also faster in pace for people who love rush tactics and don't want a game 
 to last over an hour, which I dont really care for as by doing this buildings are pretty much 
 weak and can be taken down easily.
  
  The graphics have improved a small bit, but other than that basically almost all of the old models 
 from the first game have been carried on to this. So the only new stuff added to this game graphically 
 are the 3 new factions (elves, dwarves, and goblins) . However though this game does address the 
 issue of the past game's unit cap as every unit now comes out in groups of 5-10, which makes the 
 battles feel a little bit more epic in scale, but also causes an easy fps drop
  
  The sounds are good and pretty much all of the voices of the past game have been carried over to 
 the sequel for the old factions such as Isenguard, Gondor, and Mordor. Hugo Weaving (Elrond) adds 
 his voice to the game and does a great job at that. There are a number of new musical tracks that 
 have been added to this from EA, which sound really good not to mention music from Return of the 
 King that was only heard in the movie and nowhere else, not even in the soundtrack, so that was 
 a nice bonus. Overall there are plenty of good improvements to the game, which warrants its purchase. 
 Anyone who liked Lord of the Rings and enjoyed the original BFME will have a blast with this; just 
 expect more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle Earth II has split the single-player experience in two. There are both good 
 and evil campaigns, but each one only has 8 missions, so you'll be done with them before you know 
 it. More interesting is the remake of the original mission system, now dubbed The War of the Ring 
 (no connection to that earlier Warcraft III clone.) Here you select your own conflicts from a Risk 
 style map of the regions of Middle Earth. Use your territories to create heroes and armies, then 
 march them off to war. You can always build more troops on the battlefield, but only the ones from 
 your strategy map will retain experience or even survive the battle, win or lose. Likewise, any 
 buildings or bases you have built during a battle similarly disappear. Each area of Middle Earth 
 also confers a specific bonus, and more bonuses can be obtained by uniting a region, just like 
 in Risk. However, each region also only allows you to build two buildings of four possible buildings, 
 and there's no diplomatic model whatsoever. It's a nice addition, but plays like a moron's version 
 of Rome: Total War more than a solid stand-alone game. Taking your battle across the Internet will 
 alleviate some of that shallowness, but not all of it. On top of all the regular skirmishes, you 
 can also play out a whole game of War of the Ring online, which makes for a much more interesting 
 opponent than the flaccid CPU. This can take (literally) days, however, and without Civilization 
 IV's round-robin innovation, you'll have to save your online game and reschedule with your opponent 
 to finish it. But even online, the strategy is a bit lacking since it is so difficult to protect 
 your resources. Every battle, it seems, turns into a race to destroy each other's fragile, far-flung 
 resource buildings rather than a contest of military tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle Earth II has split the single-player experience in two. There are both good 
 and evil campaigns, but each one only has 8 missions, so you'll be done with them before you know 
 it. More interesting is the remake of the original mission system, now dubbed The War of the Ring 
 (no connection to that earlier Warcraft III clone.) Here you select your own conflicts from a Risk 
 style map of the regions of Middle Earth. Use your territories to create heroes and armies, then 
 march them off to war. You can always build more troops on the battlefield, but only the ones from 
 your strategy map will retain experience or even survive the battle, win or lose. Likewise, any 
 buildings or bases you have built during a battle similarly disappear. Each area of Middle Earth 
 also confers a specific bonus, and more bonuses can be obtained by uniting a region, just like 
 in Risk. However, each region also only allows you to build two buildings of four possible buildings, 
 and there's no diplomatic model whatsoever. It's a nice addition, but plays like a moron's version 
 of Rome: Total War more than a solid stand-alone game. Taking your battle across the Internet will 
 alleviate some of that shallowness, but not all of it. On top of all the regular skirmishes, you 
 can also play out a whole game of War of the Ring online, which makes for a much more interesting 
 opponent than the flaccid CPU. This can take (literally) days, however, and without Civilization 
 IV's round-robin innovation, you'll have to save your online game and reschedule with your opponent 
 to finish it. But even online, the strategy is a bit lacking since it is so difficult to protect 
 your resources. Every battle, it seems, turns into a race to destroy each other's fragile, far-flung 
 resource buildings rather than a contest of military tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil-dictator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a grate on-line game. You feel so pro when you see the enemy getting crushed under you 
 almighty POWER! And you can build buildings everywhere this time. put them anywhere you want. and 
 also build a wall around it. so you can make your own fortress.. it's awesome. plus you can have 
 alot more soldiers than in BFME1. They also put in allot of cool abilities. like wormthounge. You 
 can take control of the enemy's soldiers and use them against him. Real cool. so if you want a 
 great strategy game this is your game. GO-GO-GO.. BUY!!!
  (i love this game.. too bad my cd-rom is F****** up!= (.. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth II is a Real Time-Strategy game that takes place 
 in Middle Earth a world created by J. R. R. Tolkein. If you didn't know that already you must have 
 been sleeping under a rock in the past few years.
  First lets talk about the most important aspect about a game... c'mon take a guess. No? Ok its Gameplay. 
 The Gameplay of BFME II includes all your standard rock, paper, scissors type game, but BFME II 
 gives you special powers that you can unlock by killing your opponent and gaining experience from 
 it. Although these powers are powerful you will probably use them only several times during one 
 game, due to the long recharge time of the power and the fact that these games don't last very 
 long... Sometimes. My average time per battle seems to be about 20 minutes, maybe I need to up the 
 difficulty from normal to hard? The units are very interesting and the animations are well done. 
 The Interface is nice and simple and also very clean, unlike some RTS games where you have a huge 
 box taking up half the screen. Units will cower in fear if they see a menacing creature such as 
 the Balrog. All this seems well and good but towards the end of the game's two campaigns (Good 
 and Evil) the gameplay may seem... Repetitive. That's where the War of the Ring mode comes in. The 
 War of the Ring mode in BFME II adds a huge map of middle earth where you start with a portion 
 of owned land and move your armies around Middle Earth to conquer others. The game ends once you've 
 conquered all of Middle Earth. Those who've played Total War games would be familiar with this 
 and would highly appreciate this if you enjoyed the Total War games... Such as myself.
  
  The Sound of BFME II is really really amazing. When you have a small army of Calvary at your side 
 you can hear the footsteps of the horses and the men yelling when charging into enemies. Swords 
 sound like swords and arrows sound like arrows but in my opinion the musical score is quite impressive 
 and definitely sets the mood of the event. If you are just building and expanding your empire you 
 will hear soothing, peaceful music. Whereas if you are sending a group of soldiers into your opponents 
 base (or to their death) dramatic music will play. This is something I would like to see more in 
 Video games.
  
  The Graphics of BFME II are simple amazing (taken you have a good card) but if you are playing 
 with a moderate/average system you may suffer from framerate issues when you send your 100+ troops 
 to their doom while trying to save Middle Earth. But overall everything seems to be in place here. 
 Animations are decent along with fighting scenes. The cinematic used here is definitely a good 
 way to use to tell the stories of Good (men, elves, dwarves) and Evil (Goblins, Mordor, Isengard) .
 
  
  Overall This Game is quite solid with a few game glitches here or there that might need to be patched 
 later on. But otherwise I would highly recommend this game to the LOTR or RTS fan such as myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tay_Esh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  You can now place your building any where!!! BFME 1 was awsome fun superb multi player then BFME 
 2 you get 100 time the amout of soldiers!!!!! A new campain witch makes # 1s look like it was streched 
 on real thin on the bread!! You can now place your building any where!!! Battle For Middle Earth 
 2 is the fantasy universes Rome Total War (witch if you havent played you got to..... YOU GOT TOOOOOO!!!) 
 Battle For Middle Earth 2 makes # 1 s maps and levels look like manopaly boards!!! And the Soldier 
 deployment in battle makes # 1 s look like chess!!!
  plus all the more time you'll spend on the game with a friend on multi player owning some guy (or 
 if you suck or they're really good..... losing....)
  
  over all this game is a great buy a great multi player single player stratagy game and for thous 
 economic lovers you can create an empire (sort of) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deluderkriss
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  If you are fan of the trilogy lord of Rings or simply it is in search of a good game of strategy, 
 The Battle of Middle-Earth 2 is presented as an excellent option. Renewed playble, addition in 
 the War of the Ring, good graphs and the gambling habit online make currently of this heading one 
 of the best ones in the branch of the strategy, besides bringing a beautiful surprise for the Brazilians 
 since the version launched here is relative to the limited version. The game still continues very 
 heavy and is not rare to see some exactly slowdowns if its configuration will be above of the average.
 
  But it an amazing game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessSpawn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  I've heard of this game and saw movies, Screenies, Trailers all that fun stuff. And I gotta say 
 that this is one heck of a game. graphics are nice, gameplay is very nice, and the story is something 
 good. The multiplayer though i heard is frkin awesome so im dying to buy this game alredy like 
 many users have.
  This game is somewhat better than the previous graphic-wise because everytime someone makes a second 
 game its somewhat lacking the great action or intrest of the first.
  Overall: mad nice game, get it, play it, OWN multiplayer, and have fun lol.
  bah i gotta write 
 100 words &gt;&lt; what else can i say?
  oh yea if you play this game... or played can i get a heads up on this game :D thx in advance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fotis179
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth 2 is a must have game for a LOTR fan. It is a very good game, new fanctions, units 
 and many more. It sure deserves the money and offers many hours non stop playing.
  
  Regarding the gameplay changed a lot. Now there are no walls and the fortress is reachable, and the 
 number a batalion contained increased. I was little dissapointed because some players rush and with 
 only one batalion can take out the fortresss, therefore the game will end in 20 minutes or less 
 so the game doesnt have the fun and pleasure Battle For Middle Earth had. Except that disadvantage 
 everything else is very good, the new powers are smart and fit well for all fanctions such as the 
 ringheroes are good too.
  
  Enough with the gameplay and lets talk about graphics and sound and all stuff. The Graphics and 
 the sound for the heroes ,skins and voices, are briliant. Structures are well shaped and even better 
 when falling.
  
  Last but not least the menu options. Campaing didnt meet to my expectations as it could have been 
 way better. In create a herois very good but in some ways needs to be improved. And skirmish where 
 you train before you challenge your friends in a multiplayer game, the AI is improved from the first 
 game and will give you many hours of fun and exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This RTS based on the movies, it pretty good looking and pretty fun. some of the graphic you should 
 zoom IN on to catch what the critters are up to. It quite fun to watch a cow go in a door, then 
 come out on a meat hook (you need to eat afterall) .
  
  The game play like most RTS relies on your ability to do thing in order. If you dont have food 
 , and money you can't get your party to become larger.
  
  The visuals in this game are stunning, even on a lower end DX9 video card, seeing the veins on 
 the dragons wings, and hearing it fly across the screen its just like being in the movies aside 
 from you loosing a limb no and again.
  
  If you are a fan of the RTS games, you will love this game even if y ou are not a fan of the LOTR 
 books and/or movies.
  
  This game is well done, simple interface, way points etc. RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrisBolton
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  BFME2 is addictive. The battle will keep changing so its not boring! The AI will attack from different 
 directions, in varying numbers and with a variety of troop types (not all at the same time) . The 
 War of The Rings is a great feature, games can last as long as 30 minutes to a few days. The Create 
 a Hero is also a great feature, a custom made hero really can change the tide of a battle. Some 
 campaigns may become a little drawn out and slightly boring, unless you set the difficulty to a 
 level reflecting your gaming ability. Overall I would recommend it, its great value for money (&pound;24) , 
 hours of game play and some great features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraunit14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Lotr Bfme 2 is a solid game that won't take too long to figure out how to play. The tutorials are 
 straight forward and help you on your way to conquer all of middle earth. The new create-a-hero 
 (CaH) mode lets you have an ultimate hero that will destroy everything in its pass (I have two 
 perfect Cah's that never die) . The thing that all Cah's lack though is the ability to attack multiple 
 units and they are slower then ordinary Ring-hero's. Some of the things that the computer lacks 
 is how to take down strongholds (mostly Helm's Deep) and its very easy to win, even when it's 3 
 on 1 on the hardest difficulty. Its just a great game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalchet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth II is an amazing LOTR game that really captures the 
 feel of the epic battles unlike the first LotR: B4ME. Additions in this game include the ability 
 to biuld fortresses several new factions, a new campaign aspect, and a better difficulty setting. 
 In addition, you can design your own hero. However, the options for that is not qiute as good as 
 one would suspect or hope them to be. Also, there is a new campaign mode, the war of the Ring, 
 which is an excellent campaign game that is more fun then the original campaign.
  
  All-in-all, a great addtion to any LOTR collection and a must have for RTS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  EA had done a movie game as it should be. They got the rights for the books and movie, and got 
 all the small things that the hardcore LOTR fans will love. Theres new characters, maps, buildings, 
 and a whole new stoeryline. The gameplay is just as good as the previous Battle For Middle Earth 
 Game. Its like any stragatey game you've played. Only in BFME, you can create HUGE armies that 
 acatully look like an army. It is vry rewarding when 500 orcs burst through the gates of Helm's 
 Deep and you have flaming catapult rocks flying through the air and trolls throwing people around. 
 When you have a decent army, the game is just exhilerating to look at.
  
  The new thing is the War Of The Ring that has you fighting for the whole Middle Earth world. It 
 is a turn based thing that requires a lot of thinking and plannung, but its solid for those who 
 are looking for something new.
  
  The online play is awsome. Like I said before about the huge armies, its even when there are like 
 6 huge armies battling it out. Thats when the game becomes one of the most exciting, rewarding, 
 and just plain fun stratagey game ever.
  
  If you want a solid LOTR stratagey game, look no farther than Battle For Middle Earth II, because 
 it well deserves a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Ring: Battle for Middle Earth II, is a fun game. All in all you will enjoy every aspect 
 of this game, if you liked the first one, then you will love this one. All the different races, 
 the strategies that you have to use to win, all the spells you get, pretty much everything is great. 
 Let me go through the goods and the bads for ya.
  
  Hero system: this was really fun, you can create your hero and watch him dominate. Really really 
 fun. Though the customization level was low, its better then nothing. They gave you a pretty big 
 spectrum of chars you can make. The only bad thing about the heros was that pretty much the wizard 
 overpowered everything. I could pretty much send my level 10 wizard and destroy 75% of an army 
 and then send in my own. Other heros like your warriors and arches couldnt even get close to 
 accomplishing this task. Aside from that. The heros are cool.
  
  The 6 different races: each race is pretty similar and different in there own ways. You get the 
 armys of Mordor, goblins, Isengard, elves, man, and dwarfs. Each army is really good in there 
 own way its just a matter of finding what works for you. The down falls of some armys like the 
 dwarfs and the elves, Is that the elves have a really powerful arrow upgrade that does way more 
 damage then anything else and also knocks down each unit with each shot, no matter the size of 
 the unit, pretty much they can win with just the archers. The dwarfs are not as bad, but still 
 bad, they have vary powerful heros that can pretty much do more damage then others. I fought against 
 1 hero dwarf and one of his groups of men VS my hero and like 4 groups of men, and he took them 
 all out and killed my hero. And last I think is the goblins, they have the giant trolls, that can 
 grab trees and use them as a weapon, that has knockdown and splash dmg, I would countlessly win 
 with like 10 trolls with trees, but I there biggest weakness was arches, a big enough group of 
 arches would kill them, especially if they had there fire upgrades (note: the trolls arnt totally 
 cheap, they lose most of the time, it just doesnt cost that much to make them) .
  
  The world map battles: this is the best part of the game. Its like playing risk basically, but 
 you actually get to fight out all of the battles if you choose to that is. The only thing I didnt 
 like about the battles in the maps was that you could have buildings, and with that reinforces 
 your armys. I would have preferred to just battle out with what was in the two armys and see 
 who wins. But thats just me.
  
  All in all this game is really good and I think that anyone whos an RTS (real time strategy) and 
 a lord of the rings fan should definitely get this game and try it. the one thing im happy they 
 fixed the most from the first game was that you can build anything anywhere you want, which made 
 the game much more fun, then the first one that is to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortyman920
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who likes the lord of the rings even the slightest bit should check out this game. For those 
 who like rts and lord of the rings... even better. I believe Gamespot underestimated this game. 
 The campaigns are so addictive, that i can't stop. Even though, it's nothing new, it's perfectly 
 fine. If EA tried to do something special, it prolly would've been something bad. I have no complaints 
 against the campaign, and was deeply dissapointed when it was all over. I didn't like war of the 
 ring as much as the other parts of the game, but it was better than not having one at all. The 
 game plays like any other rts game and therefore got a low score. Whatever happened to if it ain't 
 broke, don't fix it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insaneblob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  Having only purchased this game at the start of September, I thought maybe I would appreciate it 
 more because of the wait. Well, not so. Things all seemed well to begin, with a lightning fast 
 installation, despite the ammount of space used. The opening videos are also reasonably decent. 
 That is where the good parts end. Next comes the main screen, with the lovely little clips of the 
 fellowship in the boats - all TWO of them, which last a few seconds each and just keep looping 
 - hardly spectacular, and the music doesn't exactly get one into a bloodthirsty frenzy either.
 
  And from there we have several options. Create a Hero is hardly the "amazing, put yourself in 
 the game" tool we were promised. Where are all the options?! So I can be a Gondor soldier, or some 
 Rohan sheildmaiden if I want to be a human - what if I want to be one of the Rohirrim? It lacks 
 options, and with the poor graphics that the game has, it really makes no difference which of the 
 utterly boring visual upgrades you apply to your character, since they also make no difference 
 in the hero's performance. After all, wy should a breastplate make you less likely to die at the 
 hands of an Uruk?! Plus, the in-game hero's are usually much stronger anyway, and normally cheaper, 
 so best to stick with them. Create a Hero adds nothing.
  
  The single player campaigns are often the 1st thing that a gamer will go for. and this is largely 
 what what brings this game down. They are so weak, that players can feel too let down to really 
 bother with the rest of the game. For starters, the word "campaign" is not really appropriate, 
 at least in a gaming context, as the missions run not so much like a storyline, as a bunch of weakly 
 linked induvidual scenarios. Also, we lose the choice of what to do next, that was a much loved 
 feature of the 1st game, and we are instead told that we are going to go to the Blue Mountains, 
 we will have Glorfindel and Gloin with us, and we will slay a Dragon. AND JUST 8 MISSIONS EACH!!!! 
 To add insult to injury, they are like tutorials the whole way through, regularly explaining things 
 that my 4 year old cousin worked out, alone, on skirmishes. They both lack choice of units as well, 
 because we are given a fixed race to play on each mission, thus we see the same boring units, over 
 and over, and no heros other than those we are given.
  We are also given a new, small, and damned weak army at the start of each mission, which eliminates 
 any incentive to keep units alive to be carried into the next mission. I now have no hesitation 
 in throwing 20 battallions of Elven wariors int the breach - I can just get some new ones. And 
 by this means, it is a cakewalk to finish the campaigns because you can just keep throwing more 
 and more units at them until they have nothing left. Lastly, I noticed that during, and ONLY duiring 
 the campaigns, time seemed to run at about 50% speed, and my PC is way above minimum spec., and 
 so are those of other people noticing the problem, so something is rotten there. The cutscenes 
 are adaquate, but being in-engine, they are prone to stalling.
  
  War of the Ring mode.... YAWN. It makes me think of a poor mans version of Rome: Total War (Now 
 there's a game :) ) . 2 buildings in a region of several hundred thousand acres? Not good. And why 
 can I not carry an army trained in the battle mode onto the world map? I have little to say about 
 this, other than that is is bad. I can win what battles there are using just 1 hero, and the most 
 fun part of the mode is making the little coloured bits go all over the map whilst choosing the 
 starting positions.
  
  Other criticisms: The loading times for saved games is just ridiculous. The only other game I'e 
 ever known to take as long (longer, actually) is Civillisation4 - and at least then the wait MIGHT 
 be worth it. The game is prone to freezing, especially on the main screen. The only way to unfreeze 
 it is to turn you PC off.
  
  Good points: Tom Bombadil - he's hilarious when he skips. And that I got the collectors edition 
 for only 20. But most of you out there won't.... so forget that one. And I would have been better 
 off spending that on replacing my busted BFME1
  
  My advice - Save the money for the new Splinter Cell; that cant fail to be good :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob_willem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle Earth II is a RTS for the computer and it is made by EA. You remember a few 
 years ago came out with the first Battle for Middle Earth that was made by EA. The graphics of 
 the game is good if you have the power to put it on the higher graphics setting, but if you have 
 it on a lower setting it has the graphics of the first Battle for Middle game. On the higher graphics 
 you get a new archer range for the men of the west. The game also has good sound acting and it 
 really shows in your create a hero, but the old heros from the old game still use the actors from 
 the movie. The game play is great if you play on a medium or hard because the AI does not do what 
 you think it is going to do. It does get annoying because the AI never build walls during skirmishes 
 so it may get to easy to destroy their base if you can get close enough to their base to kill most 
 of the units they make before they get to your base. The game also has better powers from the first 
 Battle for Middle Earth like the watcher in the water and the barrage powers, but keeps some of 
 the older powers like army of the dead and heal. There is one problem in the game play is the Elves 
 are way to powerful with their arrow upgrade. The campaign is kind of short of the two campaigns 
 together it took me about 14 hours. The thing that keeps me playing is the medals you get for your 
 create a hero. The game is really worth 49.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Well I think it is great to push in more games after the movies so that nobody forgets The Lord 
 of The Rings trilogy, I sure have not forgotten one thing. This is a game that chess players would 
 love due to the new war of the ring mode which can let you select from a number of different types 
 of campaigns. Graphics slightly improve from the first Battle for Middle Earth but were is all 
 the cool stuff that we saw like the detail of seeing an orc worker killing a beast in the slaughter 
 houses and orcs cutting wood in the lumber mills, that is all the stuff that they left out of the 
 new and left in the old.
  
  When I was playing I did the truly common and major slow down in the big battled involving whole 
 armies in one huge brawl. The sound tracks from the movies can be heard when playing as usual. 
 Another great thing about this game is it's new selection of heroes, yeah of course you got all 
 the oldies like Aragorn and Lurts but now you got the old yet new to the game selection like Sharku, 
 Grima Wormtongue, Gloin, King Dain, Mouth of Sauron and more. Battle fields are truly enormous 
 just like in the first game yet there are better and new ones to choose from in skirmish mode.
 
  
  The beggining of a battle is quite boring yet sppeeds up and gets more exciting when the attackers 
 start coming to your fortress. The new castle building system is very classy as you can now shape 
 your own walls and the centre fortress of your base is now bigger and is attached to four arrow 
 towers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m-bailey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  BFME2 has quite a few features not available in BFME. One of the more notable features is the Hero 
 system. The Hero system allows you to create and design your own Hero, allowing you to change his/her 
 race, appearance, stats and spells, you should have enough freedom to make the battle-bred warmonger 
 of your dreams. Adding further longevity to BFME2, a detailed record is kept of your hero, showing 
 kills, deaths and a whole lot more. For those of you who have played the original Battle For Middle 
 Earth, it shouldn't take you long to adjust to BFME2. The interface is the same, along with the 
 spell, building and fighting system. Those of you who are new to the BFME series, expect to spend 
 half an hour to an hour getting used to the interface and the way things work.
  
  Although there are many good points to Battle For Middle Earth 2, one thing I would like to see 
 in future is some sort of RPG system for the Hero. This would bring the possibility to add unique 
 features to the game, allowing for new spells, armour and the ability to stockpile stats to create 
 a truly formidable Hero. Who knows? Maybe one day a system like this will be implemented.
  
  Overall, BFME2 is a brilliant game and well worth buying, whether you've played the original 
 or not. Another fantastic release from EA Games, who have a few more great games lined up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raventhorn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  I loved this game and unfortunately have not spent much time with it recently because I got annoyed 
 with the graphic display level. In the year 2006 you would think a company would figure out a way 
 to not only get higher resolutions and support for wide screens, but would also figure out how 
 to allow for zoom regardless of the damage it does to the user. If I want it to lag but still see 
 a larger view of the battle screen, let me suffer. Heck get some video card manufacturers to plug 
 it so you can get people to upgrade but just dont limit me. Other than that gripe the game has 
 some amazing replay value and a good story. The enemy is a bit like Warcraft in that it is amazing 
 in its ability even at low difficulty numbers to just create far more units than you can. Maybe 
 its because they dont have to screw around with their view. ;)
  
  I loved the movies and loved the game... so I will wait for the expansion and hope they fixed the 
 screen issues then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NimMroD
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  For people who just started to play lord of the rings 2 and did not play the fist one it pretty 
 good but for the gamers who finished the good and evil campaigns of the fist one itf very disapointin' 
 .... both the campaigns disapointed me ... the main reason was the hero problem ... some of those 
 heroes were not even mentioned in the movie .... am besides that ... all you do is fight with the 
 elves, dwarfs and the goblins and orc  :P ... the humans dont have separate kingdoms and both the 
 campaigns are very short ... still the game deserves credit for the graphic and the game play ... 
 the large infantry divisions were a nice touch :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollum007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and was hyped about it before it came out, but when it was released and i picked 
 it up i began to get bored by it. It might've been because i expected too much from it and constantly 
 thought about it or it could've been because the gameplay is very similar, just more suited to 
 rushing only which limits the strategy to the game very much. You can create a hero, but you'll 
 soon find out that almost no one uses them because they're unbalanced and can easily turn the tide 
 of who's winning or losing. Creating a hero is very limited is customization, such as powers, the 
 look to the player ( which some of the parts of customizing doesn't work at all ) and other things. 
 The multiplayer is good for a week or two but it would soon get too repetitive and boring. Even 
 though the strategy part to the game is limited, the difficulty in multiplayer battles is hard, 
 especially if you're a noob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAFreak182
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The ability to build armies and build buildings for resources and weapons. There are 6 factions 
 to choose from. The elves, the dwarves, men of the west, isengard, goblins, and mordor. The ability 
 to create your own hero to lead your army into battle is great. If your army gets strong enough 
 with command points you can summon strong creatures to destroy your opponents.
  
  You can put people from the movie into the game to join your army. Like the elves can be lead by 
 Legolas or the men of the west can be lead by aragorn. This is a strong game for the PC. I would 
 reccomend for the RPG fanatics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piztolero
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  well the graphics are great i like so much the fire, the move, the control etc
  
  the new method of game the war of the ring was the best of the best cos you can conquest the middle-earth 
 as you wish and also you can do it in real time battle or the other (automatic i don't remember 
 and i don't want to be wrong) that was cool
  
  the campaign is interesting the new races are totally great and the history was simply envolved.
 
  
  the new thing as you can build were it is you want and build up a kind of fortress i like so much.
 
  
  i like but i think more history not necesary bad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintIy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Overview: A lovely game that will capture the heart of any gamer that enjoys playing RTS'. With 
 superb gameplay, fantastic graphics, immense sound and a top sequel to LOTR: BFME, this game really 
 lives up to the high expectations that gamers expect to see from top game publishers and developers 
 such as EA Games.
  
  The Details:
  This masterpiece is guaranteed to keep any gamer occupied for hours upon end. But is there something 
 that is itching the back of your neck when you play this game? A little annoyance here and there? 
 For me it is the frustration of rush games that most players tend to do whilst playing online. 
 This is when players attempt to rush their opponent before they get a chance to strike with a 
 force and prevent needed resources from being acquired. I didnt like this in the original BFME 
 game and nothing has prevented it from happening in BFME2. I prefer to build an empire before launching 
 my attacks.
  There would be a simple solution to this, Rise Of Nations uses a method of which the player can 
 chose whether or not they want the AI to Boom, focus on building empires before assaulting, or 
 rush that will make the AI focus on quick strikes.
  If EA incorporated this feature into skirmishes for single player modes and multiplayer modes, 
 it would easily solve my only real problem with this game making it nearly perfect! They could 
 do this in the forthcoming expansion pack, Rise Of The Witch-King, however I doubt we will see 
 any such changes unfortunately.
  
  Summary:
  We as human beings tend to focus on the bad points, and apart from my only query about this game, 
 it is fantastic and absolutely wonderful game to play. I strongly recommend this game for any gamers, 
 especially LOTR fans and RTS fanatics :D ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth II is a great RPG game .The best thing about it is that you dont really 
 have to worry about resources because you only have to build a few building that bring you unlimited 
 recourses .Your army is huge you being able to control 1000 troops but they are divided units .You 
 have special powers that help you to destroy your enemies easier .I never lost a battle in this 
 game but it is hard .In the good team you have eagles and in the evil team you have dragons , these 
 two units being one of your strongest units but they are not stronger than high level heroes which 
 have very strong powers .There are four types of factions that you play in the campaign two good 
 (elves ,dwarves ) two evil (goblins ,orcs) .I really like this game and Im still playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guybiggsl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth II is by far one of only two games that I have played 
 in the Strategy game Gandra that is the BEST in it's ciass!! the other game is Warhammer 40k: Dawn 
 of War. The graphics in LOTR 2 are great along with the sound quality. Also online play is great 
 as well. The only down fall in this game is that the Campaign mode is to short, but the Skirmish 
 and online play makes up for the short comings of the Campaign mode. This is a game that I highly 
 suggest that you go out and purchase ASAP. The price of the game is well worth it!! Not that the 
 game is expensive, I believe that the price of the game is par with the game play.
  
  Also make sure and read my review about Dawn of War!!!
  
  Thanks for Reading my Review,
  
 
  Guybiggsl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clouded_Death
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  I've spent alot of time playing this game and I have only had it a week even though I can't play 
 online because it won't let me for some reason i'm registered and everything it's still a gr8 game.
 
  There is many modes to play on,
  good Campaign 
  Evil Campaign 
  Team Matchs
  King of the hill
  War of the ring & more
  you can make your own army heroes or leaders and 
 then reruit them onto the battlefield or use the famous film heroes.
  I usually play as Mordor since i reckon they have the best troop types,
  Mumakil, Fellbeast, 
 Attack Trolls etc
  Anyway this is a must play game for any Lotr fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : Gameplay havent changed alot except of boats, wich u may not build when and where you 
 want them... its more foced during the campaign... they present you how to do the boats... you capture 
 boatyards... and good to go! Powers have changed a little bit, making new ones welcome. You can 
 now control mouth of sauron and the Nazgul totally, and most important Sauron...8 missions each 
 side taking form the books fallowing the Campaign of the North, so if you were expecting the same 
 campaign from the first one, but better graphics, more levels etc... you are wrong.. but thats nice, 
 it makes two distinct games. The "War of the Ring" is played just like a Risk game.. leaders, armies, 
 movement , attack quite simple... The "Create-a-hero" aspect is welcomed, any new option is welcomed 
 lol. But dosent seem to have enough choices for the Characters classes, but just enough to look 
 different.. exemple: the men of the north hero, has like "3" sets of clothing in wich you can combine, 
 one looks like Boromir/Aragorn, one Gondor and Rohan.... making a character between these 3 types 
 would make it look silly.
  
  Graphics : Still as nice, with as many units on the screen as before. New buildings make up for 
 diferent style of constructions. Nice water effect, falls, water reflection, ice effects etc...
 
  
  Sounds : Great music that fits the game, new ones and old ones taking from the movie soundtrack 
 as well. Some voice acting are taking form the movie as for the Father of Arwyn... the Elf leader ( 
 wich i don't know its name right now lol-Agent Smith- if you prefer! ) But not alot taken form 
 the movie, since most of the game is around areas from the books. But when you play with the other 
 Factions in War of the Ring, im not sure if they are taking from the first game or voice acting, 
 but Gandalf, and Saruman's voices are still the same actors.
  
  Value : Well when the Campaign is done (Easy/Medium/Hard) , you are left with online play, Skirmishes 
 and War of the Ring mode. This mode lets you choose from Men of the West ( Rohan and Gondor have 
 been put together) , Evles and Dwarfs, and Isengard, Mordor, Goblins, playing around the map of 
 middle-earth, with 2-3 different play types, just enough to keep you playing! 
  
  If you wanted more then the first one, more of the same, but still a new story this is for you. 
 If you have no interests in the Campaign of the north, havent read the books or are more of a "movie 
 trilogy" fan, maybe the first one is better for you, as it spams the 3 movies. Good gameplay, a 
 little bit different form the first one...
  
  PS. but im still wondering... what will the third one be about??..... you know as me that there will 
 be a third one!!!... what is left to say about it?
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyuinsuen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  There has been a great significant improvement noticed as compared to the first series especially 
 on the gameplay aspect. The 2nd series provide a vast freedom and flexibility for building construction, 
 more fractions, new ability, spells and special power, and simultaneously introduce a brand new 
 resource collecting system. 
  
  On comment for the resource collecting, it seems to be quite unbalance between races especially 
 at the start of the game where human can only build farm, while mordor, isengard have the advantage 
 to cut down trees, turning into resource apart from regular resource income from furnace and slaughter 
 house. Besides, the evil sides, have the special power 'industry', one shot can boost 2-3 resource 
 building providing 300% output. For the good side, only dwaft has similar special power 'dwarven 
 riches' but with a shrink radius of effect to boost at most 1 building at a time.
  
  On the aspect of graphic, it is obviously much more superior than the 1st series. In fact, the 
 graphic can be considered as excellent when running on top end machine with all the effects and 
 resolution were set to high.
  
  However, flaw too existed in the game which i m uncertain would be fixed in the patch. e. g. when 
 trolls, mumakil counter by the anti-cavalry troops such as towerguard, pikeman, it would be killed 
 within secs. It is ridiculous to have a mumakil with 8000 health killed by a battalion of towerguard 
 with health maybe 400 within a few SECONDS. Somemore, the mumakil is so clumsy with slow movement 
 speed, turning rate, and long delay between attack, which vastly limit its role on the battlefield. 
 It seems to break the good reputation of the mighty mumakils which ought to be a challenging adversary 
 in wars.
  
  Besides, the "wall" system is also not so practical due to its high building cost. i rather spend 
 the resource on units.
  
  Yet, the pros outweight the corns and it is really a great game which will surely satisfy fans 
 of The Lord of the Ring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Or-G
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Hokay then, I just finished playing this game a few hours ago, overall, it was extremely fun and 
 took up about 12 or so hours of my life. For those that do not know, this game is an RTS (Real 
 Time Strategy) , heres my review:
  
  Contents:
  
  Introduction
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  Introduction
  
  LotRBfME2 takes place before 
 the movies, and focuses more on the events from the actual books.
  There are two different sides, the Good and the Evil and four different factions. The Good consist 
 of the dwarves and the elves, humans also fit somewhere into this equation but are not main characters, 
 while the bad consist of the goblins and the Orcs. The Good have their campaign, and the bad have 
 their own campaign. The story missions, for the good, is to rid middle earth from evil, while the 
 task for the evil guys is to take over middle earth. There really isnt much of a story, basically 
 you just play out all of the major events from the books.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  LotRBfME2 doesnt really differ much from your usual RTS. The controllers and most of the options 
 are also quite the same and dont differ much. Although the main gameplay elements dont differ 
 much, there are still some elements that are unique to this game. In this game, you have these 
 powers, it works a lot like Age of Mythologys system, but you actually get to keep all of your 
 powers here, and you must pay for them using points you earned in combat, thus they are called 
 Combat Points. These powers can range from increasing a structures resource intake to summoning 
 an evil demon from hell to devour your enemies. The one thing I despised was the good sides powers 
 sucked! They all had to do with giving your soldiers a 50% boost for a minute or something lackluster 
 like that. On the other hand, the evils powers were much more fun, most of them involving destruction 
 and such. These powers can help you quite a bit as you progress through the game. Once you use 
 a power, you must wait for it to recharge back.
  Another interesting element in this game is the use of heroes. Of course, this is nothing you, 
 but this game just has so many of them! They each have their own powers, and unlock new ones as 
 their level goes up. Once again, the good side has sissy little powers while the evil side has 
 powers that are substantially better and MUCH more fun. If these heroes die, you can revive them 
 at your main castle/base like thing for a fee.
  Also, as your units gain combat experience, their level will go up, ultimately making them stronger 
 and better. You may also unlock upgrades from the armory and then you can equip your units with 
 those unlocked items. Each faction, has their own star unit, most of them anyway. The humans have 
 their cavalry (best part is that they trample over people, great way to kill enemy units) , the 
 elves have their archers (those are some really powerful arrows) and the dwarves have their swordsmen 
 people (they arent really too special) . The orcs have their trolls (wicked giant things that can 
 rip trees out of the ground and use them as weapons or eat other orcs to replenish health) and 
 goblins have spider riders (these are things on spiders that can switch from blades to arrows and 
 are really fast, theyre really convenient) .
  Another convenience, is that instead of the your units pummeling away at a wall, they can just 
 climb over them now, unfortunatley they do this so slow they'll probably die by the time they get 
 down on the other side.
  There's also a new "War of the Ring Mode", where it works a lot like the first game. You get a 
 map of the world, and you choose the places you want to attack. The goal of this is to take over 
 the world. It's nothing special, but a nice bonus none-the-less. One of the cool things about this 
 though, is that you get to build your own hero. You get to choose your hero's class, i. e. mage, 
 swordsman, etc... and you get to choose some armour and weapons too. You also get to pick a few 
 little special powers your hero can have, once again, nothing special. Although your choices are 
 limited, it's still a nice little bonus.
  
  
  Graphics 8.5/10
  
  The graphics are very nice, textures are good, units dont look too bad, its all very nice. All 
 of the units are animated quite nicely, I especially liked how the goblins would bounce up and 
 down or the time, or if units get bored they start doing weird motions and stuff, and its always 
 nice to have all of your units cheer and scream after they win a battle. The only rebuts I have 
 is that when you set your shadows to ultra high the shadows become cube like and it doesnt look 
 very nice at all, other than that, its all good. Although, unit models may look poorly textured 
 if you zoom in too close. There are also nice decals, for instance when arrows hit a person they 
 get stuck, or if they hit the ground they are stuck there, same thing with catapults and the like. 
 Its also quite refreshing to see enemy units run around waving their arms from the fire that just 
 engulfed them.
  I also didnt really like how the phases of the destruction of the building. It would just jump 
 from fine to on fire and grey in a millisecond. It wouldve also been nice to see parts break off 
 and fall to the ground like in Age of Empires III or other newer games. Although, it was really 
 nice to see places like the troll cage, where you can see a little guy poking a troll, or other 
 buildings working on whatever they do. It was also nice to see how the units emerged from their 
 own buildings, unlike games such as AoE where they would just pop out of any random space.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Everything sounds like it should in this game, if not better. When your archers 
 shoot their arrows you can hear the arrow swish through the air and the screams of pain as the 
 arrows hit their mark, the stomping of the giant mammoth things and the war horn in the background 
 and etc... It all sounds good. The only thing that I didnt really like was the narrator, it just 
 didnt sound authentic.
  
  Pros :)
  -nice graphics
  -running over people with cavalry is extremely fun
  -trolls are funny
  -sweet powers for evil 
 guys
  -evil dudes rule!
  
  Cons : (-shadows
  -good guys sucked
  -building animations
  -longest title in the history of all games
  
  Conclusion
  
  So, 
 in conclusion, Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 may not have been a revolutionary game, 
 far from it, but it was still hella fun and is definitely worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  LOTR: BFM2 is a very boring game, it offers a lot of play modes and online gameplay, but it gets 
 boring very soon.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Nice gameplay, with a lot of gameplay modes.
  Online is nice too.
  
  -Game feels weird, when you play it (example; you create one soldier 
 and 
  when the training is finished there will be like 15 men in one group) .
  Story gets boring soon.
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks decent for this age, runs great.
  Not a lot 
 of system requirements.
  
  -Some minor graphical issues
  
  Sounds:
  +LOTR sounds are always great, some decent cutscenes and movies.
  
  -Some minor sound problems
 
  
  Value:
  +Great value, singleplay and multiplay offer plenty of gameplay time
  
  -Story gets boring too soon.
  Different races and stuff are not all that great.
  
  Tilt:
 
  +Excellent presentation, nice cutscenes and movies, good contols
  
  -Boring and hard to understand story.
  
  This was my review for LOTR: BFM2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  Well this game has a lot of new awesome things in it. Three new races, new heroes, new maps and 
 a lot of new things. The Campaign lacks a little bit in my oppinion. All yhough there are cool 
 missions. In my oppinion it lacks something. War of the Ring is a cool new thing that is from the 
 Campaign from the first. In this one you can buy heroes buildings and units. It can be a lot of 
 fun playing that, especially on the internett. The gameplay has not been changed a lot, but i still 
 like it a lot. It's different from other game. They have added more spice in the gamplay, with 
 new features. The new features are the castles and specific things to each race. Making your own 
 hero is a lot of fun. I am excited to the next game what they add to it. Because in my oppinion 
 there is missing some abilitys. But thats only me. I have a lot of fun playing this game, and so 
 should you if you like the first one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth II is EA's Newest Lord of the rings game. and it Highly improve's over 
 the first. It add's 3 Brand-New fractions which include
  the Dwarfs, Elv's, Goblins, All three new fracts play out differently from each other as you would 
 expect. Apart from the three new Sides there is a new Story mode for both Good & Evil. and a another 
 game mode called 
  "War of The Ring" plus the great Online. and a Standard Skirmish mode for offline aginst A. I now 
 the now with all that the game might sound perfect, Not so. one of the big addions is the create 
 a hero which doesn't really live up to the hype that it was, But it still cool to play around with. 
 
  
  The Game's grahphics are still very impresive . The Water Effects just look amazing, and so realistict. 
 
  
  Sound is as Good as Graphics if not better. You have all of the Songs from all three Films. which 
 give's you a feel of epic in this game. it truley sets you in the mode when playing.
  
  The Game does have its Flaws. War of the ring has a few bugs with the A. I and building methods 
 it better to call this a Light Game mode with not too much depth its still a good mode no doubt.
 
  
  Like i sied of your a Fan of Both the Books and the Films, or you just like playing real time startagy 
 game's then this one is for you. And it is highly better than the first in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csc14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I will preface this review by saying I generally don't care about single-player campaigns 
 in these types of games (and typically don't even play them) . I'm in it for the online multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  My perspective is that BFMEII had (and still has) tremendous potential, which it has not been able 
 to deliver on due to numerous balance problems ---or maybe just the overall design of the game. 
 It's a lot of fun, first of all, and it has a good interface, cool units, a decent economic system 
 requiring map control, formations for interesting micro, etc. A good effort in many respects. It's 
   BFME1, imo, which I couldn't stand because of the restrictive build positions.
  
  But BFMEII gets frustrating quickly, for several reasons. I have not played the latest patch, so 
 this might have changed. But my experience from playing when the game was first released was that 
 buildings were too weak to basic troops, and walls were way too expensive for their defensive value, 
 making the entire game a rushfest that ended in ~5 minutes. You don't feel like you even have a 
 chance to get a few units out and tech up before your critical supply buildings or barracks are 
 destroyed and it's gg. Also, heroes and racial abilities are overpowered, imho.
  
  The RTS games I prefer, Dawn of War and Warcraft III, typically take 20 +/- 10 minutes for a game, 
 making for a very enjoyable RTS experience. You still get owned by better players, to be sure. 
 But you feel like you at least get to experience the game a little before they wipe you out (or 
 vice-versa) . This is because your buildings, especially with the repair ability for your worker 
 units, can take a bit of punishment. They actually have to move up the tech tree at least a little 
 before destroying your base (or horde Tier 1 units at the very least) , so games 1 hour) , just play 
 Civ IV, I say. It's turn-based but is paced well for games to typically end in 2-4 hours. I wouldn't 
 want every game to last  30 minutes. To me, that's boring. I really like games in the 20 +/- 10 
 minute range. In BFMEII, it's more like 5-10 min, which imo is too fast. That's why I think the 
 design of BFMEII, at least when it was first released, was flawed. If the 1.5 patch addresses this 
 concern, however, which many players have voiced on this forum and others, I'd happily give BFMEII 
 a second look, which is the main reason I've held off on selling my copy. In other words, the game 
 elements in terms of the engine, graphics, interface, etc., are essentially all in place. EA just 
 has to tune the multiplayer design to be slightly more defensively oriented to give the game some 
 longevity.
  
  For the present, then, if you're looking to try online RTS gaming, I'd suggest you save yourself 
 $ and just buy Warcraft III or Dawn of War (or even Starcraft) . They're still better games overall. 
 Warcraft III's Battle Chest and Dawn of War Gold Edition (includes Winter Assault expansion pack) 
 can both be obtained for $30 or less. You don't need a good video card at all for Warcraft III, 
 though the game has fine graphics and is still eminently playable (and has a huge following to 
 this day, five years after it came out) . Dawn of War will require a decent graphics card but nothing 
 too special. I think a sub-$100 card (either NVidia or ATI) would play the game at high resolution 
 with settings maxed out. 
  
  Then, when the 1.5 patch and/or expansion pack of BFMEII comes out, go to forums like gamereplays. org 
 to see what people are saying about the game. Also BFMEII is still good, so definitely buy it if 
 you're an experienced RTS gamer looking for something fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amre1939
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings the battle for middle earth II is a great game it offered al-ot of new experience. 
 The developer team made alot of new powers ,Units and heroes, the games is much better than lord 
 of the rings the battle for middle earth I. The only problem that I have about Lord of the rings 
 the battle for middle earth II that It is so big It's size of the computer is 5. GB so I did not 
 play the multi player but for the single player Campaign it's great fun.
  I wish that EA Games make Lord of the rings the battle for middle earth III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcphillipsl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  well well well this game is good and bad first i will start by saying very slimpler to the first 
 middle earth game and was a bit angry but has very good graphics in it and also has good quest 
 you can do. Also is a good game to play on line and a very good game to play with friends so i 
 give this game a 9.0 because it is a very fun game to play and the game play is very good and as 
 i said it's got very good quests to do so you will play this game for a while so go down to your 
 local store a pic up a  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've got to say that LOTR: Middle Earth 2 has come a long way since the previous game. Do 
 you guys remember LOTR: Middle Earth 1? Do you remember that the cities were like... small, tiny 
 EVEN!? Well, don't fear going through the same thing in this game because now, it will be entirely 
 up to you on how large you want to build those big ass walls! :D and another thing that caught 
 my eye was that players can now create their own hero's and there are a lot of races of heros to 
 choose from. You can create an Elven hero, a Dwarven hero, an orcish hero and lots more! The gameplay 
 is also like any one would expect from a RTS game, fun and not that repetetive if you mix things 
 up from time to time and i've got to give credit to the AI of this gamem they sure know how to 
 give their opponents a hellacious run for their money. However, the only thing that kind of brings 
 this game down is the occasionally short story that leaves players like me wanting a hell lot more, 
 but LOTR: Middle Earth 2 is still worth buying because it's still a fun RTS. I just suggest that 
 if your already playing a lot of RTS games right now, then don't buy this game just yet cuz you'll 
 get bored just playing RTS games all the time. I suggest that you buy like a RPG game or FPS game 
 to mix things up on your PC for the meantime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reven240
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer for this game is great as well as the skirmish mode for single-player. The AI preforms 
 well in-game and the campaign mode is unique considering it is a completely new battleground that 
 hasen't been experienced or told of in the movies. The campaign has a good storyline and is pretty 
 involving. The graphics on this game are great on ultra-high graphics mode but are still good on 
 medium (which I use because ultra-high lags my computer, which is pretty good) . Though the campaign 
 is good the skirmish mode truly is the better aspect of the game. War of the Ring mode is a turn 
 based "board game style" mode where you control and move your armies around middle-earth and fight 
 the battles. It is a great game mode but you have to have a lot of time to play a full War of the 
 Ring match through. This is a game worth getting for RTS fans and Lord of the Rings fans alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballbones
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game for people who like lord of the Rings. The game play is great. There are many 
 different ways to play this game with either rts or turn based which adds hours of play to this 
 game. The biggest problem with middle earth 2 is that the campaign is only 10 levels long per good 
 and evil campaign. On of the biggest upsides to this game is how many levels that you can play. 
 From all the well known places from the movies to places few really know about. The factions put 
 into this game are quite uneven though, with the good factions being stronger. With good units 
 being far better of a value because of there health/armor they will win most battles against another 
 single battalion if played right. With the special abilities of the good units usually being better 
 its just another edge the good is given. The only good thing about the evil faction is that they 
 are so cheap and can be created so fast and a larger army faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalicArachnid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  The game had it's heart in the right place, the content was fantastic and the whole gaming experience 
 was satisfying, it was missing an epic feel to it. and that epic feel is the dividing line between 
 "Oh it was a good game, i play it every so often" from "This game Is a legend i will never forget 
 even to my death bed I will remember this game!" I really wanna say that it is one of those kinds 
 of games but I can't. It was pretty close but sometimes that's the difference between a glorious 
 victory, or a horrendous defeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linux_Donut
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Middle Earth II is hard... there I said it. Your units are easily destroyed and your buildings 
 are weak, but now for the good part: WOW IS IT ADDICTING. No matter how many times you are utterly 
 destroyed, you always come back for more. It is an excellent example of what can be achieved when 
 graphics, game play, sound effects, and graphics can really produce. It's visuals are excellent, 
 and the physics are very cool (who doesn't like watching ents blow orcs 20+ feet in the air, It's 
 freaking awesome!) . It's style of gameplay is unlike any other that I have expirienced. It is fast, 
 furious, and unforgiving. One thing I can criticize is the lack of strategic depth. There are only 
 about 3-4 different formations in the whole game, and it is very hard to set an effective trap. 
 It is worth buying this game, even if you have never played an rts in your life, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellowrockview
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  this game is like no other it really is the its hard to DESCRIBE IT REALLY IS THT GOOD.
  
  graphics -9-
  the graphics may not nesserserily be hlaf life 2 or doom 3 but there incredible 
 none the less u also hav 2 remember tht this game is an rts.
  
  gameplay -10-
  if u compare this to every other rts like c&c generals and warcraft 3 
  the little things matter 
 like u build a group of ppl instead of one person which is a clever game mechanic and theres no 
 lvl cap u just build the things tth get the resources and they increase the lvl cap ( which is 
 an incredibly brilliant gamplay thing) .
  
  sound -10-
  how can u not giv the music in this game a ten its got a better musical score than HALO all the 
 old memorable music from the movies are in this game!!!!!!!!!1
  
  tilt -?-
  i hav no idea wot tilt meens does anyone actually know wikipedia dosent.
  
  
  
  i give 
 this game 10 because i cant really giv it anything less its great and brilliant at the same time 
 the online is great theres 4 playable races elves, men and dwarfs on the good side isenguard, mordor, 
 and goblins on the othere there 4 different single play modes ; war of the ring which is abit like 
 total war and risk combined ; skirmish which is a skirmish and fialy the campaigns god and evil 
 both completely different and farely long u can make ur own maps!!. 
  
  GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME NOW PLEASE IT REALLY IS AS GOOD AS STARCRAFT WARCRAFT AND ALL THE C&CS 
 COMBINED!!! AND SHOULD TIDE U OVER TILLL TIBERIUM WARS COMES OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth2, or should i call it BFME2, had newer gameplay to its building methods life 
 now you can expand your frotress base but as it isnt building an economy way BFME2 tries to makesure 
 the player dosent fell that it isnt making an economy bulding method but in the end it fails to 
 show that it isnt and economy method of building.
  
  Though BFME2 returns with improved graphics and now dwarves and elves have their own mens to fight 
 in the war BFME2 comes with more detailed charecter and building which seems to impress as they 
 are richly and colourfully detailed buildings and units and what that dosent let the game down 
 but tearrains int the snow were a little blend and bad but i still dosent let the game down due 
 to that as there are lots of explosion all coming out from the catapults
  
  The game allows you to expand you fortressbase unlike the other its what make the game good especially 
 when your fortress is full build with powerfull and heavy defended walls which BFME1 did not include 
 but unlike BFME2, BFME1 allowed you to build in a circle and you would place walls on the circles 
 edge to ensure defence to your fortress base but overall BFME2 graphics were alot more better and 
 BFME2 were more dtailed and colourfull than BFME1 
  
  But what lacks of BFME2 is that the intesnse battle arnt as BFME1 because 
  BFME1 were great 
 but BMFE2 well your soldiers dont attack if there behind their own kind as they will be block by 
 it own kind which seems to be boring as they will wait until the front is dead so that they can 
 move to the front to takeover the position which always makes battles boring as soldiers behind 
 dont do anything but that is unlees their archers then they will shoot to the enemy from behind
 
  Overall battles are a little boring and lacking as BFME1 they will charge into their enemywhich 
 what BFME2 lacks of BFME1
  
  Enemy Ai are good and smart as they will send in as much troops to battle just al long as their 
 enemys are crushed and what is also good is that now you are allowed to build you own heroes which 
 you can make your hero can be an assasin, wizard or anything you want it to be but armors, leg pads 
 dont really have much veriety 
  
  campains maybe a little boring as playing the good side nor the evil side isnt interesting and 
 if they anyone were to say that the game campain is good ill commit suicude or something like that 
 but now you can also play LOTR mode which you can counquer the world of LOTR but still its very 
 boring at certain times
  
  what you can to is that when you won a battle or something like that your magig bar increase and 
 when it increases you get another pach of magic point but there are choices to make take can lead 
 to the last choice but when your evil you can summon Balrog himself to be on your side and help 
 your troops or summon the Fire Drakell thats what also interest me the most
  
  But still overall BFME2 is a good game and Some or maybe many RTS should follow up to one of the 
 positif sides to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblade256
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and sound is good plus has a load of content. The online is not really 
 fun because it is hard to find a good game and the war of the ring mode just plain old stinks. 
 The other bad thing is it is hard to get a huge siege online like a battle of 400 guys (like the 
 first one did) . The one reason for this is the walls. Yes you can build them anywhere but they 
 are too weak (being killed from one or two sword hits from an upgraded battalion. This in turn makes 
 defending your buildings hard. The game is amazing looking and sounds pretty good as well. I would 
 have liked if you where able to build thick walls you could load men on not walls the for some 
 races you can't even put towers on. The building your own "landmark" castle thing really let me 
 down. If that was improved i would have given the game an 8.7 but since it is not i give it a 7.7. 
 It had the potential but just did not make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I Rate games on the following: Graphics, Gameplay, Sound, Replayability.
  
  Graphics: A sight to behold for the RTS genre. Very well done, polished graphics all around. The 
 graphics kick up a notch from the previous title. They have added stuff like dynamic unit and building 
 shadows as well as new specular lighting.
  
  Gameplay: Sometimes the framerate is hard to keep steady when there is alot going on. But, overall 
 nothing unusual for any game. A few slowdowns, not too bad at all. The load times are fine and 
 take 20 seconds at most.
  
  Sound: The sounds are very well done. All the marching, crunching, slashing, rumbling, from BFME 
 are there. Nothing revolutionary though.
  
  Replayability: Well, for me i've taken it off of my system a few times but i've always put it back 
 on. This one should last you ahwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordATK103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This is my defintion of an rts game 
  -blah graphics
  -based on history
  - and some weird battles (one futurisctic army with robots vs a bunch of cave men)
  
  Bfme 
 changed that, and now Bfme2 improves on it. Like the orignal this game is based on the Lotr universe 
 and features several playable races from the film. Unlike the last game there is now more gondor 
 and rohan just men and elves. Mordor and isengard remain the same but this game also welcomes the 
 dwarves and goblins. Also unlike the first game there has been an addition of sea battles but i 
 have only played one multiplayer map that involved sea battles. As for the graphics they are good 
 compared to RTs standards and the music is brilliantly orchestrated. To me the multiplayer still 
 needs fixing. I keep having to leave a game to "refresh my nat" and when i do i cant find the match 
 any more. Also the addtion of war of the ring mode is a failed attempt at a new style of gameplay 
 and what i mean by this is that nobodys on. All in all this is a good game and i recomend it t 
 rts AND lotr fans or just lotr fans but there are much better rts games than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game, I'd say, is possibly one of the best RTS's I've played or will play because of the constant 
 action. The game has the standard "campaign" mode and the "skirmish" mode (which is what I play 
 the most) , but it has introduced a new gameplay mode to mix in with the old, War of the Ring. While 
 this style of play uses a much larger scale, it still can't beat the good old skirmish mode. For 
 skirmish mode, which can be played offline or online, you start off, just like every other RTS 
 game, with a center and some workers, along with your starting resources. However, the unique buildings 
 and customizable fortresses make every game different. All the races have different bonuses and 
 abilities, and you can research various add-ons such as armor, weapons, or banner carriers. This 
 game is fast-paced, has continuos action, and always puts you in the hot seat. (Easy mode is WAY 
 to easy, so start on Medium with a handicap) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolla213
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game has practically everything a LOTR fan needs to have in a game based on the epic trilogy 
 novel by J. R. R. Tolkien. 
  The major difference from the previous game is that it features other areas of Middle-earth other 
 than the ones shown in the movies.
  Unlike other strategy games, this game provides the player with a choice of being good or bad and 
 it gives you multiple special units and heroes.
  The gameplay isnt bad either, giving the player more choices than the Battle for Middle-earth 
 I.
  Although its been long since the last movie was on the big screen, this game has certainly lived 
 up to its hype and should lure people who are unfamiliar with the style of play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hat-and-Clogs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  LOTR Battle for Middle-Earth II is one of the best strategy games on PC.
  The game is easy to learn and fun to play. You will spent houors watching how Sauron's armies invade 
 Minas-Thirit and how Elves protect their lands against Goblins. Now you can make all new strategies 
 against your enemy and plan ambushies with human striders or destroy the base of your foe with 
 all new dwarven war machines. It is possible for you to upgreid your castle and call forth the 
 Fire Rain of Sauron to bring chaos and devestation.
  Even the Master Ring is ingluded in this game. When you find Gollum who holds the Master Ring you 
 will be able to summon the Lord of Mordor Sauron himself or Galadriel the Ligth **** With these 
 Lord units your army will be strong enough to conquer Middle-Earth.
  When you finally get bored to computer enemy then the real battle and challenge will wait you in 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootUUp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth II is the one of the best RTS games I have played in a long time. 
  The Goods:
  The first thing that pops out at you when you play B. F. M. E. II is the graphics. The 
 graphics are beautiful, befitting the extremely sophisticated graphics engine you need to play 
 this game. The sound in this game is also very good. Ranging from the soft whir of the elven arrows 
 flying through the air into the ugly faces of the Orc warriors. To the booming roars of the Trolls 
 as they swing their clubs at the help less Gondorians, or the Mumakils bellowing as he walks to 
 destroy the walled city of Minas Tirith.
  Needless to say, the sound is beautiful. The game-play is also nice and smooth, though sadly it 
 is reminiscent of other RTS games, it is still quite a solid method of play. The Value is also 
 just right, due to the high replay-ability, you won't be disapointed. Also, the create-a-hero feature 
 is quite cool.
  The Bads: 
  The game needs a very sophisticated graphics engine, and even after you surpass the Minimum requirements, 
 the game may still lag or freeze when you have many units on the screen at once... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Well this game has a lot of new awesome things in it. Three new races, new heroes, new maps and 
 a lot of new things. The Campaign lacks a little bit in my oppinion. All yhough there are cool 
 missions. In my oppinion it lacks something. War of the Ring is a cool new thing that is from the 
 Campaign from the first. In this one you can buy heroes buildings and units. It can be a lot of 
 fun playing that, especially on the internett. The gameplay has not been changed a lot, but i still 
 like it a lot. It's different from other game. They have added more spice in the gamplay, with 
 new features. The new features are the castles and specific things to each race. Making your own 
 hero is a lot of fun. I am excited to the next game what they add to it. Because in my oppinion 
 there is missing some abilitys. But thats only me. I have a lot of fun playing this game, and so 
 should you if you like the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazzitocabz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Best Game Ever, Buy It Know. Trust Me, You'll See Why. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
 Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. Buy It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donsdeadly
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  i got my hands on this game quit some weeks ago and figured tat out it was made to deprive people 
 of time since is freakin amazin time consumin game + moreover its got a feel of WOW and stuff like 
 creatin our own heros . bottom line :- u are bored and u like strategy games ! then go for this 
 one :D ! it takes to get to know how to play the game if u haven't played Lotr BME1 and when u 
 get hold of the gamin skilll u will just love playin it online or on lan with pals . though this 
 game requires some nice pc configs but in the end the fun and enjoyment pays it off even if u upgrade 
 ur pc to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  STORY  The single player campaigns in BFME II both good & bad follow the events of what happened 
 with the rest of the races of middle earth while the fellowship was making its way towards the 
 destruction of the ring.
  
  SOUND  The game features the original & outstanding soundtrack from the Lord of the Rings Trilogy 
 which gives the battles in the game a whole new perspective on war. The exact & right musical timings 
 in the game & just well done. Voice actings are equally brilliant. All in all its all well done.
 
  
  GRAPHICS  Graphics are improved since the previous game & look beautiful. The game brilliantly 
 covers the imagination of Tolkens middle earth, locations, units, water effects; special effects 
 are just visually beautiful.
  
  GAMEPLAY  The game play has improved a lot since the previous game, in the previous game you were 
 only allowed to build structures within a given area of your fortress & so you would have to strategically 
 conquer the map in order to expand your army but that has changed now BFME II allows you to build 
 anywhere on the map but there is a cache to this if you build your farms close to other structures 
 the output of the farms is reduced a lot so you have to spread your base in accordance to command 
 & conquer. The game features two single player campaigns one for good & other for evil each 8 missions 
 long. Apart from these two campaigns & custom battles the game introduces the new War of the Ring 
 campaign containing several modes. The main objective of the War of the Ring is to conquer every 
 bit of your map. This mode allows you to build buildings & armies on the world map & sending them 
 throughout middle earth to conquer & when you encountered an enemy or his territory you can either 
 auto resolve a battle or dive into the battle map with your army & heroes. The best part is that 
 you also get to build structures inside the battle map expanding your army but the worst part is 
 that only units created on the world map can be carried. BFME II has a variety of races which include 
 men, elves, dwarves, goblins, forces of Mordor & Isengard. In each race there is a unique & varied 
 set of units & structures. The game also features a wide variety of heroes namely everyone from 
 the movie & the book. If thats not enough, you can create your own hero & customize him/her in 
 the way you want it to, from looks to attributes just like that of an RPG game. You also have a 
 bit of seeking to do in the War of the Ring & Skirmish modes if you want to play with Sauron with 
 evil & Galadriel with good. Yes you heard me right Gollum with The One ring resides in the map 
 somewhere, so if you find him & take the ring back to your Fortress youll be able to play with 
 either one. BFME II also has navel battles, god powers, huge armies & an advanced A. I. system which 
 leaves you satisfied.
  
  PROS  A. I, Soundtrack, various races, units, structures, War of the Ring & huge armies.
  
 
  CONS  The story driven campaigns falls behind, War of the ring has a few logical problems.
  
  VERDICT  BFME II clearly stands triumphant & delivers a satisfying experience of Middle earth. 
 But if youre an Indian gamer get your hands on the collectors edition as it costs the same & has 
 a few more advancements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle Earth II is a really fun game.
  the new features in it are really good but some could be better like the make your hero could had 
 more special abilities and looks. the new races are very fun like the dwarfs and the goblins.
 
  
  the campain is the best part of the game because it's just right in the difficulty and the other 
 versions are to easy or to hard. 
  i liked this game very much but i don't think it's a game i'll play so much after the campain. 
 right now it's the best Lord of the Rings game i played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I will say this: The Battle for Middle-Earth II is an incredibly fun RTS. It sticks to the basics 
 and doesn't try anything new, but it works. As a bonus, it's Lord of the Rings themed. Refreshingly, 
 it actually is able to drift a little from the movies and allows us to further explore what Tolkien's 
 Middle-Earth may have looked like. 
  
  BFME II's biggest weakness is the campaign. It has an interesting premise: fighting the behind-the-scenes 
 battles of the War of the Ring, but the backstory is weak at best. There are a few gems, like raiding 
 the Shire as the Goblin King. Unfortunately, most levels just involve massing more and more troops. 
 While this is to make the battles feel large and epic, it really just makes it sloppy. Framerate 
 drops, micro-management becomes impossible, and the entire level just devolves into throwing masses 
 of troops against the computer's masses. Don't get me wrong, the campaign is still fun, but falls 
 behind the rest of the game.
  
  Skirmish mode is definitely the highlight. It seems to be very well made with both familiar and 
 interesting maps. The sides are generally balanced. AI obviously leaves something to be desired, 
 but that's true in all RTS's. Online play is fun and well-designed as well, especially for an EA 
 game.
  
  War of the Ring is a great idea: one that ought to be implemented in other games. Unfortunately, 
 it is very shallow despite its great potential. It's fun nonetheless, and is worth a try. 
  
  For the most part, the game looks very good graphically. Watching troops fly or burn using 
 splash damage is particularly neat. In cinematics, the heroes do look bland and the framerate can 
 suffer even on a new machine, but overall it is decent.
  
  Sound is also very good. Hugo Weaving (Elrond) does a decent job as a narrator for the campaign. 
 Sound effects within the battles are well done and the traditional music is implemented well.
 
  
  In conclusion, BFME II is a solid, fun RTS. It doesn't do anything special, and it has a few flaws, 
 but for anyone with a Lord of the Rings interest, it's worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limp_Laky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I have been dissapointed time and time again with RTS games these days. Ever since playing StarCraft 
 and WarCraft all other games in the genre just couldnt hold a candle. The Original BFME held me 
 for a while, it was a new spin with the fixed build points, but it really didnt catch me. I like 
 to build stuff anywhere I want and build up a fortress if I have to with strategic strong and weak 
 points.
  
  Time to break it down
  
  Graphics- if you are going into an RTS for graphics you might as well just stop reading now, the 
 graphics are amazing for a strategy game. Although as with all strategy games the higher settings 
 you run it at the more trouble you see. I recomend unless your computer is less than a year old 
 running it at medium or lower because you dont see much of a difference. Graphics just arent important 
 in an RTS.
  
  Sound- The music is straight out of the movies, so if you are into that kind of thing great otherwise 
 I just play music off my computer or MP3 player. The sound like any RTS is nice but not the most 
 important. I like the noise a rock makes as it colides with a tower but you really dont need it. 
 The sound in the game though is realistic and its fun to hear your guys talk back just like any 
 RTS.
  
  Value- at 50 dollars for the game its an amazing deal. You can play it for hours in the online 
 mode. Trust me I know people that have played at 500+ hours since the release date. if you have 
 a DVD drive you have to get the collecters edition for the DVD version which means you dont have 
 to deal with the 6 instalation discs. but of course the CE costs more. 
  
  Tilt- I love RTS games and love LOTR so I would say a good mix just makes me warm inside. I was 
 disapointed by Empire at War but this game caught my interest and I can tell I will play it a lot 
 in the months to come.
  
  Gameplay- Ok so here's the part we all care about. 6 races all for the most part made up of cavalry 
 swordsmen pikemen archers and siege. Although each race has different variations of each. giving 
 weaknesses and strengths. Like elves have strong archers while most goblin units are weak to arrows. 
 Each race has its own unique charecters and heroes. Some have more heros while some have few. Power 
 points take a major role, every 5 power points you get you can spend to get powers that slowly 
 get stronger until they can make or break the game for you like the balrog or the army of the dead. 
 This game is not built all on rush like some other RTS games. Its based on many different things 
 but mostly micro managment. They took out the basis of most RTS taht you have to go and gather 
 resources you just build resource buildings in areas where they will give you the most benifit 
 and they gather for you. Because of this all you have to do is worry about building a steady stream 
 of units, making sure you have enough populations capacity, that you upgrade your units, use abilities, 
 power points, protect your base, level heros, use hero abilities, expand your base, upgrading buildings, 
 buy upgrades for units, use the right unit here but not there etc. so its hard you have to get 
 the hang of it. Some of the armies are not really balanced all of the time. I am sure as time goes 
 on more and more of the game will become balanced and the armies will have equal sway against each 
 army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here the tale:
  
  I play the demo of the game from one of the popular gaming mags, Ithink to myself... love it... I 
 want it... Now for me to buy a full price game is a rare occurance... but hey when you've played 
 the first one and the second one looks good if be it better you think to yourself way not..
  
  So in the shop I go... money burning a hole in my pocket... after serveral shops and weeks of 
 finding the game I come across 2...
  
  The standard game package and a collectors one... Ohhhh... check price...30 or 40 pounds.... well 
 quick scan reveals 30 quid is the boy...
  
  I go to counter and what happens... (twist of fate) the girl sqeeshes in the collectors one... (the 
 wrong package) Shame.... I titter to myself when I realise...
  
  So was it worth it... well I have to say no... an extra tenner for what can only be described as 
 film footage of how the game came into being.,,, what what!! Thank my lucky stars I didnt play for 
 the full whack on this bad boy..
  
  I really hope that someone from EA reads this cause I gonna tell you how you can justify a collectors 
 box and a extra 10 quid from people without losing sleep at night... and here it is...
  
  If your gonna release 2 game titles of the same game, marked as collectors then make it collectors... for 
 example make the 2nd disc unique to paying customers.... put extra upgrades or levels on the disc 
 which are available to downloaders...
  
  There is the golden ticket.... enough of developers saying This is hows it done...
  
  Other 
 than that the game seems OK... haven't really played the mordor boys at all yet... so wouldn't like 
 to say it's great yet... but from the few levels played its worth the 30 quid top end only, although 
 I would go out of my way to getting this.. dare I say... post used price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is definitely much better than the first one.
  
  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle earth is set in the same period as the movies but this time 
 you follow the wars of the north. So if you havent read any of the books, there are some new surprises.
 
  
  The thing I like most in the sequel is that you are no longer restricted in terms of building. 
 You dont have to build buildings on designated areas like in the first one. You can build as much 
 as you like as well. So you are free to expand as you wish.
  
  The graphics are great, just as it was in the first one. Characters are colorful and well designed. 
 The game play has a few differences to the first one, so it is not the same game at all. It is 
 almost like playing a whole new game.
  
  The War of the Ring idea is also a great addition. When you are busy in a skirmish, Gollum is running 
 around the stage. He has the One ring and when you find and destroy Gollum, you get the ring and 
 you then have the option to build secret characters like Galadriel.
  
  Great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrifing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is just brilliant its fast paced and superb to sit and play 
  
  once you start building your army its so easy to get carried away and just want to destroy everything 
 with your chosen hero
  
  not only does the game have good graphics the sound is actually really good to
  
  the ai is 
 skittish like it doesnt want to even fight you 
  
  i get the impression it would rather be doing something else than fighting you 
  so turn it up 
 get it on hard teh battle is brilliant the game is fast paced and surprisingly enough the ai doesnt 
 immediatelly attack 
  
  that caught me offguard to 
  
  really interesting game based on a brilliant book series i highly recommend to all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qewrrtijbssfh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Ja, met veel plezier heb ik dit spelletje gespeeld. Het is natuurlijk een vervolg van het eerste 
 deel maar het is ook een hele verbetering. Je kunt veel meer dan in het eerste deel en de graphics 
 zijn ook erg mooi. De personages zijn alleen niet erg veel mooier. Maar de omgeving wel! Daarom 
 geef ik dit spel ook een 9. En wie dit spel niet kent: eerst de film zien en dan pas spelen, goochems! 
 Heh! Heh! Geintje, gasjes. De ballen! k moet nog ff eten. 
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Ok i was very exaited when i bought it to play it but after a time i got bored
  
  The graphics ar kinda changed from BFME1 but by not very much but still the graphics are cool. I 
 love RTS games and TBS and it's cool that this game has them both. In multiplayer the War of The 
 Ring is cool and you could play for hours and hours. Even the battles are very cool. The elves and 
 Dwarves are cool races and that thing Create-A-Hero is something that i never seen. The battle sounds 
 is very well done. Ultimately it is a great game but if you play it for 1 month never stoping then 
 the rest of the year and next year you probably won't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant to buy yet another RPG/fighting type game, after having already played the Age of 
 ... games, Stronghold, Warcraft, etc., but the Battle for middle earth 2 ended up being very unique 
 and enjoyable.
  
  The graphics are pretty good in this game, but overall, the maps are unbelievable. For example, 
 Minas Tirith and Helms Deep look exactly like they did in the movies and they are both playable 
 on the multiplayer maps. The interface is easy to use and allows for smooth gameplay. 
  
  As of now, I have only played the Good campaign and multiplayer skirmishes, both of which have 
 left me feeling like I got more than my moneys worth. There are numerous multiplayer maps, allowing 
 you to choose what race, color, difficulty each opponent is.
  
  All in all, I would highly recommend this game to any LOTR fan, and even if your not, it is still 
 an entertaining pc game that should be given a chance, it deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I absolutly enjoyed the original Battle for Middle Earth. I thought that EA would simply add new 
 maps and maybe a new race to the game and call it good. Believe it or not, they actually improved 
 upon the game in ways I never imagined they would. I guess they are serious about this franchise.
 
  
  Pros: 
  
  The visuals are upgraded and look spectacular. 
  
  The ability to customize and create your own hero units is one of my favorite features in this 
 game. I have enjoyed the use of hero units in other games, but to be able to create my own with 
 the powers of my choosing makes this so much more enjoyable. 
  
  Two games in one. This game actually has another mode called War of the Ring which is like a cross 
 between the RTS game and Risk. Its really cool and it like getting so much more for your money. 
 
  
  Multiplayer works great as it should in any game made these days. To bad many games fail in this 
 area. There are numerous settings you can setup to customize your online battle. Hooking up with 
 others is simple. 
  
  Cons: 
  
  The hero units need more options when it comes to powers. I would like to see more special powers 
 to choose from.
  
  The game seems to easy. There should be more difficulty settings in this game. 
  
  This game 
 is well worth the price and should be in any RTS lovers game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammbasador
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  In our time gamers will not be nice and quiet like children. If you give them a game, which is 
 based on a licence, it must be good. No rebates!
  I put this game next to to Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne and Rome: Total War. Why? Because it 
 is modern RTS, it has everything, that it has to have, to be a great game. Let`s go to the missions. 
 
  There ar eight missions for the Good and eight for the Evil. They ar quiet nice. Only the last 
 mission isn`t as good as others. All population points are taken by heroes and support units... 
 no big battles... but it is okey- we have something better.
  Multiplayer and Skirimsh are great, but there is mode, witch takes them down with left hand. It 
 is called War of the Rings. It plays like strategy mode in Rise of Nations, Rome: Total War and 
 other RTS. It is fun, and let`s you to "battle for all of Middle-earth".
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  Plays like classic RTS from the firs view. But there are some interesting new things like additonal 
 damage for attack from side or back, catapults, witch can kill your own troops, but if they hit 
 enamy- the whole group is lost. And the battle riders vs. spearmens is very interesting. In full 
 speed cavalery will destroy everything in it`s path. But if it looses it`s speed , spearmens will 
 crush it like a baby. 
  Well, naval battles are foolish, but it is not so bad.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  Yup, game is pritty. On of the mos beautifull in the market. I have neverd payed attention to games 
 graphics (not to big ; ) ) , so i will just say- it is beautifull enaugh to show us Middle-earth 
 in all of it`s beauty.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  9/10
  
  Music from the movies, great voice acting and- voila!
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  With War of the Ring, Skrimish and nice Multiplayer, people will be playing it for long time.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  There is poor AI, boring scrpit`s and bad sea battles. But there is a great strategic mode, great 
 graphics, nice sound an interesting innovations in gameplay. 
  
  
  Good strategy mode, great graphics 
 and sound, interesting gameplay, it is Lord of the Rings.
  
  
  
 
  Bad naval battles, not the best AI.
  
  
  RESUME.
  
  Very solid RTS, 
 even, when you are not looking at the license.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uziel126
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Why? Simply put, it takes out the flaws of the first and adds in better material.
  The gameplay is classic, like the first, but with subtle differences. Builders are now required, 
 taking it a step toward Age of Empires style of play. One does not have to build your structures 
 on given plots of land, but anywhere, as long as it's feasible.
  
  Sound is more or less equal to the first game, excellent, and Graphics have not changed much (think 
 of the lightshow when your unit levels up.)
  
  This game is worth every cent you pay for it, but I suggest for LOTR fans to get the Collector's 
 edition.
  
  This game is just as good as it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I never played the prequel to this RTS game.
  I'm also no fan of the LOTR / Tolkien stories but I do like RTS games.
  And especially when the 
 presentation is good.
  And the presentation of BFME2 is one of the best I've ever seen.
  
  Thats mainly because of the great work EALA has done in terms of graphic, animation and sound.
 
  But that aside you will soon come to the not so good sides of the game.
  Since I've played a lot of CnC Generals Zero Hour (and I still do) I realized all the similarities 
 to BFME2 very soon.
  The rushing and constant attacking AI. Which sems to have unlimited ressources and always the right 
 unit to conquer your attack till the very poor pathfinding of your and the AI units.
  The game is also very fast paced. There is nearly no pause in skirmish matches where you could 
 build out your base. If you can't handle fighting and base building at the same time, you won't 
 have much fun here. Thats especially bad because the game lets you construct walls in a very cool 
 way. On the other hand these walls are pretty expensice and can be crushed even by infantry.
  They fights itself are a little chaotic since all your infantry runs over the place and doens't 
 use the nice formation you've given them a secoond before.
  I said that the animation are good, yeah they are but not if it comes down to the battles.
  Since 
 the units all get disordered it's not very nice to look at and there are no longer animated fight 
 sequences like in Warhammer 40K where they fights were a pleasure to watch.
  There is also no blood or limb loosing stuff in it.
  Yeah, yeah ESRB... who cares.
  
  Another 
 core mechanic which exists since CnC is the rock, paper, scissor thing.
  Which basicly means that every unit has it's counterpart.
  So you really want to keep your unit 
 types mixed. or you may find your five squads of swordsman slain by a dragon who never lost a single 
 health point.
  
  One of the EA flaws I indicate in the short discription is the technical side of the game.
  Even 
 with a decent high end PC you will find some huge slowdowns in the campaign mode of the game.
 
  Mostly when there are huge battles going on.
  This is especially annoying because BFME2 is about huge battles.
  You will have built up a large 
 army at no time.
  A optimized engine would have been a must.
  
  While the story mode isn't very stunning (the evil campaign has some intense moments though) the 
 heart of the game lies in the multi player part.
  The only problem here is that EA has some serious problems to keep their servers up and also forces 
 you to register in order to play a online game.
  (hey... pssst... another of those EA flaws) .
  
  At last there is a mode called War of the Ring.
 
  I won't go in detail here but is basicly a round based war with the goal to claim all territories 
 of middle earth.
  A nice alternation to normal versus gameplay but with missing depth.
  
  conclusion:
  The Battle for Middle-earth II strong part is certainly the presentation.
  It's 
 fun to watch the animated buildings and to hear all those sound samples and unit speech.
  The heart of the game lies in the multi player part and thats the also the part which will you 
 keep on playing.
  
  If you on the look for a good RTS than you may give it a try.
  If you still mainly into Warhammer 40K or CnC Generals Zero Hour and won't get it for it's presentation 
 than it's not something you must have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukeboxjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Mind blowing. That about covers it. Whilst really doing nothing new, this game still breaks the 
 mould. It's much better than the first one and better than I thought it was going to be. This game 
 is on a larger scale to the first, which was more like a set of skirmishes than a war. With a higher 
 population cap and more units in a squad this game feels much more epic. It also uses the new licenses 
 extremley well. EA have done an awsome job of balancing, except perhaps the Elves and the Ring 
 Heroes (yes, you can get Sauron) but I'll talk about those later. People complain that the heroes 
 are unbalanced, but if it's hero vs hero then it's fairly even. Anyway, onto the teams...
  
  Firstly, Gondor and Rohan have been combined into one army called The Men of the West, which 
 makes them much more balanced. The sturdy footsoldiers of Gondor and the awsome cavalry of the 
 Rohirrim make this a good team for newcomers or people getting back into the game. The heroes are 
 also some of the best, and they is a lot of them, making for a formidable fighting force. Their 
 walls are also very sturdy.
  
  The two new factions, however, are much more interesting. The Dwarves are your traditional expensive, 
 strong but slow fighting force and will outlive all but the best units. Their speed is made up 
 for by the addition of tunnels so they can go from one place to the next very quickly. Their foot 
 soldiers, phlanxes and axe-throwers, combined with their heroes (of which their are only 3 regretfully) 
 make them a force to be reckoned with. They have quick support from wagons that can have archers 
 on or get to hurl explosive barrels. They also have good siege and walls.
  
  The Elves are also very cool. Whilst they have weak melee troops, which are only really good for 
 holding the enemy back for a bit, they have astoundingly good archers, capeable of mowing down 
 lots of enemy units very quickly. The downside is I think this makes them slightly imbalanced, 
 especially as they can kill dragons relativley quickly, but it's something easily rectified and 
 doesn't pose that much of a problem. They also posses a strong cavalry and great heroes. Their 
 walls aren't a match for the other two good races though.
  
  At this point I'll quickly mention the naval combat while I remember. Whilst good, it isn't ground 
 breaking and will likey soon wear thin, although transport your units by sea in secrect and suprising 
 your enemy is very satisfying. 
  
  And now onto my favorite teams. The evil factions in my opinion are exellent, with flashy units 
 that just rock. But don't get me wrong, the good teams are also ace but I've always liked evil. 
 Anyway...
  
  Mordor is mostly unchanged except for a few new units and they are still the amazing fighting force 
 they were in the original. One of my favorite things however are the Nazgul and the Witch King. 
 You can get three Nazgul on horseback now, which is cool in itself but they can also go on foot 
 which is something I missed in the first game. The Witch King can also dismount his fellbeast and 
 kick ass from the ground. The 2 wraiths that come on fellbeasts cannot dismount however. 
  
  Isengard is also largley unchanged, but still cool. They are the only evil team that can get 
 walls. The old heroes are still here with the addition of a Warg Rider hero and Wormtounge who 
 is suprisingly good. Their units are still as awsome as they were before, and sieges with them 
 are awsome with the Beserkers attaching onto the ladders. 
  
  Possibley my new favorite faction are the Goblins. Relying and superior numbers and speed (they 
 can use tunnels like the Dwarves) they never cease to amaze me. Lacking any real siege appart from 
 their trolls and mountain giants they make up for this by being able to scale walls! This is extremly 
 cool to watch and never gets old. Their heroes too are also cool. They get a Dragon Lord who reaks 
 havoc from above and the Goblin King who rides a giant scorpion (which occumpnied by spider riders 
 is very effective) and Shelod who just rocks. 
  
  And now onto the hero creator, which while limited, is cool seeing your own custom hero reaking 
 havoc. 
  
  The campain, while linear and short, is compelling and has some cool battles while the War of the 
 Ring makes for some intense tactical desisions and battles.
  
  Unfotunatley the AI can be very easy so I reccommend the harder difficulty settings. However this 
 is one of my only gripes with the game. 
  
  The multiplayer, as mentioned in other reviews, is ace, and playing against your mates has never 
 been as much fun except for perhaps Dawn of War. The new strategy elements also make games more 
 interesting and they'res always plenty of people online.
  
  The graphics and sound are also ground breaking, with voices from all the cast and music from the 
 films. At the high detail setting the graphics will rock your socks off. 
  
  To finish, this is a game that will appeal to anyone who is a LOTR, RTS or fan of anything really. 
 A must buy!
  
  *Please rate the review*
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  its better. thats for sure can be said of the sequel to the rts that came in the wake of the movie 
 trilogy based on tolkien's epic. battle for middle ages 2 is definitely more pleasing to the eye. 
 the graphics are tight. everythings good but you need a relatively hig-end system to see the game 
 in all its greatness. the gameplay is still easy to pick up but the ai and controls are sometimes 
 problematic and a letdown. short campaign and it gets repetitive but online play and modding community 
 help. great sounds from the movie and some new tunes for the game. though some voices are recycled. 
 visually impressive, battle for middle earth 2 is a sequel must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arguyle
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I will try to be short since i just want to bring the good features and the little problem i've 
 observed.
  
  Good features:
  
  - Heroes play a significant role in the game. You can't think of a win without them.
  
  - Powers 
 and Hero's powers are very powerful and spectacular. Very satisfying to watch an entire enemy army 
 or battalion being blown miles away.
  
  - Sound effect, musics and voice over are one of the strongest features in the game, since it's 
 exactly what you hear in the movie trilogy.
  
  - Being able to defend a stronghold like Minas Tirith or Helm's Deep in skirmish/multiplayer map 
 brings some variety to the game. This leaves some potential for great and intense battle. Every 
 fortress has a unique style.
  
  - The Create-a-Hero feature let you build a hero just like you want.
  
  - Immersive ambiance.
 
  
  Bad features:
  
  - Worst AI i've ever seen. Playing agains computer player completely ruin the gameplay.
  
  
 - Some Heroes are way to powerfull or too easily accessible. Too much Health, too easy to regenerate, 
 too much damage. A high level Hero can survive the attack of an entire army. Very unbalanced gameplay 
 on that point. Damage and Health should be reduced OR cost and creating time should be raised. 
 
  
  - Couple of things that doesn't makes sense. For example, only 2 trebuchet bullet can destroy the 
 wall of Minas Morgul... but it takes at least 50-60 bullet to destroy Minas Tirith walls... one 
 is too easy and the other is way too hard. Elven archers fully upgraded can do way too much damage. 
 
  
  - It's too easy to win or to easy to lose. Games scenarios are very predictible and therefore can 
 be very frustrating at some times. The first player to get his heroes to high levels is going to 
 win... it's just a matter of time. The game begins with they searching for experience points without 
 giving some to the enemy. So basically, it disencourage players to create big armies when you know 
 that your enemy has some high level heroes with devastating powers that will grant him really big 
 experience points. Finaly, you can feel very powerless in some situation. Unless the enemy makes 
 a very stupid tactical move, it's easy to predict who will win and who will lose.
  
  - Races walls are not worth the money.
  
  - High ground affects too much the ranged attack.
 
  
  This game is great, but since it is based on immersive gameplay, some minor gameplay balance issues 
 can ruined the player's experience in some situation (especially in fortress map) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfire13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Game play:
  What can I say.... except for amazingly addictive. Not only is it fun, but also it can keep you 
 hooked for months (I think) . It has a nice fast pace and sometimes it is just fun to take your 
 hero and demolish any units that come charging towards you. The A. I. isnt perfect, but it seems 
 a lot better then many other rts. If you want to get a game and play it for a while Lord of The 
 Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth is the right choice for you!
  
  Sound:
  Extremely good based on the actual movie. Many times it gets stuck in your head and you keep on 
 humming it. 
  
  Game Modes:
  Sadly I am disappointed on the game modes. I tried the War of The Ring mode I guess it is just 
 me, but I didnt like it. It was as if the computer was 3 steps ahead of me. (Which he probably 
 was. The campaigns you dont even get to choose which races you want to use. If you want to be 
 good you will be elves 1st and so on. Some races you dont even get to play with. My favorite mode 
 would have to be skirmish. (Considering I have not tried online yet) In skirmish mode you can choose 
 which race you are and which you are going to face against. 
  
  Overall:
  The Good- great game play, sound, and very fun.
  The Bad- Not much just some game mode disappointing 
 A. I. could be a tiny bit smarter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antilladon
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Superb gameplay, brings RTS to a whole new level. I would have prefered having more options 
 with my battalions and their formations. It does provide you with the basic formations but wouldve 
 been way better had it given some more choices. Like face this direction, circular (like the porcupine 
 but for all types) , spread apart (spacing between units in a battalion) , etc. . 
  Graphics: They are brilliant, only one problem, when units are selected and they are large like 
 the WitchKing or Mumakill the display is somewhat pixelated. This also happens when you zoom in, 
 not noticble with every race, but Mordor it is very visible.
  Sound: Nothing bad to say here, its perfect.
  Value: If your'e a LOTR fan its a must have, a 
 classic for the ages
  Love the game, can't wait to play online :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle-Earth II is not only a significantly better game than the 2004 original, 
 but it's also one of the best classic real-time strategy games released since Relic's Dawn of War 
 and is easily the best use of the Lord of the Rings license of any game to date. 
  
  The nuts and bolts of the game aren't too suspiring or all that inventive. A lot of what's there 
 is standard real-time strategy 101: base building, automatic (no peasants required) resource gathering, 
 lots of units, upgrades, and so on. It's not that there is a lack of innovation, but the core game 
 itself is very familiar to experienced real time strategy fans. What makes the game so special 
 is that there is a lot of content, and that content is crafted with expert care along with top 
 shelf production values. 
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth II is jam packed with "stuff" from additional playable races and heroes 
 (Tom Bombadil!) to more basic game options. The armies have shifted around a bit compared to the 
 original: Rohan and Gondor now make up simply "The Men of the West" and while Isengard and Mordor 
 are still their own factions, three new ones are on the scene in the Goblins, Elves and Dwarves, 
 each with their own unique retinue and hero units. This is where the fantastic license use shines 
 through. You get most of the classic heroes from both the books and films from Treebeard, Gandalf 
 and Boromir to Sauruman, The Mouth of Sauron, and Wormtongue  the gang is literally all here. 
 The Goblins even get the giant spider Shelob. 
  
  The units are ripped right out of the canon as well -- Trolls, Wraiths, the Rohirrim, right down 
 the line. The brilliance of the game is that all six factions feel unique in both their army make 
 up and how they function, which leads to the possibility of various tactics not only depending 
 on who you are playing with but also whom you are facing in battle. The Goblins, who prefer mass 
 wave assaults with litters of cheap units fight a very different battle than the swift yet expensive 
 elves or the plodding yet stone tough dwarves. With so many battle combinations possible, replay 
 value is through the roof and it's just loads of fun to experiment with each of the races to see 
 what makes each tick. There are some balance issues, even with the latest 1.03 patch, but nothing 
 that makes one faction ultra-dominant over the others. It's a huge achievement in real-time strategy 
 design. 
  
  In addition to both "good" and "evil" campaigns, each lasting eight missions each, there is a new 
 Risk-like War of the Ring campaign game that allows you to blend global turn-based strategy with 
 real-time battles. It's fairly basic compared to other grand strategy games such as the Total War 
 series but it definitely supplies the game with a grand strategy layer that is lost at times in 
 simple skirmish mode and even in the main campaigns. This mode doesn't feel quite as fleshed out 
 as it should (the interface is clunky and not very attractive) but it does provide additional options 
 after you've exhausted the campaigns and if you want to take part in a meaningful battle rather 
 than just a one-off skirmish. 
  
  There are a few hiccups along the way. The enemy AI is underdeveloped, particularly during sea 
 battles. Even on land, you never get the feeling that you're playing against a tough or unpredictable 
 opponent unless you crank up the difficulty which allows the AI to cheat. This is a big reason 
 why the solo campaigns, while fun, aren't nearly as challenging as they should be. It also would 
 be nice to be able to pause and issue orders for those gamers that simply cannot keep up with the 
 game's admittedly quick pace. 
  
  This is a game that is best played with friends either on a LAN or via the Internet. Due to the 
 sheer number of options available from the races and units to the heroes and multiple spells and 
 upgrades, each multiplayer game has a personality of its own. Very few real-time games can offer 
 so many different races that play so wildly different and yet keep a uniform game balance pretty 
 much in tact, which makes for wonderful online match ups. 
  
  Finally, rarely is it necessary to heap too much praise regarding a game's production values but 
 Battle for Middle-Earth II is the exception. This is a stunningly beautiful game -- hands down the 
 best looking mass unit real-time strategy game ever made. On top of the detailed animations, the 
 picturesque setting, and the brilliant artwork, the game also has top of the line voice acting, 
 and the musical score is ripped right out of the Peter Jackson films. The game looks so good that 
 it was a smart move by the designers to minimize the game's interface. It doesn't get in the way 
 of the auditory and visual thrill of battle. 
  
  To put it bluntly, rarely does a game based on a movie end up being all that good. Usually they're 
 quick knock-offs looking to cash in on a popular name. This doesn't feel like a knock-off Lord 
 of the Rings game, rather it comes off as a true labor of love from designers that have a very 
 good understanding of the material from which they are working and the finished product is much 
 better because of it. Electronic Arts has crafted one of the best real-time strategy games around 
 and the fact that it has paid so much attention to detail of the Tolkien Lore just adds delicious 
 icing to what is already a finely made piece of cake. - William Abner
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazqazdabest
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  10 things to say about it:
  
  1. Campaigns way too short and it's kinda like a tutorial. Also, Dol Guldur is a frickin maze... 
 
  2. Lots of my friends couldn't log in to multiplayer and I ended up bored and alone. 
  3. Difficulties with downloading patches, need to download from another website. 
  4. Rush tactics 
 always used. no real variety to gameplay.
  5. A bit rock paper scissorish. pikes VS cav etc. 
  6. Patches, WAY too many to fix up this and 
 that problem.
  7. Attack trolls feel cheap (too strong and too hard to kill)
  8. Dwarven 25+ powers suck...
  9. Tournament rank jumps up and down. I. E lose 3 games to top 
 1000 people when ur ranked 2000 and you have a rank of 49000!!!
  10. Create A Hero v. disappointing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  The Good : A new mode of real time strategy that is different from the 1st part , were it catches 
 the true style in witch strategy games are made from a Tolkien point of view . This game really 
 coverd many forgotten parts from the movies & offers a wider range of information about the Tolkien's 
 Lord of The Rings Universe , that just push u to wonder what more does Tolkien hae to offer us 
 . The graphics of the game are great & the water system is an the most outragoues sytem given to 
 this game & the shadows in it are great & the reflections what can I say other than Oh My GOD . 
 The sound that this game offers is also great & will definitly witness the difference between the 
 soundcards & those sound cards that offers EAX 3.0 . The campaign covers the story in the north 
 region of middle earth were you get to play both as good or evil . And so with a well balanced 
 game nothing can go wrong with your gameplay as long as you keep it updated . 
  
  The Bad : The single player campaign isn't as I thought it would be , you can really sence the 
 flavor of EA in them , as to the other problems & glitches , well I didn't experiance any of them 
 with this game & as to the War of The Ring mode , I hated it because it was fast were each turn 
 you must get in a war , there is no relaxiation or anything not as Total War ( but yet I cant compare 
 ) , but this War of The Ring thing really covers the entire world of middle earth .
  
  I personally think that if you are a strategy gamers then go ahead & buy this game , & if you are 
 a Tolkien's story reader then you also should buy this game , & if you are a huge strategy battles 
 fan , then also buy this game , while if you are just looking for a game to buy or to spend money 
 then go ahead . It Worth the time that we had waited for . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Join_XtremePC
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  
  Hokay then, I just finished playing this game a few hours ago, overall, it was extremely fun and 
 took up about 12 or so hours of my life. For those that do not know, this game is an RTS (Real 
 Time Strategy) , heres my review:
  
  Contents:
  
  Introduction
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  Introduction
  
  LotRBfME2 takes place during 
 the same time as the movies, although, unlike in the first game, you do not get to play as the 
 MAIN main characters. This game mostly focuses on the parts that were not in the game, but were 
 in the books.
  There are two different sides, the Good and the Evil and four different factions. The Good consist 
 of the dwarves and the elves, humans also fit somewhere into this equation but are not main characters, 
 while the bad consist of the goblins and the Orcs. The Good have their campaign, and the bad have 
 their own campaign. The story missions, for the good, is to rid middle earth from evil, while the 
 task for the evil guys is to take over middle earth. There really isnt much of a story, basically 
 you just play out all of the major events from the books.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  LotRBfME2 doesnt really differ much from your usual RTS. The controllers and most of the options 
 are also quite the same and dont differ much. Although the main gameplay elements dont differ 
 much, there are still some elements that are unique to this game. In this game, you have these 
 powers, it works a lot like Age of Mythologys system, but you actually get to keep all of your 
 powers here, and you must pay for them using points you earned in combat, thus they are called 
 Combat Points. These powers can range from increasing a structures resource intake to summoning 
 an evil demon from hell to devour your enemies. The one thing I despised was the good sides powers 
 sucked! They all had to do with giving your soldiers a 50% boost for a minute or something lackluster 
 like that. On the other hand, the evils powers were much more fun, most of them involving destruction 
 and such. These powers can help you quite a bit as you progress through the game. Once you use 
 a power, you must wait for it to recharge back.
  Another interesting element in this game is the use of heroes. Of course, this is nothing you, 
 but this game just has so many of them! They each have their own powers, and unlock new ones as 
 their level goes up. Once again, the good side has sissy little powers while the evil side has 
 powers that are substantially better and MUCH more fun. If these heroes die, you can revive them 
 at your main castle/base like thing for a fee. 
  Also, as your units gain combat experience, their level will go up, ultimately making them stronger 
 and better. You may also unlock upgrades from the armory and then you can equip your units with 
 those unlocked items. Each faction, has their own star unit, most of them anyway. The humans have 
 their cavalry (best part is that they trample over people, great way to kill enemy units) , the 
 elves have their archers (those are some really powerful arrows) and the dwarves have their swordsmen 
 people (they arent really too special) . The orcs have their trolls (wicked giant things that can 
 rip trees out of the ground and use them as weapons or eat other orcs to replenish health) and 
 goblins have spider riders (these are things on spiders that can switch from blades to arrows and 
 are really fast, theyre really convenient) .
  
  Graphics 8.5/10
  
  The graphics are very nice, textures are good, units dont look too bad, its all very nice. All 
 of the units are animated quite nicely, I especially liked how the goblins would bounce up and 
 down or the time, or if units get bored they start doing weird motions and stuff, and its always 
 nice to have all of your units cheer and scream after they win a battle. The only rebuts I have 
 is that when you set your shadows to ultra high the shadows become cube like and it doesnt look 
 very nice at all, other than that, its all good. Although, unit models may look poorly textured 
 if you zoom in too close. There are also nice decals, for instance when arrows hit a person they 
 get stuck, or if they hit the ground they are stuck there, same thing with catapults and the like. 
 Its also quite refreshing to see enemy units run around waving their arms from the fire that just 
 engulfed them.
  I also didnt really like how the phases of the destruction of the building. It would just jump 
 from fine to on fire and grey in a millisecond. It wouldve also been nice to see parts break off 
 and fall to the ground like in Age of Empires III or other newer games. Although, it was really 
 nice to see places like the troll cage, where you can see a little guy poking a troll, or other 
 buildings working on whatever they do. It was also nice to see how the units emerged from their 
 own buildings, unlike games such as AoE where they would just pop out of any random space.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Everything sounds like it should in this game, if not better. When your archers 
 shoot their arrows you can here the arrow swish through the air and the screams of pain as the 
 arrows hit their mark. The only thing that I didnt really like was the narrator, it just didnt 
 sound authentic.
  
  Pros 
  -nice graphics
  -running over people with cavalry is extremely fun
  -trolls are funny
  -sweet powers for evil 
 guys
  -evil dudes rule!
  
  Cons
  -shadows
  -good guys sucked
  -building animations
  -longest title in the history of all games
  
  Conclusion
  
  So, 
 in conclusion, Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 may not have been a revolutionary game, 
 far from it, but it was still hella fun and is definitely worth playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarky3
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  The LOTR: The battle for middle Earth II is a very good game it is a like command and Conquer: 
 Generals but a lord of the rings version but it is still a very good game. 
  
  One of the best additions in the game is the Create a Hero it anables you to create a power character 
 with many powers and can change the tide of the battle in seconds.
  
  The units can be very complex and each faction has very different play styles such as goblins have 
 are fast, cheap and weak units and the dwarves have slow, expensive and strong units.
  
  Another good addition in the game are the powers which you buy with points which are earned by 
 killing an enemies units or destroying an enemys structures. The powers are very good they can 
 give your units buffs and the enemys units debuffs you can summon powerful units such as tom bombadil 
 he is very powerful and can wipe out very strong units in seconds, or you can summon an earthquake 
 that can destroy structors and kill units very quickly.
  
  Each faction has many different units and structors, but some units are more difficult to than 
 others and each units have advantages and disadvantages. There is a ranking system that indicates 
 how easy it is for a new player use a given group:
  
  1. Mordor
  2. Goblins
  3. Dwarves
  4. Men of the West/Isengard
  5. Elves
  
  This means that begginers should stick 
 with mordor or the goblins, the gradually work you way down the list. Note: that the elves should 
 only be used by the experts only because the ability to stay in the battle for a long time.
  
  This is a very good game and everyone should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Explow
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  ***GREAT GAME BUT EASY***This game is pretty good it got perfect graphics, nice sound too. But the 
 campaign is too short to few lvls, the ownmade heroes haven't that much skills. Whit great army's 
 the game doesn't work very well. But if you play online it is oke, it block sometimes but for the 
 rest ok. the heroes are really nice done you see them like in the movies, but droghot the dragonlord 
 is new hes nice done. the maps are cool to, you can play in magnificent city's or on a plain, mountains,....... 
 if you like games as age of mythologie or age of empires, stratiegy games then i should buy this.
 
  
  *****Dark-Explow***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newromulanorder
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  when i got lord of the rings battle for middle earth i though Wow!, everything seemed so perfect, 
 then i see lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2 on the shelfs of gamestation and went stright 
 to the bank, money well spent, the grafics and cool game play is great and all the extras amazing. 
 a must buy game if you dont have it. bit disapointed about the no helms deep and minis thrith mission 
 levels : ( . although without the levels as missions i still really likr the game, and the addtion 
 on the 3 new races and he combiation of gondor and rohan just makes the game amazing to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sibren2800
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  awesome!, this game is one of the greatest hits in the game centery, i like the most that you can 
 make a own hero, many magic stuff, many units, but one -- is there, that goblins can walk over the 
 walls. my friend has bfme1 and thats great to but what strange is that LOTR: BFME1 is more origenal 
 then LOTR BFME2 and star wars battlefront1 is more origenal then star wars battlefront2 ,hmmmm 
 that's stange thought sibren2800 but this is the end of my review. o and 1 tip, buy bfme1 or bfme2 
 because its awesome- - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vau6
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  A great little game. It combines all the characters from the films and books and puts them into 
 one game. Everything is there and you'd be hard pushed to find something which isnt.
  The actual game itself works really well and its especially enjoyable online. You now are able 
 to create your own character. They all look a bit the same but it makes you feel like you've created 
 a good character.
  You can either play as  or goblins each with thier own heros, 
 buildings and upgrades so thers plaenty of variety. You also have the oppotunity to call upon special 
 powers such as summoning the balrog or the army of the dead.
  Definatly worth a check out! Great fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane-101
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  A truly great game. Out performs the 1st game in every way or form. So where to start. Gameplay. 
 
  
  The idea basically is to choose out of 6 different factions, create an army and send them to war. 
 (There are 3 good armies and 3 evil armies. Elves, Men of The West, if you played the 1st game 
 this army is Gondor and Rohan mixed together and Dwarves for the good, for the bad Mordor, Isengard 
 and Goblins) . So this just sounds like your average type of game. But it is the way you go about 
 it which is so great. Numerous tactical decisions await you, from formations to defensive stances. 
 You can place elves in trees waiting to ambush. You can send in many hordes of Goblins as a decoy 
 while you secretly destroy their buidings with a dragon lord and Shelob. But for every tactic, 
 their is a counter. The old 'build on allocated places' have gone, and now you can build anywhere 
 you want, to further enhance the stragetic element. Walls no longer surround your base, and you 
 have to manually build them. They are uite expensive though, but with the 1.03 patch this has clearly 
 been changed to a much more affordable cost. 
  
  The variety of the different armies is superb, clearly each new unit has been thought from the 
 developers. Men of The West are now a very formidable force. Fairly strong walls with each wall 
 piee options for upgrading: such as postern gates or arrow towers. They have very good units too. 
 Gondor soldiers are your basic unt, but not many people would stick to them long. Gondor Rangers 
 are one of the best archer units in the game, you can also upgrade their arrows to inflict fire 
 damage. But what is very neat about therangers is 'arrow volley' This is actually a power too but 
 rangers can use it. They cal upon a volley of arrows in a surprisingly large radius which inflict 
 devastating damage upon your enemies. The horseman: Rohrimm return and again combined with Theoden's 
 Glorious Charge tehy become near enough invincible. Hero wise they remain very strong with the 
 likes of Gandalf and Aragorn returning
  
  Elves a new faction in the game are my personal favourite. They can build walls but nowhere near 
 as strong as the MotW or Dwarves. Their heroes are strong, Legolas, Thranduil, Glorfindel (perhaps 
 the biggest bargain of the game for only 1500.. he really is good) to name a few. They have horsemen 
 and the basic warrior unit and also the spear unit. But their main strength, lies in their devastating 
 archers. Even their rank 1 archers pack a might punch. But the rank 3 archers: The Mirkwood archers 
 are easily the best in the game. Always stealthed, and combined with the crazily powerful archer 
 upgrade they are the envy of any one else's army. Also to mention the Elves have siege in the ents 
 purchased from the ent moot. 
  
  Dwarves another new faction have super strong walls and super strong units. Very slow but very 
 powerful. They remain one of the strongest armies throughout the battle. Strong heroes including 
 Gimli, but only 3 heroes.
  Their basic units are strong. The axe throwers and the warriors. Men of dale join them soon after. 
 Superb siege in catapults and demolishers, battlewagons to trample the enemy, the dwarves are a 
 very strong force.
  
  Now onto the evil sides. Mordor and Isengard remain the same from the previous game. Mordor with 
 extra units such as the corsairs who can switch between fire bombs and swords. Isengard remain 
 the siege person choice.. great variety... buy to see for yourself ;)
  But the main point of these two sides is the evils powers. Early on the game especially Mordor 
 they are weak. Late on and they become two VERY powerful sides. Their powers become extremely strong, 
 mumakil, trolls, loads a siege you ect.
  
  The new side Goblins are an extremely nice addition to the evil side. Like the other evil lsides 
 (except Isengard) they have no walls.. but if their enemies build walls, Goblins can climb them! 
 Arguably the best variety of units. From many hordes of weak Goblin Warriors to massive, strong 
 lumbering mountain trolls, spiders, spider riders, dragons, drakes. half troll marauders easily 
 the most intersting side. Backed up with numerous upgrades, and the Goblin army is very strong. 
 As with the other two evil sides their powers are very strong.
  
  Speaking of powers their are many new ones added. Arrow volleys, Tom Bombadil, floods, sunflares, 
 dragons, watchers, wryms to name a few.
  
  The developers have done well to balance out the game, of course patches furher balance things 
 but they should be congragulated for doing a good ob on the different factions. 
  
  My computer isnt strong enough to play on the highest graphical settings, infact only 1024X (whatever 
 it is) at the medium graphical quality. But... I have seen the graphics maxed out and quite simply, 
 they are breathtaking, everythings has come under scrutinous detail and it shows. Lush forests, 
 freezing snow, towering mountains. Every map from the orginal is here, plus many more. Infact with 
 the 1,03 patch you can even fight helms deep, minis tirith or Dol Goldur.
  
  Most of the sound from the orignal returns, with a few extra bits too. The battles sound just fine, 
 and the sound of the 'Victorious' at the end of a battle never bores me. 
  
  A totally different campaign from BFME1, 8 missions for good and evil, being good really gets the 
 feeling you are cornered, while being evil you can overwhelm then with mass numbers. 
  
  Yes naval combat is in the game but no one really uses it its just not worth splashing money on 
 ships when you can get much more neccesarry units.
  
  To be honest its nigh impossible to cover this game with all the detail, If would do so it would 
 probaly take me 6 hours. I have done the best i could, but trust me, bye this game, you wont be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game. I got this game at the same time as Galactic Civ. II, and I have to say 
 that BFME 2 is the way to go for a short RTS experience. If you are just looking to get your game 
 on for an hour or two, then this is your title. I got the Collector's Edition, and it's worth the 
 price just for the addition of the Dragon that you can use that isn't included with the regular 
 copy of the game. There are a host of other additions that make the CE worthwhile as well. I enjoy 
 playing the skirmish mode best of all, and the many maps are varied extremely well. You can fight 
 on any terrain dealt with in the trilogy and then some. EA has done an admirable job with the patches 
 as well. The characters are lively, and the voice acting is great. If you like a straight forward, 
 uncomplicated RTS, then you will definitely like this game. If you like something more complicated, 
 and time consuming, then I would look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_core18
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  that was a pretty good game. apart from the bugs and bad campaign, there was not much that they 
 could have improved. to start lets go over the types of play. 
  -campaign:'s story line was good but it was too short and your FU units didnt carry over from the 
 previous level. there were some bugs in it, but none as annoying as the immortal attack troll in 
 dol guldur.
  -skirmish: fun for a while and good to learn how to play well. the enemy rushes pretty well but 
 it is rather mentally challenged... aka it goes for the farm in the back of your base ignoring 
 all of your army. also you can experiment in this part of the game.
  -War of the ring: i cant comment on this cuz i only played it twice. lets just say its long and 
 repetitive.
  -create a hero: this wasnt as good as it was supposed to be. there are only a few different outfits 
 and the moves are boring. 
  -multiplayer: this is where this game really shines. many large and exciting battles have been 
 waged online. if this game didnt have multiplayer it would suck to say the least. 
  
  alright overview
  gameplay: pretty fun. annoying going out of synch or crashing but fun non-the 
 less.
  Graphics: beautiful. nice shadows and water. could have been better but whatever.
  sound: really sounds like the movies. some of the same music from movie and some new songs made 
 just for this game. 
  value: its worth the 50 bucks to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arondor
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2 is a strategy game of huge size and fantastic gameplay. 
 
  
  The game features a large amount of races, 6 in all. The game also offers you the opportuninty 
 to batlle in many places never before seen in a LOTR game, such as the shire.
  
  Every race offers a diverse range of buildings and warriors. This allows you to be really tactical 
 in your games, which makes for a great mulit-player, but is also alot fun on your own, and for 
 honing your skills. All the units gain experience, meaning that you can train an army, and when 
 the game progresses, they turn into battle hardened warriors. This makes them more powerful in 
 battle, as you may expect. 
  
  One of the best things about LOTR Battle for middle earth 2 is the ability to build and field your 
 own heroes. There are a mind blowing amount of options to create your characters, such as various 
 weapons, aromour, clothing and colour. 
  
  When finished, whats cool about heroes is that as well as being more powerful than normal soldiers, 
 and being able to advance in level like your troops, they have special powers or spells. This makes 
 them alot stronger and more useful. Some of the powers include being able to give your soldiers 
 experience, deal huge amounts of damage in a single blow, or being able to turn your enemy into 
 cows!! 
  
  Its also higly rewarding to be able to watch an enemy army attck you, and your hero litter the 
 ground with their bodies alongside his (or her) men, or to be able to attack the enemy, and the 
 hero will kill units and buildings instantly. Perhaps the best thing about heroes is seeing your 
 hero kill a mumakil in one blow, or maybe another hero! Killing enemy heroes is great on multiplayers, 
 laughing at your mates or sending them annoying messages while your hero attacks theirs (and wins, 
 hopefully!) . 
  
  Fans of the books or films -or both- will be pleased to hear that you can use characters from the 
 films, these have spells and gain experience and inspire your warriors to victory.
  
  Overall, this is a superb game. The tactics are awsome, the armies and heros are awsome, the ways 
 in which you can kill your enemies are endless, and the graphics are pretty good! Its definately 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickwalker0
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  BFME2 is a a good game for anyone who dos'nt mind having a short campaign, in the campaign just 
 like the first Battle For Middle Earth you can play as either Good or Evil-furthermore on the Good 
 side you can play as Men, Dwarves and Elves. On the Evil side you can be the Goblins, Isenguard 
 or the dreaded Mordor. I reccomend playing as Good and then choosing the Elves they have heapes 
 of strong heros that can wipe out an entire army with one of their special powers. If you find 
 the campaign boring (as I did) you may like to try the War of the Ring where you can move your 
 armies across the lands and conquer all of Middle Earth.
  An overall dissapointment for me and im sure it will be also for all those big Lord of the Rings 
 fans out there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I did not enjoy this game for a couple reasons that are all connected. The game is 
 VERY offense orientated. I mean that the gameplay is very fast and you must build up an army super 
 quick because the enmy finds you very quickly. The buildings are way too easily destroyed.
  
  Also, the turn-based portion of the game is, IMO, underdeveloped. By turns 2 or 3, most of 
 the map is controlled by either you or allies or enemies. Not much strategy.
  
  If you like very offense orientated RTS, then this is the game for you. I prefer a more slow paced 
 game like the demo for Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends because while it it offense orientated, 
 it also is much better balanced to allow you to build up an army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Overall its a good game but it's bit too easy if you play it right with 2 heros you can get a whole 
 base so wat do you think about thatBUT BUT BUT it a good game you'll get hero's that non of LOTR 
 game's gave earlier, you can train hobbit's in some structures, Super povers are cool, as same 
 you'll get eagels........., ents......., but as in LOTR BFME1 you want get a ARMY OF DEAD cous 
 ARAGOON is not there.
  
  If your not into Stratergy games this will ROCK YOU but if you r it's a GOOD game
  
  This side 
 of the story you havent seen in the movie it's completly a different side 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. The value is great as you should know with RTS games their are skirmishes 
 and multi-player, but it is also kinda fun to mix up the battlefield a bit like putting mordor 
 in mines tirith and gondor having to try to breach it. You can have pretty big battles and the 
 heroes are great and they don't over power everyone else that much ether. The creat-a-hero is pretty 
 cool as well, i wish they would have put more into it but its still great. The story is really 
 not that long but its well done and challenging, its also fun to try betting it at deferent dificulties. 
 Defently a must buy for LOTR fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulky_matrix
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I instantly enjoyed this game once I was able to build a good base and was able to create armies. 
 This game is playable over and over but seems to lack something. The original in the series was 
 fresh and exciting. This game is an amazing game but it is no where close to the original in terms 
 of repeat playability. The campaign in the first was one of the main enjoyment factors and allowed 
 players to follow the movie trilogy and without the clips and tie-ins to the movie, the campaign 
 did not seem to match up to the original game. I enjoy the new base building system but feel that 
 walls are far too expensive for a major base to be built and that to build a base with great defences 
 and walls takes a great deal of effort and time, far too much for the time it takes it to be breached 
 by the opposition. This game is a great game and will provide me much further enjoyment and admittedly 
 I would be very reluctant to return to the original. I will continue playing this one but would 
 prefer a much longer campaign if there is to be a third game in this series. Great game, how does 
 it compare to the first one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  While there are not so many new things incorporated in LOTR 2 it still is a very good strategy 
 game.
  Now what was changed?
  -well new reces and units were added, new campaign and new game mods. 
  The new stuff is good 
 to some degree, if you played the 2 campaigns and finished them then you will see the new staff 
 is not so well incorporated in the game.
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics are pretty much the same except for the requirments, the game requires 
 better PC then the previous LOTR but the graphics are more/less the same.
  The Detail is gone in LOTR 2 and thats were disapointing, i remember LOTR maps were full with detail 
 and live but in LOTR 2 this is not the case.
  
  Gameplay: While the gameplay has been somewhat improved and some customizations were added it's 
 still feels like you have wery little choice.
  Owerall the gameplay is the same which means it's good.
  
  Sound: I think the sound is also 
 a failure in the 2nd LOTR, you have a boring music playing and the details (sound effects) are not 
 present.
  
  Campaing: The campaing is good but nothing special. i even think the first 4-5 missions from the 
 "Good" campaing are somewhat stupid and dont have anything in common. Anyways while you play more 
 it becomes interesting but i must say i thought the campaing would be better.
  
  Overall: The game is good, i expected to it to be more interesting and more complete but still 
 it's not good as the previous (original) LOTR.
  But if you bought this game you will not regret at all, although if they decide to make LOTR 3 
 i think they would need to make it a lot better than this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaelinring
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice about this game is the ummm.. title screen. Once you get past the 
 majesty of that, you'll notice the new races. The goblins are cheap and weak and the dwarves are 
 strong but will take time to amass. There's a good balance between the races with Men, Elves and 
 Dwarves being on the Good side and Isengard, Mordor and Goblins being Evil. The Elves, as you'd 
 expect excel at archery, excepting Ring Powers, almost nothing can stop a complete army of fully 
 upgraded elven archers. Of course, the downside is everything costs a lot and without cannon fodder 
 ... I mean.... footmen, you'll die early on.
  
  The campaign of this game is another bunch of scenarios from the movies (expected but still disappointing...) 
 and is much too easy on any of the difficulty settings. The most interesting addition is the 'War 
 of the Ring' mode in which you seek to conquer Middle Earth. This works much like Empire at War 
 and conquering your enemies' city of origin results in instant defeat of that enemy. This mode 
 is engaging and will easily occupy you for an hour per game assuming you decide to solve all conflict 
 in real-time. This mode gets tedious after a while and you'll be tempted just to scrap it.
  
  As with all RTS games, the AI gets predictable after a length of time. The Brutal enemies can 
 be expected to rush in the first 5-10 minutes of the game only to have their attack power wane 
 after this so long as you counterattack. Of course, this makes it impossible to defeat 7 Brutals 
 teamed up against you. The skill of the AI doesn't contribute as much as the upkeep that a team 
 contributes. Excepting an Easy, any AI teamed with a brutal will make a significant difference. 
 Some of the pathfinding mechanics also have some issues and you'll wind up taking a slight detour 
 sometimes. This always seems to kick in with a cavalry charge and it does get somewhat annoying.
 
  
  Heroes and powers remain similar to the first game with the Power Points system. This unfortunately 
 means that wizards are still terribly effective against swarms and will reduce Goblin-players to 
 tears if implemented correctly. All of the offensive Ring Powers are acutally area based so amassing 
 a huge horde becomes hard and it's necessary to send small waves to get anywhere. To add to this 
 problem certain units also have lesser versions of the 1-shot Ring Powers such as Dunian Rangers 
 having Longshot which is strikingly similar to Arrow Bombard, both sending a rain of arrows down 
 on an area killing everything there.
  
  The 'Create-a-Hero' feature gives control over a custom hero's appearance, attributes and most 
 importantly powers. This gives you an opportunity to play around with Gandalf and Aragorn's powers 
 and suit them to your own style of play making it a great addition.
  
  This game shines in the multiplayer department. If nothing else, the environments provide a multitude 
 of entry paths unused by the AI. Playing against a real foe creates a whole new challenge. The 
 AI will never use Arrow Bombard and usually just uses support powers and summons. This leaves you 
 space to amass a huge army and just storm in to pillage their city. Against a real player, a simple 
 10 point power will devastate your army. 
  
  This is a stunning sequel but the astonishment won't last and after a mere 10 hours gameplay, you'll 
 feel you've experienced everything the game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  lotr bfme 2 is an asome game which has alot of differences from the first lotr like u can build 
 anywhere on the map, u can capture the rings from Golum while playing in skirmish or online and 
 use him for good to summon Gladerial or use him for evil and summon the evil darklord.
  
  the good things in lotr bfme 2
  -players can build anywhere on the map
  -able to create custom 
 heroes like wizards, footmen, archers, or even goblins or trolls
  -Real-time strategy game based on the Lord of the Rings film trilogy
  -Fight on either the side 
 of good or evil by commanding one of four groups 
  -Control massive armies across the vast world of Middle-earth 
  -Create new heroes and customize 
 the abilities and powers 
  -Single player and online massively multiplayer modes 
  -heroes can rank and learn special abilities
  -are able to use powers to aid you in battle
 
  
  the bad things in lotr bfme 2
  -heroes when ranked lvl 10 become unstoppable
  -when u capture golum and get the ring for the evil side you most likely win he is unbeatable
 
  -the price of the game is a bit pricey but trust me its worth it
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  System requirements
  
  OS: Windows XP or 2000
  
  CPU: 1.3 GHz or faster
  
  RAM: 256 MB or more
  
  Disc Drive: 8x or faster CD/DVD drive
  
  Hard Drive: 4 GB or more 
 free space
  
  Video: DirectX 9.0b compatible
  
  Sound: DirectX 9.0b compatible
  
  Input: Keyboard and mouse 
  
  One set of discs per PC
  
  512 MB RAM needed for three or 
 more players
  
  Network (2-8 players) ; Internet (2 players) : 56 Kbps Internet connection, (3-8 players) : Cable, 
 DSL, or faster connection
  
  Video card with 32 MB or more memory and one of these chipsets is required: NVIDIA GeForce 2 GTS 
 or greater, ATI Radeon 7500 or greater
  
  
  
  WELL I HOPE U LIKED THIS REVIEW
  DRAGONMASTER64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  las caracteristicas del juego son buenas el problema es que no era lo que yo esperava, a mi parecer 
 esperaba una historia desde el inicio del inicio desde que le quitaron el anillo a zauron pero 
 no parte de batallas aparte al rol de la pelicula lo que le cambia las expectativas al juego, no 
 obstante se entiende la intencion la cual es completarvla saga y los puntos flojos en la historia 
 de esta forma darle mas sentido y relacion e la hist\oria de la pelicula.
  
  por ultimo aclaro que me gutaron los gbraficos y las unidades pero no la forma de realizar upgrtade 
 de unidades y tampoco el modo de miltiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Battle Of Middle Earth II is definetely a better game than its predecessor. The game meets the 
 requirements of this generation of games. 
  
  First I will talk about gameplay, it's realism in strategy is top of the line, with the Total War 
 series just above it. Its great to see the Sword Pike Cavalry Archer Sword cycle. It's realism 
 also lies in the way the battle works, even Pikes have advantage over cavalry, the cavalry attacks 
 the pikes from behind and the pikes will be completely useless, therefore flanking is realistic 
 and fun. It's factions are well balanced apart from the Elves which were reported to be overpowered 
 due to its Silverthorn arrows. I personally think the dwarves are overpowered. 
  
  The great Marvel of the game is the Create-A-Hero option, it lets you make your own dream Middle 
 Earth hero, it could go from the classic Gondorian Swordsman to the wild troll clubber. You pick 
 it's appearance, weapon, armour, attributes and skills.
  
  The technical part of the game is wonderful, the graphics are awesome and sound effects are fantastic. 
 Although occasional pauses may occur if you use high quality graphics.
  
  The game is near perfect except for some errors and lack of replay value, the campaign is a mere 
 skirmish with cinematics and occasionaly voices, not really a lot of special units (well not for 
 you) . The campaign doesn't really remind you of the movies, but just a mere battle that you feel 
 like fighting. After you create a hero which you can dominate Brutal enemies, you start to feel 
 bored, for example I have a Dwarf hero which kills the enemy base by itself with the help of first 
 tier powers and ends the battle within 7 minutes. This game could get boring after some time of 
 play.
  
  So as a conclusion, if the developers spent a little more time it could be one of the greatest 
 games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so take a whole bunch of other strategy games, like Rise of Nations, Knight of Honor or even 
 War Craft and just take some stuff out of them, jam it all together and make it in a Lord of the 
 Rings theme. Though this isn't a terrible idea, it just lacks originality.
  
  Sure, I enjoyed this game alright, the battle for middle earth has always been something I enjoyed, 
 Lord of the Rings is a classic and the story is wonderful. The need for a game that depicted it 
 all was not huge, but playing one certainly interested me, I just wish it had been done with more 
 thought.
  
  If this game drops in price down to $30, get it, it is worth playing at that price, but for $40 
 or even $50, there is many, many other games that should top your list, no matter who you are or 
 what kind of games you like.
  
  There is really no need to write a long review for this particular game because all you have to 
 do is read review for the other games I listed above and then imagine it as Lord of the Rings, 
 now you know exactly what you are getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty bad game even for a game by EA. Seasoned pros of the original game will find the 
 game even more unbalanced that the 1st. I have to say that the only good points of this game are 
 the ability to build structures anywhere and the beautiful graphics. War of the Ring mode is an 
 utter waste of time and effort. Goblins were made the noob race and they quickly over-run parts 
 of the map not to mention they have a particular infantry unit which is very hard to kill. The 
 campaigns seem stale and without control of your armies on the big map you feel limited to your 
 decisions. Elves and Dwarves are excellent additions to the game but the array or units provided 
 to you seem rather useless after a certain point. The naval battles are OK at best. Overall this 
 game lacks depth for a strategy and the believability that you are actually struggling to achieve 
 some goal is abysmal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: affandi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Good and outstanding. I suggest, the hero we created can have more selected power to choose. More 
 costume to choose and I belive we can create more weaphon with special effect to enemy. In war 
 of the ring, perhaps the building can be use to def. For example, wall can be upgrade to arrow 
 tower or balistar tower. 
  
  Great work at multiplayer, I found in hard level, it is really hard to handle.
  Till now i still 
 not done the hard level. The medals also is a good thing. Congratulation! Maybe in the future, 
 each medal can open special abilities or war equipment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyder90
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  An excellent improvement with the variety of races to choose from but the campaign missions are 
 not as good as the first one. The multiplayer all in all are good and is easy to use. The idea 
 of making custom heroes is a good idea and something new that not many other strategy games have. 
 I have always been a fan of gamespot but i think they rated this game lower than it should be and 
 it should certainly be raited higher than the frist. Each race is balanced with making every race's 
 units balanced, with each race having its own types of ground units, monster and seige weapons 
 being unikely different but equal in strenght. There are six dfferent races with three evil and 
 three good. Choosing a favourite race takes some time because of the large choice but once you 
 find the race you usually stick to it. But the game isn't perfect. I personally beleive that elves 
 in this game are more powerful than much of the other races and sometimes too many people choose 
 elves which starts to get annoying when you are playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Highcom1177
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing I love the graphics they are just great and I love what you can do to 
 adjust the graphics to fit the settings for your computer its just great. The gameplays really 
 fun it gives you a full blast of action and fighting and all that good stuff. My favorite things 
 on this game would have to be the units and buildings. The units in this game are amazing some 
 units even seem better than heros and its so cool how you can upgrade the units with armor firearrows, 
 and so much more., the games dragon units are another things that makes this game all the better. 
 In this game you wouldnt believe all you can do with your main building, you can add archers (towers) 
 lava around your base and much more, the coolest thing about building is called a Wall Hub which 
 enables you to build walls all around your base its so frickin sweet. Just get this game! Its highly 
 fun and addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickherring
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game on the web i wasen't to sure about it, but 
  when i got it, I was amazed.6 races all with unique advantages.
  An amazing campaign, a little 
 bit short though. Smart A. I.
  Every race has an advantage. The Elves are very fast and good
  at archery. The Men are all around 
 balanced and have good cavalry.
  The Dwarves are strong and have more health than the other races.
  The goblins are cheap to make 
 and the ultimate rush side.
  Isengard is very strong and have good heroes.
  Mordor is good for overwhelming the enemy and there
  heroes are good like the mouth of sauron,5000hp 
 on lvl 1.
  Overall this game is a definite buy. If you like LOTR or
  the Battle for Middle Earth you should pick this up, you 
  wont be disappointed.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademast0r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle-Earth II has achieved what every multi-part game should do: it significantly 
 improves its predecessor. The game offers a lot more to see, since it is not bound to the places 
 of the ring war. Some artificial or incorrect parts of the storyline shouldn't be considered a 
 problem, it's just a necessity for the game to be fun. 
  New races further increase the entertainment, especially because the "old" heroes are still available 
 for non-campaign games. So, no need to renounce Gandalf. 
  Gameplay improves by the now possible option to build wherever you want to and the possibility 
 to build walls around your realm, although the latter often proves impossible in the given time. 
 However, those factors enhance the multiplayer games (which have already been great in part I) 
 to some extent.
  
  New is also the "War of the Ring" mode, which is a Round-based territorial fight on the whole map 
 of middle-earth, which can either be played with calculated fights, or by doing the typical real-time 
 fighting (usually better option) . This game mode won't please everybody out there and needs some 
 getting used to, but still, it's an addition and there's no need to let it reduce the great overall 
 impression of this game.
  
  Original Soundtrack and impressive graphical performance affirm this impression. Smooth animations 
 and detailed locations should sufficiently please the player's eye ;)
  
  upshot: highly exceptional game, absolutely worth playing!
  
  Namarie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralDogah
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  So i finally received my copt of battle for middle earth two today. I opened up the box and was 
 astonished to find six effing disks!!! it was incredible. So after installation i went in and did 
 a little tinkering around making it nice for my computer and what not. So anywas i started playing 
 and i was absolutely blown away. It is so much better than the first. The amount of units makes 
 me so happy. I mean the first was fun. But the second one with at 10 units to a battalion and going 
 as high as 40.... now thats amazing. I am so impressed i don`t even really know what to say. The 
 graphics have been spiced up to the max and i feel like i`m playing more in the real middle earth. 
 Now i haven`t got to the compaign yet (gimme a break i just got it) but i have had a chance to 
 play the risk style war of the ring. Now that is quite impressive and very much enjoyable. I find 
 myself hardpressed to get out of the game in order to write this.... thats how addicting it is. 
 So anyways i give this game two huge swollen thumbs up and i suggest you other people to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbishash
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  After playing good campaign every1 should play d bad side its great fun d dialogs of orcs r great 
 in it.
  the game does't hav much 2 build which is good or u hav 2 spend much time in building only. but 
 u can upgrate those buildings.
  powers given by gods r great n really worth buying good range of power n effective 2.
  sometimes 
 u start feeling that the game is quite easy it starts taking time.
  starting 1 hour is easy after that it takes time.
  It also hav the skermish mode where u can 
 choose the map n play against com.
  it also hav d battle for ring in a different mode which is turn base but very different.
  playing 
 in a good/bad campaign whch is solo mode it has great variety of powers by god an also the powers 
 given 2 heros.
  a RPG player should start with midium level an if u r new 2 it then please start with easy level 
 or u must hav fast saving speed so that u will not loose much.
  every specific batalion hav got there special powers and also some has got powers by god.
  POWERS 
 BY GOD is the most hilighting feature of the game even Age of Mythology has not got such variety 
 of powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasimos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Starting from the menu, the graphics is superb. The settings include a lot of customizable 
 levels you can adjust according to your system. Although the game fully utilizes the capabilities 
 of the latest cards, you can still can play the game turning few of the levels to low and still 
 having a comfortable frame rate. Those who own atleast a Geforce 6 Series card can almost experience 
 all the details.
  
  Starting from the games storyline, the good campaign contains new characters and a lot of 
 movie like environments. Music and special effects really gives the excitement of the battles. 
 
  
  Levels are well organized in-terms of environments. Graphics are really detailed compared to other 
 strategy games.
  
  There arent much games like this one. This game may be lengthy often, but it will be sticking 
 you until each level ends. Not like other strategy games those become boring before anything starting 
 anything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benthegamesguru
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Bfme2 is the amazing sequel to battle for middle earth. This game is far better in every aspect, 
 the graphics, strategic gameplay, the campaighns. You can now build your buildings anywhere u want 
 which is a big thing as in the previous game u couldn't. There r now 6 factions, elves, dwarves. 
 goblins, isengard, mordor and men of the west ( Gondor and Rohan combines) . Multiplayer is fantastic, 
 i've had no problems with it , the campaighn mode is much better focusing on the battles of the 
 north which were in the books, the lenght of the campaighn mode is decent so overall this game 
 is worth every penny. If u hav played the first one then u must play this! Its 10 times better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfbuddyrams
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  there are many problems with the lotr middle earth 2. 
  Honestly it was overaell poorly done. It is very unrealistic for an rts. The combat feels to fake, 
 it doesnt feel like your fighting in the middle earth. Its made for 10 year olds. The graphics 
 are okay, though they could be better. also the storyline is horrid. if it wanst lotr it would 
 be the worst rts made... though even though it says lotr on the box it doesnt make any sense... 
 Tolken is probably frowning in his grave right now. The fact is that the goblins were already attacking 
 the dwarves before the council of Elrond... Invasion.... bah it doenst go well with anything... 
 
  
  only good part about it was chest part of it... but it couldnt save the game.
  Also the objectives in the missions are pointless too. Its to short a first player and the online 
 is sad.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beniz008
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  you have to play it its very good!!! :) ^-^ the best strategy game ever i never seen 
  a better game then this its worth playing really good game i love it the graphics are great sound 
 like really ur there game play is great u can biuld dragons eveything the best game of strategy 
 ive ever seen very good i recomend that everybody needs to play this game its really good and the 
 game for ps2 Destroy All Humens! is great u have to play its very good and kingdoom hearts 2 is 
 very good to worth playing and killzone is a great game too very fun ur going like in holes and 
 there are boombing around u its so coll and GOD OF WAR!!!!!! GREAT GAME I LOVE IT ITS SO GOOD U 
 GO AND FIGHT AGINST LIKE 100!! PEOPLE ITS SO COLL VERY GOOD GAME WORTH PLAYING!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morhkt
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I'm a BIG fan of LOTR, of the book and of the movies. Yes, my favorite type of game is RTS. 
 And I still think it's a boring game.
  
  There are many good points about it : the graphics are very good (even if for me they are horrible 
 because of my slow processor) , and the sound and music are very nice. Also, I must admit that the 
 War of the Ring is really a good game concept.
  
  But the most important thing about a video game is missing : it's not addictive! Everything is 
 well made but it's so boring! I can't find exactly why... I'd say it's a huge mix of boring aspects 
 of the game : the six races are not equilibrated, which makes us taking always the same one. There's 
 only one type of ressource, which makes the game two times less strategic. Units are crappy slow 
 that makes the game longer and more boring and we can't make it go faster. The campaings are boring 
 and not linked to the LOTR story. I could write bad points and bad points, it would never end.
 
  
  In fact, the game is only to build a bigger army than your enemy's faster than him. It's nice two 
 or three times, then you get bored. The game is just not addictive and it ruins everything else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Highly Addictive, great and fun game!
  
  The game is a great sequal to the first. Its graphics are amazing for a game with so much information. 
 The game play is addicting and fun much better then that first one. On the other hand its overall 
 style of play is much like that of Age of Empires. SO iif you like that type of game then get this 
 one! There are many types of units you can use in this game and the "create your own hero"thing 
 is really cool. 
  
  I don't see any new mind-blowing changes, everything feels the same, well there are some new things 
 to make or build. Also the graphics are now improved , well music is different somehow at least. 
 So the game is almost like the others, or not even worse. The strategy still stands the same as 
 in the previous versions. 
  
  If your a LOTR fan then get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreepBraker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  After a long time playing I found that people were right saying its a fantastic game, still they 
 were also right saying that Battle for Middle Earth II is not equilibrated. Wall are too weak.... 
 some units own almost everything in the game when others are so weak you need to do 1 trillion 
 of units to kill a hero (not so much ^^) . It was so bad to see that you can't put archers on normal 
 wall hub now.. only on "map" walls, anyway.. they must have their own reasons to do that. So... 
 no more bad points about the game.... almost everything else is OMG EXTRAORDINARY... i just can't 
 tell all the features of this game and how much it is good "psychologically" to play it. LOT OF 
 FUN!!!
  so that's it
  Sorry for english errors its my 3rd language.. im only 16 years old don't beat me!!!... XD
  Thanks 
 to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaashifv
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the most exciting games I have played, and is quite challenging as 
 well... I would recommend this game to all those who like Real-Time Strategy Games....!!!
  
  The time it takes to get used to the game is relatively quick (for me it took about 1 hour, to 
 learn every faction and how to use them to the fullest extent)
  
  The game-play itself is quite interesting, its not too eay, and at the same time its not too hard.
 
  
  The best civ that I have seen so far is the Elves, with their archers fully upgraded along with 
 fully upgraded calvary to back them up... if anyone wants to challenge me anytime... msg me at kaashifv@gmail. com!
 
  
  Overall, this is a really amazing game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamfroman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm..... this game is definitely great, but i wont admit that it is the best RTS ever bc ive had 
 pretty much every RTS game thats come out since Age of Empires II, but i would say that this game 
 is the best RTS game out now. But then again all the RTS games now are great, but are not making 
 large leaps in gameplay. It seems as if the focus of RTS games have shifted from strategy gameplay 
 (what its named for) to graphics sad. gif . Hmmm... but this game is great in both categories. But 
 this game is not so revolutionary that i would give it a superb rating.
  
  Here is my new and revised review of the game:
  
  GameSpot Player Review
  Difficulty: Hard
 
  Learning Curve: 30 to 60 Minutes
  Time Spent: 100 or More Hours
  
  "Highly addictive"
  8.6
  great
  Gameplay
  9
  Graphics
  9
  Sound
  8
  Value
  9
  Tilt
  8
  
  
 By Iamfroman
  Posted May 16, 2006 4:10 pm PT
  Recommended by 3 users.
  
  Notice the recommendations, so listen!!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  I gave it a 9 because it is more 
 realistic in battle anamations such as calvary trampling the enemy instead of stopping and chopping 
 like in AOE III. The maps and all are great and make the gameplay fun and different in every new 
 location u pick. Online is what really makes the gameplay of this game great (Icecold- get online!!!) 
 because there are so many created maps that are just plain fun. These maps will continue to be 
 produced until people stop playing the game, which shouldn't be anytime soon. These constant new 
 maps will keep the gameplay refreshingly new for a good while.
  
  Graphics:
  What can I say, RTS games have shifted towards the graphics market, and this game is no exception. 
 I gave it a nine because the maps are detailed beautiful if u have the right equipment The environment 
 is just cool and realistic, nothing else to it. If u have a high end pc u will be pleased.
  
  Sound:
  This game's sounds are great, which is why i gave it an 8. You will find urself humming 
 the tunes of familiar LOTR songs from the movies. In game there are also many sounds that make 
 u feel like a battle is going on (unlike Rise of Legends- but thats another story) . These sounds 
 include warriors yelling after they win a battle and other cool things. I gave it an 8 because 
 its not revolutionary in this department (to where it sends chills down ur spine its so realistic) , 
 so i am obliged to a 8.
  
  Value:
  This game's value is one of the best things about it. Like i said before the online play on this 
 game is great and always new, although u can only find about 800 people online on weekends right 
 now. Hopefully this number will improve, but the value of this game does not suffer from it. Tons 
 of maps, online play, created maps: a 9 suits this game well.
  
  And thats my review... and my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamezmaster22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I was addicted to Battle for Middle Earth 1 and I was counting the days till Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2 came out. When the day finally arrived i was really exited and started playing on it straight 
 away. EA has made allot of changes in this game which may take a new player a while to get used 
 to. Instead of building foundations all you need now is a builder and some resources and you can 
 build a structure anywhere you want to on the map. The campaign section may be fun but it does 
 not follow the storyline of the film trilogy. It is also about half the length of the campaign 
 in the original. Instead of armies you play as factions Men, Elves, Dwarves, Goblins, Isengard 
 and Mordor. Each of these armies have their own upgrades and One Ring/Elvenstar powers. The heroes 
 average cost has been brought down considerably. There are also some heroes that are in the game 
 that don't appear in the film. A new mode (create a hero) allows you to customise and create your 
 own heroes. You can choose from many different appearances and abilities to build a new hero of 
 middle earth. EA have added an interesting new feature to any non campaign mode which involves 
 finding and killing a stealthed Gollum hidden somewhere on the map. After doing so he will drop 
 the one ring which you can collect and bring back to your fortress. This will give you an option 
 to build a new hero. For evil you can build Sauron who has a range of abilities and he can swipe 
 out hordes at a time. For good you can build Galadriel the Storm Queen she can take out hordes 
 of units at a time and is fairly agile. War of the ring mode is probably the the mode that has 
 the most depth to it and will take you awhile to complete. It involves commanding armies to gain 
 control of Middle Earth. This game is a fantastic sequel to it's original and anyone who liked 
 Battle for Middle Earth 1 will definitely like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chppxbx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  First, I will talk about the aspects of the collector's edition, and then I will get to the actual 
 gameplay. The collector's edition only comes on DVD, has an "extra" dragon unit, a "special" create-a-hero 
 icon, includes two extra maps, and comes with a behind-the-scenes DVD. For those who only have 
 a CD ROM, getting the CE is already out, so skip ahead to the part about gameplay. For everyone 
 else, the extra features may sound very appealing, maybe even appealing enough to spend ten extra 
 dollars for the CE. First, you should know that the "extra" dragon unit is basically just a skin 
 for Isengard's and the Goblins' dragon summon. Yes, the CE dragon is a different model and has 
 five (I think) randomly cycling skins, but the function of the dragon is exactly the same as the 
 normal version. Personally, I like the look of the CE dragon better, but it is really a matter 
 of opinion. The "special" create-a-hero icon is a glowing icon that hovers over your created heroes 
 during gameplay. Its only important if you really want other people to know that you were willing 
 to go the extra mile and get the CE. The extra maps are good, but they can be easily obtained from 
 other sources on the Internet. I felt the extra DVD was something they threw together to make the 
 CE more marketable. It does talk about some interesting aspects of the games development, but 
 it never really goes into any depth about anything. I would only recommend the CE to people who 
 have an extra ten dollars lying around the house somewhere, or just cant survive without having 
 the absolute best.
  
  The game has four unique aspects of gameplay that I will talk about: the single player campaign, 
 multiplayer, war of the ring, and create-a-hero.
  
  Single Player Campaign-
  This can be accurately described in one word: disappointing. The campaign for the original Battle 
 for Middle Earth was one hundred times better. Everything that I enjoyed about the original games 
 campaign has been removed. No more living world map, no more keeping your armies between battles, 
 and no more depth. Each campaign, one good and one evil, only has eight missions. The missions 
 dont really seem to have much flow from mission to mission. While enjoyable, it is still difficult 
 to really be drawn into the campaign. The battles occur linearly; the user has no control over 
 the order in which battles are fought, unlike the original BFME. After the first BFME, I had high 
 hopes for the War in the North but was very disappointed.
  
  Multiplayer-
  The multiplayer is what gives the game much of its replay value. Although EA has had some trouble 
 with its servers, the new patches should soon work everything out. I will use this section to discuss 
 some of the gameplay issues. The main thing that separates the gameplay in BFME II from BFME is 
 being able to place buildings anywhere on the map. While the other system was unique and enjoyable, 
 I like the new system much better. The pace of skirmishes seems to be much quicker in this game 
 than the original BFME. Rushing seems to be the most effective strategy. Players who are more accustomed 
 to slower play or just like to turtle may have a difficult time adjusting to this game. The main 
 reason the gameplay is so fast is the relative infectivity of defensive structures. Most buildings 
 are too weak and expensive to give any defensive benefits early in the game. There is also an issue 
 with repairing buildings. Some buildings seem to repair themselves very slowly if left alone, but 
 there is no way to actively repair buildings unless you are the dwarves. Destroyed walls are also 
 impossible to rebuild without demolishing the entire wall up to the nearest wall hub. These are 
 the most glaring gameplay issues; everything else seems to work pretty well.
  
  War of the Ring-
  This aspect of the game is best compared to the campaign of the original BFME. 
 The object is to basically conquer a map of Middle Earth. This game is turn based and plays somewhat 
 similarly to Risk. Battles can either be fought in real time, or the computer can simulate the 
 outcome. Depending on the size of the map of Middle Earth you chose, the games can take a very 
 long time to complete. I think that War of the Ring is a fun alternative to constantly skirmishing. 
 It will take a lot of practice to master, but is still a refreshing alternative to only playing 
 skirmish maps.
  
  Create-a-Hero-
  Some people have said that they were disappointed by this aspect of the game, but I found it to 
 be exactly what I expected. There arent a whole lot of options for hero customization, but the 
 aesthetics arent too big of an issue given the size of the character during the game. There is 
 a good variety of powers to choose from for each hero class. The powers are also powerful enough 
 to significantly affect the outcome of games. The attributes of heroes (line of sight, health, 
 power, armor, etc.) can also be altered to increase the heroes usefulness. Although only one hero 
 can be used per player during a skirmish, there is no limit to the number of heroes that can be 
 created. I think that create-a-hero is a nice addition to increase customizability of gameplay.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything you hoped for in a RTS. From the sounds to the game play it's great. Totally 
 cool on line play. Great user interface. easy to pick up and play. With time, you can hone strategies. 
 The graphics are amazing. 
  From the details of the buildings to the troops, to the levels in which you will fight and build. 
 All perfect. This is the best RTS game i've ever played and highly recommend it to anyone. Fan 
 or not. Total fun here. Get moving! "Oh no, it's true, it's the Balrog!!" Yes, you can spawn the 
 Balrog. And it's a game that's amazing to watch. The only flaw is that sometimes the game hick-ups 
 with a lot of stuff on screen (troops) . Sometimes the troops are easily hidden by the buildings. 
 But you can configure your graphics such as shadows and details to enhance the gameplay.
  Excellent job and well worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baricapella
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great sequal to the first. Its graphics are amazing for a game with so much information. 
 The game play is addicting and fun much better then that first one. On the other hand its overall 
 style of play is much like that of Age of Empires. SO iif you like that type of game then get this 
 one!
  The muscic to the game is repetetive but still classic LOTR music. There are many types of units 
 you can use in this game and the "create your own hero"thing is really cool. If your a LOTR fan 
 then get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaRyan984
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute wonder in my opinion! It has very few flaws in my opinion, so I'll get 
 those out of the way right now. I have a problem with the story mode, its short. Really short. 
 Its only a couple of levels and it doesnt seem to be that difficult. But hey, its still fun to 
 completely screw over the opposing army. Anyway, my other issue is that the easy and medium settings 
 are way easy, but the hard and brutal are damn near impossible. I can't say i've won a single game 
 against a brutal. No pun intended, but its really actually brutal. On the positive side though, 
 the graphics are excellent and it runs much more smoothly then the first. Its a nice change to 
 be able to build your base where ever and how ever you want. To someone who would enjoy a more 
 traditional RTS, this is your game. Its really about tactics in this one, you need to think more 
 and calculate the enemy. ITS GREAT! By the way, I've waited for this since it was announced..... it 
 really was worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhabazatknis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out. I expected alot from it. And I got what I wanted. This 
 game has bad campaing mode though. For both good and evil campaigns its only 8 missions long. It 
 has great skirmish gameplay . I dont think you can ever get bored of it. The EA games added a new 
 mode to the second BFME: THE WAR OF THE RING MODE. This game mode works like a board game. But 
 you can also experience normal gameplay in this gamemode but it's all up to you how to to decide 
 to wage war upon middle earth in this game mode. Although this game has very good gameplay experience 
 in single player mode the onlne gamplay has a few bugs to work out for the EA games. When you play 
 it on a player made map it goes out of sinch too much so you can only play a proper game about 
 every fifth game. There's been alot of compaints about this problem to the EA games. Everyone hopes 
 that this problem will be fixed by a patch so before EA does that practice in single player. The 
 gamplay experience is perfect. After the patches are made this game wll be the ultimate RTS ever. 
 This game is everything that the tolkien book fans were waiting for.
  P. S (if you just want to play online then you should wait till the patch is made, or BFME 3. AS a 
 matter of fact my friend says that he wont buy any EA ames till BFME 3comes out.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonkiller55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  In the first game when you have played it done, you probably thought it was the last game of that 
 strategy game. But boy you were wrong. Now in this game you can fight i territories that you didnt 
 see in the film or on other Lord of the ring titles. The good thing is that you can build anywhere 
 on the map. And you can create your own hero. And take him online. The good thing in the campaign 
 mode is that there only 8 missions so its not very long. But the bad thing is that you can not 
 play either Men of the west or Isengard. But the elves, dwarves, goblins and mordor are still funny 
 to play. The most difficult mission is the evil campaign in Fornost and the good campaign in Dol 
 Guldur. Its more fun to play online then in the singel player mode. Because you can have all the 
 heroes from the game and then level them up. And that you can fight in any terretory. So this is 
 the best Lord of the ring title. So this will maybe be the last Lord of the ring title 
 from EA. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The first Battle for Middle Earth proved a satisfying movie-base RTS and creating a sequel based 
 on the books and the concept of the movies proved EA's prowess in this area. In Battle for Middle 
 Earth II, the battles are now focused on the War in the North thus introducing the dwarven, elven 
 and corrupted wild races as whole new factions to the games. With these inclusions, it also introduced 
 several new heroes. 
  
  Starting of with gameplay, the game immediately feels different with C&C style of building, building 
 anywhere. This change has given players freedom of building and along with it customisation. A 
 very nice feature is its extremely intuitive wall building system with allows you to create walls 
 easily and with upgradability, thus allowing players to create their own castles. The very upgradable 
 fortress is also a nice change from the "hero building" citadels of the first game, thus placing 
 greater importance on the pillar of your land. Another very innovative feature is its resource 
 system, where resource buildings must be spaced out evenly to get maximum efficiency providing 
 a greater challenge of protecting your sources of income. On top of providing income, the resource 
 buildings also increases your population cap; a nice change from the fixed population cap in the 
 first game thus allowing you to create huge armies. Naval units have been included and it does 
 add depth to a certain extent but however the hype fades away quickly because of its limited use. 
 Another new feature is Create-a-hero. This feature gives you the ability to build your own hero 
 based on the races of Middle Earth, such as Men and Wizards and even Trolls. There are quite numerous 
 selections for armour, helmets and clothes. Customisation goes down to colour as well though not 
 very customisable to skin level. You can also delegate points to your hero's attributes such as 
 armour, health, power which affect you hero in a real skirmish battle. There are quite a number 
 of skills available for your heroes to choose from and are unique to the race you choose. This 
 feature proves exciting initially but after a few creations, it begins to feel limited and any 
 hero created after that point feels somehow the same as the one you created before. There is also 
 the addition of Ring Heroes, specifically Galadriel and Sauron for the Forces of Good and Evil 
 respectively. They help turn the tide of battle. However, claiming the Ring in order to summon 
 the Ring Hero may prove challenging as you have to claim the ring from the free roaming Gollum, 
 who is stealth.
  
  The single player campaign is thoroughly satisfying despite its length because of its display of 
 the important roles of heroes and also to give players a new perspective of the entire battle for 
 middle earth. The War in the North focuses heavily on dwarven, elven and corrupted wild factions 
 and how it progresses in sync with the War in the South. Skirmish does not change much from its 
 predecessor other than additional options such as command point limit factors, starting resources 
 and handicap. Also, there is an addition of the Brutal AI difficulty which wasn't present in the 
 first game. The game's new AI though revamped still lacks much logic, such as enemy forces going 
 straight for resource buildings and totally ignoring defending forces. They also don't make use 
 of tunnel networks of the Dwarves and Corrupted Wild or even the wall building system of certain 
 races. This can be quite annoying considering you want a challenging AI, even from a Brutal one 
 at that. 
  
  War of the Ring mode proves rather enjoyable as you try to conquer Middle Earth, risk style. Conquering 
 regions gives you a sense of actually, well, the actuality of your progress of conquering Middle 
 Earth. However, with so many War of the Ring variation modes, it doesn't feel really different 
 from each other rendering a large selections of choices redundant. Some balance issues should also 
 be addressed such as the very powerful Elven Silverthorn Arrows and apparent weakness of goblin 
 warriors. Also, the game focuses on the tactic of 'rushing' which can prove annoying for beginners. 
 This somehow limits the tactics a player can use to defend themselves against it or even employ 
 another. Other than these few minor gameplay issues, gameplay is generally good and enjoyable enough 
 to not notice these much. Multiplayer is where skirmish battles actually shine, with a better ladder 
 system and the improved messenger to see whether friends are online. Gaming online is very much 
 a challenging experience compared to the AI and it proves satisfying.
  
  Moving onto graphics, Battle for Middle Earth II is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful RTS game 
 in the market currently. The most obvious change is in its water, not only does it reflect and 
 shine accurately, it even has waves that has foam as its peak. Shadows for practically everything 
 in the game adds a new depth of realism to the game, thus further immersing you into the atmosphere. 
 Maps and landspaces are well crafted and textures are well used throughout the game's graphics. 
 The maps simply come alive as trees sway in the wind and there's livestock and wild animals roaming 
 about giving the added realism of being in a real world. Visual effects such as spells and explosions 
 are fun to watch such as Rain of Fire and the Flood. Minor flaws such as unsynchronised attack-movement 
 and sliding units daunt the overall experience slightly but can be overlooked considering that 
 other graphical areas shine brighter to cover these up.
  
  Sound in this game is fantastic, practically flawless with accurate sounds. Ambient sound is very 
 impressive especially with EAX turned on. You can even hear the buzzing of bees and the flow of 
 water which immerses you into the world. Sound effects reflect very nicely to the unit. Voice acting 
 is well done too. However, the victory commentary may seem a little awkward as it is exactly the 
 same as the first game considering this game is voiced-over by Hugo Weaving. Overall, sound is 
 laudable and deserves much credit.
  
  All in all, this game proves a much more enjoyable experience over its predecessor with improved 
 graphics and gameplay. Action is fast and exciting and it can very well cater to hardcore RTS players 
 too. This game is not to be missed, especially so for LOTR fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjarner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay. So I do love LotR. And I did love BFME1. And I waited for this game for a looong time. But 
 I think this game is great. Just great.
  This RTS is essentially the same as the first one, but with nicer graphics, more powers, new races, 
 lot's of new units and the freedom of building wherever you wish (++ boats) . 
  
  Having played the first game a lot, I knew how the controls worked. This game has lost some of 
 it's "originality" as it isn't so unlike other RTS' as the first game. But hey! The "standard" 
 formula works great with LotR as well. Don't take me wrong. I'm not a LotR freak that loves everything 
 about LotR. In fact, the reason why I hype about this game is becouse most (all except the battle 
 for -- series) have been crappy fast made games to earn money. 
  
  So, the gameplay is great with some few drawbacks. It's abit strange to build walls on this game, 
 and once destroyed, sometimes you have to build entirely new walls to replace. Also, when upgrading 
 walls with structures like threebutchets and so on, you can't see which ones are building and not. 
 But the new "mouse formation" feature is superb!
  
  Graphics are better than the first and it's really cool to see units fly from a wizard blast or 
 something like that. You need a good graphic card to get the really eye blowing graphics though. 
 The Sound is great, LotR music for the perfect atmosphere. You can't go wrong with that.
  
  So, this game is great fun and more balanced than the first (except perhaps elven archers with 
 silverthorn arrows and Legolas) . There are some drawbacks though:
  
  1.) Walls (they should have used more time on those, okay, but not super.. feels like something's 
 missing) .
  2.) Bit too easy actually. Now, I have played the first game quite a lot so I'm not a newbie to 
 this game ether, but still.. I think the AI could have been better. Put myself in Helms Deep with 
 3 Brutal Enemies outside just to see how fast I was crushed. Quite easy match actually. 
  3.) Single Player felt to short. Luckily the "War of the Ring" feature makes up for that.
  
 
  Therefore, buy/download/ (whatever you like to do) and gather your friends for some great RTS action. 
 One of the best RTS games I've played and also the best LotR game. If you're fan of either or both, 
 you know what you have to do, I've written enough crap now.
  
  Recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo7700
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  The first thing i loved this the skirmish this is the best skirmish mode i ever
  played there is all the maps there (minas tirith helm's deep and more) .
  
  But too bad that 
 the single player mode is mediocre because there is no
  missions with known heroes like: Aragorn Gandalf and more... 
  And this short adventure because 
 there is only 8 mission in any side.
  But they add something special "War Of The Ring" mode this is a RPG turn base and this can bored 
 some people. 
  I excepted for more from the single player mode but the perfect skirmish compensate on this. The 
 multiplayer mode is excellent i really liked him.
  
  They add the option to create hero i liked it but there is no many armour or weapon to choose and 
 this is too bad... 
  
  The tutorial is much better than the first game tutorial. there is option to tutorial in "War Of 
 The Ring" mode and this is very helpful.
  
  Overall this game excellent but i excepted for better single player mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vai_67
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and I was hoping to play long , hard, magnificent game. But I was wrong all 
 about it. there is no strategy just select all and click to on it to the enemy. Lotr must has an 
 unique story but this game take it down. It's look like the first one and every thing the same. 
 I think this game like an extension pack. More heroes, more places but there is nothing more.
  
  Good:
  Just visual effects. And the war of ring.
  
  Bads:
  Too easy to play and very 
 bad ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE. No need to think just build your army and attack. No strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimreaper78999
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  To start off i'd like to comment on the game main menu. The pictures make an amazing start to the 
 game, although i would have thought they would have some 'evil' pics too.
  
  The campainge is alright but you cannot control the men of the west, Mordor or Isengard. I like 
 the storyline but i think they should have more missions. In the war of the ring mode you could 
 spend the whole year playing the different modes. That list of which mode to choose seriously bored 
 me. But i do like how they give each territory a name but they should clearly state each region, 
 such as Arnor, a different colour or something.
  
  In the battle i wish they put at least some blood effects and the moves get kind of old after a 
 while. I like how you can now place buildings wherever you want but i get fed up of not being allowed 
 to create a huge army. I like all the detail on the buildings and the little bits of humour, such 
 as the Mordor Tavern, after you build the structure. 
  
  In the skirmish mode they have only one '8 player' mode (Mordor) so i think they should have put 
 a few more in. They have a good selection of maps.
  
  The units in each faction are basically the same, Soldiers, Arhers, Cavalry Siege equipment, but 
 like the elves who have special Mirkwood archers i think they should put in a few more special 
 units, like the dwarves who are a tough faction, i think they should put not only guardians but 
 a 'slayer' type unit, who can withstand more attacks and deal more damage. 
  
  All in all i think this game has lived up to it's Tolkein roots. again The battle for middle earth 
 series shows the wonderful world of Tolein! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george33387
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle Earth 2
  Review for Gamespot
  
  When I first saw Battle for Middle Earth 2 in a friend of mine I was left out of breath! I found 
 the game amazing! It had something magic that was making it different from all the others Ive 
 played! I have played more than 15 RTS so far since I got totally bored of them. Even AoE 3 didnt 
 manage to draw my attention, but this game is the only that practically clicked me after two 
 years. Youre going to understand your selves what managed to do this once youve red the article 
 below.
  
  Gameplay 
  The game is consisted from two several campaigns, one where you play from the good side of Elves 
 Dwarfs etc. and one were you get control of the forces of evil, a turned based campaign (war of 
 the ring) , and a skirmish where you have the option to choose between 6 races (Elfs ,Men, Dwarfs, 
 Mordor, Goblins, Isengard) .
  Each race has its own advantages and disadvantages, for example elfs are almost invincible in archery, 
 Dwarfs have a devastating infantry but lack in cavalry while Men have a balance between cavalry 
 and infantry. These are about the dark side. In the dark side now there is Mordor which lacks of 
 Cavalry and is based on numbers of infantry and monsters (Trolls, Mumakils etc.) . Goblins are generally 
 very weak and theyre based on numbers. And Isengard at last like Men keeps a balance of these 
 two kinds, by having the strong Uruk-Hai and the devastating Warf-Riders.
  You can play with until 7 opponents into a huge variety of maps each one representing a specific 
 site of Middle Earth, from the peaceful Shire to the mysterious Lothlorien forest until the horrible 
 Mordor. 
  These feature only are enough to make you stack in front of your computer screen (TFT and CRT 
 both :) ) for days, but there is another feature that worth all the money all the money, 
  
  The heroes, from the book and the movie Trilogy which you can control. Heroes play a very important 
 role as they support your forces with their strength and also with special abilities they have 
 and which get unlocked as they rise up to level by killing enemies. For example Aragorn at level 
 2 gains Blade-Master which increases for a short amount of time his damage and armor by 100%! At 
 later levels he gets the ability to heal nearby heroes and to make enemies flee in terror (making 
 them vulnerable to a cavalry charge and its also good if he is circled) and once he gets at level 
 10 (maximum level possible) he can even call the army of the dead under your control! Similar abilities 
 are available in all the heroes. Each race has about 7 heroes which you can create in a game. Level 
 is very important for heroes as if you have reach level 10 with all of your heroes you can actually 
 destroy the enemy just with them and their special abilities. So the game at a certain point becomes 
 more RPG-Action orientated as youre raiding around the map with your heroes killing secluded units 
 or buildings of the enemy to in order to increase their level, this is really very cool and it 
 unwearys you from the routine build, recruit and defend. You have also the ability to create 
 your own hero by choosing the class he will belong to (Elf, Man, Dwarf, Wizard, Ork, Uruk, Troll, 
 Easterling) , customize his appearance by putting your own cloth colors and armor, his specialty 
 (e. g. you can put him more health points and less power ideal if you want him to be just to give 
 courage to your forces) , and finally the special abilities his going to have (e. g. calling reinforcements, 
 or being able to health other heroes or spells if he is a wizard) .
  I suppose you will have already understood why I was attracted by this game. It has a magic, 
 a difference I would say from all the other RTS. It would take a 10 from me in the gameplay part 
 if it wasnt for disadvantages which Im going to describe below.
  First and more serious of all is the AI. The game sometimes lacks very much of it. Just to make 
 you understand many times when I was out of my base with a hero and he was attacking with a bow 
 an army with direction the base they were actually surpassing me without caring! And also they 
 where attacking my gate without taking any care of my heroes who were in front of it and killing 
 were them! Situations like this were getting me nervous many times. Now another one disadvantage 
 a found is that there are very few options when customizing the appearance of you created hero 
 (2-3 helmets and weapons etc.) and mostly that there isnt the ability of facial customization 
 at your hero which means that if you create 2 or 3 heroes of the same class (e. g. Elfs) but with 
 different abilities and names they will be like twins! These things and especially the AI problems 
 make me give the Gameplay an 8.
  
  Graphics-Sound 
  The games graphics are amazing with wonderful textures, many polygons and substantive shadows. 
 Also the animations are very well made and innovative with horsemen for example falling from their 
 horses when hit by a troll and after a while those still alive mounting their horses again! And 
 all this can be admired with almost no need of high hardware standards. I can play the game quite 
 comfortably with an Ati X800Xl which cost is about 300$. The only reason that Graphics get a 9 
 is because I think there could always be better.
  The sound is also amazing with the movies melodies fitting wonderfully the action between the several 
 events and appearing the proper moment (several melody if your army is marching, attacking, fighting, 
 retreating etc. ) . Sound gets a 10!
  
  Final Review
  I absolutely recommend fearless this game to any Strategy Gamer (RTS and TBS both) and also to 
 every gamer who is hooked on with The Lord of the Rings despite if he plays strategy games or not 
 and I suggest each one inexperienced with RTS games to give it a try because I think that Battle 
 for Middle Earth 2 is a good start and its able to addict him and offer him several hours of wonderful 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  technicla stuff:
  the graphics on this game are nothing short of impressive, they r as good as, if not better than 
 most other rts games out there, the gameplay is also very good, its smooth, even online, easy to 
 learn and definately easy to use.
  
  single player:
  defending minas tirith against three hard computers is definately amusing, even offline this game 
 is great fun and highly addictive, with the ability to make you own hero and summon him in the 
 game is great, especially when you see hiom at level to, owning whole batallions as they do in 
 the films! there are also quite a fair few mission to get through so it wont be a quick one-day 
 game, it takes a while. even if you do all ther campaigns there are so many diffeent types of skirmishes 
 youi can do not mentioning the online capabilities.
  
  multiplayer:
  thuis is great, all the great battles from the films (hlems deep etc) all re-enacted with your 
 mates, what else could you want?
  
  restrictions:
  with quite a tight unit limit, you simply cant make an army worhty of mordor...... you can make 
 em big, but not huge, this kind of takes of the excitement when you get 5 or 6 battalions attacking 
 the hornerg instead of like... hundreds as it isin thge film, still, its good fun to ply and watch.
 
  
  overall a must buy for all rts gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  The LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth II is a very solid game ready to amuse all the still hungry fans 
 of the LOTR franchise. It is probably the best game portaying in great detail the vast environment 
 of the LOTR world. Lets though get into some detail. 
  
  The first thing the gamer will appreciate is the effort spend to polish the game. There are plenty 
 of storyboards, videos, audio, images and cut-scenes between the various game levels or during 
 playing that provide a very professional and solid look of the game. 
  
  Both sound and graphics appear to be more than impressive the least. I must admit that I could 
 sit back and watch a replay of my battles and feel like I am watching another chapter of the film 
 trilogy. 
  
  The game interface while playing is extremely succesful and I bet that a lot of games will imitate 
 it in the future. It proved to be very user friendly and allowed easy access to all the features 
 for the player. No need to memorise shortcuts or key combinations. 
  
  The game includes 2 main campains (as good or evil) , another one of Risk game type and the skirmish 
 mode to play custom maps.
  
  I didn't really play in great length the Risk type campaign, simply because I don't personally 
 enjoy this type of "board" game. However, if you like those games then I am sure you will welcome 
 that campaign mode. 
  
  The main drawback of this LOTR is the small length of the two main campaigns. I managed to finish 
 both campaigns in half a day. So, after that I was only left with the skirmish mode. This is something 
 that game companies should start taking more seriously and especially with these kind of games. 
 I really find it immoral and taking advantage of the customer when charging more than 30 for a 
 game that its main gameplay last only half a day. Also, I would must more prefer if they included 
 the real maps and scenarios as seen in the movies in those campaigns, rather than playing just 
 ficticious maps only. 
  
  Finally, I would prefer if they spend more effort to enhance the strategy in the battles. They 
 definately improved the gameplay but it is far inadequate when compared with other superior games 
 on that respect, such as Total War. 
  
  To sum up, I believe the lack of length of the main two campaigns reduced a lot the value of this 
 game, which is a pity cause it could well be the best adaptation yet of the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sblondy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  The second release contains several very good ideas. The problem is, it is not well combined. There 
 are two very short storylines, and a Risk kind of map gameplay. The thing is, with every option 
 chosen, the game fly by too fast, without allowing you the pleasure of exploring the small options, 
 such as a certain hero special ability. By the time all options are open, all heroes can use their 
 extensive abilities, you get all of your heroes in one final level, and if you want to see it all 
 and do it all you have to repeat the final level several times.
  It would be better if the game had a longer storyline and the options spread over more levels. 
 
  There are really good ideas and new options in the game, but it lacks the interface to explore 
 them in full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyleA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of the original Battle for Middle Earth. I know some people were disappointed by the 
 build plots and junk like that, but I liked how the game focused on intense combat instead of base 
 building. The fact that the game was using the movie license to perfection only sweetened the deal.
 
  
  Now, finally, I got my sequel. I have to say it, EA did a great job with Tolkien's fiction. There 
 are a few things that bug me about the game, which i will get into more later. But for now, lets 
 go on with the stuff I like about it. 
  Free Building- Mixed feelings, but I like the system
  6 Races to choose from- You can never go 
 wrong with diversity
  Tolkien Fiction- What more can I say, the man was a genius
  Exciting Battles- Speaks for its self right?
  Story Driven Campaign- Makes you feel like you 
 are in the fiction
  War of the Ring Mode- Its like a Risk game, but with no dice rolls!
  
  As with all games (despite what some will tell you, there is no perfect game, yet) there are 
 a few things that need to be addressed in patches or something, before I give it a 10.
  Certain Factions are Unbalanced- Elves/Men mainly, in my experience
  Glitches- Some times units 
 won't respond to orders, powers freeze
  Building HP is way to low- A group of swordsmen do about as much dmg to buildings as siege, which 
 makes siege obsolete.
  
  Well that is it, the glitches I spoke of only occur once in a long while, but it is still frustrating. 
 The staff at EA are planning on addressing the problems with future patches. I enjoy this game 
 fully and I recommend it to fans of RTS and Tolkien. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lht1989118
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good! The graphic is wonderful~Better then Middle Earth 1! The sound effect is 
 great too~Many people had buy it! And I think this game is the greatest game I ever play, and it 
 have the most beautiful graphic I ever seen, but my PC is not powerful enough to set to high quality 
 effect, so I think I have to buy a new PC... Yeah~ I will buy a PC with Intel Pentium processor 
 Extreme Edition 3.73 GHz, 4 GB RAM, 2x7900 GTX... (Just Dreaming...) Then I can set to high quality!!! 
 This is the first time I write a review for a game, so if it is not good, please tell me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeysnow04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  i will first start off by saying that this is a great game. it has a lott of modes to play, plus 
 the addition of the elves, dwarves, and goblins. the gameplay is very fasst paced and is based on 
 speed, knowledge and skill. pretty much the more you play of this game the better you will get. 
 The new way of collecting resources is very innovative and makes it easier to gather resourses 
 than in Battle for Middle earth 1. The batle system is basicly a rock, paper, scissors game. The 
 swordsman beats pikeman the pikeman beats horses, horses beat archers and archers beat swordsman. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpabm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  OK, I have a monster PC (AMD 4800 2X, 4GB Corsair DC/DDR, SB X-Fi Platinum and 2x512MB 7800 GTX 
 SLI video cards) running this game, so maybe I expected a lot better than just good rendering and 
 a nice score (worth the extra for the Bonus Disk) but I actually enjoyed the first version far 
 more.
  
  Generally, I've found that there's a "trick" to every game and the real trick relies on the Races 
 and their particular heroes. Give me Eomer and I will break the back of any Evil Horde sent against 
 me (lol) , so I suggest Eomer be kept as a "reserve" hero so he can captain garrison armies and 
 thus generate a bunch of income (points for enemies slain as in BFME) .
  
  A "better-than-good" attempt but I found Jamie Christopherson's soundtrack to be way better than 
 I would have believed, if I had not gotten the Collector's Edition so I could listen to "Joining 
 Up" without the sound effects.
  
  My feelings are of vague disappointment, followed by a "I'm glad I got the Collector's Edition 
 anyway...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  The really disappointing aspect of this follow-up to a great film-to-game product is that the areas 
 of the game that were endearing (can you dobetter than the film's heroes and armies in battles) 
 are gone. 
  GENERAL IMPRESSIONS: The first thing you hit are the graphics. The colour palette, which in an 
 interview in the Collector's Edition DVD, is supposed to surpass the grasslands and burnt earth 
 of the original, completely disappoints on it's promises. Unfortunately, the end results are landscapes 
 over-rich in colour to the point of being cartoonish. Unit detail is lost in the crazy cartoon 
 colours the different units boast. And you need a beasty PC to see the game in all of its' richness. 
 The more you play, though, the more richness and small little details pop up, so forgiveness readily 
 avails. 
  GAMEPLAY: The base-building (particularly productions buildings and captured taverns) s now your 
 main focus, because without walls and arrow towers, you're toast. Especially when you have almost 
 completed a mission and you are attacked back at the fortress. Build up your castle's economics, 
 then it's walls, then its units. Then go about doing what you did the first time around (just longer 
 into a battle than before) . Lose to an unforseen enemy plan (almost implausible at times) . Reload 
 scenario, and start again. It might sound weird to some, but battle tactics for the large set piece 
 battles (Helm's Deep, Minas Tirith, Isengaard etc) were based by many players on what they saw 
 their heroes do in the movie trilogy. Remember, this game franchise is far more film-based than 
 literature-based. BFME II feels like it is based more on Ralph Bakshi's animated feature of the 
 1970's than the books or Jackson's films. If this was the first outing of BFME, it would easily 
 rate a 9. And where is the beautiful dynamic campaign map of the original. I know the story ran 
 on rails, but in BFME II you just go from one mission to the next in what are ultimately two very 
 short, linear "campaigns", linked by drab cut-scenes. As there are only about 8 missions in each 
 campaign EA has padded them out by throwing in more and more spiders, twists and impossible counter-attacks. 
 You get 3/4 through a mission and what happens? Spiders or Goblins (or both) appear out of the 
 walls and attack your base all the way back at the start. So save often. What a mess. And don't 
 even get me started on the "War of the Ring" section. It and the Galactic Conquest mode of EAW 
 are lame after-thoughts that should have stayed at home. Amateur hour hits retail big-time. 
  REQUIREMENTS: This game really should have been an expansion disk (iffy at that) . The graphics 
 are right up there as long as you have a grunty PC (4 Ghz with 2 Gb RAM seems to satisfy it) and 
 a whopping 5+ GB hard drive space even with the DVD Collector's edition. What's the point in using 
 DVD if you don't USE its' significant larger volume. And what's with the blue rope around the units. 
 You could turn that option off in the first game (but then battles are so much like a pile of spew 
 you need it to see your units) . Dwarves, elves, goblins and snow a game do not make.
  FINAL THOUGHTS: Yes they've packed this offering with everything a Tolkien fan could want, and 
 if it was a Cave Troll its' belly would be bloated and dragging in the grass. I have tried so very 
 hard to like this game. But it tries so hard to kick me just when I've found a redeeming feature. 
 The naval combat holds much promise of a new tactical element, however it is a totally under-realized 
 component as is the free-hand base building. It isn't free-hand at all. You are limited to areas 
 of maximum resource production, and that makes them very susceptible to sneak attacks (and their 
 defence strength is very, very limited) . The unit-cap is thankfully higher, but then it needs to 
 be as your units die VERY swiftly after going into combat. The goblins at least have caves to get 
 reinforcements to the battle faster, otherwise you'll be re-playing the same mission once you've 
 realized that Campaign Missions are actually PUZZLE-based. Their only longevity comes from having 
 to replay missions with hard-won knowledge of enemy tactics and plans (tricks by EA?) . The large 
 numbers actually work against the game as large scale battles become visually very confusing and 
 messy (hence the blue rope or red razor wire) . There are so many battles in a scenario, in fact, 
 that you very often miss them as you're jumping from one to another to issue new orders or to cue 
 build orders before your army rapidly disappears. And ALL your units die a lot faster in this one, 
 so you're mouse will be shooting all over the pad to keep up. The battles end up as tank rush skirmishes 
 with little or no finesse. Giants & Cave trolls die a lot faster too. If you've battled through 
 "Dawn of War", "DOW: WA", "SW: EAW" or "BFME I", this unbalanced gameplay is a slap in the face, 
 and you are loathe to recommend it to anyone over 15yo. That said, BFME II comes with plenty of 
 new additions and it will be fun for you, so long as you are not looking for a serious Single-player 
 Campaign experience, somewhat like the first game. And if you don't mind a really, really badly 
 written story, with really bad music, and really bad voice acting, then you will love this EA offering 
 (Earnings Anyway = EA) . 'nuff said!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamadelyafi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The next sequel of the lord of the rings universe is here and it is by far the most incredible 
 one of them all. 
  You got to play this game, if you played the first one and loved it, you will find this one crazy!!
 
  Lots of things has been improved. First of all, the adding of many more races and many more heroes 
 is amazing. Building anywhere makes it a really tactical kind of game and fortunnetely, I found 
 this game harder then the first one which was easy. The water combat is good, but not amazing. 
 Creating a hero was a needed option to this sequel and it is here!
  The war of the ring option makes this game even better by playing risk game with the LOTR universe 
 with your friends or the computer ( which AI is so so)
  Finally, capturing the ring to summon QUEEN GALADRIEL OR THE LORD SAURON is cool!
  HAVE FUN AND 
 SEE YOU ONLINE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narsilflammer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game when i first heard of it. The screenshots seemed cool. I finally 
 got the game and went to Good campaigh, sadly it wasen't as good as i hoped. eight mission just 
 isn't long enough for me. I found the hero's good Glorfindel was a faviourte Gloin was powerful 
 but, the game wasn't challiging. Evil campaigh was just about the same. Only the units were weaker 
 and a little more fighting. The thing i liked most was proably Dol guldur. Since it was a tough 
 level. 
  
  The game makes up for it's campaigh falts in Skirmish and Online. Playing on Skirmish is good practice 
 before fighting human players, or it can be used if your like me and can't be bothered going online. 
 
  
  Create a hero wasn't what i hoped but it's good enough, it is very simple to create a hero in a 
 few steps. I only wish we xcould change there apperance and give them capes ect. 
  
  Overall this is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oznaldo06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Even though i do not own this game i would still find it a rather lord of the rings fan based game. 
 This version lets the player choose from a range of options suck as, creat a hero, goblin elves 
 and dwarf armys, war of the ring, and of course online gameplay. This game is also like the first 
 series of the battle for middle earth but the games graphical content is much better plus the skirmish 
 loactions. I would reacomend this game to any war lover or lord of the rings fan, this is the game 
 for me what about you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I was expecting it to be better though. Let me get into the flaws. Ok, 
 one, the elves have the weakest warriors, i thought in the story they were like the best all around, 
 the heroes take population, the elves look like little peasants, what happened to the cool elves 
 in helm's deep with armor and everything?, the range of resources, this is probably the worst flaw, 
 when you build a resource building, whether it's a tree, a mine, or a refinery, it's range of resources 
 only give enough room for about 5 at the most more of those buildings (farther is better for resources) , 
 Sure you can build more of those resource buildings, but it wont give you much resource, only population. 
 Population is also a problem, 1000 is all you get.
  Especially, since all squads cost 60 POPULATION!!!!!!!!. (or command points) . The heroes usually 
 cost different population though. O and eomer, eowyn, glorfindel, and theoden die very quickly. 
 Especially glorfindel (elf) . Who knew eomer was weaker than his sister? The last flaw is the hero 
 creation. Buildings are destroyed waaaaaayyyyyy to fast, one squad of pikemen can take it out in 
 less than ten seconds. Making a hero is not as great as it sounds. In bfme2 you cant change the 
 weapon of the elves, only a choice between two bows, although you can use toggle weapon power when 
 choosing powers, (the powers are coool though.) You cant even change the face, unless u put a mask, 
 (on some) , dwarves are the only one i think , the weapons for some are cool, so the hero thing 
 isn't very good, o and they joined the rohirrim with gondor, that's kinda lame. But on the birght 
 side, the silverthorn arrows are a masterpiece for the elves, unstoppable! THe upgrades for fortresses 
 is cool. Bigger squads is good, except u cant join the different squads anymore, more heros, like 
 sharku, the warg captain, hes cool, the warves are strong, but slow, the elves, are fast but weak, 
 (except archers) (the best) , orcs are slow and weak, but makre it up with cave trolls, and nazguls, 
 and elephants, goblins, are the weakest, but fast and have longest range, they also have spider 
 riders, a dragon hero, and trolls and giants. ELves ahve calvary!! pretty good. Everyone else has 
 pretty much improved. It has other good stuff but thats all im telling you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metal_Chef
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth 2.
  Starting the game watching the beautiful intro and the peaceful menu choosing the campaign and 
 get thrown into the wonderful universe of Tolkien.
  Controlling armies in battles not seen in the movies with new races, new heroes and new ring powers 
 this game is one a fan of LOTR must have.
  
  I must admit that i was shocked and happy that one of the ring powers is summoning Tom Bombadil, 
 that guy is the bomb.
  This new game made in the spirit of Tolkien truly is a great one, things missed in the first game 
 is braught to life and the gameplay is better in every way.
  
  The good things about this game has no end.
  
  One thing we missed from the first game wass 
 all the Nasguls 
  this time they came up with a magnificent combination of all the seven evil heroes making three 
 of them carried by dragons and four of them by horse and foot.
  The campain in the game is one of the best built foundations of the game's success with amazing 
 artworks and movies really throwing you into the game.
  The next thing is the siege levels when you are to destroy your opponents castle.
  The computer 
 works and reacts in a fabulous way, not just running arounf in the base waiting for you to kill 
 him.
  He really builds up his defense and throw scouting parties at you waiting for the finam showdown.
 
  
  And my so far favorite in this amazing game.
  The all mighty evil killing maching Sauron is yours to command.
  Man i love that hero.
  
 
  And so it seems that this game is allmighty, but all is not well in Middle Earth.
  
  The Skirmish and Multiplayer AI....
  The harder you make the computer the stupider they get.
 
  
  Normal computer Ai: come kill me please, resist ain't my thing anyway.
  
  Medium AI: Hmm 2 players against me. I hate one of them and i will make his life a pain in the 
 ass for the rest of the game, throwing continiously attacks on him even if the other player is 
 on the verge of killing me i shall destroy the other one. 
  
  Hard AI: I paly too much RPG, what? can't i just attack with my heroes? army? what army? i go with 
 my heroes and thats it.
  
  Well making it short, the game is great and the multipleyer/skirmish ai sucks BIG TIME!
  
  
 Over and out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewyfurball
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  If you played the first one youll love this one, I am addicted to this game
  they speeded up the building times which is a huge difference, great graphics
  and sound easy 
 for any level of play. I even got 3 of my friends to get this game
  and they were shall I say a little pessimistic. Very fun online play.
  filling space filling 
 space filling space filling space filling space
  filling space filling space filling space filling space filling space
  filling space filling 
 space filling space filling space filling space
  filling space filling space filling space filling space filling space
  filling space filling 
 space filling space filling space filling space 
  filling space
  filling space
  filling space
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Well after waiting forever to get my hands on this game, I must say this game was well worth the 
 wait! Battle for Middle-Earth, while simple, set an important benchmark on the RTS genre and BFMEII 
 has most definetly surpassed that mark.
  
  Gameplay: I must say I was a bit nervous about the new "Design your own fortress" system when it 
 was first announced, but it turned out to be an excellent edition to the game. The new upgradable 
 walls allow the user to completely control the battlefield. Unfortunatley, the new powers that 
 the developers put into the game leave much to be desired. The new units, however, continue to 
 immerse the user in the gameplay and truly bring the game to life. Lastly, the risk style, War 
 of the Ring, whil confusing and quite difficult, adds an amazing new element to the game. it does 
 take some getting used too, but once you do it is great fun!
  
  Graphics: Graphically speaking, the game is "Ok". With the graphics turned up all the way, they 
 are alright, but most computers, especially while playing online, will not be able to handle the 
 highest level.
  
  Sound: Ah yes... The epid sounds of The Lord of the Rings. Nothing to better than that music. I 
 makes me want to hop on a horse, ride around New Zealand and kill Orcs.
  
  Overall: As games go, one of the best I've played in a very long time. Veterans of the RTS genre 
 may find BFMEII a bit rudimentary and simple, but the ease of game play allows for play on the 
 go and is immersive enough to be played over and over again. FORTH EORLINGAS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me just preference this by saying #$%& to the gaming industry for releasing multiple games 
 this close to each other in the past 2 months that before release are considered must plays. Some 
 of us almost had lives outside of gaming before the release of Empire at War, LOTR: BME II, and 
 now Elder Scrolls IV. Will I remember the smell of the outdoors come July?
  
  Let me also say that I noticed most of the less than awesome scores for this game to be from people 
 who are putting a negative on the fact that it's not an incredible leap from the first Battle for 
 Middle Earth. The first game was released in Dec. of 04. It is only March of 06 people. They pushed 
 this game out because they got the rights to Tolkens later books and total story and they delivered 
 to us the battles in the north. This is not something to complain about.
  
  Anyways, back to why youre here.
  
  The good:
  
  1) Story: Battle for Middle Earth II 
 delivers to the fans of the movies the story of what took place around (specifically to the north) 
 the world of men. If youve read the books this is nothing new to you but I did not and nor did 
 the majority of those who saw the movies. You are now exposed to the relationship between the dwarves 
 and elves, their distrust of each other, and the heroes that they cheer on. You also get to see 
 and battle in their lands and the lands of northern Run which is controlled by evil forces. This 
 was a huge selling point for me and why I had to have this game.
  
  2) Visuals: BME II is an RTS with very good graphics. Your system will have to be close to mid-high 
 to high-end to get real enjoyment from the graphics especially since an RTS can really chew away 
 at your processors performance. The artwork is beautiful in BME II. They do a great job delivering 
 realistic looking character models and scenery.
  
  3) Challenge: There are multiple levels of difficulty in BME II and you can easily find the right 
 one for you. The games AI is one of the better AI's in the genre though not flawless. You find 
 the occasional moment when you look at your guys or the enemies and think "wtf?" However, the game 
 throws at you a variety of battle tactics, you may get zerged by the computer or have them waiting 
 for you, have them flank you, it's very well done.
  
  4) War of the Ring mode: The single player campaigns be it the good or the evil ones are excellent 
 but BME II doesn't stop there. This game offers you War of the Ring (and other variations) where 
 you basically play a game of Risk (like the board game) against the computer or someone else. You 
 move troops, take territories, play out the battles, try to strategically defeat your opponent 
 in a global sense and not just the storyline role playing battles that you get in the campaign 
 modes. This gives BME II incredible longevity and value for your dollar.
  
  5) Multi-player experience: BME II does not disappoint in its online pvp. They offer you a great 
 number of maps to choose from and unlike many other (but not all) RTS games the maps actually offer 
 the user true variety. A battle at Helms Deep (great fortress) is going to play significantly different 
 than a battle in Fangorn Forest. A battle in Fangorn will play out quite differently than say a 
 battle in Rohan or Gondor. I do suggest avoiding the ranked servers as they tend to be zerg fests 
 but if you're a serious RTS fan I am sure you're well aware of that.
  
  6) The battlefield: The actual on-the-field game play is outstanding in BME II. There are a half 
 a dozen different races you can choose to play each one having a different style and strategy in 
 combat. They all have their versions of cavalry, infantry (soldiers) , pole arms (spears) , and ranged 
 fighters (i. e. archers) but they act differently, are not uniformed in style or strengths. Not 
 to mention the ring powers for the races are different and vary greatly from race to race.
  
  7) Races: Speaking of the races you can choose from this game gives you a half a dozen main 
 races and that's not including the ability to use other races for aid such as the Ents, Half-lings, 
 or even a Balrog. From summoning the undead army, using corsair pirates, or watching Treebeard 
 step on orcs you will have a blast playing and watching these races in this game.
  
  8) Heroes: I have never really been a fan of heroes once they were introduced into RTS games. War 
 Craft annoyed me when I started finding heroes in my game and how incredibly overpowered they can 
 be. In BME II the heroes are indeed powerful but they in no way are overpowered. If I see Gandolf 
 I do not run in fear but I know he's going to pack a punch. If the Witch King is flying towards 
 me I might curse but if I have some silverthorn rangers near by I am running at him instead of 
 away from him. The heroes are plentiful in numbers, you will know most of them, and each one has 
 unique abilities.
  
  9) Tom Bombadil: Yup, he's in it!
  
  10) Create your own Hero: BME II allows you to create your own hero. This feature is limited in 
 your ability to customize its look but they do give you enough options. After all this isn't an 
 RPG nor is it a game that you're constantly playing zoomed in since the game is pretty intense. 
 Your hero will be fun to summon and you'll have a blast watching your creation grow in power on 
 the battle field.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Campaign mode's story: The story is too short. Maybe I'm asking for my cake and then wanting 
 to eat it to but hey we're paying $49.99 or $59.99 for the collectors edition I think I'm right 
 to say "hey, the single player campaign mode (good or evil) only took me like 6 hours to beat!" 
 I wish the story was more in-depth and they spent more time on the cinematic story wise. This was 
 a huge sell for me and it did not meet my expectations. Admittedly my expectations n the story 
 were probably very very high. 
  
  2) Multi-player customization: Yes you can mod BME II but not everyone knows how to mod games nor 
 do they want to spend the time learning how. BME II gives you a lot of maps and the on-the-field 
 game is outstanding but the game lacks (as do most) the ability to give the user unlimited ability 
 to customize the map and game. Meaning, you can give your teams up to 5,000 starting resource points. 
 Now, unless you mod the game you can't exceed that for a beginning number. There are times I want 
 to have a friend and I build a massive army right away and play out the battle. Real battles don't 
 spend time building farms for resources you know. The game doesn't allow this nor can you add/set 
 a zerg time limit so that your opponent can't rush you within 3minutes instead they can't pass 
 a certain point for however long you set it to be. Yes, BME II encourages you to mod but this should 
 be a selectable feature in the game not something you should have to mod.
  
  3) Cinematic: I love story and I don't think the cinematic were long enough nor did they have enough 
 story crammed into them. They served their purpose I just wish their purpose was greater than giving 
 you a brief reason as to why you are playing the next battle out.
  
  4) Camera zoom: Simply put the game does not let you zoom out far enough. It's not going to ruin 
 your gaming experience but there are many times you want to see more than you are allowed with 
 their limit of the zoom out.
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Yo-yo AI: Yup! I think I'll coin a new phrase today. Yo-yo AI is what I saw in this RTS and 
 it's not the first time a game has had it happen. I watched half of the enemies (goblin army at 
 the time) army run back and fourth between these two spots that appeared to be at an equal distance 
 between two of my resource points. They would run to the edge of the map, sit there while within 
 a short distance my hero stood as well as two resource points, and then they would run back and 
 fourth between the two spots. I watched for a while at this until 10 minutes later they got unstuck 
 and attacked something. This wasn't the only time this happened or something similar.
  
  Overall: Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth II is a must have for any RTS fan or LOTR fan. 
 The War of the Ring mode gives the single player aspect incredible longevity not to mention giving 
 the multiplayer uncanny longevity. Value is the most important term in purchasing as a consumer 
 and you get it with this game. You will have blood shot eyes your friends will think you've left 
 the country once you start playing this game. What better endorsement can one give than that?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  All in all this game is good, but if you are mostly looking for singleplayer campaigns, think again. 
 There are only 8 levels to the good and evil sides respectivly.
  
  This game differs from the first, in quite a few ways, being:
  *You can make a number of you 
 own heros
  *New races (Goblins, Elves, Dwarves)
  *New heros
  *different story line from the first game
  *one player 'War Of The Ring' Mode.
  *player created 
 walls (not all races)
  
  The creation of you new heros adds a good touch, BUT, you can only use them in multiplayer and 
 war of the ring and you can exactly 'put yourself in the game' in other words, making a character 
 just like you...
  
  The new races are pretty good, they seem to fit in well, my only complaint is that the dwarves 
 walk really slow....
  Another thing is, that i think now the good side has too many heros, leaving the evil side with 
 very few
  
  The 'War Of The Ring' mode is a bit stange, but fun when you get used to it.
  
  The new storyline feature more on what happens outside/away from the movies, mainly showing 
 the point of view from the goblins/dwarves/elves.
  The player created walls are not exactly the best/worst thing... i just thought i would mention 
 it, i personally dont bother with walls, since they cost quite alot. but as i said, not all races 
 can get them e. g. mordor can get them.
  
  And one last thing, you would not be able to call mordor the MIGHT IS RIGHT team anymore, because 
 they heightened the command points for a troll/mumakil so you cant have as many as the first.
 
  
  Finally, this is still a good game, if you plan on playing multiplayer mostly, get it, if you buy 
 it for singleplayer, dont bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The nice things are that there are two new sides (as those of you who have played the demo would 
 also notice) . Some new units are there too. The best part of this whole thing is the new heroes 
 - actually forget the new heroes - its all because one new hero, Sauron, is there. Yes, the dark 
 lord is in this game, hallelujah. And there are all the rest too - good for them. Other than that, 
 one can build in places other than the build pads as in BFME 1. Of course, it does allow one to 
 build a new base anywhere else when one is getting their you-know-what handed to them. There are 
 some new units and then of course new powers. All this said (all this? oh yeah, I couldn't find 
 much else to write) I couldn't find much else spectacular about this game. Sure, the fighting is 
 done in new regions with new maps. But all the points are incremental in a minor way and if anything, 
 this is an expansion. Of course, there are games who get expansions out that cost about the same. 
 But this is what I saw from its worth as a standalone game. Didn't lead to me spending as much 
 time playing this as I do with other games. Then again, the great part is that it won't take you 
 long to master playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  in this new lord of the rings game it brings more actoin by adding the two new armys, goblins and 
 dwarfs. each fitted with excellent heros, unit, building and vareriuos bits and bobs. the learning 
 curve for learning the games controls is about 40 mins unless you are quite familier to the other 
 stratergy games. the sound track really brings to life the lord of the ring experience. it has 
 a new intresting story-line, plus a new gameplay mode called war of the ring and also a hero creator 
 adds more feeling to the game the graphics are quite good and seeing that balrog smashing up just 
 about anything that gets in its way is pretty spectacular to watch. rounding the review off is 
 overall EA have made another master-piece in my humble opinon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eru_illuv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful. It's really fun and entertaining, and I think that its worth the value 
 of the price. I love this game.
  The only reason that i gave this game a 9.6 is because of the length of the campaign. Its 8 missions 
 each for good and evil, but that is slightly not enough, maybe 10 on each side, then I would have 
 given it a 10. 
  There are a couple of small minor glitches, but that is with every game. EA is releasing two new 
 patches soon.
  It seams to me that the graphics haven't improved that much too.
  
  note*I have the collectors edition
  note**I think that you might as well bye the collectors edition 
 for an extra $5 
  (I think) US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eva15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings battle for middle earth 2 is improvement on last years Lotr-bfme the graphics 
 have improved adding more detail on the units and the buildings.
  The gameplay has greatly improved the units look larger, you are noew able to build anywhere on 
 the map and create as many walls as you want still able to summons create but a larger variety 
 such as dragons the squid thing in the first film andmany more.
  The sound is based on the films but with more music exclusive to the game and finally the story 
 is not based on the films but it is based on the battle going on in the north between the goblins/orcs 
 against the dwarves/elves showing battles and character from many of the other books
  If you loved the lord of the rings films or books then this is one to pick up to learn more of 
 the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhao_lei
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  From the start this game captivates you with all of its beautiful graphics among other things. 
 The true depth they gave to the soldiers is spectacular even though you need an amazing machine 
 to play on that level. They did great things with this new game such as making the sieges from 
 the movies standard maps so that normal people didnt have to take the time to make them. Granted 
 the game does have some drawbacks, such as in skirmish mode the computer opponents seem to only 
 want to go after your buildings and pass up any kind of field battle with you. This would be an 
 easy problem solved with multiplayer but that leads to the second problem of that the multiplayer 
 is to buggy for many to use, as soon as you log on you get an error message saying that the game 
 needs to close. As soon as that issue is corrected the game wont really have many problems at all 
 to speak of. This is a game i definately reccomend getting for all you LOTR fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nub101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  i cant wait till they make another. this one has great value. skirmish is great because you never 
 get old o the same map. wish they had more races like hobbits or if you could just be the ring 
 wraiths that would be awsome. hope ea gets creative with next one if theres going to be a next.. 
 well any way if your looking for a good game buy this one it awsome.
  
  
  
  
  i need 100 words wtf dang cow mouse dog cow run bike jump swim lol this sucks more word why is 
 there a limit stupid alrighty then... wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quellepaur
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Lord of the Rings, both the books and the movies, I try to keep an open mind when 
 it comes to the video game adaptations of the story. I own and have played almost all of the EA 
 LotR franchise, and I'm not too proud to say I enjoyed them all. The stories were somewhat linear 
 and the endings were very satisfying. Of the many different titles in the franchise, the Battle 
 for Middle-Earth was by far the one I enjoyed the most. For once I was given the ability to control 
 the story and lead the characters to a glorious, however un-true, ending. The graphics were stunning 
 and the sound quality was outstanding. And the main campaigns, both good and evil, took more than 
 a few days to complete. The true-to-life photo images and video fly-overs from the movies also 
 added another touch of realism on the map of Middle-Earth. The game was very well orchestrated 
 and melded together nicely with little, if any, inconsistencies or tediousness. And even now, after 
 having purchased and played the Battle for Middle-Earth II, I can still say the original is the 
 best.
  
  I suppose, maybe, I don't fully understand the concept of a real-time-strategy game. If the point 
 is to simply get as many units as you can as quickly as you can and then rush in at the first moment 
 of opportunity to slaughter your opponent before they have even begun to build their base, then 
 maybe RTS isn't the right genre for me. This seems to be the trend as more and more RTS games are 
 developed. Where is the story? Where is the real challenge? It's all over too quickly. It's almost 
 frantic. Even spastic. The pace is too fast and because of it the game lacks depth. Simply because 
 the game is based on heavily detailed novels, doesn't necessarily mean it has depth. This is just 
 the foundation. The game must dig deeper.
  
  I found the Battle for Middle-Earth II wanting in so many ways. Other reviews have said the game 
 felt as if it were rushed, as if the developer felt they hadn't released enough Lord of the Rings 
 games recently and had to get this one out on the market as quickly as possible before they lose 
 their demographic. I agree. It seems a fair amount of time was spent trying to make the water look 
 pretty and very little time was spent making the artificial intelligence very intelligent at all.
 
  
  The original Battle for Middle-Earth was created to be something different in the RTS world. They 
 changed the conventional menu system to "build plots" and ready built castles with fortifiable 
 walls. With no builders or villagers to worry about, building could be done directly from a "build 
 plot" via a pop-up menu. Citadels served as the center and most important structure of your settlements 
 and protecting your citadel was paramount to securing your base. Admittedly, it seemed childishly 
 simple, but that only allowed for a richer story and more structured, interesting game play. When 
 EA first discussed the Battle for Middle-Earth II, they actually envisioned an add-on to the original. 
 However, stating that they wanted to "revolutionize" the game, they decided it would be more appropriate 
 to release a sequel. But, instead of moving forward with the genre, it seems they have taken a 
 step backward. We find ourselves, once again, having to worry about our ever-important builders 
 as we franticly search for the best place to build up a base before the enemy begins its ceaseless 
 attacks. The now almost standard build menus are back along the side of the screen. And we, once 
 more, have to delicately place out a system of easily conquered walls and towers, all the while 
 having to worry about that one opening in the rocks where we haven't had a chance to build a wall 
 yet. The wall system itself is atrocious and when coupled with the archaic A. I. system it makes 
 for a very annoying experience. 
  
  The walls are extended from expansion points. As you connect the walls from expansion point to 
 expansion point you are able to enclose your base and add defensive towers, trebuchets, and gates 
 to the wall sections. However, you find that the A. I. will not attack just any part of your wall, 
 not your towers or your trebuchets, but the (oh, sooo threatening) wall expansion hubs themselves. 
 These hubs cannot be rebuilt, you see, and so as soon as this easily destroyed wall portion is 
 eliminated, your entire wall is useless and the only way to rebuild is buy manually destroying 
 your entire wall, towers, gates, and trebuchets, and starting over from scratch. This is a huge 
 waste of time and resources. I suppose one would say strategically this is a great way to win the 
 game, but where is the reality? It's too simple. Too silly.
  
  Since when does artificial intelligence include precognition? The computer player seems as inhuman 
 as ever in this sequel. Spending absolutely no time exploring the map, or building up any defenses 
 of their own (walls, towers, etc.) for that matter, as soon as the computer player is ready to 
 attack (which is normally in the first 5 minutes of the game) he will make a bee-line charge directly 
 for the target he isn't even supposed to know is there. Usually this is a poorly defended credit 
 production facility of some kind that had to be placed miles from the base in order to get a decent 
 production percentage. There is little attention to strategy in this RTS game. You can't hide from 
 the enemy if the enemy knows exactly where you are all the time, even when you can't see them. 
 [try this yourself - build a tower in a secluded area of the map where the enemy has never been 
 and has no reason to go in the first place, and watch as they will suddenly - and quite miraculously 
 - feel its presence, and make it their life's mission to tear it to the ground]
  
  One might even say, "Well, if it's strategy you are looking for then play in the War of the Ring 
 mode."
  
  I laugh.
  
  A noble attempt at a new style of LotR, BfME game play that more closely resembles the board game 
 Risk than anything else, I find the War of the Ring mode to be more of a "filler." It seems the 
 developer couldn't find the time to enhance the main game play and storyline, and instead found 
 itself creating what is truly just a different interface for setting up random skirmish battles, 
 and nothing more. This game play is ridiculously simple and can, with the help of computer controlled 
 team members, be won without a single battle being fought on the player's part. Even if the opportunity 
 to fight a battle were to arise, you even have the option to auto-resolve the battle, so you don't 
 have to torture your poor little clicker-finger any more than you have to. Why play the game at 
 all?
  
  This "filler" also may be the cause of why one of the games newest features didn't quite meet most 
 expectations. The game includes the ability to create your own hero. Yay! For the first time I 
 get to place myself in the game. I finally have the ability to create my very own LotR character 
 from scratch, exactly the way I want. It'll be totally unique, nobody will have a character like 
 mine!
  
  Yeah, umm...... NO.
  
  Granted, the create a hero option is entertaining, for a while, but the novelty wears off quickly 
 as one realizes that there are very few options with which to create your character. There are 
 maybe 2 or 3 helmet choices per character, you maybe get to pick between more than 2 different 
 styles of weapon, you can change the color of the clothing, but not the color of the hair/skin, 
 and you might have the option of choosing male or female depending on the race, but not always. 
 Once again, where is the uniqueness?
  
  While I've covered nearly everything, I will still say that the game does have its good points; 
 most of which are carried over from the original BfME. Some new aspects that proved very entertaining 
 were the new special powers and creatures that weren't in the first game including dragons, wyrms, 
 and the watcher. Also, the bases now feature fortresses, instead of citadels, as the most important 
 structure in your base. Not only are these strongholds unique, but they provide striking eye-candy 
 as well, especially the fully upgraded Mordor fortress with its eerie-green aura.
  
  Suffice to say, I enjoyed the game for a while, but after completing both the good and the evil 
 campaigns in around 2 short afternoons, I quickly became bored with the constant skirmishes and 
 un-intelligent A. I. The entertainment value has left all too quickly. Both of the campaigns, good 
 and evil, were only 8 maps each and played more like an extended tutorial than a main campaign. 
 If EA went through all the trouble of purchasing the rights to the world of LotR and this is the 
 best they can come up with, then I am terribly sorry. The Lord of the Rings is much more about 
 richness of detail rather than mindless, heartless battles to the death. Take your time with the 
 stories. Create characters with meanings and purposes other than just another one of your expendable 
 minions. The novel the Lord of the Rings took somewhere between 8 to 12 years to complete. A story 
 like that can only be born out of patience and time. Not by tackling the general idea and coming 
 up with something convincing in a little under a year. This is a disappointment, and a shame. I 
 pray that the next one will be better. 
  
  But then, these days everyone in the world seems to be looking for just another quick fix... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Oddly enough, there are mixed emotions with this game.
  
  One one side i am overwhelmed. Comparing BFME 1 to BFME 2 (battle for Middle Earth) , is like comparing 
 warcraft 1 to warcraft 3.
  
  The enhancements, and the improvements are enormous.
  
  There seems to be a lot more diversity in the abilities of the men, and the heroes. There is the 
 little glitch that heroes are a lot too strong (as 1 hero can slay two units all by himself) , but 
 that is a little glitch i think we can let EA of the hook with.
  
  There is the ability to play either good or bad, and that looks just as great as the first game, 
 but then there is the way we get our resources. This looks a lot better, and it even gives a nice 
 reality to it all. Placement of a farm or pit results in a percentage of the revenue. so placing 
 them too close together is an expensive thing to do. I think that this is a well added feature 
 in resource planning.
  
  Then there are the tactics and this in itself seems to have remained the same, alas combining archers 
 and troops is no longer possible, making it more important to have the right troops in the right 
 place. Add to that that you can unite units in battle formations make this came more tactical then 
 before.
  
  So, where is the downside?
  Well, i am not sure that it is a downside, but this game requires serious hardware. I might have 
 a P4-3000 with a 6800 nVidia, but i can only select medium graphics at a lower resolution. So, 
 i can never seem to get the full graphical brunt of the game. This is not that bad, ans the game 
 was already overwhelming, so i wonder what i would need to see it all at it's maximum.
  
  I had the same thing a few years ago with Unreal tournament. the result was that when i upgraded 
 my system 1 year later, i was able to play the game at it's maximum playing it all over again, 
 still being overwhelmed. I reckon that i can get at least 2 years of joy out of this game, and 
 as games go, that is worth a lot of money.
  
  This game is absolutely a must for any Tolkien fan, and the Command and conquer fanatics might 
 love this game too. Especially as this game comes with a world editor and an on-line ability, so 
 Tolkien fanatics might recreate some of the lesser known battles and play them out against one 
 another.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: man5000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  This is the best lotr game i've ever played great graphics, music and the new races are real fun 
 to play the game is very cool and has a high replay value so even if you don't like lotr you still 
 need to play this game because it's amazing oh before i forget the new addition of the create a 
 hero is really fun cus you can make your own hero!!!!!! great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game amazing, stunning 
 amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning 
 amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning 
 amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning amazing, stunning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolleyman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  what a great game, flawless in every dimension and in my eyes couldn't be beaten by anything. the 
 graphics are great and some animations are funny, sound is of the perfect genre and the value is 
 11/10. now buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and 
 play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play 
 buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy 
 and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and play buy and 
 play buy and play buy and play buy and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkinc9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  When I bought the game I was surprised because I dont buy alot of redon games. I know its supposed 
 to be a new game but its still based off the original. I brought the game home, put it on my laptop. 
 Yes I know I should use a desktop for gaming well all of you bite me I travel alot and dont want 
 to drag a desktop around. Anyways When I first played the game it sucked me right in. Atlest the 
 evil side. I love playing as the dark side in most games. I have two days off at work in the middle 
 of the week so I could do things away from work right. NO I played the whole dam day. So I guess 
 what Im saying is this game rocks when it comes to being evil. I liked it alot killing the good 
 guys and all. The story line was alright not the best. The ending sucked, I hate when you bust 
 your butt playing hours on end drinking coffee all day and night just to get to the end and findout 
 its just a few cut seens AHAHAHAHA. Anyways after that I waited a day went to work came home and 
 played the good guys. Right off the bat I hated it I like lots of trolls and evil dead things corupting 
 the land no instead you can grow trees in the middle of a dungeon ya Im so happy not. In the end 
 I hated playing the good guys and I wasted a night playing till 1am and I had opening shift at 
 work 5am crap. Well if anyone agrees with me great if you dont thats nice to. Later all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review: A lot better than the old one "
  If you are Good you will have to destroy the ring or keep it away from saruman if you are Evil 
 you will have too find the ring and give it to saruman the dark lord .
  The battle form middle earth II is the best RTS game that I have ever played it have a lot of goods 
 like graphics with shader system , terrain detail , water detail , shadows , model detail and animation 
 detail , the sound are superb with the original movie music , the physic engine is amazing , the 
 game play is superb with four modes .
  The bad : no bad at all .
  The new things : you can build wherever you like , new three armies (dwarves , elf's , goblins 
 ) , new great mod ( war of the ring ) , new powerful powers and finally you can make your own hero.
 
  My Last Word Is : My Best RTS Game Ever . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_One_White
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  I got this game a few days ago because my friend had played it and had said it was good so three 
 days later and this is my favourite game.
  The graphics are awesome campaigns is amazing and unlike games like AoE the units are varied for 
 the various factions. This game isnt just for RTS lovers if you like LOTR you'll love this game. 
 Even the online play if almost unflawed although the war of the ring online fails to connect sometimes. 
 All in all this is one of the best RTS games i have played and BUY THIS GAME FOR GOD's SAKE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_monkey13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have bought for my computer in a long time. It is awesome and the 
 graphics are stunning. The only problem is that the controls take a while to get memorized and 
 it is tough to try and manage more than one army of troops at once. That being said, I still think 
 this game is great and can not wait until I get great at it and actually beat someone online. It 
 is tough because everyone online has had the game for a long time already and so I recommend playing 
 campain before venturing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle-earth II focuses mainly on the northern part of Middle-earth, where elves, dwarves, 
 and goblins battled it out while those pesky hobbits trekked to Mt. Doom. That means there are 
 new races and factions that we didn't get to see in the original game, complete with their own 
 heroes and specialized units. The elves are supreme archers, the dwarves are miners who build giant 
 war machines, and the goblins rely on spiders and sheer numbers to swamp you. Battles take place 
 in familiar places, such as the Shire, and in unfamiliar places, unless you've read the books, 
 such as Dol Guldur. And if you liked the factions and settings from the original game, don't worry, 
 because they all appear in the game's overarching War of the Ring mode in one form or another. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMartenhead
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever imagine buying a board game for your powerfull machine of doom PC. Well if you buy 
 this game it's what you get. Let me explain my self. But first make a quick walktrough on this 
 game.
  
  Graphics : Good grafics allways mean best quality graphic card. But the evolution is there. Caracter 
 seems real if you compare the game to warcraft 3. The water is magneficient no perfect. But the 
 fact is there's only to race who have ship and there's only one quest in game where there's boat 
 fight, thanks god. If it was me I would have added high grass and bushes moving with the wind and 
 stomp by massive army.
  
  Sound : The advantage to be associated with a big movie title is sound, music. This is one of the 
 easiest way to put you in the world of Middle-earth. Taunt, shout, hurl, explosion timed and bringing 
 fear in your oponents troops. 
  
  Gameplay : Two games in one. First the classic strategie game. Easy and deprived of strategy, this 
 game is for evryone but it won't keep you in the game for years like starcraft. Well there's strategie 
 but it's realy basic. You only need to gather one ressource and this ressource can be collected 
 through your firs building. Each unit have strength and weakness so you better have more than one 
 type of unit. The second game is more like Risk, you have to conquer territory and besiege your 
 opponent fort. You can control your army in each fight like in the main game. This game is also 
 available in multiplayer so play this boardgame on your computer. 
  But one of the good point that can influence you to buy this game is the campaign mode, new story 
 never told before. 
  
  So enjoy the game and if buy it don't waste 10$ on the collector edition it doesn't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game to come out before christmas 2005 and the hype building it up 
 was phenomenal, i finally got the game at the start of march 2006. Since i have done the campaigns, 
 which were suprisingly short and war of the ring mode i believe is pointless in single player. 
 I liked the overall feel to the game, similar to C&C gameplay. 
  Initially i have been very upset about the online feature as it still has proven difficult to have 
 a decent game, not only through EA's failure to fix connection problems but also the fact that 
 the game is still basically in its infant state so to speak. there are plenty of issues surrounding 
 the game which have been mentioned in my LOTR Gamers Union, with regards to units, powers etc. 
 the general consensus is that the elves are overpowered and the freedom of play is not as people 
 expected to be.
  Some game features have renderred certain game options pointless eg. the witchking and other heroes 
 which become usless in online play because most game are over within 10 minutes due to the ease 
 of rushing, which is just not fun at all. 
  I feel like EA have rushed this game onto the shelves before they were sure it was going to be 
 a instant success. I love lord of the rings and the game but still feel jaded to a certain degree...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  If this game was BFME 1 i would have given it a higher score if this games war of the ring was 
 a better playing expreance i would have given it a higher score but that will not happen.
  
  Don't get me wrong the core of the game is sound and plays well when it wants to it is just 
 some small and big problems that let this version down.
  
  Bad point one:
  
  In the war of the rings mode base that you build and armies are gone after the battle even if you 
 win? which is strange when you think about it.
  
  Bad point two:
  
  The main part of the game is way to short, in the first game there where loads of fights and missions 
 on top of the normal battles. This game miss that with only 8 missions per side.
  
  Good point one:
  
  I have to say create a hero even with its lack of chocies is still a blast 
 to mess around with and i can only hope that they improve it in the near future.
  
  To end it all depends on weather you like been there done that RTS games like BFME 1&2 or weather 
 you like new look RTS game like DOW & EAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msy670
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  its worth the wait
  This is a GREAT game. If you are a fan, I truly believe you will enjoy this game. This is the game 
 
  The Campaigns are good, solid games but the storyline is not as good as the first game (as to be 
 expected) and at times isn't quite challening enough. Still, the cinematics are fantastic and it's 
 just great to play the game with some sort of storyline to it. 
  Skirmishes are easy to play, but again you will need to pump up the difficulty, especially if a 
 hardened RTS player, and sometimes the AI is a little dodgy. Also pathfinidng for Naval vessels 
 isn't brilliant. Still, don't let these aspects fool you, it still great fun to play as any one 
 of 6 races now. For me, EA have done a great job balancing the races, and I'm quite happy to play 
 as or against any one of them. It's great you can also bring a created hero into the skirmishes 
 which overall, are just great fun to play if you've got time to kill. 
  On to the Create-a-Hero function, which is to be honest disappointing. Very little variation can 
 be made for the units, and it's only the bare basics you can change. You can't even change something 
 as simple as hair colour. Even so, this is an RTS, not and RPG, and even though it is really just 
 a tacked-on function, at least it's still there. 
  Now on to what for me is the best part of the game: War Of The Ring mode. This is fan-bloody-tastic, 
 and I could play on this for hours upon hours. In short, it's basically Rome: Total War, Lord of 
 the Rings style. Obviously it's not as depp as the powerhouse that is Rome: Total War, but it is 
 deeper than you'd think, and the Living World element of it is just great to play, as well as being 
 a joy to the eyes. The only gripe again is that the AI is a little dodgy, but for me, doesn't hamper 
 gameplay that much. 
  Of course, you've also got multiplayer, which increases the strategic depth of the game exponentially, 
 and offers the biggest challenge this game can give. It's also an added bonus that you can play 
 War of the Ring online as well. 
  This game has come on leaps and bounds from the original, which was great anyway. The new base 
 building system is very intuitive, and as usual, EA has nailed the visuals perfectly. Only problem 
 with bases is that walls are destroyed far too easily in my opinion, even the dwarven walls. However, 
 that makes the strategy of defending against an opponent far more challenging. Overall, this game 
 has very, very few faults. It may be Create-a-Hero-lite, AI can be a bit dodgy, and Campaign-lite 
 too, but there is too much in this game that can make up for that. Overall, the best Lord of the 
 Rings playing experience you can have. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played almost all of the Lord of the rings games that was based on the awesome movies. None 
 of the games weren't too shabby too. I owned the first battle for middle earth which I thought 
 was a good game. Now EA made a second one! Isn't one enough?
  
  Lord of the Rings is ancient history! EA already picked the movie clean of every single detail 
 to put in their games. Now they move to the books. It's all a marketing ploy to get more money. 
 Yeah The first one was fun, but Lord of the Rings games are just too old and boring now, I'm sorry 
 but I like new games to be fresh and unique.
  
  That is just the least of my concerns. The game does not play anything like it shows in video clips. 
 I tested my copy on numerous PC and none of them worked as good as the one displayed on the movie 
 clips. And all the computers I tested it on had all the requirements to play the game and then 
 some. It's just a waste of your money. All that's new is the RISK-like option and create a character 
 which I thought was cool ended up sucking bad. Other than that you'll expect the same kind of campaigns 
 and stuff.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Given a new agreement with The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises that grants EA the 
 rights to develop games based on the books, in addition to a separate agreement that allows for 
 games based on the New Line Cinema films The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II 
 will introduce players to depths of the fiction never before explored by EA. With all new content 
 from J. R. R. Tolkien's original fiction, delve deeper than ever before and engage in new battles 
 that go beyond the award-winning movie trilogy. Wage war in the North and assume command of the 
 most storied civilizations in all of Middle-earth history -- the Elven and Dwarven armies -- or 
 fight on the side of Evil with heroes and creatures that have never been seen in The Lord of the 
 Rings films. Defend or overtake never before seen lands such as Dol Guldur, The Misty Mountains, 
 and Mirkwood as you unleash powerful new weapons and abilities - summon dragons, cause volcanoes 
 to erupt, or bring down a cataclysmic lightning strike. But beware, with greater power comes greater 
 adversity. Your enemies, commanded by a powerful new AI system, possess a greater tactical edge 
 and more powerful spells. Will your armies have the fortitude to persevere? [Electronic Arts]
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roencaco
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Si, despues de muchos tiempo jugando toda clase de juegos y tras haber finalizado la primera version 
 del juego, quedando con a la espera de esta version. Puedo decir que el mejor juego que he visto 
 y jugado hasta la fecha, y tal vez lo sea por mucho tiempo.
  
  Por que? porque tienes una gran eleccion de juegos practicamente sin fin, puedes estar por siempre 
 jugandolo y seguir siendo divertido. Ni hablar de las graficas, sonido, detalles, logicas del juego.
 
  
  Despues de mis comentarios, solo queda preguntar... que esperas para tenerlo y comenzar la diversion...
 
  
  Yes, after many years playing all kind of game and after play and completed the frist version of 
 it, waiting for more... actual version. I can say it is the best game I have see and played until 
 today, and maybe for a long time.
  
  Why? because you have a lot of game type almost endless, you would play for ever and still be fun. 
 And graphics, sound, details, and logics of the game are terrific
  
  Then, just a question... What are you wating for? go get it and start to enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParanoidTears
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  After much deligating, i decided to spend the extra 5 and buy the Collectors Edition of LOTR: BFFMEII 
 and i do not regret it..
  
  The game is suuperb after 5 hours play, i decide i should probably go for that piss i needed 4.5 
 hours ago! Really addictive!
  
  The soundtrack is awesome; it be based on the movies, so is written by Howard Shore and you feel 
 like you're there!
  
  The gameplay is also cool. The interface is simple and that's what makes it great! The 6 factions 
 mean when you get tired of seeing your Elvish archers kick some orc ass, then you can be Mordor 
 and see some orcs kick some Elvish ass. The tierd difficulty also allows for longer and more enjoyable 
 gameplay!
  
  A complaint would be the inhibility to select units when they are all in the same place.. it can 
 get a bit confusing but i'm just being picky. AI can be a bit illogical at times.. and frankly, 
 really annoying. But you just play it to your advantage and keep rolling in the good times!
  
  A class game that i will be playing for years!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics/Environment 10/10: Ever wonder what it would be like to recreate the battles of the LOTR 
 trilogy? Well of course their were the console games, and the original BFME, but the attention 
 to detail in this game far surpasses that of any LOTR game I have played to date. The map which 
 blew me the way the most was Minas Tirith. The detail to the city is incredible, making it one 
 of, if not the most impressive level/map I have seen in any RTS. The Ents, flying boulders from 
 catapults, arrows soaring through the sky, and the character graphics are all equipped with a great 
 sense of realism, which makes the game that much better.
  
  Sound/Music 10/10: Who doesn't love the LOTR movie trilogy music? Well if you don't you might want 
 to keep the sound off on menu screens. The soundtrack which I enjoy from the movies is ever present 
 in game and out which helps give you the LOTR feeling. The sounds range from roaring trolls, "whiffing" 
 arrows, the loud horn sounds that ring out when Saurons armies move out, and of course the clashing 
 of swords.
  
  Control 10/10: I'm an RTS fan so I'm used to the style of controls from games such as this, but 
 it won't take long even for a beginner to learn them. The controls are simple yet effective which 
 allows you to enjoy yourself when playing the game so you don't have to press numerous "hotkeys" 
 like some RTS' which takes away from the point of the game: To have fun.
  
  Online Gameplay 10/10: Ever want to play the classic LOTR battles with friends? Or maybe start 
 up a clan for some competition? Well now you can better then ever before which was attempted on 
 some console LOTR games. Playing online consists of three modes: Tournament, Open play, and "War 
 of the Ring". Tournament mode pits you up against another player (s) for a competitive match up, 
 which is then recorded on an EA ladder. My favorite mode, "open play" allows you to enjoy the fun 
 of playing with others while maintaining a competitive spirit. The final mode "War of the Ring" 
 allows for many different variables to be put into place for a competitive match up while trying 
 to "capture" the land you're fighting on.
  
  Offline/Story (campaign) 10/10: The interesting part of this game is the two different campaign 
 scenarios where you can either play as good or evil. Both story modes are fun and playing to defend 
 (or attack) the various Middle Earth worlds puts you in control of the fate of either side. Offline 
 skirmish mode and War of the Ring mode are worth buying the game even if you cannot get online. 
 The offline mode takes away the competition of playing online and gives you the freedom to enjoy 
 the LOTR battles against AI opponents, which allows you to experiment with the different abilities 
 of the various classes within the game.
  
  Overall 10/10: I will say I'm a big Lord of the Rings fan, and playing the epic battles in an outstanding 
 game in the many different places within Middle Earth has been enjoying for me thus far and I believe 
 it will continue to. If you like RTS games in general this is a must own, even if you are not a 
 fan of the LOTR trilogy, The Battle for Middle Earth II has so many great features it is a game 
 that should not be passed up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  During the battles of Middle-earth that were popularized in the three Lord of the Rings films, 
 there was much more going on. In his books, Tolkien wrote about much more than the adventures of 
 Frodo and Sam and the continued assaults on the fortifications of man. There were also many battles 
 in the northern areas of Middle-earth where Goblins, Dwarves and Elves fought vicious battles. 
 Battle for Middle-earth II focuses on this war in the north that went unseen in the movie trilogy.
 
  
  The new story is just one aspect of BFME II uniqueness. EALA also mixed up a lot of the single-player 
 gameplay. For starters, the three new factions: dwarves, elves and goblins, add a rich variety 
 to the gameplay. The former is slow-moving but very effective at close-range and has powerful long-range 
 siege weapons. The elves, as one would imagine, are extremely capable archers and one volley from 
 a battalion dawning silverthorn arrows leaves any enemy army hurting. The goblins are more akin 
 to Starcrafts Zerg where sheer numbers are used to overwhelm an enemy. But new armies arent the 
 only new tricks that the development team pulled out.
  
  Resource management has been heavily modified. Long-gone are the resource points that required 
 capturing and cut down on huge and expansive bases, instead relying on players to fortify multiple 
 strategic points on a map. Resources in Middle-earth II are instead derived from specific resource-gathering 
 structures like farms, mallorn trees or mines. These structures have a percentage that appears 
 above them before construction, which tells players how effective theyll be at gathering funds. 
 After being built any area around a resource structure becomes inefficient and forces players to 
 build another further away, therefore expanding the base and making players thin out their army.
 
  
  Easily-expandable walls with arrow tower, catapult, and gate upgrades make it easy to fence in 
 your ever-widening base but the ease at which all of your defensive structures are destroyed makes 
 them all show and no substance. Its nice to see an elaborate defense network but when one or two 
 rocks thrown by an angry troll bring it all down its hard to justify the costly investment. Instead 
 players are better off keeping a small, mobile army near their critical structures that can quickly 
 deal with the AIs attacks.
  
  But dont be mistaken, even on hard difficulty the AI never poses much of a serious threat. Trading 
 strategic tactics for repetitive rushes the AI will keep on sending the same units along the same 
 path which allows you to set up killing zones with your armies for them to walk in to. Errant path 
 finding also finds its way into your own soldiers causing some battalions to stay put when you 
 order them across the map. The same soldiers will stand absolutely still as theyre slowly whittled 
 away by an enemys archers or stone-chucking siege weapons. Isolated, these problems may cause 
 a headache or two but combine them and you have an experience that may turn some players away from 
 the game.
  
  The fact that Middle-earth II also has a stingy single-player campaign doesnt help matters. Each 
 faction, good and evil, has eight sequential missions which will take you from the Misty Mountains 
 to Mirkwood and back through Dol Guldur. The formula is nothing new and most of the campaign is 
 spent gathering enough resources to build a gigantic army to wipe out the enemy on the map. The 
 addition of a navy to the series is capitalized on in a number of missions and blends in nicely 
 with the rest of the action. There are transports, battleships that provide close-range support 
 and bombardment ships, which can take down fortifications in a matter of seconds.
  
  Another addition is the Create a Hero tool that gives you the chance to add heroes to any faction 
 of your choosing. From what you see in the game however its hard to imagine this idea as anything 
 more than a concept. Besides entering in a name and designating his or her army theres only a 
 few palettes of options for the appearance and clothing. Most flash-based Internet RPGs have more 
 depth than that and considering how prevalent character creation is in other EA games it seems 
 like the inclusion in Middle-earth II was an afterthought. There are some nifty powers you can 
 attach to your hero but even those dont flesh out very much.
  
  When you finish up the story, and it shouldnt take more than 10-15 hours, youll have the War 
 of the Ring mode to keep you going. It functions like any other top-down strategic board game similar 
 to that found in the Total War series or Cossacks II. You can use the three new factions or the 
 ones from the original BFME to achieve complete domination of Middle-earth. Each turn in War of 
 the Ring lets you construct buildings in a territory, shuffle troops around and invade neutral 
 or occupied lands. You get command point, resource, and unit bonuses for each territory captured 
 and larger enhancements when you conquer entire regions of the map. A battle-resolution system 
 lets you leave the smaller battles in the hands of the computer and frees up your time and effort 
 on the more important engagements.
  
  Part of the problem is that War of the Ring just feels like a series of skirmishes. Youre also 
 limited in only having as many invading armies as you have heroes. This is limiting if a larger 
 game is being played with say, five enemies. And after fighting a battle on a specific area of 
 the map any building that isnt represented on a building node is instantly destroyed along with 
 the majority of the army. It eliminates the cohesiveness of it all and doesnt really deliver the 
 massive army appeal that it advertises unless you build them up late in a game.
  
  As soon as you tire of the AI and the multiple single-player modes you can always take your hordes 
 online to dominate opponents. Both the classic multiplayer matches and War of the Ring campaigns 
 are available to play. We ran into some connectivity issues that booted us from matches but it 
 appeared to be isolated to just two of the dozens of matches we played. The net code seems stable 
 and lag wasnt really an issue.
  
  On the presentation side of things Battle for Middle-earth II definitely wont disappoint. There 
 have been some slight graphical improvements over the previous entry in the series and its most 
 noticeable in the shadows, particle effects, and the fact that battalions have more soldiers in 
 them this time around. The large-scale battles that were prevalent in the first game are a little 
 bigger in the sequel and they look just as nice. A series of scores inspired by the films provides 
 an excellent soundtrack to slay dragons and ents to. Some of the voice work is reprised from the 
 first game with excellent voiceovers for all the major heroes.
  
  EA took a risk by altering the core gameplay of the original BFME. While it could be argued for 
 better or worse, these changes make the sequel appeal to the more casual strategy fan. A few bugs 
 and a lackluster hero creation mode, however, dont change the fact that Battle for Middle-earth 
 II is a great real-time strategy game that is worth adding to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutthilr
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  I waiting for this version quite long time for playing it 1 day unlike previous version, ok graphic 
 look better but storyline in campaign mode too short 
  I facing many many thing are should not be suc as
  - When I use Bombard to target it still shoot 
 that target non stop even the enemies gone, I have go back to them and give new command.
  - Target cursor of special command very difficult to see in snowing ground.
  - The Archer, when 
 they try to pass the potern gate (in evil campaign) they struck at the gate. 
  - Goblin, they can climb the wall, But even I destroyed the wall they still climbing the wall next 
 to the part that I just destroy that make a waste time to reach the marked target.
  - In evil mode, i think map #3, Catapult of dwarven try to shoot the area have no enemy non stop.
 
  - White dargon very ugly, movement unlike black one. 
  
  I think that this version intended to multiplayer mode
  What I impress it is that my dual core 
 CPU is balanced load
  By over all in medium difficulty is more easy than previous version.
  and I don't know what the wall is use for, because I can victoriuos with out have it in my strategy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felofsymbology
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Best Lord of the Rings Game made. It is also the best war game i have ever played. this game keeps 
 you busy for weeks and there are so much things you will do. You will never get bored of this game! 
 There are campaign modes as well as online. There are tons of things you could do in gameplay such 
 as skill powers, heroes, units, and armies. There are some glitches since it just came out such 
 as an invincible troll at the last level (sucks) and very low freedom for a custom character. Custom 
 characters are awesome. They can get awards and they have records for everything they do! They 
 could work with the coloring of character and the different things you could do with one. Other 
 then that, this is a great game and is recommended for those RTS lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeapstab
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Great game! If you were disapointed with SW Empire at War, then this game is for you.
  
  Visually pleasing, great gameplay, and tons of game modes. You can build sweet bases with good 
 defenses (unlike Empire at war) . Creating your own hero is pretty sweet too. My only complaint 
 is long menu loads.
  
  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz  
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got BFME, the first one, about two, three weeks ago, and played through it. Before that 
 I was playing the demo for BFME 2, and was extremely excited to see how the game would turn out. 
 So far I have only played a little bit of the Good Campaign, and the War of the Ring mode a few 
 times, and also multiple skirmishes. What I have found is a challenging and very dynamic epic RTS 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is excellent and dynamic. I personally love the fact that this one, as apposed to 
 BFME, is free-form, in which you can build your bases however you want. It sticks more to the traditional 
 RTS building format rather than what was seen in the first BFME. The fighting is quite dynamic, 
 although sometimes units seem a little, stupid?? I dunno, like I have a couple battlions attack 
 a building and they don't swarm the building, they all try to attack it from the front, so I do 
 not get a maximum attack off on a building. Also, sometimes the created heros can seem quirky at 
 times. I dunno, its just weird. Like when my hero is in range to attack enemies, and I have him 
 aggressive he won't attack, whereas some of the other archer heroes will. Balance is perfect in 
 the game, although I do say that multiple battlions of Mirkwood archers w/ silverthorne arrows 
 is one of the most potent units in the game. But even they can be overwhelmed by cavalry charging 
 will catapults finish them. Each unit has a weakness, and it can be exploited easily if you are 
 not careful.
  
  The graphics are very very very impressive, definitely the best I have seen on an RTS to date. 
 The water is sooo purdy I love it. Unfortunately I have to turn down the shadows, but from screenshots, 
 and what I have heard from other guys w/ the game, they are very impressive.
  
  The sounds are also equally impressive. It's everything you would expect from LOTR. From the vibrant 
 world sounds, to the clang of battle, backed up by the Howard Shore score in the background. The 
 hero voices are very well done, for not having the actual actors. I love it :-D
  
  The value is endless. So many War of the Rings modes, and skirmishes endless, with two campaigns, 
 and online. This one is going to be on my now playing list for a longgggg time.
  
  I love this game, and anyone who loves epic RTS games should go out and buy this sucker right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicogrande
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I was attracted to this game purely on its visual, impressiveness in the LotR content. I was not 
 disappointed on this front. The visuals of the units, buildings, environs, spell effects, etc. 
 look fantastic. The fact that LotR music is in the game, and changes along with the mood of the 
 battle is a great touch. You feel like your fighting some epic battles alongside your movie heroes.
 
  
  Having played games like Warcraft, Starcraft, C&C, in the past, I had some expectations for what 
 core RTS games should have from here on out. Unless I'm missing something in the manual, I have 
 found no easy way to cycle through the various unit types in a numbered (created via cntr-#) squads. 
 I'm pretty much forced into creating unit specific squads just to command archers separate from 
 warriors and so on. 
  
  Hotkeys for unit creation are also important. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I've found the hotkeys 
 to create things, but have not found hotkeys which correspond to an actual building. I want to 
 be able to smack say the "B" key to bring up my barracks -- without changing the camera view mind 
 you -- and smack another key to create more warriors and such. This hot keyed building feature seems 
 missing... or perhaps just hard to find in the manual.
  
  Buildings seem to week against the standard "rabble" of foot troops. I can see how a gaggle of 
 pikeman can take down a farm, but smashing a wall, or destroying a tower in a few strokes? C'mon. 
 In other RTS games buildings are rock solid things that require siege to turn to rubble. In BFME 
 II just crank out a bunch of standard foot troops and go wild.
  
  I also find it hard to spot hero units. They are the same size, general appearance in some cases 
 as other units. In games like Warcraft, it's obvious that the hero is different. They have a glowing 
 aura below them. They are visually larger. I need this type of identification here.
  
  In summary, I really enjoy this game. It's visually appealing, although lag seems common during 
 the large scale fights that break out. The music is great. If you don't mind have to get crazy 
 with mousing around the place to select troops, engage abilities, and build units, then you'll 
 enjoy this. I could see how the die-hard RTS fan might be disappointed in this game, but for the 
 average player, they'll love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the funnest strategy game you can go out and buy. This and that starwars game 
 came out around the same time and I bought them both. This game is a geatter game by far. This 
 is not only the best looking strategy but it is one of the funnest. The game gives you little gifts 
 though out the game well. The buildings look pertty cool but the little goblins look like crap 
 if you are the red team. The creat your own hero is a really cool idea and there is some cool guys 
 to be made. The back grounds and levels were made too look beautiful and they do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Very good but not what I was expecting.
  
  The time I anticipated this game just wouldnt pass I was on about the release of the BFME II 
 for the last 3 months. My friends must have got sick of me talking about the game all the time! 
 The much anticipated time arrived and I went and got my own copy of the game, the very same day 
 it was released.
  After installing it I explored through it new features and felt exited. I made my own hero and 
 jumped into the game! After playing a couple of skirmish wars I concluded that this game isnt 
 a grade 10 game. It was missing some cool things that existed in the old version. Things like making 
 mixed squads, or walking on walls and more. All in all, the game is very good, but has a bad shadow 
 effect, especially on icy plains. Even though I enjoyed it while I played it, hasnt got what I 
 like to call a long lasting effect. Personally, I have stopped playing the game like I did at 
 the beginning. I now play it once, max twice a week and not any more. 
  If you havent played the Original, I think you will enjoy the second version more than I did!
 
  Thats all
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a BIG waste of time. After playing it I can seriously say that i wasn't motivated 
 at all to play it. I loved the lord of the rings return of the king third person view game. It 
 was so much fun & a game like this which has a great movie to back it up should have been made 
 in a completely different way & not as a RTS but as third person adventure like LORT Return of 
 the knig game with huge battles like rome total war where you play in third person view in a huge 
 battle around you or something, with huge 3D landscapes of different regions of revendell, rohan 
 etc. where you can ride a horse, fight massive armies in 3D & most importantly control a hero from 
 the movie & the game should follow the movie story. I'm very dissappointed with this game. Please 
 save your money for charity cause this game sucks. EA please make better games which are fun there's 
 a lot of different ideas you could have done for a game like LOTR like 3rd person view with horse 
 back riding & massive battles it cold have been a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akdoc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I buy a ton of games, I love strategy games and after the PEOPLE reviews I got this one. What an 
 truly great game. I hope to see an expansion that will tweak some if the critics problems but overall 
 it is one of the best real time strategies in a LONG time (brood wars anyone) .
  The graphic are really special for this game. The giants will knock people off their horses but 
 that wont necessarily kill them. They get back on and fight more or can run away. It ads realism 
 unmatched in graphics previously. The game runs flawlessly on my CPU although I am running quite 
 a PC now. AMD64x2 with 4 gig ram, 10Krpm HD, and SLI on 2 6800GS cards. I would like support of 
 1920x1200 although running at 1600x1200 it does not look distorted?
  Anyhow, back to the game. The campaign did get boring quickly, I may never finish it. However the 
 Lord of the Ring mode playing battles in real time will make for many months of fun as hard as 
 you like it. I have now played over 20hours and notice strategy changes between the different AI 
 levels quite significantly.
  I have felt pessimistic rating games so low lately, glad to find one that is really good. People 
 reviews are just as good as the professional ones. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangewouter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  When i was choosing to buy this game or not to, i took in all the negatives that people had to 
 say about it. I decided to buy it, and i am very happy i made the right choice. The demo may put 
 you off some what but when you get the game you can actually see that it is quite different. I 
 do agree that the AI can be pretty stupid sometimes, walking past your incoming army and going 
 for your resources or barracks, but apart from that you can see that EA have spend quite some time 
 improving other things. The maps look great, the new factions make the game more fun. The graphics 
 have also improved somewhat and the new water mode allows for brand new combat. The campaign might 
 be a little short but if you are a person who likes skirmish better, then you will be satisfied. 
 The new War of the Ring mode looks great and adds to the fun as if you get bored of one mode, try 
 the next. The new Create a Hero mode is fun but if you are expecting to go into huge amount of 
 detail you will be disappointed. The mode only allows for the basics such as race, gender, armor 
 and weapons and attributes but it is still enjoyable to see your own hero fight against the enemy. 
 Overall, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordof_therings
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have ever played. great gamplay great graphics great sound and great value. if 
 you want a great lord of the rings game this is it! relive the amazing battle between good and 
 evil for middle earth. I never got the first game but i know that the second is the best game i 
 have ever played. it is a great battle. you get your troops in battalions and you can have as many 
 as you want. Another thing that is so great is that you can make your own heroes with custom looks, 
 stats and powers. their are many races you can choose from including elves, men of the west, dwarves, 
 isengard, goblins and mordor. Also you can get sauron. it is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game got good feeling and style but the thing that I think that they could done better is 
 the graphic its almost the same as the first one but it got other great thing that iam not gonna 
 tell you about buy it and play it then youll know of what I was talking about.
  
  There are many new things which it very so the game doesnt feel like the first one.
  
  Mabye 
 little short sometime I think but that is your own choice to decide no me.
  
  Well if you liked the first one buy this one Ill promise you that youll like it well worth the 
 money.
  
  :)
  
  :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fadli28
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This games seems to be very good cause there are plenty of item in iy.. also, the grephics is awesome.. something 
 that my pc cannot handle for high setting... then how about ultra high... sigh!! i need to upgrade 
 my pc for sure cause i'm a true gamers so money doesn't matter for gamers... right? 
  This games can drives gamers crazy because of power consuming both for processor, memory and graphics 
 card.... then to said the truth, this game is far more better than battle for middle earth part 
 1. however, i dont play a games with low or medium setting... this game really make me sick cause 
 need to upgrade all components for my PC to play it, then it seems that i have no choice but to 
 upgrade My PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Not being a realtime strategy game player in general, I picked this game up with some trepidation. 
 I admit -- my longtime membership in Tolkien fandom overcame my dislike for the frantic RTS genre.
 
  
  I was pleasantly surprised by the game. First, for Tolkien fans, the game does a decent job of 
 translating the world of Middle Earth into an enjoyable game experience. The graphics are crisp 
 and beautiful in that RTS-kind of way. It was wonderful to see hundreds of Orcs swarming on the 
 screen.
  
  The single-player campaign seemed disjointed, and it might have been more interesting to feel a 
 continuity from one part to the next. Without more continuity, you lose the epic feel of Tolkien's 
 world, and it pulls you out of the game world. Still, the missions were interesting, and sometimes 
 challenging, but still fairly standard. Hero units were great -- I loved being able to see my favorite 
 characters on the battlefield. But this game isn't offering much new for the genre other than the 
 Tolkien mythology. Multiplayer, however, was excellent -- and the game provides a great number of 
 options, and makes it easy to find a game.
  
  Some voice work and music (and art direction) was carried over from the movies, which was highly 
 enjoyable. What would have merely been another well-made RTS benefits exponentially from this.
 
  
  Overall, a good game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjendal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  It's a really good game and the graphics ar good! the sound is perfect you can choose so manny 
 things ORKS ELFS DWARFS and the land i beutiful.
  I like the hero creation part its a fun addon that they make.
  Ilove this game i played more 
 then 60 hours with it its almost so good that i won't go to take a pee or eat :-)
  But ilove it.
  O yea i must not forget the great AI!!
  
  It's a really good game and the 
 graphics ar good! the sound is perfect you can choose so manny things ORKS ELFS DWARFS and the 
 land i beutiful.
  I like the hero creation part its a fun addon that they make.
  Ilove this game i played more then 60 hours with it its almost so good that i won't go to take 
 a pee or eat :-)
  But ilove it.
  O yea i must not forget the great AI!!
  
  GOOD JOB!!!
  
  GREETZZ NICK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game have some great feature in it and some poor feature in it. I like the way the war of 
 the ring plays and stuff, its really a worthy game to stock up.
  
  Gameplay is similar to most other RTS game, you get a base and you build troops and you kill each 
 other. The unit comes out in packs of 5+ so you will get a massive army in a minute and start a 
 battle. Interesting thing is each race unit are design nicely and act like they use to in the movie.
 
  
  War of the ring is like a board game in computer, like risk, you start out with hero of your race 
 and a piece of land, you capture land with your hero and the land can create building which give 
 you bonus to your empire. 
  
  Graphic vary depend on your machine, the best is very nice and the worst is very very crappy. When 
 massive army fights, the frame rate drops if your setting is high.
  
  Sound is nice, all from the movie.
  
  Overall is a good game, you get a DVD instead of 2 CD. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandersleid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  We wants it, we wants the precious, and this game is the precious. Awesome finally more than just 
 the basic units, kick ass game, kick ass. Definently the game of my choice any day any time. Love 
 the races, love the gameplay, love the graphics, love the sound, damn i just love the game haha, 
 buy it hands down worth 50 dollars. Recomend it to anyone any day and time. Walk to your local 
 walmart right now.
  Im just adding words to get 100 and i think its working. So here are some more words, and more 
 and more and more and more and finally way way way more words. Woo hoo this is fun.
  Long live BFME II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammstein01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The reason why I give this game 9.5 is because it simply is an awesome game. Ive been waiting for 
 this one since the original Battle for Middle Earth and I can say I am really pleased with it (also 
 because im a huge LOTR fan) . There is so much game time to be enjoyed with this one, War of the 
 Ring is a mode than can last weeks while you battle it out on the map.
  
  The campaign mode great, like in BFME you get to choose whether you want to play good or evil. 
 It was good to see all the characters from the books added to the game and to see the elves having 
 their own faction. Unlike BFME, the campaign mode is now just missions and there is no more map, 
 instead the map is included in the War of the Ring mode where you can fight on the middle earth 
 map with armies and enter real-time battles. There is also skirmish where you can just choose to 
 enter a battle
  
  It was good to see loads of new units in the game and also being able to take good use of the raised 
 population cap, so the battles are even bigger and better. Loads of new powers are available which 
 make you want to prolong the battle so you can summon the dragon or balrog into it. 
  
  The Multiplayer is great. I enjoyed so many hours playing BFME online, with BFME 2 it is even better. 
 There are no restrictions on the maps anymore, so you can build where you want, this makes it all 
 the more fun in multiplayer because in BFME you knew where the enemies base would be, this time 
 it will take a little more tactics and strategy to win.
  
  Graphics: Brilliant, everything is animated well.
  Sound: Fine, just what you would expect from 
 a LOTR game.
  Overall this game was absolutely worth the wait and any fan of lord of the rings and strategy games 
 should pick this one up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloguy85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The good: Great graphics especially water effects, better sides to choose from, custom heros are fun 
 to create and play with in the game, multiplayer is really fun to do, not much lag in multiplayer.
 
  
  The bad: Easy computers seem like they should be semi easy, medium seems to be hard, and hard seems 
 to be very hard, not enouph different types of units for some sides, some custom heros can be over 
 powerd.
  
  BMFE2 is a great game with really good multiplayer. In mulytiplayer most people find the 2vs2 the 
 best games and i agree. Your teamed up with another dude and u go crazy and build a huge army or 
 u rush. The bad and the good pretty much told you everything. And when u spawn souron ur unstopible: to 
 get souron get the ring and spend 10000 resources on him to get him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcb50
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game does justice for ea games once again, a truely addictive and awesome game!! i've been 
 playin it for ages now and it just doesn't get boring, the men of the west rule!! the graphics 
 are brilliant and the value is truelly stupendous, you just never run out of things to do on the 
 game!! sound is great and it just gives you a better idea of the other battles that were played 
 out in the books and the new factions was a really neat little touch.
  
  if you slightly enoyed the 1st game you will truely love this one, Own middle earth for good..... Buy 
 it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroundBomber
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I heard so many about BFME 1 that it was great, great units, upgrades, battles, etc... never had the 
 chance to test it because i had too bad pc as for now i have much better pc then i had not the 
 best less then medium pc since my low budget and i high prices of intel (didn't hear about AMD... 
 but it's another subject) my PC specs: Pentium 4 2.0GHZ, 512MB, Radeon 9550 128 bit 256 mb, win 
 xp sp2, realtek ac97 sound card...
  I bought BFMEII and my first impression was "OMG, i think they gave me 3 games instead of one", 
 today i played it 6 hours and didn't get boring that game rocks.. especially the different upgrades, units, 
 ships (my most favorite is Water Storm ship) and the Sage engine gone under a lot of improvments 
 to fit the large unit support, my pc support till 1000 without any noticeable slowdown, so overall 
 if you like startegy games and want to have fun and really good gameplay take the battle for the 
 middle earth into ur hands!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DdoggJr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is great but the graphics are horriable in my opionion other than that i loved this game 
 the gameplay is awesome but the thing i hated the most was that the ai were sooo bad and the units 
 sucked. The heros were fantastic and how u can get the ring and bring out Sauron and Galadrial. 
 The new factions are great altho i dident like the goblins as much as i liked all of the other 
 factions. But i think putting Rohan and Gondor together wasent a good idea not so much. If you 
 are into the lord of the rings this game is a must have to add to your list of games. Over all 
 great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I may not have played the first Battle For Middle Earth but that doesn't matter. This game is the 
 best strategic game I have ever played. The detail included is unbelievable, characters from the 
 movie and books make appearance and the voice acting sounds extremely similar. Then there is the 
 scale of it, if you ask for one Uruk you get about 20, it's great. The bases are amazing, playing 
 with the tower of Isengard as your base is soooo cool. The upgrades are great, it can take around 
 30 minutes to get the best army ever but still can be upgraded. The modes, skirmish and the two 
 campaigns are good, with online multiplayer to spice things up a bit, I'm not too sure about War 
 Of The Ring, a kind of risk game, it's kinda bad. But besides this one mode the rest of the game 
 is a corker, the pure adrenaline from building an army of over 1000 units and sending them to war 
 and being able to see the carnage in it's great 3D splendour is agzilerating. The musical score 
 of the film is there and with good tutorial you'll fighting against the enemy in no time. Two huge 
 thumbs up to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krataurion
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  In the first game you were not able to build units that could counter another unit perfectly which 
 makes all the civilizations feel a little bland with subtle differences. Also the powers in this 
 are way to powerful so the game just feels like a battle for the powers. Lastly to put the cherry 
 on top of it, there are so many heros in this game that you lose your bond with them unlike in 
 the first one where you could have a favorite hero. If your really looking for a good stratagire 
 game then I'd suggest Empire at war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knofou
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  If you have played the first game you will find a few surprises. Archers with flaming arrows are 
 no longer god armies, cavalry and infantry are fun to play also and you need a well balanced army. 
 Same goes for heroes, they are still strong but do not win the battles by themselves. 
  Some people might not like the new build method where you can build anywhere on the map and resource 
 collectors like farms and mines and slaughter houses must be away from each other for maximum gain. 
 This leads away from the usual strategy of building up your defences while hiding behind walls 
 and then attacking with a huge army to wipe the enemy, you now have more territory to protect.
 
  Naval battles are a nice addition although you do not get to play much with them. Bombard ships 
 are overpowered if you control the seas and the enemy structures are near the shore.
  The campaigns are nice but what adds to the game is the war of the ring which can be played like 
 a risk game or you can fight the battles like regular maps, although you usually end up auto resolving 
 fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Well its safe to say that LOTR battle for middle earth 2 is a lot better then the first LOTR battle 
 for middle earth, its has so much more things in it and you can do a lot more as you can imagine. 
 This game is much more stratigic then the first and is harder when it comes to fighting against 
 the computer. The tutorials are a lot more helpful and it is eaier to get used to the gameplay 
 then the first battle for middle earth. They have just added so much more then the first gameweather 
 it is more passive powers or just more things to build, the game has been improved a great deal. 
 They have a new thing called war of the ring which takes players to a different part of gaming 
 when it comes to battle for middle earth and they can experiance a new way to rule over middle 
 earth. The gameplay is fantastic and the graphics are very impresive compared to other stratergy 
 games. One of the best things that they added that i thought wa really cool was the ew featrue 
 of being able to make your own hero for all races and being able to play as the heros you created 
 in skermish and for online play, it gives you the freedom to play as someone not from any LOTR 
 movie or game its someone you have created and given a name, you could even call your hero by your 
 name so that you the haro and i find that realy cool nd i nice new feature to the game. The only 
 2 things that i did not especially like is the online play, it is still very good but the way they 
 set out the server is a bit more confusing then the first game and and it is not has easy to get 
 around the servers. The other thing is the campain i dissapointed to finish the campain so soon, 
 it only has 8 levels for both the good and evil side. In the first battle for middle earth there 
 was a lot more levels, there was at least 20 levels and you get into the game and the story and 
 the you finish the game so quickly and its over, i didnt like that. Shore the levels you play in 
 campain are really good but there wasnt enough levels. All in all the game worth buying but it 
 would be a lot better of a buy if there were more levels in campain and that the multiplayer server 
 isnt so confusing. But other wise everything else is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webcamera
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth was a game I enjoyed playing, even though my 
 PC almost couldn't run it at the time.
  Now, a year and a new pc later, I'm addicted. And not to some kind of hallucinative goods, but 
 to the game's sequel, The Battle for Middle-Earth 2.
  About the game, it opens with a familiar trailer, probably the first Middle-Earth 2 trailer EA 
 made. After that, the menu opens, and you can start playing.
  
  First, we have the Tutorial Campaign, which hopefully needs no explanation. Secondly, you have 
 the Single-Player portion of the game, consisting out of the both Good and Evil Campaign, the familiar 
 Skirmish, and the new War of the Ring mode. The game also has an online portion, and the really 
 cool "Create a Hero" feature. In this last feature you can - ofcourse - create your own heroes, 
 and use them in your battles against the rest of Middle-Earth. I don't need to tell you that it 
 is pretty fun to see your Custom Hero shoot a few Goblins or Dwarves up in the air...
  
  The game has amazing graphics. I doubt if they reach the "Age of Empires 3" kind of beauty, but 
 they're close. 
  This game features a breath-taking soundtrack, pretty much taken from the Lord of the Rings Trilogy. 
 There's no shame in that, though, since Howard Shore really did a good job on the music used in 
 this famous trilogy.
  
  I really enjoy playing this game, and I bet I will until something better comes along. And such 
 a game will be pretty hard to make... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  This game has been improved from what we had saw of its part 1 graphics. The game has nicely improved 
 graphics to fit its theme allowing you to see effects and your forces nicely without problems. 
 The game does have the same basic buildings from part one but also has some new ones such as allowing 
 you to build the walls of your base instead of as it was before having a base already made for 
 you basicly. 
  
  The game also has more races to pick and fight with such as for the good side elves and dwarfs...... ya 
 I love to fight big elephants with little short guys with axes. The evil also gets gobins as its 
 new side kick. 
  
  Each side has new the ability to build walls and gates and other objects to wait the war. Also 
 each side has the ability to get special skills such as for example calling in the eagles to fight 
 those evil air units that we all hate. Also both sides get the chance to get the ring.... yes the 
 ring and use its power to your advantage but watch out the enemy can do the same and beat you down 
 with the ring if they get it first.
  
  The single has been done nicely adding a nice story to it and filling in the holes from the movies 
 such as did the elves ever get attacked? And how did the dwarfs lose their home etc. The game also 
 has new war of the ring mode which allows you to pick your side and where to start on the map and 
 to play an all out conquest of your choosing either have it where you have to take over the land 
 or have it where you have to take the special places such as helms deep.... The game also introduces 
 custom heros which you can make and use but only on war of the rings or skimirsh, not sure about 
 single player but then again i haven't beaten the game yet....
  
  The downfall is the game doesn't let you build walls that allows you to place men on them such 
 as archers to help defend your base... There are some others such as no build limit ..... we all 
 hate having small armies.... not like rome where you can build an army of a million men and battle 
 to the death with them all but aleast something that will have a large scale battle allowing all 
 units to come to play instead of a small hand full to fit the limit.
  
  The limit has been increased though for units and has you building farms and other things to increase 
 it so far 1000 is the max i have seen. But then again mods will come to play and fix this.
  
  Overall GREAT GAME AND MAKES YOU WANT TO PLAY MORE. If you have part 1 then get this, and if 
 your just looking for some fun RTS then this a game you should try and hope to enjoy because i 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterEmil
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  its like ive already played this one (number 1) but they have sertanly improved the graphics i 
 like seeing a man fly away when a Catapult hit him. And when they die but the sound is like a bad 
 English accent it does not sound real only like a real English Man and everyone sounds the same... 
 and it took me 5 Hours to make it trough the game, ifyou havent played number one buy it if you 
 have played number this is only some new Stories and Missions and better Graphic and no new sound. 
 but if you loved the books buy the game and play it i think it was okay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukaneus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Well i bought the game recently and i think i have only scratched the ice berg after 2 days of 
 gaming. I'm not found on the campaign. But the create a hero aspect really gives it an edge. Skirmishes 
 the same with a few exciting feathures. Takes a bit to get used to it but its more or less the 
 same as any other rts game.
  Overall its a good game to buy if you have a bit of spair change and if you are really bored and 
 want a game to pass a few hours get it.
  
  O i forgot the multiplayer in my opinion is the best bit even though i love playing online so much 
 i would say it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Versatilenum111
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Must buy for an rts fan and or lotr fan on top of that. Look i own countless games including wow 
 and this is the only game that has taking me away from wow and like others have said im losing 
 sleep over this game. I own a 6800 gt and it pushes the card with sweet graphics that made me cry 
 tears of joy. The a. i. rules. The timing rules. The scripting. Several modes ranging from war of the 
 ring which takes on such games as risk and civ 4 in ways. I will just simply put it like this if 
 gamespot's reviewer says that the single play good and bad campaigns are the worst part and i was 
 losing sleep and drooling in utter gaming joy over those parts alone then bring on the better parts 
 so i can die a happy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharon98
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  
  Yay! You no longer have to sacrifice units to enable unit upgrades. That was the only peeve I had 
 with the first game.
  
  This game moves at a faster pace with the objectives constantly being updated. The new free-form 
 fortress building and the scattering of resources drastically changes how you play the game (unless 
 you like losing) . On BFME 1, I could play through each mission at medium difficulty and win on 
 first attempt; this time, not so much.
  
  The ability to combine different unit types has been taken away, and I miss it. On the plus side, 
 you don't have to build a certain number of unit for the barracks/stable/archery range to level 
 up; you just pay for the building level with resources. And the number of troops doesn't have a 
 fixed limit anymore.
  
  The towers are too fragile! And so are the farms and mallorn trees. I'm hoping for a patch that 
 will change that.
  
  The ability to move troops via tunnels is a great feature (when you're the one doing it) . 
  
 
  Graphics-wise the scenery is beautiful, but the new units don't look as polished as the ones found 
 in the original game. The music is good and blends well with original Howard Shore tracks.
  
  I bought the Collector's Edition, but I haven't played to the point of building/summoning my 
 own dragon. Something to look forward to.
  
  Overall, I like this game. Once I get used to the changes, I'll probably love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooldude22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth was a great strategy game, which used the lord 
 of the rings license to its full potential, and delivered a great game which was great fun online. 
 The sequel has been hyped for many months, but does it live up to the hype?
  
  The Answer? Yes and No. Some positives to mention about the game includes the fact that it boasts 
 tons of new features, including the much anticipated build anywhere , which replaces the build 
 slots from the first game, and enables the player to customise their own base more. The game also 
 introduces 3 new armies, the elves, the goblins and the dwarves, whilst merging Gondor and Rohan, 
 which now gives you a choice of 6 armies at your disposal. The game also features a brand new mode, 
 called War of the Ring, which is a turn based strategy game, in which you fight your opponent to 
 conquer all of Middle Earth. This is a great new addition, but various bugs can prevent it from 
 playing out smoothly. The game's Create a Hero feature is a welcome addition, but a bit disappointing 
 in the way that you don't actually get to customise your hero all that much, and that your character 
 will look similar to most people's heroes online.
  
  The games multiplayer is one of its strongest points. That is, if you can get into a game. The 
 multiplayer issues from the first game are back to cause chaos in the second game, and although 
 the multiplayer now supports a full messenger system and friend features, it would have been nice 
 to sort the technical issues first. Map choices aren't as varied as the first game, and the AI 
 can struggle in some of the maps such as Minas Tirith, where the Ai doesn't know how to close a 
 door, even on the hardest setting. Taking all this into account though, online matches run at a 
 much smoother frame rate, and war of the ring can be a blast online. The Good and Evil campaigns 
 are great fun, but they almost feel like an extended tutorial, showing you how to build bases and 
 organise an attack. Similar to the first game, they won't take you very long either.
  
  The Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle earth 2 is a great game, and it appeals much more to rts 
 veterans than the first game, but certain technical issues and game features prevent this game 
 from reaching its full potential, and being the game it was hyped to be. A bit disappointing really 
 all things taken into consideration. But if you were a fan of the first game, or if you are a fan 
 of lord of the rings at all, then you should at least give it a try, as it will provide you with 
 hours of fun. But there are much better Real-time strategy games available on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naterb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Game lacks in its campaign mode what the first game did. (Variability) . But the War of the RIng 
 mode is great! It's like playing risk of the old days. Your review got that right on the dot. I 
 wish they would have expanded even more on this mode and left out all the code for the Campaigns. 
 This type of gameplay can create all sorts of problems and nuances to work with. Also the inclusion 
 of Sea Warfare was nice but what about being able to move troops via ships around the whole of 
 Middle earth. I suppose that would involve multiple turn based movement but so what. Let's all 
 say "Middle Earth: Total War". Maybe in the future there could be a version III which eliminates 
 all the nonsense of the Campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alifaizan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  this game is based on a movie by (peter jackson) . as the movie was great so the game offer u a solid 
 game play and great grafix .and if u spend time in playing this game u will feel really that ur 
 in the world of middle earth. this time the middle earth offer u so many great features and all 
 new places and all new maps to play but one main feature of the game is that free rooming for creating 
 buildings and this time its offer large numbers of battle .with all new powers and all new heroes 
 to play. one new and great thing is that u can create ur own hero which is great new feature to 
 play the game. as finally i just wanna say that this game is great to play an ur time spend good 
 in this game. and its my 1st review so there must be mistake in it .but i tell u one thing that 
 this game is really great to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  First of all I like its uncomplicated system to build up your castle. You don't need a lot of different 
 kind of resources and you got a list of buildings to choose from.
  When the enemy demolished my walls I didn't see any fast way to build it up again but I had to 
 tear it down first and then build it up again. The buildings "self heal" but not very fast.
  It is important not to forget the builders role when your castle is under siege. Let them run around 
 and put out buildings on fire.
  
  Close and easily accessible action is a good mark for this game. Instead of building up your army 
 man by man you directly get a smaller group of men (dwarfs, elf or whatever you prefer) . This makes 
 the sight over the battlegrounds magnificent with big and wide groups of different professions 
 and species.
  
  Fast strategic games where you need to be everywhere at once (e. g. StarCraft) have never been my 
 sort. I suppose it has to do with that age thing.
  This feels more like a "think through" game. If you want to, you will find the time to build up 
 your castle and armies. The enemy will come fairly soon but in smaller groups that you shouldn't 
 have to hard to ward off.
  
  The enemy AI feels powerful. If you build a wall, the enemies will go around. Not the goblins though. 
 They will just climb over your walls.
  
  This is a game a definitely want to experience more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  I played the original and liked it very much, but i felt limited because the original (battle for 
 middle earth) only focused on the movies and it was very cool and all but i wanted to play the 
 dwaves and elves (especially the elves!) . This game delivers on this with more, giving you a total 
 of six factions to choose from: men of the west (Gondor combined with rohan, and mostly gondor 
 units with one or two rohan units) , golblins (weak units like modor but with giant spider calvalry 
 and mountain giants, plus most units of this faction can bypass castle wall altogether by climbing 
 over) , modor and isengard (nope..... not doing it, no explaining this time pretty self explanitory. 
 if you watch the movies or played the original game-not much has changed) , and dwaves (short men.... you 
 know what i'm talking about...... they have axe throwers and advanced siege weapons, pike men axe 
 men, as well as tunnel networks to get around to map fast) , and last but not least the elves (best 
 archers around, strong infantry and pike men with eagles and ents as well as elvish calvalry) . 
 
  
  this game also includes extra heroes not mentioned in the movies, which was the hole pt of making 
 this game (to bring in all the extra material from the books you didn't see in the movies) . The 
 story of the good campaign so far is interesting but sometimes corny, but it fills you in on what 
 happened in the north during frodos quest (listen if the word frodo doesn't ring a bell forget 
 it, go to blockbuster and rent the movies or go to barnes in noble and buy the frackin book, quit 
 wasting my time) . 
  
  Plus the war of the ring mode is pretty cool if not very simplistic, you can choose from many rules 
 and defaulted settings/scenarios and you play to counquer middle earth (the whole map, not just 
 what was in the movies) . You build units on the strategic map (and yes there is a pop cap, depending 
 on how many pop cap increaser building youve built on you territories-there is 2 build "plots" 
 max per territory) , and you get to decide which races are participating in this scenario and who 
 is allied with who, and most importantly where each race starts on the map. And when you enter 
 a battle on the strategic map you either auto resolve it, retreat, or battle it in real time like 
 any skirmish only what units are in your defending or attacking army are availble at the start 
 so you can rush the enemy with you fully upgraded army without spending a half an hour creating 
 it from scratch. theres online multiplayer, etc. (its a solid game) . And now you can build anywhere 
 on the map, no limitations-yey.
  My only major beef with the game is that the walls are easy to destroy (low health bar) and that 
 means walls are only necesary to keep out a small attacking force (which you archer towers should 
 be able to handle) while you main army is away from you home base kicking a**. So wall building 
 feels unnecessary, and something that could have been a truly strategic part of the game. well 
 thats it, thanks for reading, heres your reward, it has a few meanings, tell me what you think 
 it means:
  
  "two men walk into a bar, the first orders a scotch and soda, the second remembers something he'd 
 forgotten, and it doubles him over with pain. He falls to the floor shaking, and then through the 
 floor and into the earth. He looks back up at the first man but he doesn't cry out to him...... 
 their not that close" -weasely -angel
  
  Hampton2003007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original LOTR: Battle for Middle-Earth, but have plenty of RTS experience, including 
 the WarCraft/StarCraft series, Command & Conquer, Rise of Nations, etc. Battle for Middle-Earth 
 II stacks up pretty well by comparison.
  
  Getting straight to the gameplay, BFME2 has 6 different factions to choose from, 3 of which are 
 good, and 3 that are evil. I haven't spent equal time with each of them, but they all have their 
 merits. Everyone gets footmen, archers, and catapults, Mordor and goblins get huge trolls, dwarves 
 get battle wagons, men get horses and more defensive structures, and so on.
  
  Units have rock/paper/scissors type weakness against certain types of units, like archers are strong 
 against monsters, horsemen are strong against archers, pikemen are strong against horsemen. The 
 unit type advantages are generally pretty significant, but not so much that a disadvantaged unit 
 type does absolutely no damage. At the same time, BFME2 doesn't seem to require nearly as much 
 micromanagement in battle as some other RTS games. This is largely due to the effective use of 
 formations in the game. Horsemen and footmen tend to automatically form the front lines of your 
 army, while archers bring up the rear and rain arrows down on their foes.
  
  Effective management in battle can still make a big difference, however. Rather than waiting for 
 horsemen to break through the enemies front line, you may choose to have a unit group swing around 
 to the side and crash through enemy archers, for example. Additionally, you get special powers 
 for your army that can be used peridically, similar to the General powers from C&C: Generals. Hero 
 units also gain powers as their experience increases, much like in WarCraft III. Effective use 
 of these powers can make a huge difference in how a battle goes.
  
  The hero creation system in BFME2 is pretty cool. I agree with Gamespot's complaint that it's disappointing 
 that you don't get many options regarding your hero's physical appearance, however you don't play 
 the game zoomed in much anyway, and the main focus is the selection of hero abilities/powers.
 
  
  Each hero type gets 10 points they can allocate into a selection list of about 15 different powers. 
 Initially you can only spend your first two hero points on about 6 different powers, at which point 
 you can spend your next 3 points in an additional 6 or so powers. Another set opens up at the 6th 
 point, and there are some powers than can only be purchased with your 10th power point. You can 
 only have a total of 6 different powers, though, so some of these points will need to be spent 
 on upgraded versions of a power you already purchased.
  
  Available hero powers vary depending on the hero class you choose, which determines what factions 
 the hero can fight for. Powers range from wizard fireballs and lighting bolts to temporary x2 damage/armor 
 bonuses for sword fighters. Some abilities are passive auras, similar to paladin auras in WarCraft. 
 One of these increases the damage and armor of nearby friendly units by 50%, while also providing 
 increases to earned experience. Overall, the powers can make a big difference and are pretty fun 
 to use.
  
  In the game, once you build/purchase your hero unit at the main base, he/she starts at level one. 
 By killing enemy units for experience, the hero will slowly unlock the abilities you designed them 
 with. When you start a game, you can choose one of your custom heroes to be available, limiting 
 you to only a single customized hero in the actual game. However, you can still build additional 
 LOTR heroes like Aragorn or Gandolf to fight alongside your custom hero.
  
  In addition to skirmish mode and the single player campaigns, there is the War of the Ring mode. 
 For the most part, this serves as a wrapper for the RTS battles. It doesn't really become a game 
 by itself, the way Star Wars: Empire at War tries to, and instead keeps the focus the RTS game. 
 That said, the units and structures you move around the world map make a big difference. If you 
 bring a small army with you while the enemy has next to nothing, you can forgo building up a large 
 town and instead rush the enemy before they can get any defenses up. Conversely, if you are being 
 attacked in an area where you have a fortress built, you'll start with one when the game begins, 
 providing a significant advantage depending on how you play.
  
  As far as LOTR, BFME2 does a really good job of capturing the environment. All of the maps are 
 based on familar areas, like Isengard, the Gap of Rohan, Mirkwood, etc. Likewise, watching a group 
 of 20 horsemen crash into a battalion of archers brings back memories of the battles fought in 
 the movies. The music is well chosen, and the sounds feel like they were pulled out the movie (and 
 done so quite well) . When you have heroes like Aragorn in your army, he will occasionally speak 
 lines pulled from the movie. None of this feels overused, and the game is pretty smart about the 
 context in which they are used.
  
  Overall, I think BFME2 is a great game. It has some really solid gameplay, and doesn't feel as 
 much a frantic click-fest as other games like WarCraft III, which tends to require lots of micromanagement. 
 Instead, it's strategy that tends to make the difference, and that should really be the focus of 
 an RTS game anyway. Everything just flows well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisesparza
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, when i started playing BFME2 i thought that the AI was incredible. But now, after playing 
 a little while longer, i can tell that there are some small flaws in it. The main thing that is 
 kind of disappointing is that when you start off on a new skirmish or what-have you, you can build 
 a wall, anywhere, and your enemy attacks it... at first i was like, "holy crap!," but now i have 
 learned to exploit the computers need to attack walls by just building a wall away from my buildings 
 and putting some towers to pick off the little boogers, this helps at first by relieving the pressure 
 the first few waves of attacks and gives you time to build up your resources and army. (85% of 
 the time anyways) .
  
  I must say though, that this is by far my favorite RTS ever. They have improved the original and 
 even though the "Create-A-Character" isn't as good as i had hoped, it still Rocks My Socks Off. 
 But the true gem of this new version of BFME is the addition of the "War of the Ring." Its like 
 playing risk with Middle Earth! And even if you think you have the AI figured out, try playing 
 a few enemies at the same time and its...
  "how do you say, ah yes... AWESOME!"
  
  PS. One other note, i love the fact that you don't have to build a little cookie cutter city like 
 on the first BFME. I like being able to engulf myself in middle earth and put building anywhere 
 i want. this is really an improvement!
  
  Thanks EA, you did something really really right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Unlike BFME1 where the creators promised all hosts of features that would never exist come the 
 release of the game, BFME2 actually delivers!
  
  BFME2 is a game of real-time strategy combined with a RISK-like campaign map. And while the regions 
 to control are fewer than in some other games, there are still enough to make things interesting.
 
  
  I find myself very addicted to this game because of it's trueness to the Lord of the Rings and 
 also because of it's Age of Empires-esq approach to battles.
  
  While this game is not nearly as good as it could be, the developers of the game put an effort 
 this time into creating some of the features that they promised in BFME1.
  
  The multiplayer is also great in this game, and you are able to create your own custom hero to 
 fight with online or against CPUs. Good game. Definitely worth the wait and price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WerewolfRebel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  More of the same that's what i think, i was especting something better in graphics and gameplay, 
 but it's not. I don't like the way we start i prefer lotr: md 1 the fortifocations and calstles 
 are much more beautifull and easy to start the game, and are more fun to destroy. The story weel 
 it's normal good and not good normal. Has for the war of the ring mode, it's a little bit sloopy 
 to start everything over and over it's boring. So if you ask me the first one due to the time that 
 was made is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I never played the prequel to this RTS game.
  I'm also no fan of the LOTR / Tolkien stories but I do like RTS games.
  And especially when the 
 presentation is good.
  And the presentation of BFME2 is one of the best I've ever seen.
  
  Thats mainly because of the great work EALA has done in terms of graphic, animation and sound.
 
  But that aside you will soon come to the not so good sides of the game.
  Since I've played a lot of CnC Generals Zero Hour (and I still do) I realized all the similarities 
 to BFME2 very soon.
  The rushing and constant attacking AI. Which sems to have unlimited ressources and always the right 
 unit to conquer your attack till the very poor pathfinding of your and the AI units.
  The game is also very fast paced. There is nearly no pause in skirmish matches where you could 
 build out your base. If you can't handle fighting and base building at the same time, you won't 
 have much fun here. Thats especially bad because the game lets you construct walls in a very cool 
 way. On the other hand these walls are pretty expensice and can be crushed even by infantry.
  They fights itself are a little chaotic since all your infantry runs over the place and doens't 
 use the nice formation you've given them a secoond before.
  I said that the animation are good, yeah they are but not if it comes down to the battles.
  Since 
 the units all get disordered it's not very nice to look at and there are no longer animated fight 
 sequences like in Warhammer 40K where they fights were a pleasure to watch.
  There is also no blood or limb loosing stuff in it.
  Yeah, yeah ESRB... who cares.
  
  Another 
 core mechanic which exists since CnC is the rock, paper, scissor thing.
  Which basicly means that every unit has it's counterpart.
  So you really want to keep your unit 
 types mixed. or you may find your five squads of swordsman slain by a dragon who never lost a single 
 health point.
  
  One of the EA flaws I indicate in the short discription is the technical side of the game.
  Even 
 with a decent high end PC you will find some huge slowdowns in the campaign mode of the game.
 
  Mostly when there are huge battles going on.
  This is especially annoying because BFME2 is about huge battles.
  You will have built up a large 
 army at no time.
  A optimized engine would have been a must.
  
  While the story mode isn't very stunning (the evil campaign has some intense moments though) the 
 heart of the game lies in the multi player part.
  The only problem here is that EA has some serious problems to keep their servers up and also forces 
 you to register in order to play a online game.
  (hey... pssst... another of those EA flaws) .
  
  At last there is a mode called War of the Ring.
 
  I won't go in detail here but is basicly a round based war with the goal to claim all territories 
 of middle earth.
  A nice alternation to normal versus gameplay but with missing depth.
  
  conclusion:
  The Battle for Middle-earth II strong part is certainly the presentation.
  It's 
 fun to watch the animated buildings and to hear all those sound samples and unit speech.
  The heart of the game lies in the multi player part and thats the also the part which will you 
 keep on playing.
  
  If you on the look for a good RTS than you may give it a try.
  If you still mainly into Warhammer 40K or CnC Generals Zero Hour and won't get it for it's presentation 
 than it's not something you must have.
  At least try the demo than.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rnold57
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'd recommend the game. Worth the time and the money. Great game! Enjoying it so far. Though, there 
 are some glitches that need to be fixed. Otherwise, it's a great game. The new modes are great. 
 That create-a-hero mode is neat, though a bit bland. The War of the Ring mode is like risk, but 
 is fun to play. Naval Combat is great. And you gotta love the ability to create the castle anywhere 
 on the map and your buildings. Also the new armies are awesome to. Especially the Elves and Dwarves, 
 and the Goblins which are fun to use also. Great game, EA! Two-thumps up!
  
  -Ray 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonyman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  The first BFME was i game i enjoyed because it let me re-live the battles from LoTR. I've been 
 looking forward to the release of BFME 2. The reason i like BFME was because it took away the problems 
 many other RTSs have. For example; dont you hate it when you are playing some RTS and you bulid 
 up a massive army to destory your opponets and when you win you start out with 3 lousy troops for 
 the next level? Well that was probably the best feature in BFME. You could keep your troops and 
 in the end you could even use them as reinforcements for the battles or Minas Tirith of Helms Deep. 
 Those features made BFME a good game, but will BFME 2 be the same?
  
  Gameplay-One of the few problem i had with BFME was that you could not contorl the thousands of 
 soilders you saw on the big screen. #2 somewhat changes that since now you can contorl more soilders 
 but it's still a problem because it's still nowhere near the amount you saw on screen. (the average 
 # of soldiers was, BFME:150 BFME:300 Movies:+10,000) Another probelm i have with the game is that 
 you can no longer keep your leveled up troops for the next level. This isn't that much of an issue 
 because it is easier to build large armies but it is still annoying. The finally annoying issue 
 i have with BFME 2 is the fact that you can build anywhere. When we heard about how that was in 
 BFME 2 you could build anywhere we were all happy, but it's not what we expected. When you want 
 to build a farm you have to scout out your entire base area to find a play with a high percent 
 of effecientcly. This is very annoying since once you have about 4 farms, the rest of the farms 
 you build will have like 25% effiecencly apposed to the 98% you built your first farm on. Those 
 are about the only three big problems i have with the game ( there is also a crash bug for verson 
 1.00 so watch out!) The good things about BFME 2 is there are more races than just rohan and gondorians. 
 Now there are elves, dwarves and goblins but i found that most of the races play the same. The 
 game is still a lot of fun though and if you can over look those issues you will find a good game 
 underneath.
  
  Graphics-These grapiches are amazing. The characters look great and so do the enviroments. The 
 best part about BFME 2 is that it is extremely compatible to any computer. I had i bit of trouble 
 running BFME but there were no troubles for BFME 2. I could even tune some of the textures to meduim 
 or high and the game would still run great.
  
  Sound-The voice acting is good because the characters are voiced by their movie counterparts. There 
 are also alot more lines in this game. The music is pretty much the same from the last game but 
 that's not a problem since the music was good in the last game.
  
  Value-The game is quite long since there are two campaign modes (good and evil) and there is skirmishes, 
 multiply and a new mode called War of the Ring which plays like risk. These are all fun modes and 
 will take you some time.
  
  This is a game that should be bought for fans of RTS's and fans of LoTR the book (its not based 
 on the movies so if you never read the books you wont know what their talking about) Overall a 
 good game but isn't anywhere as good as BFME, but still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindprobe1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I must first say that I enjoyed the first game in the serious a great deal. Therefore, I was eager 
 for the release of this game. I played the demo quiet a bit prior to purchasing the game. This 
 could have resulted in some let down when playing the full version. I like the addition of new 
 races, units, and buildings. The ability to construct buildings anywhere on the map was somewhat 
 of an unexpected disappointment. This does not cause you to have to spread yourself thin, which 
 was initially a good thing I thought, but then it seemed to take away some of the strategic aspect 
 of the original game and it made it similar to most other RTS games. You can build walls in this 
 version but have found that they are more trouble and expense than they are worth in most scenarios. 
 The graphics, sound affects, and music of the game are good. You feel like you are in Middle Earth.
 
  
  The number of missions in each campaign is greatly reduced compared to the BME I. There are just 
 8 for the Good armies and 8 for the Evil armies. By the time all of the special units and abilities 
 are unlocked the campaign is over so you dont get to use them accept in the last battle. 
  
  The addition of the different style board game option was also interesting (similar to Risk) . 
 The War for the Ring option of the game is over all entertaining. However, not being able to have 
 more than 3 armies that can invade neutral or enemy territories is frustrating. You can create 
 more heroes but they cannot lead armies plus they take up one of the slots of the 6 units you are 
 allowed to group into an army if you decide to use them. I also do not like that when you decide 
 to resolve the battle in RTS mode and not automatically it is like playing a full scrimmage. You 
 do start with the units that are actually in your army but you have to start constructing buildings 
 and creating units making the starting size of each opposing army nearly irrelevant. I would like 
 it better if it were like Total War where you fight with what you got. Also, the units and buildings 
 you create do not exist in the game after the particular battle is resolved.
  
  Over all this is a good game and if I had it to do over I would buy it again, though I wouldnt 
 by the Collectors Edition like I did this time. Having the new units, especially the dwarves and 
 the dragons, and the new structures, especially the various castles, adds a lot to the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkgfabo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Oh, it's great. The 1. wasn't too good, but there is fixed most of the problems in the BFME2. We 
 can build everywhere, and there is new and well balanced teams. The campaigns are shorter, than 
 they were in the 1st, but there is a new mode: the War of the ring! It is so great, because we 
 can use the whole map now, and we can build in map-view. The enemy's A. I. is good, i just tried 
 the it in easy, but sometimes it can be very aggressive. 
  Rohan and Gondor are one faction now. I don't like these change, but it must be done (the balance) . 
 Graphics: Well... nice, but I'm missing the sky, and there is the EaW, it have nicer graphics. Oh, 
 yeah... a bug: the "disgusting" shadows, their resolution is too low, I don't know why. ( Waiting 
 patch.)
  I have 2GB RAM, but the game sometimes slows down. 
  Musics: I like them :D! There are new, wonderful musics, so this field of the game is totally perfect.
 
  
  I hope you will also enjoy this game...;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  LotR: Battle for Middle-earth II is a sequel to greatly selling game of 2004, LotR: Battle for 
 Middle-earth. The good points of the game are gameplay and sounds (especially music) . The bad things 
 in this sequel are the graphics and system requirements. BFME2 uses upgraded version of C&C: Generals 
 engine. However, the graphics are ugly. Unit models looks like those from Warcraft III! C&C Generals 
 worked perfectly on GeForce 4. On Radeon 9550 with 512MB RAM and Sempron 2600+ it's framerate isn't 
 that good on Medium settings and 800x600 resolution. You can command Elven, Dwarven and Sauron's 
 servants' armies (trolls, goblins etc.) .
  The second installment of LotR: BFME is worth your money and hard drive space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  I love this game and for that, I give this game extremely high marks. Since I consider my self 
 a diehard gamer (not a pro, not for money, not for tournaments but just for fun) I really appreciate 
 the game for what its worth. For me this equates to hours and hours of life draining fun beating 
 up the relentless streams of Goblins (which never happens) and the endless pursuit of my precious 
 little Golem. As for the game dynamics, I really think EA has done a great job in keeping with 
 both the look and feel of the original game plus added tons of cool stuff. The character creation 
 is great, however in the WOTR mine gets squashed like a bug in seconds (I guess I havent figured 
 out the in and outs yet) . Like every game, there are those areas or picky points we love to hate; 
 including the weak walls and structure hit points (did I mention the darn Mountain Giants who just 
 love flattening everything with their stupid boulders) , however I could care less it just add more 
 to the strategy aspect. With that said, I truly think folks really need to just adapt and overcome 
 to what has been given to us (not everything can be perfect and thus the reasons for add-ons and 
 patches!) . As for the characters, the additional class of Dwarves led by King Dain, Gimli, Gloin 
 and others and the Elves with characters like Glorfindel, Elrond, Haldir, Arwen and even Thranduil 
 (King of the Mirkwood Elves) is great! If you like the series the second iteration of LOTR is much 
 better than the first. Thanks EA for a job well done!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russ5hopkinson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Bad A. I is an understatement here, people just stand there and die, enemy units run straight past 
 your units while being shot at or they get chased by them and die without even stopping. But if 
 you dont get frustrated and play for a little while longer you may actually like the game 
 as I did. I had it for a 2 hours and almost went straight back to the shop but the next day I decided 
 to give it another try and when I ignored the A. I problem I actually began to like the game and 
 know I recommend to everyone who can see past a few problems.
  I find the campaign to be a little boring at first but then again I am only on the third level 
 so who knows it may get better. The graphics are quite good but probably cause many problems on 
 old computers. But all in all I would recommend getting it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thuch
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  This game brings everything that the first in the sieries didn't and there are more tactical elements 
 in the game than in most other RTS.
  the campagin has a great way of telling the story but its not very hard.
  the War of the Ring 
 mode is really a cool new gameplay added to this game, the diffrent factions in the game feel very 
 differnt from eachother.
  If you play as lets say mordor you can't just start playing with another factions like the elves (my 
 favorite) because the tactics has to be very different.
  The factions are very balanced in the game.
  The graphics are amazing just like the first games.
 
  "Westwood" has made another great game but it would probably be better if westwood hadn't been 
 bought by EA.
  The multiplayer in the game always looks diffrent when you play because there is no units that 
 i very expensive or very cheap all are quite cheap.
  Everyone who likes RTS games should buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  My first thing to say about this game is that i like the fact you can now build any wher on the 
 mpa making the game a bit more challening the new factions are also an added bonus as there are 
 now plenty of different strategies. However despite that there are a few bad points, for exmaple 
 the elven upgrade - silverthorn arrows is a bit too powerful it can take out most unupgraded troops 
 out in one which fire arrows cant do. Another bad point is the online concept that is the connecting, 
 wen joining a game you have to wait ages for all the other people to connect this is alrite apart 
 from when a person doesnt connect this slows the whole thing down as the host doesnt know which 
 person to kick. The games are also quite laggy if people set the grpahics at the same level as 
 they had them on bfme1. the reason for this is tht there is more detail and different strategies 
 going on creating a laggy game. 
  
  Now on to create a hero.
  The create hero is a excellent aspect to have added however the moves for say the wizards are all 
 the same. There are different types of wizard and i think tht each different type should have its 
 own unique move.
  
  If you purchased the collectors edition u recieve a bonus disc which shows the creation and other 
 aspects of the game. When you click on the create a hero option it shows a wizard and some one 
 is cutomizing its moves when they scroll down there is a move called word of doom (look for urself 
 if u can) . I think tht wat is the poin tin showing tht if it isnt included
  
  Apart from tht it is a really gud game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  ok heres the thing, the basic concept of bfme 2 is good and i like the free build thing and the 
 new factions, but there are sum things that need to be addressed, the game play is not the best 
 in then world especially the online play, (laggy) , a few of the new units have been made to strong 
 eg the elves with upgraded silver thorn arrows i mean omg strong or what, the guardians as well 
 there a tough nut to crack.
  
  but the most dissapointing factor is the create a hero all classes have sub-classes but they all 
 have the same powers that suks so u basically get the choice of 6 heroes to upgraded as u wish, (i 
 whould have thought each sub-class would have there own unique abilities, that would have bee better.)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I am a big BFME and LOTR fan and I got BFME2 the day after it came out. What I love about BFME 
 is that you can reeanact all almost every LOTR battles and even make-up some of your own. But what 
 I did not like about the 1st BFME was the restricted building areas and unit cap and some map which 
 I really enjoyed werent there (minas tirith, helm's deep etc.) But when I bought BFME 2 and installed 
 it I could not stop playing it. Finaly, you can build wherever you want and the Unit cap has gone 
 to atleast 1000 i think and there are new map too. But what I love is The 3 new races Goblins, 
 Dwarves and Elves all of them are great races. The graphics in BFME2 are excellent and the sounds 
 are great too. The campaign mode I loved very much and did not miss the old world map campaign 
 mode. The new heroes are great too all with new powers and abilities the new faction powers are 
 very sweeeeeeet (I love using tom bombadil) . The War of The Ring game mode is weird at times but 
 it is nice.... Also at some times I wish the AI wasn't all that aggressive. But overall this was 
 a great game......
  
  
  Now time to look for Gollum....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadwarrior9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I do concur with the editors review that the single player campaigns are fun, yet have been played 
 before, well not everyone has played this stuff before. The AI was touted highly yet I saw little 
 difference, not that it mattered. I do hope that a more extensive add on comes to rescue the short 
 length of the single player campains. I have completed both single ones for evil and good and they 
 were very entertaining. I have just started the War of the Ring and hope it does play like Risk 
 or Axis and Allies. At a higher level, those games are great strategy add ons. The graphics and 
 storyline is fantastic. Overall a great one to have even though I really really wanted to be able 
 to play it on my laptop and cannot due to the hardware requirements. Also the dwarven comments 
 are hillarious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiyandude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings The Battle for Middle Earth 2 is an excellent game and a great improvement 
 over the first game. There is no longer build plots so it makes your base more customizable. There 
 are six races in the game. They are Men, Elves, Dwarves, Goblins, Isengard, and Mordor. They are 
 all different and have their own strengths and weaknesses. I will say the elves are a bit overpowering 
 and seem like the best race in the game. They do not have much of a weakness if they have one at 
 all. Online there are already "no Elves" games coming up. I will also say the campaigns are fun 
 but too short. Only 8 missions for each campaign (good and evil) . However the skirmishes are unlimited 
 and the online play is awsome. The War of the Ring mode is a nice and fun addition but could use 
 some tweaking. I also find the Create A Hero mode a nice addition but the heros appearance could 
 be more customizable. Overall the gameplay is awsome, the graphics are great, the sound is authentic, 
 and as you would expect from an RTS replay value is unbelievable. Despite a few setbacks it is 
 an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ennt1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was aswome and better then the first. Now they have boat wars and a lot a creatuers 
 the didnt have in the first. Its is cool making a hero or villan and the great time they took to 
 make this game was not a waste. I saw the armour looked very good and the gian creatures make it 
 funner to destroy building's or enemie's. The new races you can be are cool . I have played this 
 game and i know this game is worth buying. I think this is one of the best over head armie game 
 and I hope to see more to come with more awsome grapics like the faces and more cool and awwsome. 
 This is more different form star wars empire at war and is very very fun to play. I waited for 
 this game to be out for a while now. I thought the new ways of transportation for some races was 
 cool. Like the spiders and the new creatures added. Like elven worriers instead of the elves swiching 
 blades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnbexplosive
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  First of all I never played the BFME so I can't compare this game to that but what I do know is 
 that it's a huge improvement over the orginal and most other reviews aren't a true reflection on 
 how good the game is. The Single-player campaign sees you fighting the battle of the north which 
 is where the 3 new factions (goblins, dwarves & elves) come into play. From what I've played from 
 the SP, it's pretty fun and your mostly defending with the Good sides, and attacking with the Evil. 
 The main problem with the SP is that the AI can sometimes be poor. Sometimes you see them just 
 running past your units and heading straight for your structures. Besides the campaign you have 
 the typical skirmish as well as a War of the Ring mode where you can fight over Middle Earth on 
 a tactical map similar to Risk and can be played both solo or online. 
  
  There has been many gameplay changes from the first game such as being able to build anywhere on 
 the map. The economic system in BFME 2 is also interesting, your resource building has too be placed 
 away from your other resource buildings to get the full capacity which means taking map control 
 but not only that, each one contributes to your CP (command points) which raises your unit cap. 
 The Golbin & Dwarve sides have a good advantage here in that they are able to use their resource 
 buildings as tunnels to transport units which helps defend them. As good as this system is, it 
 means that besides taking neutral buildings there isn't anything to fight over on the map so it's 
 about taking map control and overwhelming the enemy. 
  
  The game features a great counter system, a sort of rock-paper-scissors (pikemen cavalry, cavalry 
 archers, etc..) and you are also able to flank to inflict more damage for those who play tactically. 
 I think overall EA have done a good job in balancing 6 teams, especially taking into account all 
 the heroes & spells. For a game which is pretty much based on melee with large squads there is 
 plenty of micromanagement required such as changing your formation stance to activating abilities 
 such as poison arrows, and the battalions/hordes are quite large. 
  
  Graphics & Sound 
  
  BFME 2 is possibly the best looking RTS out at the moment, the ingame interface looks really 
 nice and and the terrain on the maps are fantastic, the water effects in particular are amazing. 
 Then there is the excellent set pieces and special effects from the large selection of spells, 
 such as the one that casts a large tentacled monster that attacks nearby enemies. 
  All of the characters are also really well detailed, and with all these battalions of soliders 
 you need a pretty decent PC to handle the game, but your in for a treat if you have a top card. 
 Now that EA got the full license you are able to see some really well designed maps and some very 
 cool looking units. 
  The sound in the game is also very well done, thanks to the great soundtrack and unit voices are 
 excellent. On top of that you have the sounds from battle scenes and sound effects from the various 
 abilities. 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  I have not had chance to test the MP much, but it's clear that it's very fast paced and aggressive 
 but thanks to the counter system each team has a good chance to beat each other although some teams 
 have advantages in certain matchups for example Mordor who seem to struggle against the Elves powerful 
 achers for not having cavalry. The great thing about the MP is that most of the time your not gonna 
 get very far if you don't mix your units. Each unit has their uses and the heroes can help you 
 overcome certain situations if used correctly which is why the dedisions you make a very important. 
 
  Many of the abilites available pretty much give bonuses to your units to help when fighting your 
 opponents units, but as you get more and more points you get the really powerful spells to summon 
 large dragons or an earthquake. 
  
  Lifespan 
  
  I think there is plenty of reasons to keep playing the game for a long time, with the imoproved 
 SP campaign, skirmish mode, WOTR and a solid Multiplayer that has around 40 maps. You also have 
 the option to Create your own hero which is a nice addition although fairly limited in selection. 
 
  
  Positives 
  
  + Amazing Graphics 
  
  + Pretty well balanced armies 
  
  + Great variety of heroes & spells 
  
  Negatives 
  
  - AI has some problems 
  
  - Lacks 
 Unit Variety 
  
  Gameplay: 8 
  Graphics: 9 
  Sound: 9 
  Multiplayer: 9 
  Lifespan: 9 
  
  Overall Score: 90% - A very fun game even if your not into LOTR, it has a couple 
 of minor flaws that can be fixed in future patches and if you like RTS games I would suggest getting 
 this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty_scorpion
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  The game looks like its rushed and unfinished. Graphics are all good but it lacks the content to 
 be perfect.
  The hero system - it has just too few possibilities, each armor part has only 3-4 choices and the 
 same problem with skills.
  AI - CPU player is really bad, hes just rushing and when hes out of resources he send wef troops 
 or doing nothing.. no defence.
  Gameplay - buildings are too easy to demolish and why there ain't no possibility to send your troops 
 to the walls (it was in previous version though) ?
  
  Please EA patch those things so people can 100% enjoy your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I tried like heck to love this game. I never played the original but heard it got some pretty 
 good reviews. I picked this game up the day it came out and installed it. Let me tell you this 
 game is the opposite of fun and exciting. There is almost nothing special about this game that 
 makes me want to play I uninstalled it about three days after I bought it and now use the CD as 
 a coaster.
  
  Let me preface this part by saying that I play a game called Dawn of War and the expansion Winter 
 Assault, so this may be why I am so spoiled.
  
  The battles in BFME2 are downright boring, non-exciting yawnfest's. I feel like I am baking a cake 
 when I am amassing my armies. The actually fighting itself is uninspired and doesn't make me feel 
 involved at all. The strategic portion of the game seems clumsy and not well done, as well as the 
 tactical. I love the graphics of the game and the sounds are nice otherwise this game would be 
 a floater in the swimming pool if you know what I mean.
  
  If you seriously want a good RTS with action, story, competitive online play. Then do yourself 
 a favor and don't get this game, get Dawn of War, Winter Assault, and the new expansion that is 
 coming out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villageidiot191
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game has everything the first one was not. This one was better and way more addicting than 
 the first. The game play is worth every part. Graphics got even better and the sound is really 
 good. What ever the first one did not have this one makes up for it, and adds new things to it 
 that make it even better. This one has my vote. Create a hero is still a little lagging, but still 
 something that is fun to use. Music has been added from the movies making it even more nice to 
 listen to and makes it feel more like a movie to the person playing. All the new races are extremely 
 fun to play with and the new castle building is just way to cool to mess with. That alone make 
 you just want to try to make a castle as big as the map and just try to make the perfect fortress. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthkiLer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  For you funs out there who like lord of rings. This is the game for you it would keep you busy 
 for a while you would not get borad with this game. For me what i cant wait for is the lord of 
 the rings online version i just hope it is just like world of warcraft. play this game online and 
 you would never get tired of playing it i play on it like at least 6 hours online with my other 
 friends. it was about time that BFME 2 finally came out ever since i heard about site of gamespot 
 i hated it when it was coming out in 2006. This game it a must have dont wait when it goes on sell 
 GET IT NOW. MUSTTTTTT HAVEEEEEEEE!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teoiny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Those of you who have played the original BFME will know that while the game was excellent there 
 were some flaws, most notably the base building. The developers have taken all criticism on board 
 with this new installment. Base building is now what is expected of a game in this genre. There 
 is more scope and freedom to plan a base as you would like. And finally you can build walls!!
 
  
  The integration of the Rohan and Gondor races into one serves to balance both out. The new races 
 offer more diverse choice. The Dwarves are strong and powerful, the Elves fast, with excellent 
 archers. The forces of Evil are also made up of three races, Isengard, Mordor and Goblins. Isengard 
 and Mordor are effectively the same as in BFME1. The Goblin race includes monsters such as Spiderling 
 Warriors and the huge Mountain Giant, as well as Goblin warriors.
  
  There is also many more Heroes than in BFME1, such as Gimli's father Gloin, Legolas' father Thanduril, 
 the Mouth of Sauron and the Goblin King. Each hs their own skills and powers.
  
  A new feature in the BFME2 is the ability to create your own hero. While there is not a huge amount 
 of scope in this, it does add a feel of personalisation.
  
  There is also a new game type, The War of the Ring. This is a Risk style campaign of world domination. 
 Chose your race and fight to conquer Middle Earth.
  
  The Good & Evil Campaigns are fun and encompass most of Middle Earth, going to places you couldn't 
 in the BFME1, such as Dale & the Shire. For experienced BFME gamers starting on Medium or even 
 Hard difficulty will provide a challenging experience.
  
  All in all a wonderful game which improved on the first. A cinematic experience that will transport 
 you to Middle Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrameX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings has to be one of the most critically acclaimed series of all time, winning Academy 
 Awards more times then the Yankee's won the world series, we obviously knew it was inevitable that 
 they would create a good game around it. But what to choose from, there are so many, the Lord of 
 The Rings has a few iterations such as the straight movie ports and then the Third Age and also 
 Battle For Middle Earth. To be honest two of the three things I just mentioned suck and I'll tell 
 you right now it isn't Battle For Middle Earth.
  
  Now, when people think of a sequel they think of the same game added with a few extra features, 
 or in the case of games like Final Fantasy an entirely new story line with some minor adjustments 
 to the already familiar gameplay. In the case of Battle For Middle Earth 2 it takes both those 
 ideas into consideration. The gameplay holds out just as good as the original with a few minor 
 adjustments such as walls that really make a difference in the game, instead of the buildings being 
 equip with them you are given the ability to create what and where your boundaries are. There is 
 also a new game mode which is called War of the Ring which often feels like a Rome: Total War clone 
 mixed with Civilization IV then anything on its own unique style, overall with its lack of innovation 
 in this category it still does what it means to do right. The sound in this game, its out of this 
 world, Lord of the Rings always places you in a sense of fantasy and the music is unmistakable 
 their's. With that said the best quality of the game is it's sound. While the difficulty in the 
 game wont win any prizes next to Devil May Cry 3 on Dante must Die mode, its still note worthy, 
 the tutorial is great if you have never played before and even if you have played its a good refresher 
 not to mention there are new things to learn about the second iteration by doing this task. Overall 
 the difficulty is solid and after working it to your liking it will feel just right. Although the 
 tutorials teach you everything you need to know to get started, you still have a lot you can figure 
 out on your own so I would say the learning curve has to be about an hour, give or take some time 
 from that.
  
  While the game has its up's and down's I still say all the new features such as Create a Hero and 
 War of the Ring give it the classification of Immersive. The game is beautifully presented and 
 that is definately a trait I would love to see in more games. Battle For Middle Earth 2 has arrived 
 and from the opening cinematic to the final confrontation fans of the Lord of the Rings and even 
 fans of Real Time Strategies will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakDC315
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Now for anyone who played BFME one will feel right at home. Almost every building from the last 
 game has been recycled for BFMEII, which is fine because thanks to the graphical makeover the game 
 received they all look gorgeous. But sadly these buildings must be made of stray and glue cause 
 the damn things get knocked down way to easily. For example, you have your horde of orcs you know 
 la la la saving up for some kick ass hero or building. then you see a small little division of 
 enemy troops come and you think "well this'll be fun, Ill watch my towers tear them apart." wrong 
 though they do get torn to shreds by your towers, the two surviving men still manage to press towards 
 your newly constructed resource building and they destroy it in two to three hits. Now this won't 
 kill the experience but it will add an extra layer of frustration to the game.
  
  But in spite of that the good still out weighs the bad. The graphics.... ohhh... my sweet god most 
 high the graphics. if you are one of the three people on the planet whose computer can run this 
 game on high then my god are you in for one hell of a treat. To say the least, you could have the 
 main menu in itself could be a game and it would still kick ass. In short the graphics are that 
 second to if not greater then god. Also the A. I has been really reworked and you can tell. If you 
 have numbers then they'll send small little squads to take out your resource buildings. Also new 
 to the franchise is the concept of flanks. Remember on the last game, you would have Calvary charge 
 the flank of a unit of pike man and they would still be killed? You do that now and those pike 
 men are gone. same idea works the other way if you have Calvary charge some pike man those little 
 horse men can kiss their sweet ass's good bye cause' those **** are dead 
  
  Now this is the part where you can all breath easy because my psychopathic tirade is almost at 
 an end. Well you'd be dammed to think that because it isn't! No now Im going to defend this great 
 game from all you **** who thin k this game is crap... WHICH. It isn't. I know some people are bitchen' 
 bout how *in some really bitchey tone* the character creation is so limited... blah blah blah" 
 well you little dick I have to ask you WHO THE **** PLAYS A RTS FOR CHARCTER CREATION!?!?!?!?!?!?! 
 Who honestly looks on the back of some great RTS and puts it down because they don't character 
 creation? Furthermore, who the hell would bye an RTS so they can make a hero?!??! NO!! You don't 
 play an RTS for deep create a hero!!!! Also why in god's name would someone complain about the 
 fact that you can now build any where you want to instead of on set land-plots? Im sorry doing 
 smell glue for fun? Why in gods name would it be a minus?!?! who would sit there and say "son of 
 a bitch I have to CHOOSE where I can build my stuff... gosh... who thinks that the FREEDOM TO BUILD 
 WHEREVER YOU WANT TO IS A GOOD THING.... ugggggg.... i'm going to go play F. E. A. R" now I might be 
 stabbing at gaming stereo types and Ill probably wake up with death threats written in my dog's 
 blood on my wall.... but what the hell you only live once. Anyways... ummm.... where was I.... oh thats 
 right BEING ABLE TO BUILD WHEREVER YOU WANT TO IS A GOOD THING!!!!!!
  
  Well now that Ive gotten that out of my system i'm going to start wrapping this up. ummmmm.... BFMEII 
 is an awesome game and I would highly recommend you buy this game because you'll have one hell 
 of a time and if your computer couldn't run this game worth a damn then this should be a perfect 
 opportunity to upgrade because belive me this game is worth it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  For those unfamiliar with the changes to gameplay, Battle for Middle-earth II has made some huge 
 ones that give it an old school feel. Bases can now be built free-form instead of the set base 
 size with a number of build plots. Now, since walls can be built and buildings placed anywhere, 
 changes were made to what can be constructed and how resources are collected. Walls become a huge 
 strategy for certain races (though they're usually very expensive to construct) like the dwarves. 
 Resource buildings now continuously collect money, but have a radius around them that blocks new 
 resource buildings from being constructed too closely together. It means that players will have 
 to actively expand into new territory to get the money necessary for their plans. It also means 
 those interests have to be protected, which gets more complicated the farther they are from the 
 main base. Goblins and dwarves have a great advantage in that they can actually use their resource 
 buildings as tunnels for traveling quickly around the map.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesisu_zork
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Impressive also graphical and story line, movies and layout. It is a title worth playing, but.. 
 as most of the new games ... extremely short. The difference between the races are obvious.... 
 the orcs lead by Goblin King, and finaly by Sauron himself are a menace tactically, swarming the 
 oposing elves and dwarves with the legions of minions. The staring menu is impresive ( I spent 
 more than 10 minutes admiring the view ) . Also Create Hero menu ofers the player to customize and 
 play the hero he desires , other than the default heroes present in the game. So .. get it... play'it 
 and ejoy once again the beauthiful world of LOTR ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rivarno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  When the first Battle for Middle Earth title launched in 2004 it was during a time when Lord of 
 the Rings was still riding a well deserved crest and gamers interest and demand for products relating 
 to it was high. Not much has changed since then, I am happy to report, except the sequel to what 
 is still a very good title.
  Battle for Middle Earth II is one of the best examples of the 'improvement on the original' phrase 
 I have come across. I loved the first title, yet spotted its flaws almost straight away. No 'build 
 where you like'!, No 'movie sized armies'!, No 'online freedom'!
  Well wrap me up in Mithrail and sling me into Shelob's lair if they didn't go and sort everyone 
 of my, and no doubt others, miner complaints. What a result and ( unless I'm mistaken ) in less 
 than 18 months, well done my Ring loving comrades. This game is just oozing creativity, style, 
 fun and, more importantly, GREAT GAMEPLAY.
  Six races are available to command, the Elves, Dwarves and Goblins that alot of players so badly 
 wanted to use first time round, are now here.
  If you build big your'e population allowance can reach 1000 points, with most troop orders costing 
 around 60 points, 'oh dear' you cry! Well dry your'e eye's my friends because instead of the 5 
 previous units that we used to get, ( using the good armies ) , up to 15 is now the order of the 
 day.
  The most impressive and frankly essential change to the series is the addition of 'Build anywhere'. 
 The previous BFME's designated build plots put so many of my RTS loving friends off. As I'm sure 
 you'll agree, when managing a small yet expanding nation, it is essential to have the freedom to 
 build your many different structures where you see fit. BFME 2 let's you do this so easily, I enjoy 
 building as much as the fighting.
  Finally we come to the multiplayer, now this game is rich in maps to play on as BFME 2 covers the 
 recent movie locations in Middle-Earth and also the battles and places you visit if your a fan 
 of the book. What EA have gone and added is a 'Risk'.. (best boardgame I've ever played!) .. style 
 single or multiplayer game, using their 'living map' of Middle Earth as the backdrop with which 
 to move your pieces, and also allowing you to Auto Resolve or Real Time the encounters you have 
 with you enemys. Being able to Real-Time the battles is genius as you can turn what would be a 
 certain defeat into a glorious victory.
  All this and being able to design and use, online or offline, a hero of your'e making, well, do 
 I have to spell it out for you?... OK!... what are we in now?... March..... early days huh?.... I think 
 I just found Game of the Year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of BFME. It was such a simple RTS- but it got the biggest thing right... Gameplay. 
 Building was simple, but the battles were exciting and could see-saw back and forth based on one 
 good or bad move. 
  
  That is why I am so confused on how they screwed the sequel up so badly. Was the project taken 
 over by a different design team or something? The new build system is atrocious. You have to spread 
 your resources out at spanned intervals in order to get anything out of them, which forces you 
 to build a sprawling base very early. So, what does the AI do? Send in units on suicide raids that 
 completely ignore your armies and run around destroying all your resources. So you can either turtle, 
 and try to frantically defend all your spread out bases, or try to chase his units down, meanwhile 
 hes building up... or lastly... rush him first. That is what is wrong with BFME2. This is the only 
 viable option. It is the only option that works... so every game becomes a VERY predictable game 
 of who can rush who first. After teh first 10 minutes of each game, you know whether you are going 
 to win or lose. There is nothing fun about this. At all. 
  
  And just in case you wanted to play these meaningless skirmishes over and over, you can head over 
 to the War of the Ring mode. This great feature allows you to play skirmishes over... and over... 
 and over... and guess what? Your armies dont transfer from one battle to the next. Your buildings 
 either. Its the same tired excuse for strategy tacked onto RTS that other games have tried. Note 
 to designers: DONT WASTE YOUR TIME. 
  
  The campaign is forgettable. Although I havent heard from anyone else, Im having significant graphical 
 issues (flickering) , although its still playable.
  
  Long story short, it looks like BFME, but it feels like a budget game rushed out to turn a quick 
 buck. It feels unfinished, unbalanced, and worst of all... poorly thought out. My guess is they 
 tried something different, and by the time they realized it wasnt working, it was too late to fix 
 it. They should have kept the gameplay of BFME intact, and just added content and called it an 
 expansion. Instead they did a hackjob on a great game and charged me $50 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abzebel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to admit when I heard that they were going to creat a sequal to BFME I was really doubting 
 EA's ability to produce a true LORT RTS game. And the fact that they were making in a short period 
 of time made me doubt even more. 
  So I did the Beta testing, and got the demo. But now that I have got the actual game in my hands 
 I do say this is really a true achievement. There is a lot of content in this game that would keep 
 any gamer staying up until 5 am each night. The maps are beautiful, the A. I. is loads better then 
 its predecessor, and the game is actually fun to play instead of being a chor. 
  But I do have some gripes about it. The campaign mode seems well too easy. When you play a mission 
 you suspect that there will be a huge army that you will have to face. But the oppsoing army is 
 really small (in a lot of missions) leaving you with feeling that these supposively larger battles 
 in the north were very mis-represented. 
  But the War of the Ring mode is excellent, the creat the character is limited but it is still interesting, 
 and multi-player is sollid. Good Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhack
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed playing Battle for Middle Earth as much as I did. You will want to purchase a copy 
 of Battle for Middle Earth II. The game reaches a whole new level of play with Dragons, Sea Battles, 
 all new heroes and unit upgrades. This game answers the questions about what happened on the other 
 side of the Lonely Mtns. during the Lord of the Rings. Get the demo and then get the game. Enjoy! 
 Expand your fortress with new wall corners. You are now better able to defend your fortress with 
 the use of fire, oil, and water. I look forward to battling my way through the single player game 
 and then meeting online for some serious multiplayer gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  There was no faulting Battle for Middle-earth for use of franchise. Out of all of the Middle-earth 
 inspired games I've seen come out over the last few years, it captured the grandeur and epic conflict 
 that the books and histories so eloquently detail. In this respect Battle for Middle-earth II only 
 adds to the fun by shifting the focus to an entirely different part of the War of the Ring that 
 fans might not even be aware of. The war in the north between the elves, dwarves, goblins, and 
 Mordor forces out of Dol Guldur was gigantic and according to the histories held some of the biggest 
 battles of the war. This new war sets the scene for some serious battles between the forces of 
 good and evil in this much improved sequel.
  
  The fight for Middle-earth is still the focus of the campaigns, but the structure has been changed 
 pretty dramatically from the first game. Those that played the original will remember the campaign 
 taking place over the "living-world map" of Middle-earth. It created an interesting atmosphere 
 but dragged on by the end. EALA has moved the campaign into a more traditional structure for the 
 sequel and it works much better this way. The exciting attack and defend missions aren't broken 
 up with repetitive and uninteresting skirmishes.
  
  
  In fact, almost all of the sixteen total campaign missions (eight each for good and evil) are well 
 constructed and fun. Many of them provide very cool settings to play in like Rivendell, Celduin, 
 Erebor, and The Shire and most are constructed to fit the fiction and progress the action and technology. 
 By the end of the game there's a truckload of powers, units, and heroes at hand. The good missions 
 really push the feeling of being cornered while the evil missions are all about attacking with 
 superior numbers and disdain for the realms of the freemen. I know I've said it before, but it's 
 just too much fun to run into The Shire with the goblins to not mention it again.
  
  Preceding and following each mission is a short cutscene describing the happenings in the war, 
 why the mission is where it is, and what the strategic value is. All of these cutscenes are a mix 
 of art and in-game graphics with more interesting camera views. While they're relatively unimportant 
 to gameplay, they sure can be fun to watch. Whoever put them together has a good eye for the visually 
 dramatic and they certainly help get you excited for what's to come and feel victorious at the 
 end.
  
  Because the war in the north takes place simultaneously to the war in the south between the Men 
 of the West, Mordor, and Isengard, most of the focus in the campaign is on the three new factions: 
 the dwarves, elves, and goblins. The addition of these three new races raises the faction count 
 to six and manages to balance out very well. Each faction brings new play styles to the game and 
 the offer of spectacular advantages and tricky disadvantages. Players will have to contend with 
 the dwarves slow speed and the goblin's lack of defense. 
  
  For those unfamiliar with the changes to gameplay, Battle for Middle-earth II has made some huge 
 ones that give it an old school feel. Bases can now be built free-form instead of the set base 
 size with a number of build plots. Now, since walls can be built and buildings placed anywhere, 
 changes were made to what can be constructed and how resources are collected. Walls become a huge 
 strategy for certain races (though they're usually very expensive to construct) like the dwarves. 
 Resource buildings now continuously collect money, but have a radius around them that blocks new 
 resource buildings from being constructed too closely together. It means that players will have 
 to actively expand into new territory to get the money necessary for their plans. It also means 
 those interests have to be protected, which gets more complicated the farther they are from the 
 main base. Goblins and dwarves have a great advantage in that they can actually use their resource 
 buildings as tunnels for traveling quickly around the map. MUST BUY ALL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  the game has a lot of units many of which are pretty cool, i thought the game play could be better, 
 and the graphic is horrible and the game is too easy (or maybe i'm just good at RTS) an it is too 
 ****ing expensive, do not buy it. if you are really a lord of the ring fan then take your chance. 
 you might fall in love with it or hate it (that's me) . the sound is the only part of the game i 
 like the death noise, explosion, the music. that's what i call a real game all of the others. CRAP! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Overlall The game is very similar to its predecessor in terms of sound and graphics. The core engine 
 is still the same but many gameplay mechanics were changed.
  
  
  There is the SP campign and the War of the 
 Ring. Watch the Gamespot Review to see what the War of the Ring more is about.
  
  The most drastic addition is the ability to construct your own walls and buildings, anywhere. The 
 downside is that the walls are paper thin, extremly expensive, can be destroyed by a single punk 
 group of orcs, and cannot be rebuilt easily or garssioned with archers... thus they are completly 
 useless, so much for siege warfare. ( I modified my game files to add 10X the hitpoints to walls 
 and defensive structures to allow for seiges)
  
  The resource gathering is handled by costructing resource buildings. The resource buildings have 
 to be constructed quite a ways away from each other or they produce less cash. This prompts for 
 a very expansionist/aggresive gamestyle that revolves around territory control.
  
  The different races are very well balanced. The only problem is that the variety found in the previous 
 game is almost completly gone. All sides have about the same units but with different visiauls. 
 Goblins and orcs are only slightly weaker than elves, only exeption here are the monsters which 
 are unique to the evil side. The stone/paper/scissors approach to units has also been reduced and 
 it no longer matters what unit types you send into battle. The major differences between factions 
 are unit speed, heroes, and powers. (here I also modified the game to make elves 2x as strong/expensive 
 and orcs and goblins 2x weaker/cheap)
  
  The powers have a lot of visial varity and are very spectacular, yet ultimatley they are also fairly 
 similar in their effect for both sides.
  
  Although the game now offers flanking bonuses and more unit variety the tactical part is greatly 
 dimished compared to the predecesor. Since you will have a huge army it will be extremly difficult 
 to mange it in combat and since you need to constatly expand your territory you'll find yourself 
 sending armies on move-attack orders to the enemy base while you macromange the homefront.
  
  The "creat a hero feature" is a nice addition that lets you letting you customize the character 
 in terms of abilities and stats. The custom created heroes can be used in War of the Ring mode, 
 multiplayer, and skrimish matches. The game keeps a track record for your custom hero which adds 
 a nice sense of achievement. I especially liked the Hardrim heroes since they offered a cool ninja 
 like gameplay... not that it matters since the scale of the game utlimatley dwarfs the heroes (... 
 the dwarves too..) .
  
  The SP campign is high quality although it is no different from what we are used to with other 
 RTS games.
  
  Sound ---------------------------------------------
  The Sound is the same as in the previous game. The only addition is the dwarf faction music, which 
 is as good as rest of the audio.
  
  
  The game offers a slightly improved version of the graphics from the first game.
  
  I don't 
 particularly like the look of the new factions. The design isn't as slick as the movie-based factions. 
 Compared to other RTS games the graphics are still quite superb, although I wish there was more 
 done on the design front. ( giant scorpion riding goblin with a towel on his head? gimme a break)
 
  
  The new water effects are very nice although I had to play without them since they taxed my machine 
 quite a bit ( Athlon XP 3200+, GeForce 6600 GT, 1ghz ram) .
  
  The realistic shadows really make the forests and buildings come alive and they are quite easy 
 on the framerate.
  
  
  The game offers a fantastic value package. SP story campign, skrimish mode, and War of the Ring 
 mode give the game a lot of juice.
  
  Closing 
  
  A good game in terms of production values, but not a spiritual successor of the first game 
 nor a great improvment. It's a regular RTS with LotR paint splashed on top.
  
  If you liked WC3 or Age of Mythology this game should appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klemmon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth II seems to have almost everything you would want. With great graphics, 
 awsome battles, and most def rockin characters... whats not to like. And on top of all that EA seems 
 to incorporated some very good sound by adding quite a bit of the LOTR soundtrack within the game. 
 It is a very nice culmination of audio and graphics to come together in one incredible gaming experience. 
 The only complaint that I could possibly think of is that it did not come out sooner. Thank you 
 EA for not making an another extremely sub-par sequel video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Just got this today, and I must say it's quite good. The first game wasn't bad, just horribly unbalanced 
 until the recently released patch 1.03. In the second one, they add new factions so there's more 
 to play with and it adds things to the game. The graphics were a slight improvement, adding some 
 textures and shadows but it's generally the same. If you played the first one you'll recognize 
 a lot of the visuals and sounds. The music is definetly great, really emphasizing what is going 
 on as you play. As in the first one, there is a Good Campaign, and an Evil Campaign but it's nothing 
 special being nothing other than something else to do with the game. The online is where the real 
 fun is, as you challenge massive armies with your own. You'll find that there are a lot of the 
 heroes you saw in the first but many new ones and you'll love to use their new skills as many of 
 them are quite powerful. The new "create-a-hero" is where you customize your own avatars to use 
 online. Basically, you select a hero class, customize their look, upgrade their attribute, select 
 their skills, and use them online. If you're looking to buy, there is a normal, 6-CD version, and 
 there is a 2 DVD Collectors Edition. The Collectors Edition has the entire game on one DVD, and 
 then there is an extra bonus features DVD. The bonus features arent special since they're like 
 any other game (behind the scenes, trailers, etc.) For the game, it adds many maps, some extra 
 options for create-a-hero, and a Dragon unit. For the most part, you'll be looking to play this 
 game online for that is where the greater part of the fun is found. It isn't bad, but a lack of 
 certain features made it not as good as it should have been. Still, fans of The Lord of The Rings, 
 RTS fans, or anyone interested in some good long fighting, will find this game appealing and given 
 some time, worth playing many long hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepanda001
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  All lord of the ring fans, you see, its a second strategy game that EA came out!!! But big picture 
 are still the same. oh...... Interesting, the graphic are kindly the same, ye, for a strategy game, 
 graph are not that important, unless you like the fancy units or water or land enviornment. So 
 again, you have good and evil, but its always the good side including human, elfs and others required 
 more money to produced units than the evils side in the begining. Qualities of the units, NAN, 
 fairly balance, but not quiet. Of couse, we will not forget about heros!!!, THEY ARE EXPANSIVE!!!!! 
 REAL EXPANSIVE!!!!!, but do they worth the money? i think some are, but some are not. Such as the 
 dragon in the evil side, powerful but you need pump that unit level up so that it can take more 
 arrows damage. Still, i like the ideal custom hero. Its pretty interesting, trying to make a really 
 wired look guy with a stupid weapon and makes him powerful. HAAAA... 
  
  Overall, good game, EA should look at a bigger picture and not so much focus on the liitle thing. 
 Make a real strategy game, STRATEGY!!!! not GRAPHIC!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the bad traits and end with the good. War of the Ring is amazingly fun the only 
 problem with it is that i wish there was more territories and therefore more maps for both skirmish 
 and WOTR. Create a Hero is a let down, not much costomizable options and you cant change the physical 
 features of your hero other then the hair in some cases, your basically stuck with choosing equipment 
 and a few powers (not much of a selection) . The AI has a lot of bugs such as attacking stronghold 
 gates even if their open. AI is not very tactical sadly they just send a bijillion (billion) people 
 at you. The last bad thing is the campaign is too easy and too short.
  On to the good stuff... there is lots but it all could of been inproved and added onto to make 
 a 10 ranking game. The maps are really nice. The WOTR is excellent although it is somewhat are 
 a times. The heros are awesome. well rather then keep listing these things ill just tell you that 
 in my opionion what i said in the first paragraph are all the bad things therefore everything else 
 is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanPC101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Great Game! Improvement over the first with the new factions, yeah the elves are beasts, but thats 
 what they are in the movies too so quit complaining. War of the Ring is pretty sweet. I hate how 
 it doesn't save your armies in campaign, oh well no game is perfect. The hero characters are so 
 much better in this game then the last. There are so freaking many of them. The Create-A-Hero is 
 kind of disappointing but who cares cause there so many that come with the game. If you are thinking 
 about buying an rts right now or in the coming months this is the game to have; so buy it!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnbach
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love RTS. This game further solidifies my appreciation for the genre despite a few 
 irksome changes from the original.
  
  Like the original, the graphics and sound are top-notch. The graphics engine handles the hundreds 
 of animated units and sfx without a hitch on medium detail on my not-so-elite rig. Many of the 
 sounds are reused from the first, which is fine since they were good anyway. The voice acting is 
 great again as well. 
  
  I have mostly played the War of the Ring mode. It can be a bit complicated at first, but once you 
 get the gist, you're gonna lose some serious time. We're talking Civilization, where'd that eight 
 hours go?, time. I auto-resolved most battles because if you fought every battle real-time, a game 
 could take weeks especially on brutal. In my opinion, easy mode was way too easy in WotR as the 
 enemy only invaded me once with a pathetic army. I steamrolled them in an hour. 
  
  The campaign is changed, and I'm a little annoyed. The tactical game was removed, and many units 
 you build up disappear between missions. And it usually keeps the weaker ones at that. But the 
 campaign does tell a good story. I still prefer a tactical game.
  
  Finally, I have only made one custom hero and have not played any multiplayer so I will not comment 
 there.
  
  I highly recommend this game if you liked the first and RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorandor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  "A second BFME? Was it really necessary considering the story is concluded and there is not much 
 more going on in Middle Earth?" Those were my first thoughts about this game, but thankfully I 
 was wrong.
  
  Battle for Middle Earth II extends the original area by a few more areas from the Tolkien universe, 
 and players can do much more now than just following the story of Frodo, Gandalf and the others 
 in the quest of destroying the one ring. You are in the northern part of Middle Earth, and you 
 follow the battles of elves, orcs, goblins, dwarves and men, each one of them with their own traits, 
 characteristics on the battle field - and of course their own heroes. 
  
  The gameplay has improved a little from the first game, the menus are much more intuitive, soldiers 
 and battalions are easier to manage and the "build your own castle the way you want it" is wonderful... although 
 you can spend quite some time doing that without taking care of the enemy. The fact that you now 
 have builders is a great addition to every strategy, I for one love it sneaking to the enemy and 
 killing his builders in multiplayer while keeping him busy on the front line. 
  
  And this is where BFME2 has improved: the multiplayer-part. It is much more fun playing this game 
 online than the first one, mainly also because of the extra features of the Collector's Edition: 
 having your own custom hero is a really nice addition to the game, and it can just make the difference 
 to turn the tide. If only there had been more choice for equipment and skills...
  
  Next to multiplayer we have of course the single-player mode. However, the story line is a bit 
 thin, and the AI is - well - in need of improvement now and then. My personal favourite is the 
 War of the Ring mode, a Risk-like map of Middle-Earth that you have to conquer. I just love it 
 playing it in mulitplayer over the weekend! 
  
  Sounds and music are again of high quality, and the graphics are just great! Never before did Middle 
 Earth look so stunning.
  
  All in all, the game is great, the Collector's Edition has some great stuff on the bonus DVD, all 
 I am hoping now is a patch to fix up the AI and to fix a few glitches on the War of the Ring mode. 
 Apart from that, a clear candidate for the RTS of the year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Having found any excuse to play this game, out of the short time this game has been out, I've already 
 managed to rack up a staggering 19 hours of gameplay in just 3 short days. Now, I don't know what 
 it is, whether its the ability to have a proper army of troops, my love of my beloved RTS genre, 
 or perhaps the LotR is mashed in there, but for certain I know that this has got to be the best 
 game the LotR franchise has produced. The LotRseries has produced some greats, but more of the 
 same type of gaming experience for the games that accompany the blockbuster, which results in yet 
 more disastorous movie-franchise titles. BFME2 breaks that tag in half and throws it back into 
 the pit from which it spawned. BFME2 is definately what the franchise needed, a complete re-doing 
 of an original which could of been so much more. 
  
  So with that, let's start this review!
  
  Overview
  BFME2 is basically an RTS donned with 
 fantastic, addictive game-modes and plenty of hours of gameplay, and let's not forget that elusive 
 LotR tag. This wasn't a hugely hyped title, as some would of come to expect, but they were proved 
 wrong, as "An RTS slapped with the Fellowship" soon became a thing of the past, and with it came 
 a fresh, new experience. 
  
  Gameplay
  RTS's are one of the few genres which rarely fail to disappoint. This game is no exception. The 
 simplistic "Search-and-Destroy" attitude has been scrapped which largely dominated of what little 
 gameplay experience the original had. Long term consequences are evidently possible, such as the 
 possibilty of a quick goblin rush should your army be away on duty, or perhaps the possibilty of 
 not researching early, when later on a horde of archers surround your base with the fire arrows 
 which you could of been using. Quick decisions and constant alert are needed to win. The relatively 
 short campaigns (8 for each allignment) should provide entertainment for a relatively short while, 
 but the ever-so addicting War Of The Ring mode is what makes this game so damned great. "Risk"-style 
 gameplay which makes you constantly making you choose decisions. Quick expandations arn't enough, 
 you have to build on the land and make an outpost in each region, so should the need arise, the 
 area should be properly defended. Solo play is also highly entertaining. 6 factions to choose from 
 keep you playing to master each race. My personal fave is Mordor. Online play is good, too, so 
 overall, this game is one that should keep you going for a long, long time.
  Verdict - 10
  
  Graphics
  While appearing rough and flat at times, the models are there and very recognizable. 
 Not much detail has gone into each unit, but they look good regardless. The maps looks spectacular. 
 Each map, such as Helm's Deep, Minas Tirith and more is recognizable from the film, and re-enacting 
 each battle is beautiful. The scaling, however, doesn't quite cut it. Although they look good, 
 Mumakil look too small compared to the movies on which the game is actually based. Minas Tirith 
 also looks comparably small, but most units scale well against each other, such as giants and Uruks. 
 The graphics overall are fresh and crisp, and would be adored by Tolkien fans and casuals alike.
 
  Verdict - 8
  
  Sound
  Ah, the sound, perhaps the highlight of this superb game. The voicings are superb. The voices on 
 the characters are nice to hear, and constant information bombardment is good, so you know what 
 is going on in your realm. The voices themselves, however, sometimes are frustrating and lead to 
 aggrivation. The music, however is 100% LotR goodness. The ever-so recognizable tunes keep you 
 humming along as you send in a troop of trolls to dispose of pesky foes. The sound is one the best 
 things about BFME2, and will satisfy fans greatly.
  Verdict - 10
  
  Value
  It's only just been released, so a full priced game isn't much of a bargain, however, BFME2 easily 
 delivers a huge gaming experience which will last for years into the future. Whatever is so great 
 about this game, it keeps you coming back for more. The create-a-hero? (Which is relatively limited) 
 The War Of The Ring mode? The skirmishes? The campaigns? Whatever it is, BFME2 delivers on every 
 possible front, and finally a game is worthy of the wonderful LotR name-bearing.
  Verdict - 9
  
  This game is almost a certain genre-defining gaming experience. It's a game 
 that shouldn't be missed by any LotR or RTS fan.
  
  Overall - 9.6 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I just loved BFME and except for the part about about inflexibility of base construction, thought 
 was the ultimate RTS ever. But, BFME2 just blew me away. EA has really paid attention to user feedback 
 and given us a masterpiece. The new War of the Ring mode really lets u conquer Middle Earth the 
 way you want, not just events from the movies.
  
  The first BFME's AI was bad. Even a mediocre player could easily best it. Now the AI of BFME2 is 
 serious business. Of course this doesn't affect veterans, as the main fun lies in the multiplayer 
 which has really become quite tough now, with all the factions and their unique abilities. If you 
 are an average single-player lover , than trust me, the AI is tough enough ;) . The introduction 
 of a lot of new concepts has made the game very highly addictive. I mean since the time i've bought 
 it, i've been playing it for hours on end.
  
  The graphics in this game are superb and gameplay is very good. The addition of naval battles is 
 very cool. The create-a-hero mode is just plain fun. Though the overall body features don't change 
 much, but there are tons of options for powers, abilities and the like which make mixing and matching 
 fun.
  
  The walls do leave something to be asked. In the previous game soldiers could be deployed on them, 
 but that's not possible here. Still, the addition is applaudable as it gives flexibility to base-building 
 and hence much more to think of.
  
  The graphics are superb, the effort of the EA team really stands out in this game. The sound is 
 great. Combined together, they give you that feel of an epic which BFME got close to achieving 
 but missed.
  
  New factions, new techniques, new strategies make this game a must play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biagra
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  I installed the game with the tought that LOTR: BFME 2 would be much better than the original game. 
 But when I played the game I found that it looks and feels too much like the original game. The 
 best innovative thing in BFME2 is definitely the war of the ring feature. It's so addictive. The 
 normal campaign at the otherhand is a bit too repetitive. You start a central base that you defend 
 against the enemy and you start to attack when you have enough forces.
  
  I easily recommend this game to every RTS fan or normal gamer. It's a benchmark in today's gaming 
 culture to say it nicely :-D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptinkrap
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  My goblin army is attacking an enemy base- all is going well until the enemy's 4 units of cavalry 
 plough into its left flank. Hundreds of greenskins die in the relentless charge. I send the remainder 
 of my army back to the (relative) safety of my base, leaving Sauron in amongst all the chaos. I 
 then order him to cast hist overly destructive meteor spell on the enemy fortress. Alot of burning 
 ensues, Sauron is killed and the war of attrition begins again. This ambitious sequel combines 
 the fast-paced action of the original game with many new, (slightly) innovative features.
  
  The original game held your hand all the way (at least the entire thing wasn't a tutorial like 
 Black and White 2) . Now, however, EA have their BfME fanbase, and can make the more in-depth, strategic 
 game that the 1st should have been, without having to appeal to the wider audience. The first game, 
 in my view, was just one of those crappy titles that was made to capitalise on a film license, 
 without actually having to develop a proper game. Now that the capitalist fatcats at EA have the 
 rights to Tolkien's LotR books and his other literature, they can create, finally, a decent game. 
 
  
  That is the best part of this game. The Dwarves, Elves and Goblins are recreated almost faithfully 
 to the books, whilst maintaining the Peter Jackson style looks of the old factions. It works. How 
 it works. The bumped-up new graphics engine easily surpasses the first game, and most on the market- 
 the infantry combat is superbly orientated, with units fighting others, not just hacking away in 
 front of them. The new water effects are rendered perfectly, and the cutscenes, even though they 
 utilise the in-game graphics, still look stunning, and are integrated impeccably with the artistic 
 renders and voiceovers. 
  
  Anyway, enough praising, let's get onto the negative aspects (it is an EA game after all) . The 
 naval battles were one of the highly anticipated "innovations" that EA proised to make- but, true 
 to their usual style, they just didn't add enough depth- both sides have 6 types of ships, all 
 performing the same functions. Sure, it's balanced, but its boring. Almost too balanced. The maps 
 just, for the most part, do not allow for proper sea battles to take place- you cannot simply build 
 a port- you have to capture them. This limits strategic possibility, and the "seas" are closer 
 to the size of your local village pond. The ships are well rendered and detailed, but can still 
 pass straight through eachother.
  
  As good as the new factions are, it feels like they far outweigh the others, with few new additions 
 to the existing ones. The thing that thoroughly pissed me off was the fact that Mordor cannot build 
 walls!!!!! They have walls at Barad-Dur, Minas Morgul, Dol guldor- all of which are depicted at 
 some point in the game. This just unbalances things. The new resource system, however is brilliant. 
 The more space you have around the particular resource-producing structure (Mines, Malorn Trees, 
 Tunnels, Slaughterhouses, furncaes) , the more cash they generate, making for great competetive 
 multiplayer battles. The command points have been readjusted so that battles are on a (very slightly) 
 larger scale, but it still does not give that authentic LotR experience. The sound is great, even 
 though I swear that i heard the Star Wars theme music in there somewhere. 
  
  The single player aspects of the game are relatively shallow and not particularly engaging. The 
 AI is poor, and seems to know its way around the map a little too well. When interviewed by PC 
 Gamer last year, EAs Mike Verdu said that their War of the Ring mode would "Match or seven surpass 
 Rome: Total War". This mode does add a little more life to the singleplayer game, but, in itself, 
 is about as deep as Rome: Total War's box. It doesn't scratch the surface- it strokes it. In a tender, 
 loving, motherly fashion.
  
  The campaigns are incredibly well made, and, coupled with the game's visuals, provide a thoroughly 
 enjoyable experience. However, make the most of them- i completed them in around 8 hours each. 
 The War of the Ring mode is also available in Multiplayer, but takes an incredibly long time, and 
 must be saved and played again the next day. Make sure, if you decide to do this, to play with 
 someone you know and can contact (if you're really that bothered) . Its a good idea, well executed 
 by EA (for once) .
  
  If you enjoyed the firsted BfME, then i would reccommend this game. But not if you are a casual, 
 single player only gamer- the heart of BfME2 is its online features. The community will definitely 
 be around for a long time, and quite rightly so. EA have created a masterpiece, and, as flawed 
 as it is, I, and many others, will continue to revel in its delights for many a year to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Well since i got BFME 1, i played with my friends and a few weeks later, we found the game to be 
 majorly unbalanced, what with patch 1.03 coming out we stopped playing until it did.. unfortunately 
 as many of you know the patch took a good few months about 5 to be exact, to be released and many 
 of us just deleted the game or stopped playing because of major imbalance..
  
  Now i am glad to say with BFME 2, all the balance has been sorted out and the good times in multiplayer 
 can go on, i buy RTS games mostly for multiplayer so my review here is mostly for multiplayer.
 
  
  The game has 6 sides, that alone makes the game worth a look.. and if you're like me who likes 
 variety in their games, then this is perfect. Everything and i mean everything from the first game 
 has been worked on.. and improved. 
  
  Good graphics, decent sound, and overall good strategy gameplay make this a winner for anybody 
 interested in lanning with a few friends or playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  I liked the first BFME but it was missing the epic feel of actually trying to save or conqeur it. 
 Along with its RTS lite gameplay I quickly grew tired of it. It was a good game, but not as good 
 as this sequel. WoTR mode was exactly what I was hoping for in the first game.
  
  The first BFME's AI was bad. Units would be 100 yards from an enemy stronghold and just stand around 
 and not press the attack. I am not a very good RTS player but in BFME I felt like an RTS god laying 
 the smack down on the poor AI. Thankfully that's not the case in BFME2. I can now humbly crawl 
 back into my corner as a noob RTS player because this AI is kicking my butt at medium level. 
 
  
  The AI no longer stands around with nothing to do. It presses the attack and overwhelms you so 
 much more than in the first game. Wait until you have to defend Rivendell in WoTR mode and are 
 being flanked by 2 or 3 enemies at once. The AI might not always be the brightest and you'll wonder 
 why it runs by your troops sometimes but it's still improved from the first game. If you are a 
 veteran RTS player it may not be hard for you. That's what I keep reading from all the people who 
 say the AI is bad. If you're a veteran RTS player you'll be playing online and shouldn't even bother 
 with the AI for anything other than practice. But for the average gamer... trust me, the AI is 
 tough enough.
  
  I'd love to write more but time is money. I'll just say that the graphics are improved, the sound 
 is wonderful and the value is unquestionable. WoTR, multiplayer online, 6 factions, storyline heros, 
 create a hero, etc. will keep me busy for a long time. I gave the first game an 8.8 and for it's 
 time it was a very good game for a novice RTS player. This sequel is easily .6 points better and 
 a step up to a true RTS game for fans of the source material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marek990
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are superb and gameplay is very good. The addition of naval battles is 
 very cool, but create-a-hero mode is just plain fun :D (Created 10-40 heroes already :D ) .But I 
 think that people are getting too exited about it. But the walls are just useless and you cant put 
 men on them it feels like troops cut through them like a hot knive through butter lol.
  The new heroes are very cool too like Mouth of Sauron and Grima Wormtongue (check spelling) . So 
 in conclusion Game is good graphics are good walls stink create-a-hero rules and WOTR is pretty 
 descent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapdaddy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The game has many new gamelplay features which drastically improve its replay value from the first 
 game. Battles are more fun, and the combat is much more dynamic.
  Modes such as WOTR also add the the fun in playing this game. The mode has its flaws, but the concept 
 is great and there is enough fun to make you want more.
  The campaign is similar to that of a common RTS game, but the settings and the characters are what 
 distinguishes the game if you are a Tolkien fan.
  FInally, the new factions are very fun to play with, and they have different strengths and weaknesses, 
 so balance is not really an issue.
  
  Overall: Great game with an excellent replay value
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curufinwe8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The good: Graphics, naval battles, awesome LotR soundtrack, decent balance.
  
  Bad: Not enough naval maps, water not big enough, problematic AI
  
  The graphics are evolutionary 
 off the first game, smoothed out with a healthy polish on them. The water is simply stunning and 
 naval battles look promising. Siege locations like rivendell absolutely amaze me. I haven't gotten 
 a peek at the other ones yet.... but Rivendell is just wow, with huge causeways going over the water. 
 You feel like you are actually in the movie in the house of ELrond.
  
  THe AI: Well, they have retained their clairvoyance from the BFME 1. For instance, in one battle, 
 They manged to find the ring, so I got the message that it was captured, so ti was basically sending 
 my mounted heroes (glorfindel) on a mad dash to get it. Also, the AI does gather resources at twice 
 the rate you do, so it cheats as opposed to actually using tactics.
  
  Heroes: Heroes can basically be broken into 2 types: Attack and Support.
  Support heroes add 
 armour, damage, and healing to your regular units. Most factions have roughly an equal amount of 
 attack and support heroes. Support heroes though rely on their default attack, which is still quite 
 good. Hehe, Elrond could take down a warg with one swipe of his sword at level 6.
  
  Buildings: They are really weak. This is REALLY bad when the enemy army completely ignores the 
 legions of elves and just runs straight to my resource tree and tries to destroy it. 
  
  Note: I bought the collectors edition, and meh, you can take it or leave it. I am happy with it 
 though. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhalcyon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, from all the hype and Designer Diaries that were supplied (via this site) I was expecting 
 a masterpiece. All the tension over whether Empire At War would be the better game, or BFME2 would 
 just lay waste to this year's RTS line-up. 
  
  I feel like I was mis-lead in thinking that this was a much better game than the original, when 
 all you get is a few new features added, and old ones removed. When I installed and booted it up 
 (after a rather lengthy wait) the game features I was expecting to be supplied at least were:
 
  
  1. Great sound (voice-acting, music, ambient etc.)
  2. Improved/revised graphics engine
  3. A hero unit that I could call my own
  4. Some killer 
 new units
  5. Neat movies, especially for introduction purposes
  6. A more reasonable system of building
  7. Just a more refined game, giving justice what the 
 original could have done (skip to here if you don't want to read too much)
  
  This is what I got:
  
  1. Sound: What sets a person in the mood for some high-fantasy, intense 
 emotional moments, and pride when your armies crush the opposition? The music, and the clash of 
 battle of course! The music is disappointing, if only because it barely plays even at full volume. 
 I don't appreciate having to turn up my system volume, to hear the fantastic music. 
  
  The voice-acting is plain pathetic. Not only do units use some of the same responses from the original 
 game, but when heroes speak it almost like they took bits and pieces of original phrases and had 
 someone (poorly) fill in the rest. Sentence tenses are almost unbearable, even on the first mission. 
 One minute Arwen is talking about bringing Lancers (new elven calvary) , then makes a statement 
 about goblins in what sounds almost like a question!
  
  But when you do hear the music, it's the same good stuff that makes you want to find a soundtrack. 
 Although the ambient and sound effects (battle, horses charging, etc.) are forgettable, that is 
 if you even notice.
  
  Another problem that stands out, is that about 80% of the time, the audio that is spoken doesn't 
 match up to the text/subtitle that appear on-screen; very annoying.
  
  2. Graphics: To be sure, seeing how this is '06 and graphics are blazing along and especially with 
 all the competition, you'd think they'd pull out the big guns. The charade was led up even to the 
 title screen of the game. Seeing two giant archaic statues with sunshine pouring through the clouds 
 while little boats plow through the massive ocean on the back-drop of shadowed mountains, is enough 
 to plunge even the most hardy of bored gamers into the mood. Then you get in-game.
  
  Surprise! Same engine, almost the same graphics (that looks blocky on some units) , quickly disappearing 
 corpses, and apparently the animators thought, "The stiffer, the better." Even with the animation 
 customization option turned on max, I am amazed at how so many characters in the Tolkien universe 
 could happen to have rheumatoid arthritis. The thing that saddened me the most was that the units 
 usually don't have more than one attack animation. Even if they do, they abuse one of them so much 
 you don't even see the others.
  
  But, don't be too dismayed at your now-gone fifty dollars. The game does feature the ability to 
 boost the graphic quality slightly higher than the original. Even if that means you drop your FPS 
 lower than twenty-five. The water looks absolutely fantastic, but is indeed a killer. Upping the 
 animation quality really only seems to slow your computer down (considerably in some cases) during 
 large conflicts. What it does is increase the frames that animations are allowed, but you only 
 really see it when you're designing your character. Otherwise, it'd be more helpful to just re-label 
 it "FPS Slower-Downer."
  
  By most standards, the loading times are unacceptable. It takes an unbearable amount of time to 
 get in a game, and with the addition of the One Ring's writing to every menu, (to an even greater 
 extent to that of the original) the game garners a stupid amount to open anything.
  
  Side Note: I tried tweaking the game's graphics through the tutorial, because it's just faster 
 than going through a whole campaign intro or a skirmish. But, when entering into campaign mode, 
 BOOM! All my options just took no effect, and everything is bland. Forcing me to quit, and re-adjust. 
 I'm still not fully sure what even happened.
  
  3. Hero Units: Ah yes. Probably easily one of the most anticipated features. Rather, it's one of 
 the most shocking smacks in the face. You are greeted by a screen that has a bunch of pre-designed 
 characters (which actually just spoiled the whole surprise) , which gets you excited because you 
 want to make a guy in full Tower Guard armor that is completely black save for a golden shield 
 with the Tree of Gondor blazed in red on it and with a sword so big it'll take days to fully swing 
 it. 
  
  Not this time around. Most of the characters only have two or three options for each category (Head, 
 shield, arms, legs, etc.) , and some characters don't even feature an option to equip some of them 
 (such as the shield) . The characters usually feature two matching sets, with pieces of armor that 
 don't seem to go anywhere, added in. Not to mention some of the matching sets are discolored, so 
 it throws it all off.
  
  Two of the character choices are really the same one, with different colors and (some) different 
 appearance options. And no, you cannot seem to change anything facially or structurally. You are 
 supplied with a template character for each classification, and you're supposed to be happy with 
 that.
  
  4. New units: Ah yes. This is probably the first thing most people look for in a sequel; new stuff! 
 While it's here, it's not exactly trailblazing. For example, the elven footsoldier is just sad. 
 It's bland, and is probably the most un-animated unit I have ever seen in a game. The buildings 
 are nice, but textures don't really seem to pop out, and graphic settings don't really bring out 
 the details (like the groove of stone in the fortress) all that much.
  
  5. Movies: Okay, so taking into consideration that this is more so a game pulled from the cinematically-spectacular 
 movies than the book (s) , you'd think it'd follow in that direction. Well, the introduction movie 
 is practically just some moderately-decent gameplay shots, perhaps with some scripted movements. 
 But the problem is, they try to build it up to be epic. Which apparently meant apply those scripted 
 movements to about 20 units on-screen and maybe that'll do the trick. 
  
  The game-play movies that lead into the campaign are extraordinary, however. They feature a hybrid 
 of impressionist painting along with 3-D shaded movement. They are simply excellent.
  
  6. Building: Reading the aforementioned Designer Diaries, I was thinking, "Well at least I'm not 
 going to spend my time holed up in a foxhole." While that's true for the most part, the sad thing 
 is, you'll probably not be holed up in much of anything. The method used for building fortifications 
 relies strictly on wall hubs. Which is more or less a foundation for your walls. Sadly, everything 
 is destroyed so quickly, you'll find yourself building more wall hubs than actual walls.
  
  7. Game Refinement/Conclusion: Yeah, well... rather than just re-state my already expressed impressions, 
 I'll just sum it all up. 
  
  In actuality, while the game strived hard to add more ambitious features, it's really more of an 
 insult to the consumer and the talent that could have be employed. When you look at the story, 
 the movies, the books you cry out for a game that does justice. With a series of very disappointing 
 games (The Fellowship of the Ring, War of the Ring, The Third Age to name a few) , any real LOTR 
 fan is dying inside to temporarily live in the universe that they love. Battle for Middle Earth 
 made an valiant effort, you'd wish the sequel would build it up even more. And while not a total 
 failure, you have to be hard on it because you can't make half-efforts on such a respectable series.
 
  
  In all honesty, Empire at War won this round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshmesh89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  when i played the first one , i liked it very much, the gameplay was simple awesome graphics and 
 great battle animations.
  This release is better than the first one. They fixed the Unbalanced factions , the "command point" 
 mode , i also liked the idea that all heroes cost command points. The new building system is better 
 than the SPOT build mode. graphics was slightly improved, sounds aren't that good but they will 
 keep u awake all the time u play.
  i better be calling this gameStrategy Game of The Year".
  For 60$ this game must be definately 
 in your game Encyclopedia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceasarwing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  So far I have only done the skirmish mode to try all the factions out and see how the game plays 
 so I haven't done the campaign or war of the ring mode. The graphics do look great in my opinion, 
 if not just similar to the first game. The first faction I played was the Elves who left something 
 to be desired. While I love the hero units, the actual units for the faction like archers, swordsmen 
 and sentries were very boring to look at. They just looked uninteresting, and in the tolkien universe 
 they have arguably the best designed weapons, armor, etc! Other than that I think the elves are 
 very solid. Moving on to the "Men of the West" faction... i'm very disappointed. They essentially 
 removed my favorite faction from the original by getting rid of Rohan and simply adding a horse 
 unit of Rohirrim to an intact Gondor faction. In the original I loved having the different horse 
 unit types and even their buildings and castles... this is a great disappointment to me. 
  Speaking of castles... lets talk about the new building system, or rather, the OLD building system. 
 I was one who enjoyed having the new build system from the last game with plots to build on, rather 
 than like normal RTS games. I believe the addition of building walls should've been the only thing 
 changed in the build system, and the rest stayed the same. I think that the resource gathering 
 buildings with percentages associated is a stupid idea, and forces you to spread out your base 
 far greater than you should at the beginning to maximize resources. In my first Elf game i spent 
 alot of time creating archer towers outside my walls to defend my base... literally had the wall 
 covered with them... however, one mountain giant comes up and starts hurling boulders at my towers, 
 and takes each out with two hits, then a section of wall with one hit. How is this right?? it's 
 ridiculous to me. When a section of wall is destroyed, you can't rebuild it every time, or repair... 
 you have to create a new "wall hub" for 200 just so you can replace one small piece. 
  The make a hero option is a very cool idea... but ends up simply sucking. You have no options for 
 changing the appearance of the character like their face or color or anything. It's all cookie 
 cutter heroes and you basically have 3 options for each of the areas to change. Very boring. I 
 created a "Captain of Gondor" hero and gave him no helmet and no hair... well in the game when 
 he mounted his horse, it changed to having hair. When dismounted he was back to no hair. Little 
 details and bugs like this are rampant in this game, and it all feels very rushed. 
  I enjoy the game, but only because I love Lord of the Rings... i'm disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTSFanatic
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  What can you expect from EA? Innovation? No, C&C Generals within the LOTR universe. Basically, 
 they converted BFME into a port C&C Generals, a bad port at that. The balance, AI and gameplay 
 are down right horrible. Seriously, did they have an intern do the balance? Missions are very easy 
 and they reused maps from the first BFME 1. Talk about ghetto. 
  
  WOTR mode is pathetic. I was expecting them to at least mix in some cool tactical battles like 
 Empire at War did. BFME 2 is the perfect game for it! But instead they opted for turn based crap, 
 which is done better in other games like Total War.
  
  In summary, if you are a strategy gimp, who simpily likes to drag select and click to win, this 
 game is for you. Real RTS players should avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  EA LA's Battle for Middle Earth proved that if Lord of the Rings had any future in the game industry 
 it was in RTS's. After reciving generaly good reviews from the first installment, EA announced 
 a more ambisious Battle for Middle Earth II, with recent aquired ( and complete) licences of Tolkien's 
 materal, EA could now create fictional units that we where never shown in the movies. This was 
 a risk however, they stood to gain a lot or lose it all, thankfully, they got it.
  
  Single Player: Anyone familiar with EA LA's RTS team know when it comes to game play they're good, 
 very good, and BFME II is no acception. They learned from they mistakes and they improved, vastly. 
 The 'Build-Plots' system was taken away introducing a more classic approach by letting the play 
 place structure and defences wherever they want. All of your favorite units and sides return, well 
 mostly, as well as a huge chunck of new content. This game has six factions, 3 are new, what used 
 to be Gondor and Rohan have merged into the juggernaught 'Men of the West', Modor and Isengard 
 return though and stayed pretty much the same as you remember them, the new sides though are actually 
 remarkably well done being there was hardly any refernce for EA to work from. These new factions 
 include the Goblins, a sneaky hit and run type side, the Dwarves, a quality over quanity, and the 
 Elves, the well 'Super-Snipers'. Campaign offers a Risk type mode, along with a traditional campagin 
 that takes you through the War in the North, a huge series of battles that conisided with the movie 
 but was never focused on. The game also offers a Skirmish mode, with well what you expect, Computer 
 players verus you, not much new there.
  
  Multiplayer: Not much new here either, multiplayer online has your basic skirmish games, free for 
 alls or team gaems. LAN, Online same old same old.
  
  Battle for Middle Earth II is a mjor improvement over it's predessor, new units, factions, maps, 
 story, the two most exciting additions, navy and the awesome 'Create a Hero' , but this game also 
 does an excellent job preserving the orginal units. This game and Empire at War were released almost 
 right on top of eachother and will certainly do firece battle in the retail market, I however after 
 playing both deffiently give this game the thumbs-up. If you are to own any RTS this year, don't 
 be a fool, don't let this one pass you up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Well gotta say that this game is awsome and it even beats the "beststrategy game in the world 
 battle for middle earth I. But we've got a new number one game and it's lotr: Middle earth II. In 
 the game there's always an funny thinks in campaining the storys just so nice and the games really 
 working. At lotr Middle-earth I there was'nt any cinda side attacks it was just imagening but in 
 II there's really some use to side attacks! I've played the first part of game over one year and 
 i still just cant get enough to it. And just wana tell u again this ones a really yummu game ;) . 
 There's a totaly new group in the game (dwarfes) they are all wery stong guys as you all should 
 know and guess what... they can build some walls too and built some catapults and all in top of 
 em only bad think is that you cant set some unists an top of them. That sea battle idea was a bad 
 idea it doesn't bring anymore exiting in the game. When i look the srceen my beatiful computer 
 screen u know my eyes ar relly resting on em graphics are so beatiful! And then about new warriors 
 well there's maeby something special but... Sword mans spearmans and rangedmans and that's all 
 about original warriors but that's not a big minus in great game like this. But there's a great 
 and big plus in the game elfs have some machines and it's like newborned group i think that elfs 
 haved the greatest chance in the whole game if we're thinking about part I. I love that too that 
 u can now relly get the ring for your self and give some more powers to ur army! (you just gotta 
 find it ;) ) and the heros oh my god i love guys like sauron or gandalf the white they're soo strong! 
 Then when we're thinking... In part I building some money reactors was boring cause u have'd to 
 build them all at the same area. Now u have to set them all aroud the map because if u dont u dont 
 get that much money! (Idea is that how long an one money polase is from other that limits the coming 
 of money) . I'd would be cool if these guys would have an moral but it doesnt get minuses. 
  
  So if you'r tracking this game the BUY IT this is the best game of the whole world for the 
 best game makers of the world! C ya in internet ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  okay, im not going to spend this entire review telling you "how great this game is!!!" but i will 
 tell you this is one h*ll of a game! yes, it has its flaws, what game doesnt?! but those are really 
 minor. you know, walls too expensive, too short of a campaign, that kind of thing. but if you look 
 past those minor things, you uncover a great game. the graphics are superb, everything looks sooo 
 real. well, lotr real. the WOTR mode is also really fun. its like Rome Total Wars, except lotr. 
 the new hero creation is an added bonus. sure, it's somewhat shallow, but who plays an RTS to create 
 a hero? if you want that, play Soul Calibur 3! the sound is also fairly nifty. voice overs are 
 done well, and the battle sound effects are huge and make you really feel like this IS LOTR!!! 
 the value is extreme, hours and hours of exciting game play. it really never gets old. there is 
 no "super repetativeness!" i would strongly urge you to buy this game if your looking for a good 
 RTS. dont listen to those other fanboys who say "this game is soooooo terrible!!!!" they dont know 
 jack-s*** about games. like i said before, it has flaws, but hey, lighting up Elves with Dorgoth 
 is well worth your $50 or $60!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacaron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the better in the world. All the modifications they bring to it are amazing! 
 The create a hero feature is so cool. It is very fun to have you fighting with gandalf or boromir. 
 I recommand this game to everyone. The menus are quite simple and the tutorial is very good make. 
 The only bad point is that you need a good machine to play it. So run to stores and buy it. The 
 war of the ring is pretty cool and for all the time we waits, it's worth it!! 
  
  ea made a very good job for this one and i hope they will make of these unique games that are almost 
 perfect. The bad point is that the walls are not good. They are too expensive for wat they give. 
 They do not protect a lot cause they have low health and if you want to keep them long you need 
 to buy upgrades so ... $$$$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_silkstone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  The game beats the 1st one in every way. The game play in war of the ring is good. One of the best 
 bits in the game is that you can build anywhere and you can create your own hero. My Favourite race 
 on of the new ones is the Goblins because you can just get some fighters are sent them over the 
 walls of the enemy and weaken the enemys forces. My favourite power the the great fire ball that 
 the mordor forces can summon. The power from the 1st one are just crap but the extra powers are 
 the best. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klawgamer55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  For all the naysayers out there I'm afraid that this game has vanquished any skeptics opinions. 
 BFME2 has delivered evrything EA promised, from top to bottom I feel like this is the RTS I have 
 been waiting for sinc eI started playing them (Back before you could even put an army into formation.) 
 
  
  I always wondered, "Man it would be cool to put myself in there!" The create a hero feature is 
 innovative, no you can't customize it completley but lets face it, it's the first of it's kind, 
 even the Wrestling games genre which offers the best customaztion of any games started out pretty 
 weak in this area.
  
  The Graphics are beatiful to anyone who stops and looks at them, the designs of everything in the 
 Dwarven and Elven worlds is also something I think both Peter Jackson AND J. R. R Tolkien would like.
 
  
  The sound is a wonderful mix of original and tracks from the Trilogy giving the epic feel to each 
 mission. Voice acting is not anything special but it doesn't irritate you either (Unless your a 
 sad little man who expected the A-Listers of the Trilogy to return for every game then you just 
 have bigger problems) Hugo Weaving's masterful Elrond voice grabs you and plunks you down right 
 in the center of the action as he explains the missions.
  
  Overall yes this game has some kinks, Walls are overly expensive and have as much of a chance of 
 surviving a couple blows from a Ram or attack troll as a Bounty paper towel. And the A. I is not 
 as intelligent as one would expect.
  
  War of the ring is something very interesting, basically it took the entire concept of 'Star Wars 
 Empire at War' and made it a FEATURE! You control your region from a world map with heroes and 
 build spots on each province and move to conquer the whole map. Something I'm looking forward to 
 exploring deeper.
  
  So in my humble opinion, RTS fans and of course LOTR fans will get their money's worth from this 
 title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  The game play is executed very well. There are three modes of play. You can play like the old board 
 game RISK, single player campaign RTS style and skirmish. The graphics are quite impressive and 
 the ability to customize your own hero adds a lot of personality especially when you can import 
 your customized hero to multi-player sessions on the Internet. 
  
  I think the best part of this game is the free form base building. You can build anywhere and I 
 don't just mean plop a barracks and armory here and there. You can create a vast fortress with 
 multiple walls, gates, guard posts and traps. If the computer or your human opponent gives you 
 the chance you can really make some impressive fortresses. I love the idea of creating a fortress 
 from old books I have ready like the fortress from "Thomas Covenant The Unbeliever". The fortress 
 was called Lords Keep and is methodically described as a pretty tough to crack fortress. I will 
 pull this design out of my hat of thicks on-line and watch the enemy crumble. 
  
  This game has great design and replay potential. Graphics are outstanding and the armies are really 
 well balanced.
  
  Great job for once EA!
  
  Highly recommend for hours of addictive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarkin2034
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game, the graphics , game play and sound are really cool. Although they could have 
 done far better on the option on creating a hero, because even thought is cool, you don't have 
 much of a choice on creating one. I don't know why some players are complaining, I don't have any 
 lag, and I haven't had any problems with the AI, I play on medium and I haven't lost a battle yet.
 
  
  If they come up with an expansion they could really improve the creating a hero feature. Giving 
 the player the chance to really create the hero they want by choosing the type of skin, face, and 
 far more variety on powers to chose from.
  
  Like I said before, the game is great and is worth buying it. I have both battle for middle earth 
 1 & 2 and they are both amazing. Another thing that I notice with BFME2 is that for the collectors 
 edition they said that you can control a spacial unit dragon that only collectors edition owners 
 can control, where is that unit?, because I haven't taken control of it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplayeveryday
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I recently went to best buy to get this game and i have to say it is amazing! It has several factions 
 such as elves dwarves and goblins. The sauron option is awesome and is like the sauron in felowship 
 of the ring wreaking havoc. It is a must buy game and I encourage you all to buy it. I recently 
 bought EAW also and this is much better than it. It was slightly harder but increadably easy to 
 learn! I havent yet beat it for it only came out today but it is really immersive and gets you 
 in the game quickly. 
  
  C_B_Master 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralphieboy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Its almost a year ago when B4ME came out, you could experience middle earth your way.... but it 
 was for the new RTS player cause it was not srategic enough for the hardcore RTS players. Now 2 
 march 2006 the sequel came out and many fans were exited about the new features and the create-a-hero 
 mode and War of the Ring mode. It was now also playable for the hardcore RTS players and with the 
 rights on the books EA could do much more. And I can finnaly say it: THEY DID IT.... with new factions, 
 heroes, units, base building, fortress upgrading... it is all fun to do, and the Multiplayer is 
 wonderfull with great experience it in 1 word: AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaRidley42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I have not had a chance to play war of the ring or multi player yet so this review is for the campaign 
 and skirmish. The skirmish mode has tons of maps and is very fun to play with all the races and 
 maps. The gameplay and graphics are great along with the campaign. Even though it only has 16 missions 
 they are long. The creat a hero is fun but needs a little work. The spells are fun to use and have 
 massive effect. This game is a must buy for any lord of the rings or real time strategy fans.
 
  
  I've now gotten much more of a chance to play multiplayer and love it even more. BT2DC makes the 
 game simply awasome and Clanwars is fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashfire1979
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, while this game has many enhancements to the original game such as new units, maps 
 and create a hero options it's simply not the masterpiece the original was.
  
  The game play is broken. For example, War of the Ring mode is simply an excuse to have skirmish 
 battles with the AI. The "One Ring" is in all skirmishes to be found and after the battle is over 
 no one gets to keep the ring so there is no lasting benefit to capturing the ring.
  
  Another example is the defensive structures. No longer do bases come with walls. You have to build 
 them yourself. This is a great idea however this is also broken. Walls can be broken down by ANY 
 UNIT. That's right, your infantry can now smash directly through walls completely removing the 
 need for artillery.
  
  The lack of defensive capabilities causes the game to favor a "rush tactics" strategy and this 
 can be seen in skirmishes with the AI. The idea of the game is who can turn out the most amount 
 of units first and rush the enemy base.
  
  This isn't a horrible game. It has some notable improvements over the original. War of the Ring 
 mode is downright bad and unfinished. The AI is inferior to the original. It is unfortunate that 
 they didn't keep the gameplay of the original as this could have been a great add-on. The only 
 thing a veteran of the original Battle for Middle Earth will like is the new units.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  More than a year has passed since the release of Battle For Middle Earth. Now, EA brings us the 
 sequel to the franchise based real time strategy game. Is this new installment different enough 
 to make it a sequel instead of just a simple expansion pack?
  
  Gameplay: All the good elements that made the first game a success are back and improved. The game 
 is not just a click-a-thon where instead of strategy, what counts is your speed with the mouse; 
 Battle For Middle Earth II really rewards how you use each type of unit.
  
  You often will find that fewer and better trained (trained through experience) units are far better 
 than plenty of battalions constantly being created from your buildings.
  
  Placing key structures in key places can also mean victory or defeat. With the introduction of 
 walls the game takes you to a new level of strategy.
  
  Heroes have been improved since BFME. Before, it would be difficult to level your hero up as they 
 were rather weak. Not anymore, you will enjoy them at their full potential as long as you use them 
 wisely.
  
  An extra rewarding addition is the possibility of creating your own customized heroes. Even though 
 the variety on how they look is not that great, its a nice feature not found on other RTS games.
 
  
  Fans of the movies might dislike the fact that the campaigns are not fully based on the trilogy. 
 I missed the Middle Earth map on both campaigns, but the War Of The Ring is an excellent way to 
 give the game a more free-form game play.
  
  Graphics: EA has done an excellent job improving an aging engine rivaling most of RTS that have 
 come out this year. It does have its shortcomings though. Shadows do not look quite right and the 
 system requirements to enjoy the full eye candy at high resolutions are very demanding. I also 
 dislike the fact that widescreen resolutions are not supported. When is EA going to start supporting 
 the growing number of widescreen monitors?
  
  Sound: As in the first game, the soundtrack is excellent. The sound effects in game are very well 
 done and the voice acting is of high quality. Most of voiceovers are very similar to those of our 
 favorite actors we see in the movies.
  
  Value: The good and The Evil campaigns are not really long, but the War Of The Ring game mode, 
 will surely add hours of fun with the game. Once you are tired of the single player part of the 
 game, you can start playing online for countless hours of entertainment. The community base is 
 big enough to keep you busy for a while. 
  
  Tilt: I am no Lord Of The Rings fan, but I am a fan of Battle For Middle Earth, and now of Battle 
 For Middle Earth II too. The battles are enjoyable to watch, there is plenty of strategy for hardcore 
 RTS players and the game has improved enough from the first one to make you spend an extra $49 
 on it. A must have for every Lord Of The Rings fan and for anybody with even a little interest 
 in RTS games.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
