-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battleformiddleearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Big battles that capture the feel of the movies.
 Campaign map lets you decide where to go next.
 Excellent graphics and sound effects.
 Voices provided by most of the movie cast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heroes can get in the way at times.
 The battles tend to be long wars of attrition.
 AI is easy to manipulate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.2, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 9,745 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 6, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As befits its source material, The Battle for Middle-earth is a huge game, and there's a lot of 
 great real-time strategy gameplay to be had in it. 

  Gandalf didn't "die" in Moria. In fact, the old wizard slapped down the Balrog and marched out 
 of the mountain with the rest of the fellowship. Meanwhile, King Theoden of Rohan managed to get 
 cut down at Helm's Deep and, oh yeah, Boromir lives. Is this revisionist fantasy history at work? 
 No, it's just a campaign as the good guys in The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth, 
 EA's real-time strategy game that spans the entire saga of Peter Jackson's  The Lord of the Rings 
  movies. The Battle for Middle-earth has a lot going for it: This is a big game packed with beautiful 
 graphics and two huge campaigns. And while it doesn't achieve the same epic sense of scale as Jackson's 
 movies, it's still an engrossing and well-made real-time strategy game that captures the essence 
 of J. R. R. Tolkien's wondrous world.  

          The Battle for Middle-earth may not rival the scale of the movies, but it's still an impressive-looking 
 game.     

  While some might have expected that The Battle for Middle-earth would rival the size and scope 
 of a certain other major real-time strategy game released this year, the truth is that it's more 
 on the scale of traditional real-time strategy games, though its battles are still quite big. What 
 makes The Battle for Middle-earth work is the fact that it allows you to rewrite the history of 
 the War of the Ring as either the forces of good or the forces of evil. The game does this by combining 
 an overarching turn-based campaign that's stitched together with real-time strategy missions, allowing 
 you to decide where to take the fight to next. This way, you can control the armies of good or 
 evil as you march across the world of Middle-earth, conquering province after province along the 
 way.  

  At the heart of the campaign game is the living world map, which is exactly what it sounds like. 
 This is a 3D view of a living, breathing Middle-earth, divided into more than 30 provinces, each 
 of which has special properties that you earn when you control it. One province may give you bonus 
 resources, another will give you power points that you can use to invest in powerful abilities, 
 and yet another will give you extra command points, allowing you to lead more troops in battle. 
 And as you gaze upon the living world, with its little details like the Nazgl flying through 
 overcast skies, the sonorous tones of Ian McKellen or Christopher Lee (both reprising their roles 
 from the movies) will guide you.  

  Admittedly, the strategic layer of the campaign is a bit thin. You have only two or three armies 
 at your disposal, and the goal isn't so much to crush the opposing army as it is to simply conquer 
 as many provinces at possible. When you select an army, the game will highlight any adjacent hostile 
 provinces, and you'll select which one you want to attack next. You'll then drop down into the 
 real-time portion of the game to resolve the battle. Once that's done, you'll switch back to the 
 campaign map to do it all over again. There doesn't appear to be any hurry to get anywhere, either, 
 as the final battle for both sides can wait until you're ready to proceed. That means you can spend 
 time mopping up isolated provinces and building up your forces.  

          The living world map lets you dispatch your armies to various regions, so choose the ones 
 with the most bonuses.     

  The strategic map does incorporate some welcome features, such as continuity between missions. 
 In other words, the army that you have at the end of one battle is the same army you'll have at 
 the beginning of the next. This not only gives you an added incentive to preserve your units, but, 
 more importantly, it also allows both your heroes and your regular units to rise in experience 
 level, making them even more powerful than before. And, in a nice touch, you can rename your regular 
 units to give them some personality. It's easy to turn a noted cavalry unit into the Light Brigade, 
 for instance. This also makes it easier to recognize which units on the battlefield you want to 
 preserve.     

  Like in other conventional real-time strategy games, there are some missions in Battle for Middle-earth 
 that require you to navigate through a level with a handful of units, usually heroes, without building 
 anything. These can be some of the more-annoying missions in the game, mainly due to the fact that 
 the game is at times wildly inconsistent when it comes to handling hero death. For example, while 
 controlling the fellowship through Moria, none of the fellowship may die. If someone does, you'll 
 fail the mission and have to reload the battle. But in other battles, heroes can and will fall. 
 In fact, one of the most shocking moments in our testing came when Aragorn fell in an early battle 
 and the game went on, accepting Aragorn as a casualty of war. Another surprise came when Boromir 
 was saved from the Uruk-hai, thus veering away from  The Fellowship of the Ring  storyline. Alas, 
 what seemed to be a bold move on the part of EA faded as Aragorn and other characters that were 
 killed in battle simply reappeared in other battles later on. Though this seems necessary from 
 a narrative point of view (after all, someone has to summon the Army of the Dead to fight at Minas 
 Tirith) , it makes parts of the campaign's storyline a little hard to swallow.  

          Sam and a group of Gondor soldiers take on Shelob, the spider queen. As you can probably 
 tell, the game takes some liberties with the story for gameplay's sake.     

  Part of the problem with the heroes is that they walk the line between usefulness and inconvenience. 
 The major characters from the movies, such as Aragorn, the four hobbits, Gollum, and Eowyn, are 
 available as heroes in the game. They're fairly powerful, but not powerful enough to overwhelm 
 and unbalance the game. And, as they gain experience, they unlock more-powerful abilities. Gandalf 
 has a wicked magic blast that hurls enemy battalions into the air, while Aragorn can summon the 
 power of Elendil to cause enemies to flee. But these special characters are still vulnerable, and 
 in the sheer chaos of battle, it's difficult to manage regular units alongside multiple heroes 
 and their powers. It's easy to lose track of heroes, and often they can get cut down in battle. 
 Thus, you'll feel it's easier simply to put them in the rear, where they can stay safe and out 
 of the way. Unfortunately, they also won't accrue experience sitting in the back, and late in the 
 campaign you may find yourself in a tight spot if your heroes aren't strong enough. In fact, there 
 are some late-campaign battles where a high-level hero can be the difference between success and 
 failure.  

  The real-time battles of The Battle for Middle-earth are the heart of the game, and while they 
 may not provide the same epic sense of scale as the battles in the movies, they're still quite 
 well done. The game captures the many different moments from the movies very well, from the way 
 cavalry can slice through enemy infantry like a hot knife through butter, to the sheer numbers 
 of the forces of evil.  

  What's really interesting is how The Battle for Middle-earth fits so effectively into the existing 
 storylines of the movies. For instance, near the beginning of  The Two Towers , we see Eomer leading 
 a company of horsemen. By the end of that movie, he arrives at Helm's Deep with an army of horsemen 
 behind him to save the day. In The Battle for Middle-earth, you can lead Eomer throughout his campaign 
 in Rohan, building up a larger and larger army behind him. Then, when you must fight the battle 
 of Helm's Deep, you must hold out long enough for Gandalf and Eomer to arrive, at which point the 
 army that you built up with Eomer arrives with him. It's a nice sense of continuity that helps 
 fill out the background of the movies, and it's also an example of the way the game rewards you 
 for playing wisely and preserving your force.  

          Saruman unleashes his mighty blast. Heroes are powerful units, but it's easier to manage 
 them one at a time, rather than in groups.     

  The game doesn't rely on randomly generated maps, so each province has a distinct look and feel 
 to it, from the forest-dominated Entwash to the plains of Gondor. The battles require you to construct 
 bases and gather resources, but the game offers some nice twists on the convention. First of all, 
 you can't simply build sprawling rear bases to pump up your economy and churn out hundreds of units. 
 The game restricts where you can build to certain parts of the map, and each location will allow 
 you to construct only so many buildings. There aren't any resources that you actively mine or gather, 
 either, so you won't see dozens of peasants running back and forth. Instead, the game relies on 
 a rather generic universal resource that you accrue by building farms and slaughterhouses, but 
 these structures are also limited to certain points on the map. And, once again, the game rewards 
 you for past performance, as you benefit from the various bonuses that you earn by conquering different 
 provinces. So, by the late game, you may have easily doubled your resource rate from the beginning. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (301 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dewytripp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok so what were looking at here is a RTS game based on the LOTR movie trilogy featuring basically 
 everything you saw in the motion pictures: heroes, villains, troops, plot, you name it. Personally 
 I was happy that the game stayed with the plot and didn't swerve to the side but at some points 
 the game followed the storyline a little too much for example in the mines of 
  Moria your characters follow the exact path as in the first movie. It would have been nice if they 
 had thrown a little curveball just to shake things up. All in all the plot/goal was fine as it 
 was. Now to troops... the only real flaw in this game is the balance of the troops. If you are on 
 a good campaign all you have to do is make rangers and fire arrows. Rangers in numbers own buildings 
 with fire and they have superior range to any other ranged unit. They can also take down any kind 
 of monster thrown their way. So far I have not found a way to lose by just making rangers. Of course 
 this unbalanced power makes the evil campaign much harder. Otherwise LOTR battle for middle earth 
 has flawless gameplay, enjoyable battles and a creative map editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electro814
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game is deadly and an awesome strategy game any that loves lord of the rings and loves strategy 
 games they should get this game defiantly, i love lord of the rings its my favourite movie since 
 it came out but this is'nt really like it, its a bit different the campign is deadly i'm finshed 
 it on good campign not quite there on evil campign. But i LOVE playing it against computer its 
 just awesome, but i don't really like that your in a castle that in can only build inside your 
 castle no outside it only for farms or woodcamps or slaughter houses. in battle for middle earth 
 II you can build anywhere its awesome too, the online mode its'nt really that good but bfme II 
 its awesome online and bmfe is better offline against computer. You can choose to be good or evil 
 for good theres gondor and rohan and for evil mordor and isengard, obviously ha. For gondor you 
 can build  range, stables, water fountains and statue and so on 
 and for rohan you can build stables, archery range, farms, water fountains and statue and so on and 
 for mordor you can build slaughter houses, orc pit, siege works, huardruim plaice and so on and finally 
 for isengard you can build slaughter houses, siege works, uirk pit, amory and so on. Its a very good 
 strategy game and you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_marlo13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle-Earth is a very good game. if you like playing Age of Empires, 
 Age of Mythologies or if you like the Lord of the Rings games. this game is for you. This game 
 lets you experience the original, best battles in the lord of the rings series. this game lets 
 you take control of the fellowship members ( Gandalf, Frodo, Sam, Merry, Pippin, Legolas, Aragorn, 
 Boromir, Gimili) and use the Rohn heroes and Gondor heroes and on top of that you get to control 
 the forces of good like: Elves, Rohn soldiers, and Gondor soldiers. The only thing that is bad 
 it that building. you can only build on your land, i like to build building anywhere, but the game 
 is still a "must have" PC game. On the Evil side of the game you get the experience the destruction 
 Middle-earth. the game lets you use Saruman, Lurtz (YES!!) the Nazguls on horses or on fell beast (Dragons) 
 and the Witch-king. You get to control the forces of evi: Orcs, trolls, Balrog. Seige equipment, 
 Uruk-hai, Wargs, Haradrim, Mumakil. One of the best part in this game is that you get to Conquor 
 or defend addictional lands like: Mirkwood, Rohn lands, Mordor Lands, Gondor lands, Rhun, and the 
 land under the Gondor (hondor?) , and many more. The Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle-Earth is 
 a very good game, if you don't have it, your missing out of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The Battle for middle earth is a lord of the rings fans dream come true; and actually turned out 
 to be a rts gamers dream come to as well because of its great complex and balanced gameplay. Heres 
 my take.
  
  PROS: Great and addictive (in a good way) campaign. In depth and well thought out skrimish mode. 
 Heroes in the game have nice powers that work really well and are balanced. Each of the 4 races 
 have strenghths and weaknesses. Great gameplay ideas such as having a walled citadel as your main 
 base if you are good and a large base as evil. great and realistic combat (not repettive crap you 
 get from most rts games) I could keep going but I don't want to waste your time.
  
  CONS: only 4 races, a few minor frame rate issues 
  
  The games basics are these: you start 
 out with your main base which can be a walled fortress an outpost or a camp for good and a outpost 
 from small to large size for evil. you get two troopes of soldiers to capture other plots to build 
 farms and lumber mills (the two resource gatherers. yuo can only build on certian spots which adds 
 to the srtatagy. battle are intense and fun. sieges are great and fun to. If you are a rts fan 
 get this game.
  
  If you have any questions contact me at once 
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molokoplus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  I Liked playing this game quite a lot. However towards the end it can get a bit boring as most 
 of the missions or "battles" are the same thing over and over. There are a few story inspired missions 
 but most are just skirmish type affairs that fail to hold interest over the long haul.
  For the most part you start out with a basic base which you can quickly expand and upgrade. Sometimes 
 the enemy will attack early on but most often there is plenty of time to build up an army to go 
 out looking for trouble. So you methodically clear the map of enemy units and structures and then 
 move on to the next battle, which is likely to be more of the same. This is disappointing after 
 playing the first mission which is story driven and takes the fledgling fellowship through Moria. 
 
  There are a few more story driven missions but not enough to keep the game from eventually falling 
 into the doll-drums of repetitive game play.
  Other notes: It would be nice to have the option to pause the game and still be able to issue orders.
 
  Graphics and voice acting are quite nice, unit selection varied and interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Having played every single mission on both good and evil campaigns I still wanted more! The graphics 
 are nothing special, but the game-play is solid. The sound captures the feel of the trilogy and 
 the AI can be somewhat brain dead, but livable. This title has been out for awhile so there's really 
 no point in narrating an exhaustive review as you can't go wrong for the price! LOTR: TBFM-E came 
 in an EA strategy pack that contained 4 titles including this one for only $20.00 at EB Games. 
 That's only $5.00 bucks a pop when you break it down of course. At that price you can't go wrong! 
 It's just like Age of Empires, but in Lord of The Rings style. When this title first came out I 
 had my doubts, but EA really did a good job on LOTR: TBFM-E with very few bugs too! I just wish 
 that all PC titles had quality like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutherb
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Great story, characters and units, of course. This game is a very nice adaptation of the Lord of 
 the Rings movies - a very enjoyable and well designed RTS game. It is obvious that much thought 
 went into the design of this game. It is definitly not just one of those lackluster, coaster-material, 
 movie-based games that come up to take advantage of movie marketing hype. The graphics in this 
 game are good and the sound is even better. It is one of the best RTS games I have played in a 
 while, and definitely ranks among my top 10 of all time. I feel that Gamespot's review is way off 
 the mark in this case. My only two complaints about this game are 1) relying on predesignated areas 
 and layouts to build your structures and 2) the lack of strategic level play. Other than that, 
 a great game... which you can purchase at a bargain price, btw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: castsythe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  EA did a great job on this game. even though it didn't have the best graphics in the world, it 
 still was great. this game had a good strategic depth, and made many possibilities. the AI for 
 this game could use a little change, but otherwise this game was great overall. the campaigns are 
 fun and immersing, and the strategic options are terrific. This game has kept me busy for about 
 4 years, and it will continue to keep doing that for a long time! The online options for this game 
 work relatively well, but need more people online to make it more worthwhile to play online actively. 
 the EA home page for this game has switched to LOTR: Rise of the Witch King, so it is hard to find 
 good official info from it. This game fits in well with games like Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos, 
 and Warcraft 3: Frozen Throne.
  
  
  
  
  castsythe
  
  --- The last frag is the best frag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Battle For Middle earth, is a game that puts you into the action of the battles 
 of The Lord of the Rings movies. It shows battles you know, battles that could have happened and 
 battles off the scenes.
  
  This game has pretty impressive graphics it definitely is made to seem realistic and movie like 
 in a Real Time Strategy kind of way. It was a very well made game graphics wise and it has awesome 
 cut scenes in the corner, and great graphical scenes to start off each level. 
  
  The Voices in the game are either voices from the movie, or Gandalf, who happily did voice overs 
 for this game. He did a really good job and really helps to make your dream of being in the Lord 
 of the Rings a reality. It of course uses the Awesome sound track from the movies and is really 
 great.
  
  The game play is not bad but there could definitely be more. You can only build on set layouts 
 usually 5-15 buildings a base, and only in specific locations on the map. There is only 1 resource 
 and it is gathered automatically by buildings. So this really takes away some of the strategy of 
 collecting resources yourself. The battles however are really fun and make for a great experience 
 and exciting game time. Plus you get the use of hero's and character from the game. You level them 
 up throughout the game and gain more powers. There are also passive power that you can gain based 
 on kill throughout different level which come in handy in battles like the Black Gate, or Minas 
 Tirith.
  
  I am probably being a little generous but I gave the game an 8.5 because who hasn't wanted to be 
 in the battles of Lord of the Rings. Overall is still is an exciting and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This RTS game strangly enough is made by EA who are famous for making sports and sometimes 
 a shooter in the past several years. The experience of the gameplay is broken up into two single 
 player campaigns (good and evil) over a living, breathing Middle-earth, divided into more than 
 30 provinces. You can play the good campaign and you can force Mordor back within their borders 
 and give Frodo enough time to destroy the Ring of Power, or you can play as evil and do your best 
 to grind the good right out of Tolkein's fantasy world. There's definitely something satisfying 
 about thrashing the hobbits and heroes of the Fellowship. During the skirmish gameplay modes, you 
 have a set base with a bunch of pesents to collect resources. Then you build your buildings on 
 set locations which are marked by a circle. There are four playable armies in the game, representing 
 the four major factions from the movies, and they play a bit differently from each other. On the 
 side of good, the Rohan who have the best calvery in the game, whereas Gondor specializes in defensive 
 and fortifications. On the evil side, Mordor can produce a seemingly endless number of Orcs, whereas 
 Isengard can deploy the fearsome Uruk-hai.
  There is also a multiplayer section of the game which allows you to play up to against 4 other 
 people.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics are accully well done in this game. Everything is well 
 colored, detailed and are in 3-D. I really like the map of the campaine, It shows the various territories 
 of the land including everything from Isengard to Nurn. Each of these territories has values associated 
 with it that make a difference to gameplay.
  
  Sound: The sound of the game is really well done in this game. The tunes playing in the background 
 in curtain situations well suit the game and the voice acting is really well done and sound like 
 the voices in the movie. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a good Lord of the Rings RTS game. What I disliked about the game was 
 the population limit and how much it kinda felt like Warcraft 3 and the lack of ability to build 
 anywhere if you need a building some where. I still have had an enjoyable time playing Battle for 
 Middle-earth and I think fans of the movies will as well, even if the story isn't totally consistent. 
 I give this game 7.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  If you love Lord of the Rings, you won't find a better game for you.. If you do not love it, after 
 playing this game you will! This game can represent perfectly the world of Lord of the Rings.. 
 The environment and landscape.. The factions.. The armies and units.. THE HEROES! Everything! =) . 
 Each of the factions is beautifully designed and faithful to the movies/books.. Same for the units, 
 heroes, buildings, landscapes, etc.. The visual appearance is formidable.. The sound effects are 
 JUST RIGHT! The Epic Battles are awesome and the control system is pretty secure of himself, a 
 very good job! Perfect I would say.. The particular aspects about the game that "Sucks You In" 
 are the Powers you are able to use and the Heroes you are able to control.. And i must say, Gandalf 
 was the best hero i played in a video game ever (yes, he beats the crap out of the other heroes 
 and destroys entire armies! Gandalf wins games! =) A great character creation ) . I can't say much 
 more than this.. A great game that should gather the attention of every LOTR fan, of every RTS 
 fan, of every PC fan or of people who aren't fan of any of the previous! A must-have and a experience 
 i recommend and think you won't regret! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The battle for middle earth is a great game and tests your ability is this kind off game it is 
 very simple to use if you are a good army you get a camp or a castle in a camp u get average size 
 walls with average damage that are thin and cannot be build on or mount troops on they also have 
 no gate 
  
  But a castle has big bulky walls with a large damage can build archery towers and trenbuckets on 
 and other items like flags that improve performance from troops you can get archers to stand on 
 the walls and shoot off at incoming enemies castles also feature gates that can be opened and closes 
 to let out your troops and stop enemies entering inside you can also build outposts and small farms, 
 slaughter houses, lumber mills. 
  
  building structures on this game is very basic there are marks on the floor inside your forts there 
 are 3 at an outpost i think 5 on a camp and 7 on a castle u just simply click on these marks and 
 a menu will appear giving you choices off what you can build E. G. Archer range, barracks, black 
 smith, Siege works, and statues and fountains that give your soldiers better attributes and heal 
 them, and you resource providing farms slaughter houses lumber mills. 
  
  the action part to the game is also pretty basic but also there is a skill you make basic troops 
 you upgrade them with better swords, better armour, and banner carriers, they will also progress 
 in level by there experience fighting other enemies.
  
  after a while of playing and when u make some money you can buy "Hero's" these are the people who 
 were is the films and the books who have got allot of experiance and power E. G Legolas, Gandalf, 
 Aragon, Boromeer, Lurtz. that all can be purchased at a fort in the centre off your castle camp 
 or outpost
  
  This is a great game to play on online with your firends and can provide challange. 
  
  P. S 
 make sure the host in your game has got a decent connection ( PING) Because it can get quite laggy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogshowtime420
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all I think this is a great game. I have played it a lot of times and still come back 
 to it once in a while. This is a real time strategy game much like Command and Conquer or Age of 
 Empires. My favorite thing to do on the game is to be either rohan or gondor and have horse troops 
 run over orcs. The animation for it is cool and u feel great when u gain levels. The game is mostly 
 about strategy and gaining power from damaging buildings and enemys. When you gain points in battle 
 you can buy skills that help u win better. 
  
  This is almost a drawback tho because the powers you can buy are not balanced for each side. For 
 example the Good side has an heal ability u can buy with the first point u get on the power tree. 
 The Evil side does not even get this heal ability that can basically win a match. Also the good 
 side has a lot of summons they can buy with the power point. They can summon archers, horses, eagles, 
 ghost army, and treeants. Where as the evil side can only get a balrog. The only good abilitys 
 evil has is kill for resorces, the balrog, kill an area of trees for money, an ability that causes 
 resources to come faster for a short time, and a short time ability to create orcs faster.
  
  The main thing that ruins the game is how underpowered the evil side is. They need siege weapons 
 in order to get into castles whereas the good side can just run straight thru the enemy camp. The 
 siege weapons are hard to maintain because the good camps have impenderible walls with turrets 
 on them and in cpu mode the ai for evil is really stupid. I can literally take mounted Gandalf 
 outside my castle and circle the castle and the dumb AI will follow me around getting blasted with 
 turret fire while I am fast and take no damage. If your siege weapons are destroyed it can basically 
 wipe out your front lines that were waiting to breach the castle to attack. 
  
  Healing really is a problem for evil, the point of the game in my opinion is to keep your troops 
 alive so they gain ranks and become more powerful. The evil side has no healing ability whereas 
 good has healing wells, healing ability, and aragorn can heal all hero units close to him. 
  
  The best thing for evil side to do is summon free orcs and have an expensive orc class use 
 bloodthirst or whatever it is called to kill off free troops to gain experience. But this skill 
 would take to long in theory because the good side comes in to quick. Also the spearman on evil 
 side is powerful against horse troops which make them nessecary to win and its hard to keep them 
 alive because of there archer weakness. 
  
  Another problem with evil is there instant xp gain skills. There are at least 3 heroes on good 
 side that can instantly give xp to there troops whereas evil only has Saruman to do this. Also 
 speaking of heroes, evil barely has any. Good side gets so much heroes to use which are so useful 
 and evil heroes suck. First of all wtf no mounted heroes for evil except ring wraiths. So good 
 luck getting Saruman and that orc dude anywhere. 
  
  The campaign for evil side is hard too. I never got past the big tower attack (Palantir?) by the 
 treeants. It is very hard and I got frustrated and gave up.
  
  The campaign for good is well, awesome. Good levels like Sam running thru the spider cave is fun. 
 Also the first level where you go thru the dwarf home cave is awesome. Another overpowered thing 
 about the hero campaign is this strategy i came up with. Right before you are about to win a battle 
 sit with all troops at one area and have resources and good armor factory have maximum skills. 
 Sit there and use Legolas archer experience ability, the king's any troop experience ability, or 
 that other guys one and just max out rank and armor/weapon strengths. The next place you battle 
 in your troops will come and be way powerful. And you can get both armys this way and beat the 
 game. 
  
  So the main problem with this game is breaking thru the castle walls. Also you cannot have a battle 
 of good vs good because as you will find out, good has no siege weapons capable or breaking thru 
 castle walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianguy7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The hardest part of making this game was balancing the epic scale of the film battles, while making 
 the heroes great (like they should be) -- but not so great that the completely demolish the other 
 tactics of the game.
  
  Gladly, the creators balanced it well. I enjoyed the persistent units. For those who have not heard, 
 those are the units that gain experience and can be carried from one battle to the next. In my 
 case, I had a monstrous pack of high-level Rohan cavalry that I brought through several battles. 
 This was cool, because one, it is impressive to see these superstars mow down bad guys, and two, 
 because it made me care whether or not my guys died.
  
  Because of the unit persistence, I was not happy letitng one unit die and replacing him with another. 
 That would have made for a boring single-player campaign. Because of unit persistence, however, 
 I did not send any troops on "death missions," and paid close attention to all of them. I was more 
 personally vested in each skirmish. 
  
  The only downside to this game is the direction-issues that others have spoken up. That is, cavalry 
 can sneak up behind spearmen and ride them down, but will end up being massacred regardless of 
 the surprise element. I am surprised that developers didn't see how badly this worked in testing....? 
 
  
  Still, a great game, worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisCrysis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  The battle for Middle Earth is one of the greatest game I've ever played. It is just plain fun, 
 I've always been weak for strategy games and this one beats them all. You can either play as good 
 or evil campaign. Whichever you choose, you will behold great experience and spend some worthly 
 hours.
  First off, the sound, it is perfect and wonderful. You can here the water nearby, the wind through 
 the shadow, the horses riding to war.
  The music is outstanding, and it is the best music ever to set in a game, in my opinion.
  The 
 durability is at its highest here, the amount of points BFME gets here cannot by any means be surpassed. 
 I've had this game for longer than two years and would happily play it once again, without getting 
 bored.
  The graphics are great, you can easily differ the different natures around. Pretty good shading, 
 for being a stratergy game.
  The playability, ah, its awesome. A game cannot offer better gameplay than this one.
  The single 
 player is awesome, to a start. At the end, it might get boring. A flaw here, is in my opinion, 
 that you cannot play as Sauron nor Galadriel.
  The multiplayer mode is what makes this game the best. It is plain awesome, it has high tempo and 
 floats on good.
  
  Buy this game, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  First off, I like this game a lot. However, although I find it extremely fun and addicting, there 
 are some small imperfections in the game that prevent me from giving it a perfect 10.
  
  Let's start new method of resource collecting. As you should already know, it's an RTS (Real-Time 
 Strategy) , but it takes a different approach. Rather than the traditional creating of little peasants 
 and sending them off to gather gold and wood and food, you simply build structures that generate 
 your resources at a set amount and rate depending on your structures on the field, something new 
 and which I like a lot. Also, instead of being allowed to build a massive, never-ending base like 
 in most RTS games, it's limited to a certain amount of structures and in certain locations. These 
 locations are identified as small camping set-ups around the map to represent some building places, 
 or ruins to show others. There are 4 types: Settlements, which allow only the construction of resource 
 collectors, Outpost which allow 3 structures, Camps with allow more structures, and then Castles 
 which provide lots of structures as well as protecting walls (only on the side of Good, so Rohan 
 and Gondor) . This prevents you from making massive bases anywhere you choose, which makes you need 
 to abandon strategies from old games and work with new ideas, something which I feel enhances the 
 gameplay a lot, its no longer about how many buildings you have, or units, or resources, but how 
 you manage to gain control of the map before your opponent does.
  
  Next is the units, how they work and everything. Unlike in most games where you spawn units one 
 at a time, here you spawn them by the battalion (a group) . For the side of Good they come 5 per 
 battalion, and the side of Evil it's 10 per battalion (or Horde) . The only exception to this is 
 siege units and certain smaller units such as the Uruk-Hai Berserker, the Ents, the Mumakil, Trebuchets, 
 catapults, and others, who spawn only one at a time, as is tradition is RTS games. And now, unlike 
 most games, these units, like heroes, can lvl. As they are involved in more fights, they can gain 
 experience and become stronger, more useful. They can even upgrade into banner carriers, units 
 who carry your teams mark (such as White hand of Saruman) on a banner and give bonuses to your 
 troops. As a new twist in BFME, your units carry on with you if they survive the mission. Any unit 
 you had at the end of a mission will be there when you continue with that same army onto another 
 mission. Doing this allows them to be known to you, you can name them so that you can keep track 
 of them. Buildings are also similar, although they don't carry over. But, they can gain lvls as 
 you use them more often to spawn troops, which allows them to spawn better troops and to be more 
 resistant to damage. Also, some have special abilities. For example, the Ents can throw rocks, 
 while the Ents, Mumakil, and Rohirrim can all trample land units by just walking right over them.
 
  
  The heroes work the way they do in all RTS games. They have special abilities to help in battle, 
 they lvl, and they gain more abilities as they do. However, and this is one of the imperfections, 
 is they are very unbalanced. Certain heroes outrank others by a large margin, making the battle 
 against them unfair to fight. One example is Gandalf, who's power far exceeds almost all the heroes 
 (if not all, cannot say for sure) . Other than that, anyone familiar with RTS games can figure out 
 the heroes quite easily.
  
  Now, something you don't often see in games, is that this game employs to separate campaigns, giving 
 you a chance to play as both the forces of good and evil and alter the future of Middle-Earth depending 
 on who you choose. You have the forces of Gondor and Rohan, against the growing evils of Mordor 
 and Isengard. In addition to being allowed to choose your individual side, each contains their 
 own special powers, unique only to the forces of good or evil. As you claim certain territories 
 in the campaign or kill more enemies, you gain special power points, which can be spent on what 
 the game calls the powers of the Evenstar (good) or the powers of the One Ring (evil) . As you purchase 
 more points you progress along a power tree gaining access to more powers. These powers can change 
 the tide of a battle any time, making you go from near defeat to instant victory, if you employ 
 these powers correctly. Some examples of powers are healing your troops, summoning the aid of the 
 rohirrim or the elves, calling for daybreak to blind your enemies, or summon the unstoppable cursed 
 Army of the Dead (powers of the Evenstar) . Or, should you choose to let the evil in you direct 
 your path, you can cut down trees to increase resources for unit production, use the Eye of Sauron 
 to spy on your enemies, or summon the might Balrog demon to your aid. Which powers you use and 
 when you use them can alter the battle at any point, if you know how to use them right.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't up to par with some other games. The cut-scenes are really well 
 created, some truly stunning graphics at time, looks a lot like the footage in the movie. However, 
 during the actual skirmish or campaign matches, the graphics aren't exactly the most detailed, 
 but they are nonetheless great. They just aren't what they could've been.
  
  Up until now, I've told you all the amazing things the game has to offer. However, there are some 
 things, although not entirely gameplay related, that can hinder your playing experience. For instance, 
 although most of the gameplay is similar to other RTS games, there are some parts that work differently 
 that you may not understand immediately, and the game's tutorial is entirely video clips, no hands-on 
 testing. So if you can't understand the tutorial, you have to fend for yourself, learn from playing 
 skirmish or campaign, or online if you so choose. Also, the load times, even on some of the higher 
 end machines, can be somewhat slow, causing the occasional lag during the game if you have too 
 many units going back and forth, or simply loading the mission.
  
  When you consider all these new experiences the gameplay has to offer, as well as the old RTS style 
 that we've all come to know and love, it's a pretty amazing game. If you are a Lord of the Rings 
 fan or an RTS game fan, I would suggest this game, I really think you'd like it. And if you are 
 a fan of both LOTR and RTS, then you shouldn't be sitting here reading this, you should've left 
 long ago to get this game. If you haven't yet, then get up and get moving. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vodo-Baas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I have spent many hours on this game and pretty much mastered it and I never get tired of playing. 
 There are tons of great player-made maps to play and there is already allot of maps in the game. 
 The campaign is good although it is rather long. The graphics are great for it's time although 
 it was made just about 3,4, or 5 years ago. Compared to battle for middle earth 2 it just does 
 not compare. The cpu is rather dumb in some maps and it is fairly easy. I'd rather recommend battle 
 for middle earth 2 than this because it is just so much better, but if you are a lord of the rings 
 fan you should definitely buy it. You don't get to make your own castle but the White City battle, 
 Helm's Deep, Moria, Isengard, Lothlorien, the Black Gate, and Shelob's Lair all great battles in 
 the game. In the skirmish battles you can have any one against anyone. For example, you can have 
 Mordor and Gondor vs. Rohan and Isengard. You can find this game at Gamestop or Target sometimes 
 for $10.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I have never liked Lord of the Rings very much. I just never got into it. However, 
 since I love RTS games, especially those in a fantasy setting, and especially those with RPG elements 
 incorporated into it, I decided to get it. This was worth every cent.
  
  I love the leveling up of units in this game. Unlike other RTS games with RPG elements like WarCraft 
 III, where only a select couple of units can level up, EVERY unit can gain levels in this game.. 
 Leveling up makes units more powerful, as well as unlocks new abilities and upgrades.
  
  Another great thing I liked was the different powers, a feature I loved from several other strategy 
 games, such as C&C Generals, C&C3, Advance Wars, etc. Killing enemies gives you power points to 
 spend on new powers. Once charged, powers can be unleashed on the battlefield... with great effect. 
 One setback was that the good factions all had the exact same powers, and all the evil factions 
 had the exact same powers, which was a bit lame. But the feature still rocked.
  
  BFME had an interesting campaign map, in which you followed the armies as they moved across Middle-Earth. 
 In some instances, you could choose the territories you could move into, and each one had different 
 advantages given to your units. Very invigorating and interesting.
  
  BFME still had a few flaws, though. For one, the building placement. Instead of traditional RTS 
 games in which you got to choose both the number and location of your buildings, BFME1 provides 
 you with only a limited number of buildings like in Star Wars: Empire at War, as well as limiting 
 building placement to "build pads," which are placed at the beginning of the game. Although there 
 were neutral build pads that could be claimed all around the maps, this was still rather restrictive.
 
  
  Also, the game was rather hard. Instead of units being represented as a single unit, units were 
 represented by squads of units. Thus making them hard to kill, and easier to rush successfully.
 
  
  Still, BFME1 is an amazing game. I would highly recommend it to RTS, RPG, and Lord of the Rings 
 fans.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 7
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  
  Final Score: 9.2 (superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I finally finished this game, which was sitting on various hard drives since I bought it. I must 
 say that the good campaign and heroes are a lot better than the evil campaign which feels a bit 
 like a tag on. The good heroes are a lot better and Gandalf simply feels over the top powerful, 
 followed by Aragorn and his Oathbreakers uberpower.
  
  Anyway, it's long overdue, and I know that The Battle For Middle-Earth 2 is out and history already, 
 but wanted to write this little review anyway. A simple advise is that if you love the movies and 
 the book and are a collector, buy it. It's got the original cast voices from the Peter Jackson 
 movie and some of the footage tucked in there. Great production values overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The movies of lotr captured the great battles well, but before bfme there was no real way to play 
 them yourself. yeah, war of the ring had helms deep but it was nowhere near as good and enjoyable 
 as this.
  
  The four factions (Gondor, rohan, mordor and isengard) are very well balanced and the online communtiy 
 is one of the best there is, even though this game was effectively Ditched by EA, its still thriving 
 and active.
  
  The Ai makes for challenging opponents for beginners and the campaigns are long and enjoyable, 
 but to fully experience this game you must go online, but i wouldnt recommend trying to compete 
 in ranked quick matches because there are more bugs than one would find hovering over a decomposing 
 pile of manure. that aside, i still think its worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a few years now, and Lord of the RIngs battle for middle earth is without 
 a doubt one of the best RTS games made. There may only be 4 different factions, but the variety 
 of each faction makes up for that. The gameplay is great and you really have to use strategy to 
 win, not just build men send them, in build more men. The graphics are great, especially if you 
 have a nice graphics card and what not. The campaign isnt bad, but most of the games 8.5 comes 
 from online play. The maps are another thing, theres just so many too chose from, even though you 
 may get a favorite and over use it, you wont get board with the atmosphere. There are also alot 
 of different stratedy guides found on the internet, so you should take a llok at them. All in all, 
 this games online keeps you occupied for a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  The first of the series and probably the best.
  The storyline and characters taken straight out of the film.
  The single game consists of a Good 
 campaign and evil campaign.
  
  The multiplayer version is very good.
  
  The graphics and sound are very good indeed
  
  Th only let down for me is when there is a lot 
 going on in the game at the one time even if you own a high end pc everything slows down, apart 
 from this I personally highly rate this game, it's very addictive, and you'll keep going back to 
 it again and again.
  
  Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickstartYOSHI
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  If you played and liked any of the Age of mythology series and if you liked the LOTR films - this 
 is the game for you. EA perfectly controls the proportions of all out fighting , magical powers 
 and heroes and battles from the films . Unlike it's sequel this game focus' more on the films and 
 the book than anything outside of that. With all the heroes of the film playable characters with 
 their own powers and abilitys which can be upgraded. You can also upgrade and level up heroes and 
 soliders by using them well in battle and killing lots of people. Also by killing lots of people 
 and destroying buildings you earn more battle points and battle points earn you powers! Which differ 
 depending on what race you are playing as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1231234567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  I have probably completed the games campaign over 5 times now but i didnt count so i cant tell, 
 except it never gets old. But what i can tell you is that since The release of the movies, everyone 
 knew that there would be a cool siries of games as well, like Battle for Middle Earth.
  
  It all starts of with the Intro. Movie, wich basicly captured the start of the fellowship of the 
 ring (the first movie) to a flashy yet cool graphicle masterpiece. You then have a choice of starting 
 the campaign or a skirmish map. These are the amazing features of this highly addictive game:
 
  
  The Campaign Map:
  An amazing, beautifull and stunning generated version of The Lord of the Rings map, which you haveto 
 take control or my capturing territory and fotresses.
  
  The Battles:
  
  These are nothing short of fantastic because as well as the amazing graphics, you can take control 
 of units such as Cave Trolls, Mumakil, Nazgul, The Witch King, Gandalf (on his horse or on foot) 
 and many many more. I could go on forever but i dont wanto spoil the amazing alternative ending.
 
  
  Altough theres just one bad thing:
  
  The Batte to defend Minus Tirith was not what i hoped for, like well i dont know.
  
  But GET 
 THIS GAME, its the defiantley one of the best RTSs ever created!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snofelj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  December 3, 2004 - The Lord of the Rings has been used in video games before, but never to as great 
 an effect before the movies began releasing. The popularity of those films drove production of 
 games based on both the movies and the books, which were sold as separate licenses. At this point, 
 there have been several games about the different movies from Electronic Arts, but all of them 
 let players take the role of one of the Fellowship heroes in the game without allowing players 
 to see the bigger picture of the struggle for Middle-earth. Vivendi released War of the Ring a 
 little over a year ago but managed to create a title that while decent, wasn't particularly inspiring, 
 nor did it really capture the feel of the series.
  
  Meanwhile, Electronic Arts had their own Middle-earth strategy game in the works, one that took 
 much from the movies, and a development team going at great length to make sure it represented 
 the movie in terms of visual style and scale. In that sense, EALA has succeeded for the most part. 
 The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth is stylistically consistent with Peter Jackson's 
 movies and is presented with style and polish. While that portion of the game is excellent, the 
 rest of it is simply decent. While it's fast and can certainly be fun, there's just something missing 
 in the gameplay to categorize it as wondrous.
  
  Be that as it may, I still have had an enjoyable time playing Battle for Middle-earth and I think 
 fans of the movies will as well, even if the story isn't totally consistent.
  
  The experience is broken up into two single player campaigns (good and evil) , skirmish, and multiplayer. 
 Play the good campaign and you can force Mordor back within their borders and give Frodo enough 
 time to destroy the Ring of Power. Play as evil and do your best to grind the good right out of 
 Tolkein's fantasy world. There's definitely something satisfying about thrashing the hobbits and 
 heroes of the Fellowship.
  
  Both campaigns take place on the Living World Map that has been much talked about by EA. It's really 
 a gorgeous map of Middle-earth. It shows the various territories of the land including everything 
 from Isengard to Nurn. Each of these territories has values associated with it that make a difference 
 to gameplay. For instance Cair Andros gives +20 command and +2 power if beaten while West Emnet 
 gives +20 Command and +10% Resources. There is only a tiny bit of strategy about which one to take 
 at which time and the map doesn't represent a true turn-based feature since it's really only asking 
 for a choice of battle location. In any case each of these values will be added to your total over 
 the course of the campaign giving you bigger resource bonuses, the option to command more people, 
 and more power points to select special powers (which are cool and I'll get more into that in a 
 second) .
  
  Units also carry over from mission to mission along with their upgrades and experience. It's strange 
 because some of the missions are incredibly hard if these units aren't carried over (because of 
 big beginning rushes) , but others are insanely easy if they are. Even some of the last missions 
 such as Nurn were incredibly easy to finish in a short amount of time thanks to fully upgraded 
 armies that had been raised to level 8-10. Even the very last mission at the black gate was pretty 
 darn easy with the amount of ranged units in my entourage. It's nice to be able to carry units 
 over, but when the enemy simply runs hundreds of newborn orcs at you, it's hard to lose. Strangely 
 enough, while units carry over, heroes do not suffer any consequences. If you don't save Boromir 
 atop Amon Hen, he still will be available for the rest of the game. If you kill Gimli and Legolas 
 on the same level for evil, you'll have to kill them again later. I understand you want people 
 to use heroes, but that should wait for multiplayer. There needs to be continuity in the game for 
 special characters in single player.
  
  Most of the territories on the Living World are simply skirmish and multiplayer maps used to create 
 a larger and more world inclusive experience for the campaign. They're not bad, but it can get 
 more than a little repetitive towards the end of the game since there isn't a ton of variety to 
 the gameplay or map design in those particular levels or even very much strategy involved, largely 
 due to the small number of units, which is a bigger problem.
  
  But every now and again, the choice of attack will be removed in order to progress the timeline 
 and have players fight a famous battle from Middle-earth including the big ones like the defense 
 of Minas Tirith and the storming of Isengard by the ents along with smaller scale events like the 
 passage through Cirith Ungol and the skirmish between the Fellowship and the Uruk-Hai on Amon Hen. 
 These special designed missions are definitely the biggest strength of the single player, using 
 a lot more design and scripting to create mood and atmosphere. Each of these is preempted by a 
 short cut-scene to set the mood. Unfortunately the mood and reality don't always fit. While the 
 sieges like Minas Tirith were certain fun, the game never reaches the scale and unit numbers shown 
 in these breaks, which can be a bit disappointing if that's what was expected.
  
  The problems with these designed scenarios (even though they're the best) come down to a choice 
 about the overall gameplay. Battle for Middle-earth is a simple real-time strategy game. The interface 
 has been significantly changed from typical RTSs, but the basics are the same. Resources still 
 must be gathered, in this case by static buildings without peons which simplifies the process and 
 allows concentration on combat. Units must be trained. Heroes must be called into action. Enemies 
 must be crushed. It just seems wrong to sit there and create units in the back of Helm's Deep or 
 Minas Tirith instead of just having set numbers of troops against each other as was the case in 
 the movies and the books. It's just too strange to do that in these missions especially.
  
  I guess I'm trying to say the style of gameplay just doesn't fit as well as they would like it 
 to. Total War or Myth style of strategy fits the series and fiction a little better to me. Tactical 
 battles of small groups of humans fighting against insurmountable odds instead of typical real-time 
 strategy. But that wasn't the decision here. Therefore, I'm going to try to put aside the context 
 and setting for a second and take a look at the game itself.
  
  While Battle for Middle-earth is certainly much like many RTSs already on the market, EA LA made 
 some changes to the interface that an impact on gameplay. The biggest of the changes is to the 
 way structures are built. In order to combat the sprawling cities and hidden buildings of many 
 RTSs, each building in BFME must be constructed on a plot. Plots are pieces of land that have either 
 a flag and marking or a faction stamp. For instance, in order to build a camp, a player will have 
 to find a space that is reserved for such a thing. Clicking on the spot with the flag will give 
 the option to build a new camp at a certain price. Each of these castles, camps, or outposts will 
 then be constructed along with a number of plots on the ground. New buildings can then be erected 
 on these plots by left clicking on them and selecting the correct building from the graphical radial 
 menu on screen or hotkey. Same thing for creating units. Left-click on building, left click on 
 icon, troop is on the way. It's a simple way to do things that should have beginners figuring out 
 the idea of base building a little quicker than normal since the strategy of town construction 
 is taken out of their hands.
  
  What this does is focus the attention of all players on battle and certain areas of contention, 
 whether those are outpost expansion points, main bases, or resource plots. These areas are marked 
 by a small circle on the mini-map so that players know where to focus their efforts. The problem 
 is that while the battles are certainly fun to watch thanks to some sparkly graphics and effects, 
 there really isn't much strategy to be had mostly due to the very small number of unit types. Two 
 types of archers, two types of foot soldiers, basic cavalry and trebuchets fills out the entirety 
 of Gondor's lineup. That's only six unit types and the melee and archer types are almost the same. 
 There's not a whole lot of choice for different tactics with such a small selection.
  
  This is only compounded by the veterancy of buildings. Basically, your buildings have to train 
 a certain number of units before they increase in level. Once up a level, new units can be trained. 
 It forces you to build lots of units and then basically send them on suicide missions in order 
 to make room to train better units once the option is available. I understand that it's supposed 
 to make players more aggressive and willing to lose troops. But mostly the losing of troops on 
 my account has been forced because I wanted to upgrade instead of actually losing them in battle.
 
  
  On top of all of this, it seems like ranged units are excessively powerful. If you have two or 
 three groups fully upgraded, they can take down charging Mumakil, Trolls, Eagles, and even Nazgul 
 without batting an eye. If clever, cavalry can certainly do some damage, but some evil sides don't 
 have cavalry. Besides that, if any archers are lost, they're almost immediately replaced by the 
 banner carrier upgrade which recruits new troops for any lost in the group (units come in groups 
 much like Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War) .
  
  The other problem here is that after playing games like Rome: Total War, it's hard to turn a blind 
 eye to tactical strategies like flanking. You would figure this would make a difference. But if 
 you manage to get behind a group of Isengard pikemen with a group of cavalry and run them down 
 from behind, it has the same effect of running straight into them from the front. The cavalry will 
 be smashed even though the pointy end isn't hitting them, which just doesn't make much sense.
 
  
  Take also the problem of combining unit types so they can work together. Put soldiers and archers 
 together in a group and you have an effective defensive stance. But be careful because you can't 
 split them up afterwards. Once they're together they stay together. Same goes for archers that 
 are stationed in towers. They stay in the towers, you can't empty them out to help with an assault. 
 How hard would it have been to include the option to remove units from towers or mixed formations? 
 It's frickin' aggravating.
  
  Some other things were certainly done right though. Powers and heroes were both included to good 
 effect rewarding aggressiveness in the right way. Power points are gained through combat as are 
 hero levels. Powers can be pivotal in turning a battle. When you see the Army of the Dead or Balrog 
 appear, you know things are getting crazy. These two super powers can decimate enemies and their 
 bases. Used in concert with an attacking force, they can help lay waste to a well defended base. 
 Heroes also play a very important role in force effectiveness, often inspiring friendly troops 
 or fear in enemies. The more powerful heroes like Saruman and Gandalf can do big damage when leveled 
 up and used correctly.
  
  The fast pace of the game also suits itself well for an action packed multiplayer that's made pretty 
 enjoyable by the visual style, lively combat, and personality of animation and reaction. Units 
 cheering, jeering, and cowering in fear are all common and add more fun than there would have been 
 there otherwise.
  
  Balance is always important to the enjoyment of a multiplayer experience and it seems as though 
 they've done a fairly good job here, though time will tell. What I'm most concerned about is the 
 balance of ranged units to any other units. Only cavalry seems to stand a chance and only when 
 in force and when catching ranged units by surprise. I can tell you I was able to mow down many 
 groups of charging Rohirrim with Uruk crossbowmen.
  
  Closing Comments
  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth is certainly a decent game. It stays with the great 
 visual style (and some spectacular spell effects) and flair of the movies, though it doesn't do 
 it quite as big. The addition of the living world map was fun even if the strategy of it was minimal 
 and the new interface should help new players learn the ins and outs of real-time strategy without 
 too much frustration.
  
  The focus on combat is great, I just wish the combat had been as sterling as I had imagined it 
 would be. The small number of units just doesn't provide the depth that I was hoping for. Whether 
 or not the decision to create basic real-time strategy game for The Lord of the Rings fiction was 
 a good one, stepping back to take a look at the game itself reveals it for a decent, if not spectacular 
 game. The presentation and personality helps lift the game past what it would have otherwise been: 
 another decent and fun strategy game.
  
  Still, those that really liked the movies and are looking for a way to be part of Middle-earth 
 will find this worth the wait and lovers of Sauron will certainly enjoy their chance to stomp a 
 hobbit or two. After all, even with all of its flaws, it's fun and that's what really counts. 8.5 
 Presentation
  The game is presented beautifully with the Living World map. Slick menus and loading screens. Wish 
 the had been more continuity of story.
  9.0 Graphics
  This is a really good looking game. Minas Tirith is especially impressive in scale and spell effects 
 (especially Word of Power) are great.
  8.5 Sound
  Plenty of great voicework from the cast of the movie along with the same great score and terrific 
 battle sounds.
  8.0 Gameplay
  Battle for Middle-earth is strategy light. There aren't a ton of different units which is too bad 
 since the focus is on combat. Still, the game is fun.
  8.5 Lasting Appeal
  Assuming you like the game, there's a lot to play here, though I recommend veteran RTS gamers turn 
 the diffuculty up to hard.
  8.3
  Impressive OVERALL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is so GREAT. Even now 3 years after its release is graphics are the best in gender , 
 the sound is amasing ( voices of hollywood stars and sound fx from a hollywood studio. for example 
 turn the volume high and hear a Mumakil walk-you feel like its in your room-) the whole concept 
 is awesome. the producers of this game did their best to make a game as good as the movie. the 
 campain is mediocre (especially the Evil one) but the multiplayer is so good that it literally 
 can ruin your life. because of this game i stop working out at the gym, i dont study for my Univercity 
 although i have tests in 10 days, and a month ago my wife almost divorsed me because i didnt help 
 her at all with our new born baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyhayek
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Bfme is an excellent RTS that allows you to command the armies and heroes of middle-earth! The 
 campaign is a lot better than bfme2's campaign because it's longer and harder and allows you to 
 relive the battles of the LOTR movie trilogy. It is better than bfme2. Graphics are amazing. Music 
 is stunning. However C&amp; C 3 is the only RTS that out ranks it. Factions are great. The living 
 world map is what inspired me most. It's really cool. Bfme2 however includes only 8 missions for 
 each campaign and includes unknown characters ( from the movie) . C&amp; C 3 is long and cool.
  
  You should really get this game even if it was released 3 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  The Batlle for Middle Earth... good title. It is a RTS game. I played it thought it was great but 
 ended up being kinda low on greatness.
  The gameplay is RTS typicall.... units, bases kill, win. The building is on slots which takes a lot 
 from creativity and renders the gameplay boring. The combat is lame and repetitive. The AI is dumb 
 and doesn't amke a challenge (only at Minas Tirith) . The campaign takes place on the LOTR world map. You 
 must conquer all the map. Boring and too long. Only some battles are nice.
  The sound is acceptable... but the graphics are beautiful. The heroes are the ones from the movies 
 and have special powers which can be used against the enemy.
  Overall a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle-Earth is One of the best game I ever played... really it's a great game to play 
 and hang with.... I have played both the campaigns with all the options easy, medium and hard... 
 The Good campaign is the best.. The graphics are tooooo good as well as the Sound of the Game.. 
 It; s a big Game...... as well as the Characters of the game are also just as same as the real movie.. 
 The voice look every thing are just as same as the real time triology.... It's worth play and having 
 the game.. During playing the gape it's just bring a sensation as if I am also part of the great 
 epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth brings the battles -- and the world -- of Middle-earth 
 to life. Whether choosing to command the forces of good or evil, you are in complete control of 
 the epic campaigns depicted in The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy. You have the power to do anything, 
 from waging all-out combat among Middle-earth's vast armies to controlling your favorite heroes 
 and characters. More than faceless units, every character in the game expresses real-time emotions 
 that change depending on the situation. From waging all-out combat among Middle-earth's vast armies 
 to controlling the heroes or managing resources, the fate of a living, breathing Middle-earth is 
 in the player's hands. Using the Command &amp; Conquer Generals 3D game engine, The Battle for 
 Middle-earth features the forces of light or darkness in two separate campaigns. Complete with 
 all of the epic music, actor voices, and other film assets seamlessly integrated into the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and I don't know what else to say. I will let you in on a few key points. 
 The graphics in this game aren't so good if you keep the default graphics but if you put the graphics 
 on high it will blow your mind. Also another exciting part of the game is the campaign where you 
 can play as the good guys or bad guys and the further you get into the campaign the missions get 
 harder and harder and defitnetly gives your brain a nice long work out. As far as skirmish mode 
 goes you have a choice of playing agaisn't enemies by yourself in 1 v. 1 battles or with AI allies 
 or just by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Take The Command &amp; Conquers GENERALS Engine &amp; Setup The Realm Of The Lord Of The Rings. 
 Their Has Been Some Obvious Tweeking On The Graphics. If Your An RTS Fan &amp; Any Bit Of A LOTR 
 Fan. This Game Is A Must!
  Multi-Player Has Support For A Dedicated Server But You Must Have An Extra Copy Of The Game. Multi-Player 
 Is As Smoth With 20 Units On Your Screen As 6 Players With Their Population Maxed (with a DeD server) . 
 The Game Eases You Into Playing &amp; Gets A Bit More Difficult As Time Goes On. Some Of The Battles 
 Are Direct Re-Enactments Of The LOTR Universe. Heros Are An Excellent Part Of The Game. Every Battle 
 Needs At Least One To Be Sucessfull. When The BattleField Is Full Of Death &amp; Smoke, Their Is 
 Nothing Better Then Haveing Your Opponent &amp; Your Hero Still Left Fighting &amp; Casting Spells 
 Or Powerups (downs) .
  
  My Only Complaint Is If You Beat The Game Playing The Bad Side (Mordor &amp; Isengard) Youd Expect 
 A More What If Ending, But Only A Quick Pharagraph Verbally Read By The Saurman.
  
  This Game Is An Excellent Multi-Player Showdown, And Can Be Played On Any Average Computer. This 
 Has SUBNIFICANTLY Less Bugs For Those Of You Who Play Command &amp; Conquer Games Multi-Player 
 &amp; Always Get Crashes with game. dat Or The Game Has Detected A Syncronisation Error 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekygamerguy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  In LOTRTBFME (nice short abbreviation, eh?) you can do most things you can in other RTS games. 
 There's a Good Campaign, an Evil Campaign, Skirmish modes, and online multiplayer. Good Campaign 
 is where you control to forces of Rohan and Gondor and fight all the famous battles from the LOTR 
 trilogy such as Helm's Deep and Minis Tirith. The Evil Campaign is the opposite where you control 
 the forces of Isengard and Mordor. So the campaigns are pretty fun (plus you get to keep the armies 
 you build up in each battle.)
  And for those who don't know skirmishes are set up battles where you can set up certain rules for 
 it. I'd babble on about that but most of you know what they are.
  The graphics in the game are good for an RTS game and the music in the game is music from the LOTR 
 movies which is great music but it can get repetitive after a while.
  Now for the slightly bad part of this game. You can't build things anywhere you want. There are 
 little circles around your base and some outside of it where you click on them and choose what 
 to build. That's the main letdown which goes away in the second game. But even so it's still fun.
 
  The game has heroes as well such as Aragorn, Gandalf, The Witch King, etc. Most of them are stronger 
 than other units (duh) and have an arsenal of special abilities (besides maybe most of the hobbits 
 and Gollum.)
  This game is now only $10 and is well worth at least trying it out. If you have friends who play 
 it too that's always a plus for the multiplayer aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavilus
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Very good, best strategy game of its kind I have played for a while but is very easy to learn to 
 play. In 10 minutes I was acing the skirmishes (easy army) and whithin a week I was at the gates 
 of minas tirith. I think that every body who cannot play warcraft III (like me) I would sugguest 
 this game and the trainer you can download on the net. However, the trainer is only god for thise 
 who want to power game their way through and get the balrog and other spells straight away, its 
 good for beginners but embarrasing for some experienced pepz because you can finish the campaign 
 with up to 200-250 power points. Happy gaming... peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 24, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  One thing that makes The Battle for Middle Earth so much fun is that it groups units together to 
 make the focus on the battle not on micro-managing countless units. The heroes are fun, if slightly 
 overpowered. The thing i found most enjoyable about this game was being able to control the orcs. 
 It is fairly common, but it is always fun to be the forces of evil. One thing i don't like about 
 this game is the way upgrades have such a huge effect on the usefullness of a unit. Many units 
 are useless without an upgrade, but with one upgrade triple their efficiency. This game does have 
 a good three way system of balance, but it is a little boring. Each unit of the Fellowship's side 
 as an opposite on Sauron's side (horses mirror unit = wargs) . All in all however this is a fun 
 game with good replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Yet agian, another installement for the lord of the rings trilogy. This game has the simialiar 
 interfaces as the C&amp; C serious (Because the publishers of C&amp; C help design this game) This 
 is the first stragety game for the LOTR. The sound-quality is perfect for those units and the soundtrack 
 is this unbelievable. To simplify the game, there is two campaigns. there is the good and Evil. 
 In the good campaign your missions is to defeat the armies of Saurdamin and Saurons armies back 
 to which they came from. The Evil campaign is practically the opposite, who have to defeat the 
 armies of Gondor and Rohan. The hereos in the game are just mind-blowing. there is two major battles, 
 which would be Helms Deep and Minis Tirith, which sometimes drop your FPS to a state where the 
 game gets a little choppy. Both of the campaigns are great. I enjoy the good campiagn much more 
 then Evil. this game don't exactly follow up with the movie, for example
  Boromir never was killed in the Fanghorn forest. the multi-palyer is descent. Not as great as I 
 had suspected. But it worht a try for its first LOTR
  RTS game. The downfall is when you saw the trailers, You'd expected to come out just like it. Your 
 wrong. But instead it came out to be limitations for training units and for constructing a base. 
 But hey, its part of the companies job to pursade you into buying this game. You should try this 
 game, they put a lot of effort for making this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 9, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I'll firstly talk about the good things in BfME. The graphics are really nice, very well suited in 
 Tolkien's Lord of the Rings universe &amp; are also one of the best graphics in a RTS. The sound 
 is again superb, a magnificent soundtrack, very good in-game music &amp; one of the best sound effects 
 I've ever heard in a strategy game. So Middle Earth looks &amp; is heard good. But the gameplay... trash. You 
 get a tower &amp; 8 circles. You click on the circles to make building. They can be upgraded, as can 
 units be. But it's no feeling. The units aren't few, but few are needed to win a battle.&amp; one 
 enamy was attacking me from 10 to 10 seconds with peasant waves. No prob, but they get very annoying. The 
 heroes have some special abilities. The story would have been nice if I hadn't heard it dozens 
 of times untill I got bord.&amp; the campaigns are stupid. So, it's nice, but if you want a really 
 good LOTR strategy, play BfME 2. Or even go back to War of the Ring, it's better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpurex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah its old! SO WHAT?! It beat's all the sequels and the expansion to date! Im sure every LOTR 
 fan looking for the best LOTR game yet has found it when it comes to THE BATTLE FOR MIDDLE EARTH! 
 This game is so fine and so well polished it will be a game worthy playing for a long time!
  
  The good: The entire game is good! Great campaign, movie battles are really patched well up 
 in the game. The Online gaming is so fun i can't stop smiling. The players are ambitious when it 
 comes to the creating of new maps! You can get new maps online =) (But just to say so, the AI wont 
 be the same as a real player when it comes to the player made maps.) And what's this babbling about 
 Hero getting in the way ?! There is no such thing in the game. The Battles might be long, longer 
 and longest. But it kind of grows on you; you just can't stop playing until you finally (somehow) 
 finish off the AI. I think the AI gives you a good challenge if you choose hard.
  
  Overall: This game is epic, brilliant , fun and polished and it should be played by any, and i mean 
 any RTS fan! If you don't got it, you don't know what fun you're mssing.
  
  To the finish : This game is worthy being called a GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjfz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Battle of Middle-Earth is a real-time-strategy game that more or less mirrors the Lord of the Rings 
 trilogy. It's playing style is a mix between the micromanagement of starcraft, and the unit types 
 of Age of Empires. The gameplay is quite fun, however, there's nothing really innovative here other 
 than an unique way to place your structures. The graphics is quite good, however, certainly not 
 the best. The soundtrack is not as magnificent as the movie soundtrack, however, the in game SFX 
 and unit speeches as well as the clips between levels are amazing. I would recommend this game 
 to all RTS lovers, and people interested in the LotR atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Honestly when I first saw a trailer for this game I thought it would be a huge gamke with tons 
 of strategy but it turned out to be the oppisite of that. There is not huge armys to control and 
 there really isn't a lot of strategy.
  
  Basiclly the gameplay is simple. You pick a battle to join from the world map or skirmish and you 
 start off with 5-10 basic swordsman. You have a base and on the base are little circles with an 
 icon on them. You press the icon and you build a structure. You then purchase farms and it insantly 
 gets resources. You then save your resources up anbd then you go purchase untis. You then sends 
 them into battle and you fight. That is basiclly the gameplay. Fun and simple but boring after 
 awhile.
  
  Graphics are great if you have a good graphics/video card. If you don't then don't fret. It will 
 still look pretty good but your game might go slow if you are using high quality on a crappy computer.
 
  
  Sound is great because of the Lord of the Rings music.
  
  Honestly I have to say this is a great LOTR game but not a great RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth does a lot right: Graphically it immerses you in Middle Earth like you 
 see it on the screen, all your favourite heroes are present and correct and you have the ability 
 to change the events in the game for good or for evil.
  
  From the moment you start the 1st mission it makes you feel like part of the world Tolkien created. 
 As you progress through the game you get many choices, and each battle you choose to fight gives 
 you an advantage for future fights. Some of these can be invaluable, while others you fight just 
 coz you think it makes the map look a little more aesthetically pleasing.
  
  Every so often you fight battles as they would be fought in the books/movies and this is where 
 the game falls down for me.
  
  Being forced to do a mission with certain units and without some of the heroes you spent so long 
 building up makes you want to skip through some battles more than it makes you want settle down 
 and enjoy them.
  
  Also, ever since the days of the 1st command and conquer, i have a strong dislike for Commando 
 missions. These are when you have one hero or group of heroes and no base or army production facilities.
 
  
  Personally i prefer the strategy of large battles, although the change of pace does perhaps make 
 the large battles stay fresh for longer.
  
  Overall it's a fun game which gives many hours of entertainment without loosing much of it's appeal. 
 It has its flaws and it's lows but is a must buy for fans of the books or movies or of Fantasy 
 strategy in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The campaign in this game is great, the multiplayer not so much... The multiplayer has WAY too 
 much lag and not very many people play it there are bad connection issues as well.. The campaign 
 is fun you go and conquer all over middle earth play as good or bad campagins and each campaign 
 can last you around 20-40 hours long for each campaign and a fun scrimhsh mode it is worth the 
 money. Buy it and it is very fun. If you are a fan of the LOTR games it is worth owning and should 
 last a while just dont expect the best multiplayer sometimes it works and it is fun but ususally 
 it does not... cya... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsher1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle Earth may not be graphics central, but it definitely 
 packs a punch while playing. Here's the basics- you get about 10 guys when you start. You find 
 a base (sometimes it's a castle, sometimes a little fort) to create your guys. You can get archers, 
 infantry, and even Warg/horseback riders. Furthermore, at your citadel (the center of your base) 
 you can recruit and revive heroes.
  Here's the catchy part -- if you're a good guy (Gondor or Rohan) and you get a castle, you get walls 
 large enough to walk on (and you can walk on them) and a gate. Resources. Everything in this game (trees, 
 food, etc.) counts as the same resource. Also, if you're evil, you can chop up your Orcs/Uruk-Hai 
 for food with the slaughter house.
  The graphics aren't that bad, actually. They're definitely not Final Fantasy, but the let you know 
 who's who.
  Overall, this game is a very impressive RTSG and is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POJO_MOFO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: No micromanagement of resources, sound quality and voice-overs are outstanding, good gameplay, 
 challaging campaign. LOTR fans have everything they need in here. Reletively low hardware requirements
 
  
  Cons: micromanaging armies can be difficult, not a whole lot of variety thourghout the game, limited 
 structure placement, not very deep gameplay.
  
  Overall this is a very good RTS and is recommended. Although there is not a whole lot that make 
 it stand out from other RTS (aside from LOTR fans will be pleasently suprised by the accuracy of 
 the events/heros/map) the sound is definately something that stood out to me. From the atmosperic 
 music to the hero voice-overs, to the on-the-spot effects, the music does a lot get you into the 
 game. I think GS did a good job on the rating and the review of this game. I picked this game up 
 for $9.99 as Gamestop, so if you are looking for a good, cheap RTS and you passed this one up. 
 Its hard not to recommend it, especially at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  While it the franchise of LOTR is extremly well known, most games made from it aren't what we call 
 brilliant . Thankfully BFME is unique, an RTS that isn't afraid to use a different technique of 
 play.
  
  While this is an interesting and new style of playing, the fact that certain buildings generate 
 resources and others dont, also the fact that you only have a certain amount of buildings around 
 each command buildings means that you must make the right choices when deciding what you need to 
 build. Different units are better against others as with most RTS's, pikemen rule against cavalry 
 and monsters, but against archers and sowrdsmen, they will always get whooped.
  
  While the heros are all taken from the movie, plenty of RTS's have had hero units before, although 
 I doubt that they have ever been this over-powered. Gandalf especially can destroy anything in 
 the game, even entire armies and the Balrog. By level ten he can decimate even bases with his abilities, 
 and once you get the special Evenstar power, his powers are twice as good and take half as long 
 to charge. Now when you first use Word of Power, especially when Gandalf is surrounded by enemy 
 troops, nothing will bring quite as smile to your face as that moment. Unfortunatly the graphics 
 arn't astonding, as even the heroes have only blank faces, only the Balrog has any real detail 
 on him, except for the buildings.
  
  Gandalf isn't the only overpowered hero, but he is the most potent of all of them. Aragorn at full 
 level can take out bases too, mabe even faster than Gandalf as he has abilities that make him twice 
 as fast attacking and twice the damage. The sound is impressive, you hear swords slash, arrows 
 fly and all the voices of the units and heroes use the voices from the movie, which adds to the 
 effect that you are fighting in Middle Earth. The campaign is massively long, there are around 
 thirty missions a side, and each is at least half an hour long, depending on whether you had a 
 massive army from the last game, or your forces seriously depleted, in which case your heroes can 
 possibly take out the base anyway. While most of the missions are secondary, the main ones usually 
 are set within an area of the film. Helm's Deep, Mines of Moria and Minas Tirith are just a few 
 of the areas that these missions are set in.
  
  Despite the overly powerful heros and the bad quality graphics, considering the fact that this 
 RTS plays it different, it does very well for itself and the LOTR frachise. If you want to try 
 a slightly different RTS then this is a game for you, if you can get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  this game really is a good game. there are two campaigne storylines to play along to. typical, 
 good side, bad side.
  but the game is good, better than the 1st 1!
  you can now build jsut about anywhere , and not confined to ur little base.
  there are more characters 
 to created and more spells, with makin the balrog from the 1st 1 being the big bad man, awful compaired 
 to Sauron himself.
  the graphics are better than the first 1, and there are more areas to play you're skirmishes on, 
 although the skirmishes can be quite anoying, for the simply fact that the AI attack you before 
 you have enough chance to build an army or a base, and if you make the settings too easy, it becomes 
 a walk in the park.
  All in All this is really a great game to buy, and a classic in itself too!#
  Buy This game and 
 take a week off work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  When i first got it, it was like 10pm i started playing the game and before i knew it, the time 
 was 2am, i played for a long time and time went by so fast, this game is defenitly worth time and 
 money, the online play is awesome, but solo play is a little better, this game is a halo2 killer.... so 
 if u get bored or are sick of halo ( like me ) get the game Lord Of the rings BFME 1 or 2, i still 
 have yet to play the second one but i heard its kick ass, totaly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harveyd222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  this is probaly one of the best single player game i played on copmuter. it is somewhat like age 
 of empires but also at the same time way different. you can upgrade your heros, get sweet people 
 and you can sommon power full monsters like, dead army and the balrog. this game was so addicting 
 and it wasnt a sort game either. you can also upgrade peoples armor and weapons and get them leader 
 ship so they can regenerate is they are not getting attacked. i really recomend this game wehter 
 your a fan or not, because it will make you one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puffinpower91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game was fantastic. It was the first Real Time Strategy game that I had owned. The game was 
 challenging, but in a good way. I personally am terrible with the evil side, but I'm a good ways 
 through the evil campaign. The good campaign was amazing, taking you through all of the major battles 
 from the movie, and more. Most of the missions just require you to clean up the map of all of the 
 enemy camps, but the major battles (Lothlorien, Moria, Isengard, Helm's Deep, Minas Tirith, Black 
 Gate, etc.) may require you to do other special objectives. I did not like the fact that there 
 was a relatively small command limit (I would prefer for there to be no command limit) , but the 
 units were well balanced enough to make up for it. The skirmish mode allows you to customize your 
 fights. You are able to choose who you are, who the enemy is, how tough they are, and if you want 
 teams. The game records your skirmish persona, allowing you to see how far you have come, fighting 
 wise. I absolutely loved this game, and recommend it to anybody who like RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Most RTS games you play, you got to worry about micro managing and saving your units. Now BFME 
 took that and threw it out the window. These game has little to non micro managing. Which is what 
 it needed to live up to the big battles we saw in the movies done by Peter Jackson. As one could 
 guess this game follows the movies pretty well. With some changes in the story to fit the needs 
 of the single player campaign. Since EA has the Lord of the Rings license they are able to get 
 the whole beautifully made soundtrack and amazing voice talents such as Ian McKellen and Christopher 
 Lee. Even the sound alikes sound very solid. I was so into the voices of the game, that after I 
 built a hero, I would actually click them to hear all their lines. The best one of course is Pippin 
 don't know if it was Billy Boyd or if it was a sound alike) saying Can I have some bacon? That 
 right there it gets a gold in my books. Now the single player campaign is long and fun. It is all 
 about getting your army up faster then your enemy and attacking them. Yet rushing doesn't work 
 for every army. All of the four main armies in the game play differently. Gondor is all about being 
 on the defence, with boosts in stronghold defences. Rohan is all about quick and painful cavalry 
 charges. Isegard is for the siege players. Finally Mordor is the horde (the orc infantry are actually 
 free in resources) . If you play Gondor like its Mordor then you shall lose. You gotta play the 
 army to its style. Now the campaign follows the War of the Ring and the events that happen during 
 it. Ever wanted to go defend Helm's Deep? Well now you can. That is one of the best missions because 
 you have time to build your army but when the time runs outs, you hear the horn of doom and you 
 see the army of Isegard march into your computer screen. Then its all up to you to defend the stronghold. 
 When your waiting for key events to happen you play a risk type game and battle for territories. 
 This is great because you can build your existing forces and receive different bonuses from the 
 territories. This gives the player the drive to get a bunch of territories before you battle in 
 a major area. The campaign can be played on the side of good or evil. You ultimately get to change 
 Middle Earth. One also gets to bring key heroes and villains of the movies into the games. It great 
 to see a horde of orcs running towards Gandalf and just see him wipe them out with his magic. All 
 heroes and villains have special powers such as the Nazgul screech or Boromir's Horn of Gondor. 
 Each are unique and help your troops when your in need. Along with the heroes one can also gets 
 special powers. Such as summoning a Balrog or the army of dead. These powers are really useful. 
 They recharge after their use. So timing of skills are vital. When one is finished the long campaign, 
 they can switch to standard skirmishes or multiplayer games. These are well done and EA's multiplayer 
 setup is great it will help you find a match right when you want it. You can even battle in famous 
 places, such as Helm's Deep. The games looks are amazing, even on the low settings one still gets 
 the awe when the see a famous Rohan charge. Now with the release of Battle for Middle Earth 2 and 
 the expansion, why would one still come back to the original? Its simple, this was the first in 
 a great series. Also the single player campaign is much better. In BFME 2 the campaign map is like 
 an actual risk game. While in BFME the map is alive, with the eye of Sauron scoping around and 
 eagles and Nazgul flying around. Over this is a must buy for all Lord of the Rings fans or those 
 like massive army RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This what happens when you take one the world's best fantasy stories ever into a strategy game.
 
  A great innovation to strategy games, you don't need to spend hour building your army unit by 
 unit, instead of that you train the whole battalion as a single. you don't go building anywhere 
 in the map, instead of that you take a camp and build there.
  Like every strategy game it features different races with completely different skills and units, 
 you choose between Roan, Gondor, Isengard or Mordor, each one counting with different heroes taken 
 from the movies and command your troops to get your enemies territory, The campaign mode let's 
 you choose between the good and the evil forces and you play the whole movie in great battles.
 
  Great graphics and the movie's excellent soundtrack along with all the characters voices and speeches 
 in the campaign mode will make you want to turn the volume to the highest level and get the feeling 
 of the battlefield.
  Also, if you finish both campaigns and keep asking for more you just have to go on-line and test 
 your skills with other players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  LOTR The Battle For Middle Earth Is A Great Game For All The Fans Of Stratergy Games And Tolkien 
 Lovers. You Can Either Choose To Play Singleplayer Or Multiplayer. Singleplayer gameplay allows 
 you to choose either good or evil as you save or conquer middle earth. Or You Go Multiplayer and 
 battle with many people around the world. You will be able to play as the movies factions: Mordor, 
 Isenguard, Rohan And Gondor and also see some familiar faces from the movie such as Aragorn and 
 Saruman. The only improvement which I would have reccomended to EA was to be able to play as elves 
 and goblins or even dwarves. Which you can now play as in BFME 2. Overall A Really Good Game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skorne_Tetzu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Just stated playing this game last night... and lets just say I lost about 4 hours of sleep because 
 of it. Normally, with games of this style I prefer Skirmish mode - Don't tell me what to do, just 
 point me at the Uglies and Duck!!!
  
  Well, the campaign mode leads you by the hand, however, One moment your adventuring with your party 
 as a band of Adventurers - and the next; build a Castle, build and Army and rock the world!!!
 
  
  In short; I could go on and on about this game, but the bottom line is: This game is worth the 
 money. As usual, I'm a bit behind on game buy - so a couple new versions are already out - so i 
 look for to adding these to my X-mas list - and playing them for the next few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic... Gameplay: Naturally the best part of an RTS. As far as I know this is 
 pretty basic: Build up your forces, buy upgrades, then go around as a huge force destroying everything 
 in sight. I highly reccomend Gondor, because:
  -They're one of the two factions that gets walls around their citadels. Very useful.
  -They have 
 Gandalf as a hero. Enough said.
  -They have all the troop types, so you can adapt them to how you want them. If you want a huge 
 force of archers or Pikemen... go right ahead.
  -This is the biggest reason. They have the best power point upgrades by a long way. You can summon:
 
  -The Rohirrim (even if you're fighting against the actual Rohirrim)
  -The Elves
  -The Eagles
  -The Dead (yes, the army of the dead)
  -All of the above.
  
  As soon as you've 
 saved up for the dead, you're invincible: Keep your real forces back behind their walls near your 
 healing well, let your defence towers guard your fortress, ride to the enemy base with Gandalf, 
 then summon everyone. I haven't played multiplayer yet, but providing you could survive long enough 
 to save up power points for Summon the Dead, you can't really go wrong with Gondor.
  Anyway, the gameplay is great. You can have huge forces (too many to fit in my laptop's big screen, 
 which I think is a 1600x1200) and wreak havoc. You can have ents, or you can madly scramble to 
 research Fire arrows because Ents are already tearing your fortress apart. The campaigns are okay, 
 but except for a few levels you're better off playing the skirmishes.
  
  Graphics: When I first saw the intro video it scared me. The people looked like Lego men. I was 
 horrified.
  But from the top view it looks all right. And I think in-game they look much more... serious.
 
  
  Sound: Good music and effects, but you'll get tired of the same catchphrases over... and over... 
 and over:
  Move your Filth! 
  Ah, a new horde of war. 
  I carry the banner for Gondor! 
  Keep an arrow ready. 
  Tell the knights their stable is ready! 
 
  Don't be hasty. 
  The uruks are ready with their cross bows [sic] . *
  etc.
  
  Value: High. This is why I only get games that are at least a year old. They're still fantastic, 
 and my pc can't run too many new games.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: High. Very high. Buy this game.
  
  *One last note:
  The uruks are the mordor 
 version. The uruk-hai are the Isengard version, and only Isengard says this quote. Also, it really 
 does say crossbows as two words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  This first approximation of EA to the Tolkiens world is a good new. The game let you play that 
 you look at the films. I am a fan of the Tolkiens books until a lot of years ago. I read the hobbit 
 and The Lord of The Rings when I was teen and after when I had notice of the Peter Jacksons films. 
 This game let me see in my PC all I had got in my mind after to read the books and she the three 
 films one, two, three, four,  times.
  
  I cant believe I am able to fright against goblins, orcs, Uruk-Hai,  riding on a Roans horse 
 in the abysm of Helm, defend the with city of Gondor, go across Moria,  I can guide to Gandalf, 
 Aragorn, Boromir, Legolas, Gimli, Frodo, Sam,  in their epic adventure or otherwise in the other 
 side guide the dark forces against the free nations of the middle earth. I never dream it!
  
  If you like Tolkiens world, if you liked Peter Jackson&acute; s films or if you like the strategic 
 games, dont doubt it, buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-The Campaign mode is great you control regions and get specials from them. There are some 
 letdowns though. There are not as many units as I hoped. You can't make that many troops. With 
 humans you have 80 command points in Skirmish mode. You can maybe make around 5 battalions with 
 that which consists of 5 units. 8 units if you make all peasants. The good would be that once you 
 play it you want more and more.
  Graphics-The graphics are great in this game. The units look real (as far as animated graphics go) 
 The only bad is the Uruks don't look like the Uruks in the Movie. They don't resemble them as much 
 as I hoped. Some unrealistic things would be when calvary knock a unit of their feet they fly like 
 15 ft. in the air.
  
  Audio-The Charectors voices are all hear with their on sayings. The battle noises are pretty good. 
 The nice touches are the Great sound effects made the towns the uruk and orc pits have screeching 
 like noises being made.
  Since I'm not that great of a Writers That's my Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChemistGuy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Box Office receipts and DVD sales would seem to indicate that 99% of people with the means and 
 the desire to access this review have seen Peter Jacksons Lord of the Rings films. Those who have 
 will know it tells a tale of small skirmishes evolving into a major war, where heroes turn the 
 tide in battles involving tens of thousands of troops. In other words, its perfect RTS fodder. 
 Battle for Middle Earth allows you to re-create these battles and change history, as much as 
 the term can be applied to a fictional world. While most of the battles, such as Helms Deep and 
 Minas Tirith, have been scaled down for the sake of both player and processor, they are still impressive. 
 Impressive is the strongest word of praise youll hear from me, though, as much of the game is 
 decidedly average. While the use of both Hero Powers (a la Warcraft III) and One Ring Powers (a 
 la C&amp; C: Generals) is fun, it gets boring quickly, as do both campaigns, with many wipe out 
 all enemy missions between the big, set-piece battles. To be honest, the liking of both source 
 material and genre was all that prevented me from being utterly disappointed. The poster child 
 for good, but not great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clonedude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  whos that coming from somewhere up the sky do do do do looo! moving fast as fast as a fire fly 
 gandalf! swolowing jens tatse good as a summer ham aragorn! when you think the troubles gonna pounce 
 whos be there when it really counts ! sarumon! do the bfme count down !  
 im here to tell about bfme.. one thing you shouldnt look for is a real life you you cant do anything 
 eccept play. For my opinion i really like online becuase skirmish is for noobs and 7 hard armmies 
 easy since i seige them by the time they are up grading. There is a battle school in the beggining 
 witch i kind of recomend since it only tells about how to atack but i doesnt tell you any strategies. 
 In skirmish if you are real noob i still wont recomend you fight easy armies because they are really 
 slow i can kill thme with out making anything in my base. There are 2 campaigns if you play on 
 hard and you just start if you know how to upgrade but not fast or not even know how to dont play 
 thid because on the second or 3rd lv their men are upgraded at the begining of the map. online there 
 is a quick match that matches you up with someone near your rank but if you press widen search 
 it might give you someone that is like rank 300. There is also custom match were you make or join 
 a game that is easier to play with friends. There is also a chat room just to talk. There requirments 
 arent very hard you only at max to run this on the highest detail would be about 1000-1200$ and 
 you atleast need rogers high speed bell high speed or sympatica high speed wich is the best to 
 run it perfectly online. hope everyone who reads this  
 **** **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings has been used in video games before, but never to as great an effect before 
 the movies began releasing. The popularity of those films drove production of games based on both 
 the movies and the books, which were sold as separate licenses. At this point, there have been 
 several games about the different movies from Electronic Arts, but all of them let players take 
 the role of one of the Fellowship heroes in the game without allowing players to see the bigger 
 picture of the struggle for Middle-earth. Vivendi released War of the Ring a little over a year 
 ago but managed to create a title that while decent, wasn't particularly inspiring, nor did it 
 really capture the feel of the series. Meanwhile, Electronic Arts had their own Middle-earth strategy 
 game in the works, one that took much from the movies, and a development team going at great length 
 to make sure it represented the movie in terms of visual style and scale. In that sense, EALA has 
 succeeded for the most part. The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth is stylistically consistent 
 with Peter Jackson's movies and is presented with style and polish. While that portion of the game 
 is excellent, the rest of it is simply decent. While it's fast and can certainly be fun, there's 
 just something missing in the gameplay to categorize it as wondrous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? Well Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth is a fantastic RTS that provided 
 me with a new style I had never played before. This is where when you buy a unit you don't get 
 one guy but five or ten of them. Also you take control of forts and castles and then they have 
 building spots where you build buildings. In BFME there are 4 playable factions: Gondor, Rohan, 
 Isengard, and Mordor. Each has their own unique style of playing. For example Mordor overcomes 
 its enemies buy invading them with hundreds of cheap unit where Gondor will use elite units and 
 carful defenses to prevail. The campaign was my favorite part. There were 2 campaigns: good and 
 evil. In each one you started out in the Two Towers where Isengard was taking over Rohan and then 
 moves more to the fighting between Mordor and Gondor. But the neat thing about the campaign was 
 you started out with a small force and a hero. Over time your hero would grow stronger and you 
 would build an army. This army stayed with you throughout the whole campaign. Most of the time 
 you chose what mission or territory you wanted to seize control of. This was important because 
 each territory gave you things like more resources and such. But then there were missions you had 
 to do like Helms Deep and Minas Tirith. Also you would build a nice collection of spells. Some 
 were summoning things like some Elves or a Balrog. Or you could corrupt the ground so you have 
 a bonus when fighting there. There is no way someone can play this game and not enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start from the beginning! I got this game about a year ago, or so... Well, no matter 
 how much I love the game, I gotta admit that I think that graphics is not really good! Everyone 
 keeps saying how the graphics is excelent, but I put all effect on maximum, and it's still not 
 good! But the gameplay takes care of that! I'm maybe obsessed with that game just because I'm a 
 very very very big fan of Lord of the rings, and, then again, maybe not. Sadly, the world may never 
 know... Anyway, the game rocks! All the orcs, the uruk-hai, the cavlry and the soldiers... Damn 
 it's a ****** massacre there, everyone! The heroes are made very strong, maybe too strong perhaps... 
 They can take on a whole battalion! Man, ain't that something? If you're thinkin' of buying the 
 game, BUY IT!!! I mostly play with gondor... They're my favorite... EA could have made more teams 
 (gondor, mordor, rohan...) if you ask me... It's a MUST HAVE if you ask me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpont27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  About the hero's you can choose if you want to keep Borimer and Lurts alive for the whole intire 
 game. The scenario is magnificent the graphics oh my god slap me in the face and kill me. Out of 
 all the games I've played this one would have to have the best graphics. the only thing that i dont 
 like about the game is when you train units most of them come out as five or ten which sometimes 
 is pretty anoying. The campain is god all of the missions are part of all three movies. You defend 
 or attack Helmes Deep its your choice if you wont to be good or bad the same with the White City. My 
 favourite mission would have to be protecting helmes deep it feels like your actually there that's 
 how good the graphics are. The range of cool buildings you can get is great for both bad and evil 
 most building have an action in it. Also the variety of unit's that you can get is pretty cool going 
 from trolls to swords men. all of the soilders rank of how good they are go up each time the attack 
 something (the same with the heroe's) the stronger the unit is the faster it will go up. when you 
 start a scenario you are either in a castle with a wall around it or a camp with a very week wall. When 
 you play a skirmish you choose who want to play against and you also get to choose which scenario 
 you want to play in for example you could play in Mount Doom or Dead Marches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  There are few better Christmas presents to receive than a new Lord of the Rings game or item, and 
 Battle For Middle Earth is no exception. Apart from the mediocre Two Towers, EA fail to disappoint 
 with their Lord of the Rings license. So let's begin...
  
  Your game begins over a detailed map of Middle-Earth, where you can pick a location from the movie 
 and several not captured by Peter Jackson in his magnificent trilogy. If I can remember correctly, 
 the first levels are a sort of training mode, where you take control of the Fellowship and make 
 your way through the Mines of Moria, slaying foul goblins and the Balrog to protect the Ringbearer. 
 Though a bigger game (with an option to actually take the full path of the Fellowship) would have 
 been nice, BFME excels in the areas that it does cover.
  
  The graphics in the game are fantastic, and very noticeable when your Riders of Rohan trample Uruk-hai 
 in a full on charge. But these nice visuals make the game quite laggy, especially when lots of 
 things are happening on the screen at once. The landscapes are also very good, though they fail 
 to capture the magic that Peter Jackson created in the movies.
  
  The music in BFME is good, simply because it hasn't been changed from the movies. Howard Shore's 
 masterpiece remains intact and immerses you into the game. The only bad thing about the sounds 
 is the voice acting, particularly when characters repeat the same things over and over again. The 
 new stables are ready! Prepare for battle! The new stables are ready! Prepare for battle! And the 
 Fellowship don't seem too bothered when the Hobbit they swore to protect gets mauled by Orcs.
 
  
  I know some of the things I'm about to say are standard for an RTS, but it would be nice to see 
 them change. Why does it take several sword strikes to take someone down unless you're a hero? 
 How about more troops but more realism, in that arrows have a 50 50 chance of hitting armour or 
 flesh, taking down a soldier if it hits the latter? And a bit more fairness in sword strikes, not 
 hit an Orc eight times in the head to kill it. It could take two strikes in an improvement, I'm 
 not talking about Stormtrooper features (one laser blast and they're dead) .
  
  A few gripes then, but I really enjoyed this game, as I did the movies. What would it be like to 
 lead the charge at the Battle of Pelennor Fields? Play the game and find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is pretty standard for your RTS, nothing that we haven't seen before except that in 
 this game you can only build on plots found all around the map. It's great because it makes sure 
 your enemy doesn't build structures within your territory, but It also limits where you can build 
 a base really, Other than that though it's fun to turtle inside your fortress as Gondor or Rohan 
 with archers on the high wall awaiting the enemy like Helms Deep and Minas Tirith. Of course it 
 sucks that the evil side of Mordor and Isenguard don't get the same luxury and have to rely on 
 lots of towers for defense, nothing that compares to a wall, which can only be damaged by siege 
 units. Single player is pretty fun, but the missions turn out to be nothing more than maps, which 
 you can just play in skirmish with the added fact of carrying units over from the past mission. 
 One major advertised innovative feature that was kind of a let down for me was the emotion system, 
 it was said it was supposed to affect the gameplay in a ground breaking way such as portraying 
 fear and what not like when Gondor soldiers take on a cave troll, but really its only there for 
 looks which is pretty disappointing really considering how EA hyped the feature. The graphics are 
 pretty good, but the low unit cap really hurts the game for me, especially since in the trailers 
 EA showed us having massive armies and yet all we really got was at most a small army not anywhere 
 as epic in scale as say Rome Total War. One truly impressive thing I liked was the interactive 
 map world of Middle Earth between single player missions. Being able to see the battles that were 
 inevitably coming and be able to select a location and be treated with some event and location 
 clips from the movie, a nice eye candy feature. Another feature that was advertised by EA, but 
 was scraped was being able to click on any world location on the map and actually seeing it in-game 
 such as Edoras at night and seeing as people go about their day. The sound is excellent as it has 
 a lot of the actors from the movie doing the voice work of their characters and a lot of the sound 
 effects come directly from the movie. The music score comes directly from the movie as well so 
 it's pretty top notch a long with some added music from EA, which fits as well.
  
  Overall I would have to say this is a nice addition to the Lord of the Rings trilogy. It's nothing 
 new in terms of gameplay, but if you liked the movie you will enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan1705
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Battle For Middle-Earth is great due to its grand scale, unique misisons, realistic battles from 
 the movies as well as all the characters from the movies and books. My favourite mission is Helm's 
 Deep as you will either smash the enemy or get smashed yourself as well as the fact that you are 
 vastly outnumbered. It would have been good if Haldir was usuable at Helm's Deep though. The only 
 downfall is that it did not contain Elves and Dwarves however this is addressed in BFME2. Can't 
 wait to play BFME2 and see if it is truly as good as its predecessor. My all-time favourite game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastStrider
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok... Im not the people who got this game as soon as it came out ( mainly due to some .. uh.. money 
 issue.. anyways) . But I am a very hardcore LOTR fan, and I knew this is a game that I should not 
 miss., so I bought it in 2005. Anyways, the word that describes this game the best is Masterpiece 
 , EA difinitely put a great deal of works. You can control most units from the movie and they look 
 exactly the same. Single player campaign (good) imitates the movie perfectly. You will not miss 
 battles like, Helm's Deep, Minas Tirith and of course... Black Gate. What I think the best characteristic 
 of this game is that it imitates the Tolkien trilogy book and the 3 movies very well. You like 
 Rohan? command your rohirrim to trample over orcs. You like Mordor? Get orcs and Mumakil to rampage 
 the force of good. When you dont get enough from reading the book or watching the movie, get this 
 game and slay some orcs. Every game, I mean, EVERY game, has its flaws. The biggest flaw of BFME 
 is probably that the system requirements, and technical flaws. What I mean its that when you try 
 to play this game, it has soo many unexpected problems, like doesnt work with this OS or that graphic 
 card. And many many running BUGs, for example, sometimes, the sound keep repeat itself and your 
 game crash. Mostly you dont experience any of them though. Another thing is that, since the game's 
 graphic is very well made, when you tune up the detail to high and have a bit too many troops, 
 and big lags. Anyone using 128 mb graphic cards, I suggest you set the detail level at LOW not 
 that much of a difference but saves lots of lagging. The final point that make me and other player 
 kinda frustrated is that the command point limit. Basically you just cant have a really big army 
 like in the movie, and most of the time, the command point limit keeps your army size under your 
 lag level. Of course, you can change your command point limit manually (this will prevent your 
 online play) but you will see what I mean, extremy lag when your army is too big,. Anyways this 
 is a good game, captures the momment of the movie, let you use armies from the stories, must have 
 for hardcore LOTR fans, and a pretty game for all gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreeboDude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games out there the story is superb the graphics are amazng the 
 gameplay is excellent. I love the lord of the rings, i love the books, i love the films and now 
 i love the games !!!!!!! this game is excellent. the multiplayer is really fun and isnt to complicated 
 and the chat system is also very good. i just think its really fun setting up a custom match with 
 some of your friends and just goin head to head and seeing who is the best. i cant think of anything 
 else to say except from what ive said above 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lav-25
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The lord of the rings battle middle earth game is very good you can be 4 races, orcs, scums, and humans 
 but two diffrent type of humans like rohan and gondor. I like being the orcs its easy to destroy 
 things then to protect things in the stroy mode you can pick good or bad mode i have played both 
 GOOD is entertaing BUT harder, when you pick the bad team you destroy things and liek go on a crusade 
 but when your the good team you protect the lands the combat looks good for a RTS, they swing there 
 swords and die in a realistic way, you can get heros which are VERY powerful legolas is the best 
 on the good team and on the bad team the WINCH KING is the poerfulist, battle for middle earth at 
 the start is easy but it gets harder and harder and eventually is VERY hard but it can sometimes 
 get boreing when you can get through to the enmy castle or village, you can go online but LAG is 
 very high on mutiplayer so if u have a good internet connection you wont have a problem but for 
 the oppistie of that SORRY. But it is a good game and you sholud play it if you like lord of the 
 rings or ancient fantasy RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth (BFME) is the latest in a long line of games for the Lord of the Ring franchise 
 and so far this RTS game is head and shoulders above the rest.
  Since LOTR release at cinema some time back now, Xbox players and PS2 players have been fortunate 
 enough to have a title for each film while we PC players have been sitting on the fence debating 
 whether to buy a console so we can immersive ourselves in the Tolkien universe, and thankfully 
 EA heard our prayers and created a very reasonable RTS game for PC.
  The game follows the story line as accurately as possible but EA have had the foresight to include 
 extra levels that help build your army and improve your heros attributes. If the extra level content 
 hadnt been included and EA had purely stuck to the regular story, the game would have been extremely 
 short.
  The game play is similar to C&amp; C Generals however set in Yeolde times of Balrogs and Elves, 
 you can earn upgrades similar to General promotions by gaining experience in the game play and 
 the easiest way to get experience is to destroy the enemies bit by bit and not to launch an all 
 out assault on the enemy base at the beginning.
  What makes this stand out from other RTS games like C&amp; C Generals is the fact that once you 
 have started building an army, you can continue with those units through the campaign, so if on 
 one level you have upgraded the armor, on the next campaign level, those same units will appear 
 again and will still have all their upgrades and experience from previous campaigns which enables 
 you to take control of key areas of the map from early on in the level instead of having to build 
 up your army all over again.
  One downside is that the game doesnt have a lot of appeal if you have already completed the game 
 once before, the skirmish mode is a good practice but it isnt really enough to make reach for 
 the game over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Ever felt like changing the course of events of the Lord of the Rings trilogy? Ever wondered what 
 the fate of Middle-earth wouldve been had the evil forces triumphed? Well for those who did, EAs 
 The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth is the perfect answer. Even if youre not a 
 fan of the Lord of the Rings series, this game has enough to keep you riveted for hours on end. 
 This game will definitely be a great addition to your collection.
  
  Spanning the entire saga of Peter Jacksons the Lord of the Rings trilogy, BFME lets you relive 
 the epic series your way by playing through its two huge campaigns. Add to this beautiful graphics 
 and great sound effect, and youve got yourself a complete package. Though the skirmishes are planned 
 along typical RTS guidelines, this game has tons of innovative additions which really enhance gameplay.
 
  
  At the heart of the game is the living world map; a living, breathing, 3-D rendition of Middle-earth 
 as prominently figured in both the books, and the movies. The map is divided into more than 30 
 different provinces. Each province will provide certain bonuses to your force, be it military bonuses, 
 resource bonuses, and the like. As you can select which province you want to fight next in, this 
 feature acts as an overarching turn-based strategy campaign cleverly stitched with the normal RTS 
 campaigns. The living world map has been masterfully designed and you can appreciate the little 
 details such as smoke rising from Mount Doom, eagles flying over the landscape, and the like.
 
  
  From the living world map you will be selecting an army, and as its adjacent provinces are highlighted, 
 decide where to take the battle next. On selecting a province you are taken to the RTS part of 
 the game where you must build your forces and eradicate the enemy from the area. Once the objectives 
 are complete, youre taken back to the living world map and the whole process is repeated till 
 you reach the final battle. This is pretty much the basic strategic outline of the game.
  
  The great part here is that the game doesnt rush you into the final battle. You can choose to 
 head on to the final battle right after it is unlocked, or choose to mop-up the rest of the provinces 
 and get your forces to full potential before the final battle. The latter is admittedly very time 
 consuming, but it helps strengthen up your forces before the finale. This will really pay off in 
 the end and make the final battle a lot easier to win. The reason I say strengthen your forces, 
 is because of the concept of veterancy. The brilliant feature which EA has given -via the living 
 world map- is continuity between missions. If you build an army in one province, it will not vanish 
 at the end of the mission, as is the case in most games. Instead, it will continue onward with 
 you into the next province. This is a big incentive to preserve your forces. It also makes you 
 spend time developing your army into well-balanced, well-oiled machinery. You will find that being 
 dependant on only a few particular units will not get you far in the campaigns. You will need to 
 fully utilize all the features available to you.
  
  There is a lot of strategic planning involved here. Different provinces will require you to use 
 your army in many different ways. While you may be able to wipe out enemies in one province with 
 just cavalry, you may find yourself in sore need of archers in the next one. So with a few hits 
 and trials, you will find that as you progress further and further into the campaign, your army 
 is acquiring a well diversified structure.
  
  Veterancy also allows you to increase the experience levels of both regular units and hero units. 
 This becomes very important as the game progresses, as the higher experienced and more powerful 
 units can be the difference between victory and defeat. Every hero has certain powers and abilities 
 associated with him/her and as the experience level rises, more powers and better abilities are 
 unlocked.
  
  There are certain missions in the game where you are required to complete tasks without building. 
 Here you will be controlling a handful of units guided by heroes or only a group of heroes, whose 
 survival till the end of the mission is very essential. These are some of the most annoying missions 
 of the game as you need to constantly keep a look-out at the heroes health. If a hero dies, the 
 mission is restarted.
  
  That is one the troubles associated with heroes. In the heat of battle, with a huge variety of 
 units on both sides, it becomes nearly impossible to keep track of your heroes. As a result you 
 are not always able to utilize them to their full potential. If you take lower level heroes head-on 
 into the opposing army, chances are that wont be able to rescue them in time. But, you cant keep 
 them safely in the back either, as it is essential that you level-up your heroes as soon as possible. 
 A high-level hero such as Gandalf has amazing powers which can deal huge blows to the enemy forces. 
 These high-level heroes can, at the end, be the difference between victory and defeat.
  
  Fortunately EA has provided a neat little feature for efficiently tracking heroes. The lower edge 
 of your screen displays all your heroes of a particular mission with their health bars. Clicking 
 on the icon of a hero will take you directly to him. So even if this feature is a bit distracting, 
 it is quite handy as you can quickly get your heroes to retreat and save them from an untimely 
 death. You can also summon your fallen heroes from a citadel, which is the central building of 
 any camp. But, this is very expensive and takes a lot of time. This is another example of how the 
 game encourages you to preserve your units. The interface menu is usually the most distracting 
 feature in an RTS game. As it displays tons of stuff such as the variety of units a building can 
 produce, health of units, number of units selected, and so on and so forth, it is inevitable that 
 you will concentrate more on the menu than the actual battlefield. The fact that it occupies a 
 major chunk of the lower half of your screen, means that you see lesser and lesser of the battle 
 going on. This is where EA has gone one-up on other RTS games. The menu has been done away with 
 and in its place has been placed a palantir on the lower-left corner of the screen.
  
  For those not averse with the lord of the rings, the palantir is basically a seeing-stone which 
 allows the user to see different parts of middle-earth. It performs the same duties in the game 
 as well. The palantir does the job of a regular menu without taking up a lot of apace. It displays 
 the map in the centre and if you select a building or unit, it will display the powers and features 
 of the building/unit as a normal menu would. You can also access other menus such as the options 
 menu from the palantir. So the palantir combines all the normal menus into a neat little package 
 and gives you a much wider field of battle to concentrate on. The central button of the palantir 
 houses the special powers menu; the Evenstar for the side of good and the One Ring for the disciples 
 of evil. All powers cost points which can be gathered from capturing certain provinces as well 
 as from battles. The powers range from basic defensive ones such as healing, to major offensive 
 ones such as summoning a Balrog to the battlefield. The proper use of these powers can easily turn 
 the battle in your favour.
  
  The impact of these powers is more pronounce in the single-player because of the relatively average 
 AI. In battle, using all your powers at once will wipe out the enemy and give you control of the 
 location. You can then play the waiting game and concentrate on holding the location while your 
 powers recharge. The AI will continue to send small forces to get back the location and in the 
 process lose some of its best units. Not only does this weaken the enemys strength but also gives 
 your forces valuable experience points. This of course does not happen in the multiplayer, for 
 which youll have to rely more on stealth and proper timing. Well talk of that a bit later.
  
  Here are a total of four factions in the game, divided into two groups of two each. On the 
 side of good are the forces of Gondor and Rohan, while those of Isengard and Mordor constitute 
 the evil side. Every faction has its own unique units, but there are a few similarities among factions 
 of the same side. An example being cavalry for the side of good. Though it is called Rohirrim for 
 Rohan and Knights for Gondor, similarities in powers and abilities can be noticed. But, there are 
 enough differences to keep you interested. The game has stayed true to the movies by not introducing 
 any new units for the sides. Thankfully the lore of Middle-Earth is vast enough to provide each 
 faction a good variety of unique units.
  
  Most units come in battalions. This makes it easier to control large armies on the battlefield. 
 This was another effort on the part of EA to rival the size and scope of the battles in the movies. 
 However, this is one area where they could not really deliver. Though the battles are bigger than 
 a lot of RTS games, they are still not as big as those of the movies. There are still only a limited 
 number of units you can have at any given time. You can also combine two different battalions into 
 one. For example, you can combine a cavalry battalion with an archer battalion. When this combines 
 battalion heads into battle, the cavalry provides the necessary cover to your archers to wipe out 
 the enemy. A lot of other combinations are also possible which allow for some good experimentation. 
 You cannot however break such a combination. A combination once formed will stay combined for the 
 rest of your campaign.
  
  EA has also introduced the concept of unit emotions. If you have ever played an RTS game before, 
 you might have noticed that units mostly remain motionless before and after battles. They stand 
 still like statues. In this game however, units show a little bit of emotion. If, for example, 
 a troll is brought near an infantry battalion, youll notice that the soldiers will appear frightened 
 and move a few paces backward. When the battle is won, they will cheer and raise their weapons 
 as a sign of victory. This is however only an external feature and does not affect the overall 
 gameplay. If you command units to fight, they will fight till the end and not retreat till commanded. 
 So you rare still the overlord, and need not worry that your units will turn and flee. The game 
 also sports a new base-building technique. Instead of the classic build-anywhere format, EA has 
 put in the concept of plots. As the name suggests, plots are locations to build your structures. 
 All structures must be built on plots in a one-structure-per-plot format. There are a set number 
 of bases and outposts which can be built on the map. Each base has a citadel as the central building 
 with a limited number of plots around it. The main bases such as castles also have fortifications 
 in addition to a larger number of plots. There are also a few single plots strewn about the map, 
 but you can only build resource buildings such as farms and lumber-mills on them. As the number 
 of bases and outposts are limited, you must try and capture them as soon as possible. So you need 
 to send out some troops as soon as you start the game, to explore the territory and on starting 
 construction of an outpost, post some soldiers there for its protection. The control of these outposts 
 is very vital for your army.
  
  With the exception of special structures such as wells and heroic statues, buildings also gain 
 experience levels. Higher level buildings gain the ability to produce special units and research 
 higher upgrades. Buildings gain experience through their usage. Resource buildings level-up with 
 time as they produce more resources, while the military buildings will gain levels by producing 
 units. If a building is destroyed it loses its experience points and special abilities, and a new 
 building built in its place will not get them. A higher level building is very valuable and as 
 a result frequently targeted by your enemies. You will, as a result, have to keep it safe and must 
 decide which building to build inside fortifications and which outside. Buildings are not taken 
 into the next mission like normal units, so the base will need to be built again if youre starting 
 a new mission.
  
  Resource gathering has also been given a new shape. There are various building for resource production 
 such as farms and blacksmiths for the side of good, and lumber mills, furnaces and slaughter houses 
 for the side of evil. With the exception of lumber mills, no resource building requires you to 
 produce special units to gather resources. EA has also done away with the concept of multiple resource 
 types. Instead, all the resources are clubbed as one universal resource and are added to the pool. 
 This has really helped reduce micromanagement of bases as is generally associated with an RTS game. 
 Citadels will also periodically add a small amount of resource to your stockpile. Resources can 
 sometimes also be gathered by killing enemies and certain provinces give you the added bonus of 
 a resource multiplayer if you control them.
  
  Resource buildings also gain experience levels and having more than one building of the same type 
 will grant you certain added bonuses. Multiple farms, for example, will reduce the cost of infantry. 
 Farms also produce peasants, a small group of workers which can repair your fortifications if needed, 
 though admittedly they are more of a trouble than use. Furnaces and blacksmiths also allow research 
 of upgrades fro your army such as shields and armor, when they reach a certain experience level. 
 Higher level buildings also produce resources at a faster rate.
  
  The mainstay of the game is of course the multiplayer. Due to the huge amount of technical gameplay 
 involved, the multiplayer really provides the thrills and chills of a classic RTS game. There are 
 two modes in the multiplayer. One is the custom generated 1vs1 and 2vs2 game, and the other is 
 the self-initiated skirmish. EA has done a great job in the custom player by adding the match-making 
 feature which put you up against opponents with ranks close to your own. This works in two ways 
  newer players can settle down by challenging someone like themselves while the experienced players 
 can challenge the more efficient players such as themselves and improve their gameplay. You can 
 turn off this feature if you want. The other mode lets you initiate your own games and include 
 up to 8 players in a team or a free-for-all format. Matches are played on the games skirmish maps 
 as well as some player-generated ones.
  
  The maps of Battle for Middle-earth are a great example of the games superior graphics. Every 
 single player map has been carefully designed and is unique. You will never be playing on randomly 
 generated fields, but always on the fields and terrains as described in the books and shown in 
 the movies. So every map requires thorough exploration to find the location of outposts and neutral 
 creature lairs.
  
  Talking of the games graphics, let me just say hat the game looks beautiful. There is an amazing 
 assortment of graphical effects and imagery which really give you the feel of Middle-earth. It 
 is obvious that the developers have paid great attention to every aspect of the game. Maps, as 
 noted above, have been splendidly done and you can spot minor details such as ridges in mountains. 
 There is blurring in case of an explosion, gates tremble when hit by rams, the ground literally 
 shakes when mumakil pass over it, ripples can be observed in flowing rivers. The cutscenes have 
 been beautifully made and are a pleasure to watch.
  
  Every unit has been brilliantly designed and the hero units bear striking resemblances to their 
 movie counterparts. The huge battles of the game have a distinct feel abut them. The way horses 
 trample foot soldiers, how Gandalf blasts away enemies, the way the Balrog walks, all look as realistic 
 as possible. It can be awe-inspiring to watch whole battalions trampled by the mumakil, or huge 
 chunks of building being torn away by the swooping eagles.
  
  The sound effects are nearly as good as the graphical effects. The voice-acting has been brilliantly 
 done. With actors like Christopher Lee, Ian McKellen, Elijah Wood and many more reprising their 
 roles from the movies, this comes as no big surprise. EA also managed to get good substitutes for 
 actors such as Orlando Bloom. And Howard Shores epic music makes this Lord of the Rings experience 
 nearly perfect. EAs own battle music perfectly fits in with Shores original composition. Battle 
 sounds such as swords clashing against swords, pikes hitting shields, galloping of horses, are 
 all first-rate.
  
  The Lord of the Rings is a huge series. Not only have the books been worldwide bestsellers, the 
 movies have also been tremendous hits. It is only fitting that the series deserves a game which 
 matches this caliber. The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth fits perfectly into this 
 role. With tons of brilliant innovative concepts as mentioned above and a base of superior graphic 
 and sound effects, this game is not only the best LotR game of its time, but also an equally great 
 RTS game. You will be proud to have it in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  when i heard this game is coming i chead every news avout this game i could get. i just wanted 
 this game after everytime i saw the deisner dairy. the grapics are gerat for an RTS and it's fun 
 to play it. the sound should and is great cause the actors from the movie are in it and that' s 
 a good sign when it comes for sound. the most fun levels in the game are the levels in maps where 
 big battles happend in the movies such as Helm's Deep and Minas Tirth. the heros do help in battle, 
 but like in Star Wars Battlefield 2 heros they are helpful but with lots of units with good upgrades 
 the hero will fall soon. to compere the to games togother, The Battle for Middle Earth I is a great 
 game that had promlems that you need to play No 2 to realise what they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When LOTR came out in theatres in 2001 everyone loved it and it became tremendously popular. The 
 action, the acting, the areas: it had seemed that Peter Jackson had gotten Tolkiens masterpiece 
 on film finally. After this movie, quick command came for a game that could reach the scale and 
 depth of the movie. This game got it spot on! With hundreds of orcs and a couple of men you could 
 have a suprisingly fun and epic game. Seeing Legolas take down a mighty troll or seeing a mumakil 
 crunch through those infantry: its awesome. The graphics, the gameplay, and especially Howard Shore's 
 musical score. (Hey that rhymed!) It doesnt get much better then this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Only get this game if you really, really, really love the trilogy. Not to be misconstrued I love 
 the story of the one ring, the hobbit is also very entertaining, however this game is just a cheap 
 and uninspired leech that gets all it's inspiration from the motion picture. I sat through hours 
 and hours of the epic films (including the extended versions) the fragments they through in with 
 this game are just, how you say LAME! In summary I dislike it immensly, also downloaded the demo 
 for the second one. The demo for battle for middle earth two has more to it than this whole game. 
 I might be considered a bit bias because in my experience I enjoy games in the 1st or 3rd person 
 point of veiw a bit more. The 40 bucks I spent for this game is sorley missed, refund is desired 
 k thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betitothegame
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  The battle for middle earht is a very fun game... if ur a fan of the movies u are, for sure, gonna 
 like this game... all of the various characters come out and the voice acting is awsome... it is 
 and rts.. it doesant stray far from other rts games but it does add powers and heroes that add a 
 lot to the game... rts lovers will easly get into the game for it uses the same things in a regular 
 rts... the only thing i didnt like is the fact that there are not so many units to choose from.. i 
 know ea didnt want to change lotr but i would have appreciated.. all in all it is a very good game... at 
 20.00 bucks its a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTuokki
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game may be the best strategy game ever. I played about 3,5h per day when I finally got it. 
 I still love to play it, altough the second version is much better, because it has better graphics 
 and... well its just better... Its not a perfect game, but great it is . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramez
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  EA has always been a pioneer in making high quality real time strategy games and they really put 
 all their experience to make this game a real one.
  This game is the best one that dealt with the storyline of lord of the rings trilogy in the form 
 of a real time strategy game , it is simply better than its predecessor The Lord Of The Rings : 
 War Of The Ring as it deals with the battles in a more realistic way as the battle of Isengard 
 or the battle of Helm's Deep and others.
  
  The Battle For Middle Earth didn't neglect the great role of the magnificent heroes of the books 
 in the battles as we see Legolas' role in Helm's Deep Battle and the role of Frodo Bggins and Samwise 
 Gamgee in leading the ring to its doom in Mount Doom's fires.
  
  The Graphics of the game are simply stunning (of course if you have the right graphics card) , 
 there is nothing wrong about the graphics as we expected from the wonderful EA team also merging 
 some shots of the movies into the game was really a good touch of EA.
  
  The sounds in the game are wonderful , the sounds in the battles are very realistic , the unit 
 responses are good , the voices of the heroes have been performed by the original actors of the 
 movie.
  The music is the best thing in the game really as they were taken from the original soundtracks 
 of the movies composed by the magician Howard Shore.
  
  The Gameplay is great as the learning curve of the game is easy and the storyline follows the original 
 story line presented by the book and the game isn't very hard to play.
  
  Finally I didn't feel I wasted my money on this game , it is really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightsfan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Think of Age of Empires right but with your Favourite Lord of the rings characters. The heroes 
 suck a lil but controling your own band of orcs or Uruk-ai 2 kill legolas gimli n Tha lil hobbits 
 r fun man. I love watchin tha lil Heroes DIE DIE DIE. the bad heroes r kewl my favourite is Lurtz 
 and on the good side Faramir. They r pretty wick. I bought it for 20 bux australian dats about 
 $15Us i think and it was instantly my favourite PC game. It was more than a game it was a piece 
 of artwork. I can't wait 2 get number 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fool_man_dude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I'm am a semi-hardcore real-time strategy game player. I'm a dedicated Starcraft fan, but have 
 also played many of the other wannabes out there. from Warcraft III to Star Trek Armada, and even 
 the more personal games, such as teh Fallout series.
  
  And because Starcraft is my favorite, I admit I go into every other game with a slight bias. However, 
 battle for missle Earth managed to impress me and hold my interest. Not long enough to complete 
 to entire campaign (It's pretty meaty) , but enough to understand that it is a very solid game. 
 The controls are easy to learn, and the special hero powers give you a nice edge.
  
  There are times where the battles feel very large scale, like the films, but other times when an 
 all-out war looks, and kind of feels like a miniature skirmish. This is a result of the supply-limit, 
 which is, to me, a haunting part of every strategy game.
  
  The graphics are nice, and even look good on my foolish, out-of-date computer. (That's right, my 
 computer is 2 weeks old! its a dinosaur! Hehe.) The fighting is very realistic. When your untis 
 on horses attack infantry units, the simple mow them down, which never gets old to see! And the 
 magic powers look pretty cool sometimes.
  
  The multiplayer holds up, and can be entertaining. However I felt it lacked some diversity. But 
 that could be my inner Starcraft person coming out.
  
  Overall, its worth it. Especially now that it's slightly dated and can be bought for cheaper.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Its been a year now after the LOTR: Return of the King came out, and now they have finally released 
 another game to the LOTR series. This game: LOTR: Battle For Middle-Earth.
  
  This is one of the many installments in the LOTR series, and it really proves that the series is 
 very powerful and knows what gamers like. This is probably the first RTS game in the LOTR series.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. The frame rate drops at times, especially if your computer can't totally 
 take this game. You can deploy hundredsand thousands of warriors, but only at a certain limit, 
 how sad. They all have unique formations and have their own bit of power and unique units.
  
  You can play as Gondor, Rohan, Isengard, or Mordor in the lengthy single player game. The Gondor 
 and Rohan armies don't really have that much siege equipment which can be annoying, but the orcs 
 and uruki have tons of sieging machines. Gondor has good ground troops with great archers, Rohan 
 has elves as an addition to its army at times, plus powerful horsemen, Isengard has agressive troops 
 all around, and Mordor has a good army, mainly a rabble, with the support of the haradrim.
  
  In the Good Campain, you quest for defeating the mighty armies of Isengard and Mordor. You 
 must defend you kingdoms and lands from the armies of Saruman and Sauron and then take the fight 
 to them at the Black Gate. In the Evil campain, all you need to do is reverse the story to Sauron 
 and Sauruman to victory by pillaging Gondor and Rohan. Both campains are very exciting and fun 
 to play.
  
  The graphics in the game are simply beautiful. If your computer is a very high-powered game computer, 
 the graphics make you speecheless. Every bit is very well detailed.
  
  The sound offer the voice-acting from the cast of the movies, and it sounds great. Battles sound 
 great while clashing with groups and gigantic armies that oppose you.
  
  If you like RTS games, get this NOW. It is definately one of the best RTS games in years and will 
 impress fans of the movies, series, and even people not fond of the LOTR series.
  
  This game is awsome and will keep many players playing in years to come.
  
  A 9.0 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SurvivalGamer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Im a fan of the Lord of The Ring's and when i heard that there was going to be an RTS made i was 
 ecited but not hopefull of a really good game but i was wrong and that was on of the times i was 
 actually happy about being wrong about something. The game featured all the hero's of the fellowship 
 even the one's that died and it had the main clases including gondor, mordor, rohan, isengard with 
 a ton of units ranging from trolls to elven archers the game was packed and with great music using 
 the movies complete score i really enjoyed it! I hope you do too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echi-man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Almost like we're in the Lord of the ring movies trilogy, playing all the heroes and villains, 
 and command a mass of army both good and evil. the background music stunning, but the graphic are 
 quite disappointing, the different between high res and normal res somehow are the same, and most 
 of all the units graphics are not detailed as we hope for, but then again the quantity of the units 
 we can gather are very very impresive, that what the MASS WAR mean i guess. Overall this game is 
 worthed for all LOTR fans out there.... Just can't get enough with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  First of all i love RTS so when i heard about this game, i was excited. then when i got it, i was 
 hoping it was everything i wanted. well it is, this game is much like any rts where you have a 
 base area and troops. with battle for middle earth, you do not have to start each mission with 
 nothing and then produce troops and research. BFME starts you off in a role of the main characters 
 and then quickly splits them into sections and lets you start off the rts parts of the game, in 
 the first mission you will have to build an army but from there you keep your troops throughout, 
 the only uprades you have to make are for fire arrows, armor, etc. But since you get a quite massive 
 amount of troops, you do not have to go into each mission with a base building philosophy, you 
 can just take your troops from the last mission and concure the current map. i think this is great 
 and am glad to see it in a game. overall i think this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbkkyle12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  i think its really good espicailly the  
 it was realy good...........  
 irnv ujeht vjh dsbi rjm iknid vbi opjej g i hir nv rhf iou gijigh ruo e hgr eh jg u e rh gueh g 
 rohg uh uf dhu g yn5jng ujrhieygoj 5rignjre hiug0 r ieug jgirjihighi rhgh ruehu ohgure h grheuhg 
 urhgsjkhfhrn jrshujgke okoko ok o k okok oko kokokokookok ........................ dude k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  The lord of the rings battle for middle earth is a wicked rts because it is held up by the lord 
 of the rings movies by peter jackson. the characters are mostly all very well balanced. campaign 
 mode is fun as you can take on every major part in the movies as well as little parts of other 
 main characters that you dont see in the movies such as faramir's other battles. multiplayer is 
 also very fun. with so many people creating their own maps, many different fun gametypes have been 
 made that are worth the price of the game alone such as a gladiator arena where you play as one 
 or two heros and take on waves of enemies, or story, where you take part in all the major parts 
 of the movies using certain main characters based on how many people are in the game. overall its 
 a great experience that any lord of the rings fan should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered what would happen when a army of cave trolls goes up againt the Ents? Well now you 
 can know the answer!
  
  Play as Isengard, Mordor, Rohan, or Gondor. Each team is given unique units and heros. The heros 
 are a character from the movie who is like one of the units for example, Aragon is like a swordmen 
 but he is given more health, damage, and specials. So while taking into consideration the formation 
 of the armies you have and what to send against what, you have to watch out for hero bonus such 
 as leadership, sword mastery, etc. using your armies and your heros properly can win or loose you 
 the game. I really want to stress that to you; I mean come on, that seems like a no brainer right? 
 Well you'll find out when you play the game its difficult to master it at first but with time and 
 practice you will achieve mastery. Also when you play online you can play mini one on one tournaments 
 and continue to advance in your rank as you win battles and even if you loose them since hopfully 
 when you are loosing you are not just rolling over and dying, YOU FIGHT TO THE END!
  
  Wait! You don't like to play with people cuase they're are annoying? Well have no fear relive the 
 movie as you lead the heros of Middle-Earth and the free peoples to keep the forces of Sauron at 
 bay. One feature offered in teh single player as well in the campaign you army moves with you to 
 the next mission and all the battlefields are places in Middle-Earth.
  
  But wait! You hated when the good guys won and it was all mushy, and lovey dovey? Well play as 
 the Evil forces and command your forces and see what happens when Sauron actually takes over all 
 of Middle-Earth!
  
  Okay now you've done it all played online, played the good forces, and played the evil forces. 
 Well now you can make your own maps and fool around by send 100 Aragorn verses 100 Gandalfs. Now 
 that's an EPIC battle!
  
  (Worth buying, worth playing)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraPheonix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  LoTR: Battle for Middle-Earth is a awsome game that can easily become an instant classic. The game 
 is a RTS (Real-Time Strategy) Game that really gives you a whole new perspective to the LoTR universe. 
 The game allows you to control the four armies of Middle-Earth: Gondor, Rohan, Isengard, and Mordor. 
 Each of these classes hosts slightly different strenghths and weaknesses. The armies of Gondor 
 are very infantry based. They are the masters in defense, and rarely fall to a seige. Bottled up 
 in their fort, they are almost impossible to beat. Rohan are very cavalry based. Rohan can easily 
 dominate the battlefeild, and can take control of large amounts of land very quickly. Isengard 
 host very powerful infantry and seige weapons. And Mordor can summon huge armies in a short amount 
 of time. These armies work against each other fairly well.
  
  Of course, they are the heros. Heros are very powerful, and can easily turn the tide of war. However, 
 they are not invincible (though Gandalf the White always seems like it) . Under focused fire, they 
 can easily fall. The only major irritant in this matter is Aragon, who in multiplayer, works on 
 behalf of Rohan. HE IS THE KING OF GONDOR DAMMIT! Fortunetly, Gondor hosts Gandalf the White, so 
 it slightly upholds the balance. Mordor holds the awsome Nazgul and the Wtich-King, Isengard has 
 Saruman and Lurtz. 
  Rohan has their King and Eyomer, Legolas, Gimly, and Merry the Hobbit.
  Gondor has Boromir, Faramir, 
 and Gandalf. The number of heros does not really matter, because it just forces the faction to 
 spend more money to recruit them. Even Gondor is not so crippled, Boramir is very powerful and 
 when coupled with Gandalf are a forced to be reckoned with.
  
  Overall: I'd say to buy the game. It will take several hours to beat the normal campaign, and even 
 then the multiplayer aspect is really quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  battle for middle earth is an impressive game. has a great campaign with lots of events based on 
 the movie and books. myself i am a lord of the rings fan and have whatch all the movies, read all 
 the books and played both of the games (only have beat one cause i dont own the other) . by playing 
 this game you will learn the story and names of all the character , warriors, where it takes place 
 and moore. as you all know the story is about a fellowship of people, hobbits, dwarves, and elves 
 go on a quest to destroy one evel ring. that is what your mission is in the game. there is also 
 normal skirmishes and online battling with people from around the world or in just your area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxspritexX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows the famouse Lord of the rings trilogy. Well you get to play all of the story in this 
 game! It is relly fun actually its not one of those boring RTS games. Being able to control your 
 favrite armies from the lord of the ring triolgy is amazing. playing as the Elks and other giant 
 creatures youll find is awsome swooping down large pacts of enmys and seeing them fly is a blast. O 
 not to mention controly the heros of the story and the armys! I loved this game! One of the best 
 RTS games ive played so far! The story is exactly the same too so you dont have to worry about 
 any changes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uziel126
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  If you buy this game. Undoubtedly one of the best rts games out there, any sane LOTR fan should 
 have this at home. For RTS fans, this is also a must have, and for the average gamer, this should 
 be one of the games you buy.
  
  With a story from the mind of JRR Tolkien, How can the storyline gho wrong? It can't. Paired with 
 an excellent gameplay and a "just right" learning curve, this game is easy enough for non-RTS fans 
 and approachable to the non-LOTR fan.
  
  The Sound is classic, with excellent music and sound effects.
  
  Graphics are not too bad, 
 just don't zoom in.
  I urge everyone to get this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. I admit i was brought into the wonderful land that is middle earth through 
 the movies. And ive now read and enjoyied all the books and consider myself a lord of the rings 
 buff. This game is simply fun. With some great graphics and gameplay and the quite possibly the 
 best fanatsy story ever written how could it go wrong. I've beat this game countless times and 
 every time though its been fun. The units are in battalions in this game which is a change but 
 overall for the better. Unit battalions also gain experiance as they survive and slay enimies so 
 its quite possible to keep a set of troops the entire game. There are parts of the game where you 
 control the fellowship and i might say its loads of fun. a problem though is that hero characters 
 can be a bit over powerd... ok alot over powed.. late in the game you can mearly use you maxed out 
 heros to easilly dispatch of the opisition which is a shame. The games battles and sound especially 
 come in durring its music and its fantastic siege levels. These siege levels are loads of fun and 
 really give the player a that sense of epicness that the sieges in the movies/ books had. the sound 
 of orcish horns and of oncoming mumakill will defintly get you hopeing for that next squad of archers 
 to build faster. so overall if your a tolkien fan or more specificly a fan of the movies you should 
 give this game a shot or even a strategy fan in general you should definitly check this out.
  
  - Vamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  although quite limiting in furfilling your battle needs, compared to its sequal. It's absolutely 
 revolutionary , taking the command and conquer type gaming and morphing it into pure Lord of the 
 rings material. 
  
  ye know the warm feeling that you get when watching the movies or reading the books. heres the 
 chance to turn that warm feeling Into BLOODLUST , kill the fellowship , burn helms deep !!!! Or 
 just be a good boy and save boromir from his death , or kill saruman before he gets too powerfull..
 
  
  The game is great , especially the campaign , i however suggest you buy the sequal , which is the 
 same but with A lot of new Goodies! Same game, more action.! If ur budget is low , buy this game! 
 
  
  Multiplayer on Lan proves 2 be difficult, but when in V1.00 you can get a cd key from the internet 
 or whatever and install tht on the other PC, i would'nt advise it , i'ts illegal, but If you bought 
 the game , why not?! there should be a solution for this.. there sortoff is.. buy the sequal! lol 
 
  
  ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragon245
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  "The board is set, the pieces are moving, we come to it at last, the great battle of our time"
 
  This line seems to describe the game quite well, you start the campaign (good side, haven't started 
 evil yet) in Moria with the Fellowship, fighting your way through goblins, trolls, and ultimatly 
 the Balrog. All this is very fun, but my strategy for this level (Move and Attack, boys, move and attack) doesn't 
 work for later levels, specifacally, the level I'm stuck at, Helms' Deep. In order to learn what 
 levels are ahead, well, read another review. I've had great fun playing this game, and I hope you 
 guys who haven't tried will soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 24, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was just... ok. It wasn't exceptional but the only reason I liked it at all is because 
 it was based on Middle Earth/Lord of the Rings events and characters. This is one of the few RTS 
 games I've ever played and it sure gave me a good idea of what they're like. I played this game 
 for about 40 hours. The online play was the best part about it because you got a ranking on how 
 good u were plus you could have 2 on 2 battles with somone you don't even know. The downside was 
 that if the person wasn't very good then 2 on 1 (you) aren't very good odds for winning. The graphics 
 were ok as well as the music. It did take me forever to connect to the online server tho (I don't 
 know if anyone else had this problem tho) . Save your money tho, buy Battle for Middle Earth 2. 
 It is new and improved. Look at my review for it toget an idea of what battle for middle earth 
 games are really like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Venom_II
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game will keep you occupied for a long time! It is alot easier than games like Age of Empires 
 or Age of Mythology but it can be tough in the end. You get the four factions, Rohan, (one of the 
 better ones) , Gondor, Mordor (slow and annoying) and Isengard ( also good) . The campaign is pretty 
 much a whole bunch of Skirmishes (Random Map) except u get to keep ur army everyone time u fight 
 which is sometimes annoying because u can't train anymore troops because u dont have room. The 
 best thing in the game is Skirmishes because u can chose out of many maps and any faction plus, 
 everytime u win with a faction u can get closer to a level up and this keeps u entertained. It 
 also keeps track of all of your losses and wins which is good. There are also many heroes with 
 powers which are very helpful. You can also buy powers and use them during a battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Ancient
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Simply Amazing! Kept me hooked for hours. I am a big fan of RTSs and have played most of them and 
 this one ranks in the top ten. LotR fans will NOT be disappointed here! 
  
  Graphics and Sound are Superb! Makes you feel like your actually there! Even on Low it truly is 
 amazing! Units actually have emotions! Like for instance when a Ringwraith or troll comes around 
 soldiers will run to avoid them unless you order them otherwise. Powers are a nice feature where 
 you are allowed to cast spells against your enemies and call in reinforcements like the Army of 
 the Dead and the Balrog. The population limit is the only downside. But you can download maps that 
 higher it. There is also so many mods for this game that you will never be bored.
  
  When I bought it was $50 but now it's like $20-30 I believe.
  
  Buy this game is you are a 
 LotR fan or just like RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is just aMaZiNg! It gives you all the Lord of the Rings elements to give you rich environments 
 and real strategy! Love this game!
  
  Graphics of the game are really good, except some character models. If you zoom into your characters, 
 you will see poorly detailed characters, other than that, everything looks perfect. 
  
  Sound is just perfect! It gives you the Lord of the Rings feeling when you are in battle. The music 
 is different depending on what race you are playing. This is just excellent, loved the music of 
 this game!
  
  The multi-player is also good, but it can take long long long long long long long long (And So 
 On) to complete the match which made me a little angry. You probably want to fight off the computer 
 than someone else on-line.
  
  The value of the game is high! If you want a rich and good strategy game, BUY this game! You can 
 other-wise buy the Battle for Middle Earth 2 which is better than this game. But I do recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgul_lord666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, this was my very first RTS game. Before I bought this game, I didn't know what an 
 RTS game was. I was expecting this game to be hard, but it turned out to be very fun and easy to 
 play. In no time I was playing this game very well. As most of the LOTR games before this one were 
 hack and slash, I found this to be a very refreshsing trend to the LOTR games. You can choose to 
 be either good or evil, and you will play as the 4 main armies: Isengard, Mordor, Rohan and Gondor. 
 You will get to play as heroes in the movies such as Gandalf, Aragorn etc as they are assigned 
 to certain missions. My personal favourite is Skirmish, when you just have to kill your enemies. 
 Recommended for LOTR and RTS fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightyear_31
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  GOOD POINTS
  1. the game contains lots of new and unique gamplay style 
  2. the new capturing lands component is a nice addition to the game
  3. the voices are made by 
 the same actors of the movie
  4. nice graphics are done in the game
  5. battle mode feels like the real war wherein you control and face battalions, instead of the usual 
 massive groups of single units
  6. its exiting to watch the war/seige/battle take place that you almost forget that you're playing 
 the game
  7. play as a variety of races and heroes from the movie
  8. you get to play the bad side
  9. the castle can grow to enormous and awe inspiring heights
 
  10. contains a good mix of movie scenes and gameplay
  
  BAD POINTS
  1. the game become quite challenging
  2. the whole skirmish of battling and capturing lands can 
 take some time
  3. you are very limited with control power and amount of buildings you can make 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mik2303
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle-Earth... The game I was waiting to make LOTR games worth. Well, my personal 
 opinion comes last, but I must admit my being a Tolkien fan won't be so objective for the final 
 score. 
  To begin with, the graphics are just spectacular. The improved graphics engine of Command & Conquer: Generals 
 game gives beautiful places and themes from the Tolien mythology. The zoom-in ability shows you 
 significant details. The only drawback I found here is the repeated desert textures since most 
 maps are designed with few trees and many desert paths and hills or mountains, so someone may be 
 bored of this monotony. The characters similar to the movies' with their photos in the palantir 
 if you select them. The interface is quite useful, with a circle in the left bottom supposed to 
 be the Palantir which shows the in-game movies and the map. Next to this is a smaller circle, which 
 shows the options of every unit or structure you choose, as well as the bonuses it has. In the 
 bottom there are the hero's icons for quick-selecting and their heal bars. Finally, in the left 
 there are the power icons. 
  The game's sound is really good, with voices from the movies' actors playing almost anywhere (when 
 you select or order them, during the loading screens, where Gandalf/Saruman explain the map's history) . 
 I'm sure nobody will have any disagreements from the voices . Soldier's voices are pretty good, 
 with roars from the trolls or their drum beats, and scary screams from goblins' massacres. The 
 sound effects are really good, and if you have an EAX-support sound card you will listen to loud 
 and deep explodes, thunders or any other sounds. The songs are from the original soundtrack, so 
 it will be familiar to you. 
  The most controversial thing of this game is its gameplay, and especially the specific build spots. 
 Most reviewers have written negatively about it but some fans have no problem, or even enjoy it, 
 so its about your opinion. I myself had no problem. The controls are the standard, but you can 
 change them to the old Red Alert style, if you are more comfortable with it. 
  There are 2 campaigns, good and evil, although the functions are 4: Gondor & Rohan as the good 
 side, Mordor and Isenguard as the evil forces. Functions that belong in the same force have many 
 similarities (units, structures, powers) but every one has its own characteristics. For example, 
 as Rohan you will be able to control Rohirrim cavalry, which is much more powerful than any other 
 mounted units (perhaps except heroes) . Also each function has its own heroes. Tactics is without 
 doubt not the best feature of the game, since it's not so well-developed. Units can change their 
 formation to gain some bonuses. The main connection among the units is the usual rock-paper-scissors, 
 with cavalry taking over infantry, infantry archers and archers cavalry. Especially cavalry can 
 run over enemy infantry if they stand in their way while horses run, with a spectacular animation. 
 Building and producing units is an easy task. All you need is money (as it's the only resource 
 in the game) , and levels! Yes, in this game nearly everything can gain levels, with buildings' 
 max level 3 and units' 10. Higher building levels means faster building and/or new units or upgrades. 
 Upgrades are purchased once from the building and then applied to each unit you want. As a result, 
 upgrading isn't so cheap and needs careful selection. Finally, units are built in groups. 
  Since money is needed everywhere, let's talk about it. They can be found at farms (good) or lumber 
 mills and slaughter houses (evil) . These buildings take also levels according to the time they 
 exist. 
  The only limitation to the production of units is the popularity cap, which has caused a lot of 
 complains from fans for being too low. Each map offers 2 or more strongholds, some expansion camps 
 and many expansion farms, so that the opponents can always build somewhere. 
  Here comes another difference between the sides - evil doesn't have walls. This makes them more 
 vulnerable, but their guarding towers are cheaper and there are more soldiers in each group to 
 counter this. In good side having archers on the walls is from my viewpoint the best feature. 
 
  And if time comes close to face the "game over" screen don't fear, because powers are here! Powers 
 can be "purchased" from the powers' menu, if you offer the wanted number of battle points, which 
 you gain during battle. When purchasing a power, another is unlocked, and so goes on like a tree. 
 In the end you may summon even a Balrog or and Army of the Dead, bringing death to the enemy's 
 lines. 
  And at last, there come the heroes. Heroes are basic at BFME, because of their powers and strength. 
 They also gain levels, like normal units, and unlock more powerful abilities and spells. Not all 
 the heroes are present (for example, there are only 2 Nazgul and the Witch-King) but this doesn't 
 make them too few. 
  And after that... the end. I enjoyed this game although some history inaccuracies (Gandalf not 
 falling in Moria) bothered me as a LOTR fan. The multiplayer is the best choice, perhaps even from 
 the evil campaign, and after the patch 1.02, which has solved many balance problems, many have 
 returned to increase their ladder levels again, by battling in Middle-Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funmesh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Its an amazing game... strategy fans are in for a treat... if you liked the movie or the book.. your 
 gonna love plaing this game.. coz it has a decent amount of detail.. with amazing graphics.. and has 
 clips from the movie during the gameplay.. which is kind of exciting..
  
  The missions are good coz you can choose when to play which mission.. and it has good special effects.. like 
 the magical powers.. its great each charachter has been beutifully portrayed.... the evil campaign 
 lacks a bit of flair though... but its defenitly worth playing....
  
  The castles and the landscapes are great .. the hordes also have been effectively done.. overall 
 its just simply awsome...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I shall start by saying that this title in my opinion is the best Middle Earth Strategy game out 
 there (even better than the sequel) . The presentation is spot on, the graphics are good and the 
 sound is right up there. Even the level designs are relatively varied with a lot of attention to 
 detail. 
  
  Unfortunately this makes my next statement all the harder because this game "completely fails as 
 a strategy game". In campaign mode virtually every battle is identical with the exception of maybe 
 5 or so missions that require you do something out of the ordinary. I employed one tactic every 
 time, and succeeded every time without any problem - even in the more so called "challenging" missions 
 people struggled on. I played the game on Hard difficulty btw.
  
  So here is the breakdown
  
  THE GAMEPLAY
  
  Basically you move around on a risk style map 
 of Middle Earth with your army conquering regions to obtain special bonuses that will aid you in 
 upcoming battles, it feels a little like Medieval Total War. When you contest a region you enter 
 In a typical Isometric view of the battlefield. From here the maps usually contain specific points 
 where you can build farms, outposts or Fortresses. Depending on what can be built you will have 
 a limited number of nodes on which to build structures such as armouries, stables etc (the usual 
 type of thing) . 
  Personally I do not like this at all. It feels forced, looks and feels unrealistic and becomes 
 a question of "capture the flag". Herein lies the problem with the game, not because this routine 
 is bad in itself (it was employed successfully in games like Warhammer: Dawn of War) . The problem 
 is that it does not fit in that well in the Lord of the Rings setting neither does it vary enough 
 in the campaigns. It is fine in a skirmish mode mission, but the game pretty much forces you to 
 always employ the same tactic, that is to build your army early on, send out rushed detachments 
 of troops to capture critical points on the map to build your structures, then defend these advanced 
 points whilst you send in a strong force to scout and systematically eliminate enemy encampments. 
 If you prefer a more patient approach developing your buildings, be prepared for a very hard fought 
 battle of attrition as the enemy gets qute strong and churns out hordes of units in your direction 
 in most missions!!
  
  In a strange way it does become rather addictive initially. This is partly down to the levelling 
 process, as you increase the abilities of your Heroes and units. That is one of the saving graces 
 of the game because your survivng units carry across to all subsequent missions. You can personalise 
 them by assigning them their own name and combine battalions to form more effective fighting forces 
 - the encouragement is there to try to preserve your forces which is a nice touch.
  
  Sadly I barely broke a sweat for most of the latter half of the game, because you spend most of 
 your time doing exactly the same thing. Sure the special missions like the defence of Minas Tirith, 
 Assault on the Black Gate and Isengard were highlights that forced me to adopt a different policy, 
 but not enough for me to replay the game. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS
  
  Very good throughout. The game is finely polished in most departments. A little sphere on the bottom 
 left of the window displays clips from the movies where appropriate, which looks excellent as it 
 runs seamlessly with the ongoing gameplay. 
  The attention to detail in the game is excellent. You can practically spend a while just looking 
 and appreciating the flowing capes of the Rangers and Tower Guards as they charge into battle, 
 the animations of the screeching Nazguls and the rampaging trolls smacking units across the battlefield 
 and the death animations of all units are unique and original. 
  If you look closely each building you construct has it's own detailed animation (for example the 
 Isengard Slaughterhouse shows cattle innocently being butchered to produce food for the Uruk-hai 
 and the Gondor barracks has a soldier patrolling the walkway - all very nice touches) . 
  The scenery can be a little limited in places but is generally quite good. I certainly don't think 
 that the Mines of Moria looked or felt like the Grand Dwarven constructions of the Book and Film. 
 It looked more like a small dungeon. This is likewise the case with Minas Tirith and Helms Deep 
 - good enough for the game but not as epic as I had hoped.
  
  THE SOUND 
  
  Top notch. Most of the original cast perfoms the voiceovers during the missions - Gandalf is your 
 narrator in the Good Campaign and Saruman on the Evil side, both done by McGellan and Lee respectively. 
 Sound effects and ambient effects are great and in many cases sound like they were taken straight 
 from the films (The murmuring of the ents, the militaristic war chant of the Uruk-hais, the soft 
 almost cheesy elven archers etc.) .
  
  The amazing soundtrack from the movies is here in all it's glory - really helps set the mood during 
 the gameplay.
  
  MY RECOMMENDATION
  
  Lord of the Rings fans will adore this, novice strategy gamers will enjoy this one. Strategy experts 
 will probably lose interest and get bored half way through due to the dogmatic approach of the 
 missions and repetitive easy gameplay. Overall a good one to play through once but little replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana211
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game, but control was not great. It gave me the quaint gameplay feel of the seemingly 
 ancient Dark Reign saga, which was very good. It was okay, not perfect. I remember Dark Reign, 
 MTW, RTW, and Battlezone 1 when I play.
  It was ruined with the addition of Unit limits, battalions, and mandatory build spots. It is a 
 well planned game, but has little diversity. I recommend
  it as a breath of fresh air bettween better games, such as BFMEII and Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 Good game, that lost a lot. I always try to sum up everything, but this one's one tough cookie. LOL. 
 
  
  That's simply all i can say right now. Try the sequel, and have fun, all of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  The Lord Of The Rings - The Battle For Middle Earth is maybe one of the best RTS-es i've ever played 
 in my life. I myself am a Lord Of The Rings fan so i liked this game so much i still wont uninstall 
 it.
  
  The game has everything - Starting from a great gameplay to amazing sound. The biggest lack is 
 that when you set the graphics on ,, Very low'' it really sucks hard because the character that 
 is hitting a goblin with a sword is at least 3 inches away from him on the screen. And the detail 
 of armour, horses and walls ( yes, even cities ) is Very low as they say. And when you set them 
 on ,, Ultra high'' it's still not the thing.
  
  The game has an exellent gameplay, the sound is good and the multiplayer is fantastic. I am a EA 
 member so i can play it online and when i see around 500 Gondor swordmen, 300 Rohan Horsemen and 
 Gimli, Aragorn and Legolas charging into a bunch of orcs it really warms up my blood ( especcially 
 when you pump up the sound ) .
  
  So, I think that you should really buy this game, and if you have the fundsbuy the original ( otherwise 
 you wont be able to play online ) and most important: HAVE FUN WITH IT!!!
  
  
  Tool fan, out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irishman0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  This game is sure to be the age of empires of the future. It lets you command the forces of good 
 (Rohan, Gondor) and the forces of darkness (isengard, mordor) . Follow the story a little then defend 
 various regions such a the rohan regions and others like dagorlad! Its not quite like the sequel 
 but if this never came out then there would never be a sequel and so many people would'nt want 
 MORE!!! A great game for all strategy lovers out there but it requires a good bit of PC power! 
 Command heros such as Gandalf, legolas, faramir, the eye of saron, the witch king and lurts! The game 
 will astound you in so many ways! Be prepared for intense battle between friends as well as this 
 has great multiplayer. Trade maps and more. You love LOTR and strategy? Then get this game. NOTE: 
 Be sure to have all PC requirements! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best strategy games I have ever played! I am a huge fan of The Lord of 
 the Rings, so I went out and bought this game straight away, and it was well worth the money! It 
 is very faithful to the films, allowing you to play as the fellowship in the mines of Moria, Rohan 
 at Helms Deep and Gondor at Minas Tirith. It also lets you play as the forces of Isengard and Mordor. 
 The graphics are very good and detailed, especially on big battles like Minas Tirith. In the campaign, 
 you play as either the forces of good or evil and play throught he events of the film. The campaign 
 allows you to rewrite the history of Middle-Earth, which is a good feature of the game. It is easy 
 to pick up and play, and beginners will have no problems with the game. This game is brilliant, 
 and if you are a fan of LotR, or even if you aren't, you should definately buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot like all of the other strategy games, like age of empires, warcraft, age of 
 mythology, etc. With its differences, of course. One is that it follows a story line like the movie 
 where you can be either good or bad. And the best part of it is, all of your characters can upgrade.
 
  
  The best thing I liked about this game was how you each and every one of your men can gain levels 
 and with each level, your character gets better armor and weapons. The trolls (evil) start to wear 
 face paint, have more health, and are much more powerful.
  
  Also, you can have any of the heros that you see in the movie. You can be anyone from smeagul to 
 a dragon rider. With this span of heroes, you can have many different powers at your disposal.
 
  
  They did copy the godly powers from Age of Mythology, where you can have a selection of godly powers 
 to use whenever you want to. You can use your eye to spy on their base or make your resource rate 
 increase for a certain amount of time. This powers help a lot when you play online and need a boost 
 to help you out.
  
  My only problem with this game is the lack of variety. One of the things that I love about warcraft 
 3 is how you can play different game types, very much unlike LOTR Battle for Middle Earth, where 
 all you can do is fight. Also, the online play is extremely hard because if one person in your 
 server has a messed up firewall it will completely close the server and it does not tell which 
 one of you has the messed up firewall. Other than this, this game is incredible and you should 
 definately try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have time to play this game when it came out. But , when i realized that battle for middle 
 earth 2 was about to be released i realised that i have to play 1 before I play the second one! 
 (I can't ever play a sequel without playing the predecessor :-) ) So i started playing the game.... 
 Absolutely superb strategy! Everything was very well made the graphics still looked unbelievable 
 and the game was quite old already. The heroes was really well made and the powers as well. I wil 
 recommend this game to anyone and will play the second one just after i finished OBLIVION ;-) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piztolero
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  well the history is the same thing of the movies is interesting and fantastic, the mystical creatrures, 
 the powers are asewome, the music, the graphics are woow!!!
  
  age of empire it's good but BME is more than that, is now my favorite game, and by the moment BME 
 2 only can saw on gamespot co's i no got money, but in 2 monts more i'm going to buy it.
  
  bme the graphics are super cool, the cinematics are great if you got a good card of video if you 
 got at least 128mb 
  
  well thats for me what about you? o what do you think?
  
  the game play i like and i like the moves of the camera and you can move, like you want.
  
 
  the only think negative if got BME is the races i really spect more.
  
  BME 2 you gone to be mine.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Is LOTR: the battle for middle earth a good RTS? Yes. Great? No Way. 
  
  The source material makes it pretty hard to screw up this as an RTS. I mean how bad can u make 
 it when its LOTR? But the IMHO, the dev team oversimplified many aspects of the game, making it 
 less then what it should have been.
  
  Base Building: Too simple, select a building and build. Everything is hard wired for u and there 
 is no innvoation allowed for the player to experiment.
  
  Battles: WTH is this? Merged armies can't ungroup. And attacking from the flanks and from behind 
 garners the same result. There is no tactical element involved. Just build a big grp & rush the 
 enemy.
  
  On the plus side, the Mordor heroes, especially the Nazgul, are very well done and some of the 
 later missions are very fun to play with, but those are too few and far between. 
  
  Maybe I'm being harsh, but as an LOTR title, I have expected better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eva15
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings battle for Middle earth is a great real-time strategy basing the story on a great 
 trilogy, the name itself will attract people to buy it but unlike star wars lord of the rings is 
 perfect for a real-time stategy.
  The graphics really do depend on how good or bad it is even with a low graphics it still gives 
 you full 3-D and it doesn't change the gameplay.
  The gameplay is unique as a real-time strategy giving it real simplistic feal for newcomers the 
 RTS's and to make it easier to people who are just fans and want to play the game.
  The sound is a full orchestrial score identical to the films giving you great music to listen to 
 while commanding armies.
  The story is all the small-big battles in the 3 films aswell as thoughs which were only in the 
 books, and finally it gives you 4 different races each with there own unique skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloguy85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  If u see my review for the second one i said it was really good and some things about this game 
 are better.
  
  One thing is that u start out with a castle wall. and even in the second one after u make a wall 
 u still cant put any guys on it. and in some ways it was cool that u had a bunch of spots where 
 u could make a bunch of farms around it without havin to spread them out.
  
  another good part of the game was that u could make another base where u destroyed an enemy and 
 that was very useful.
  
  other than that the second game is better and u should buy it not this one the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: io764
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game made me stop, pause and take a look. I generally only play turn based strategy but being 
 a tolkien fan, i had to give it a shot and try it out. turns out that it was well worth the effort 
 of getting the game!
  
  the graphics are good, overall UI is clean and easy to learn, and the audio did justice to the 
 story/movie. the gameplay could be better, with more strategic elements thrown in, though i suppose 
 this might have slowed the pace down a bit. 
  
  overall, i found the game to be an enjoyable, addictive experience. it's a case of "i'll just try 
 this one scenario", but you always end up having to complete it! i'm a little disappointed that 
 there probably won't be a turn-based version of this gem, so that we can truly enjoy and explore 
 the finer points of tactics & strategy -- there's so much depth and potential that can be explored 
 here, but the RTS format just doesn't allow you to consider more subtle or complex options.
  
  nonetheless, a great game, and i'm looking forward to part 2!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth is a Lord of the Rings based RTS made by EA games, BFME takes place in 
 middle earth with two playable sides, good and evil. On the good side there is Rohan and Gondor, 
 on the Evil side there is Mordor and Isengaurd. You will have to pick which side you want to play 
 and the side you pick will change the way you play the game. Not only does this game show stunning 
 graphics but it shows the true meaning of RTS.
  
  Like most RTS games this game has a Campaign, Skirmish, and online play. The campaign in this game 
 lets you play as good or evil, in the good camaign you are put to the task of helping Frodo Baggons 
 of the shire dystroy the ring. You are able to play as many hero's threw the good campaign such 
 as: Gandalf, Legolas, Aragorn, Sam, Merry, Pipin, Gimli and many more. With these hero's you lead 
 your way threw middle earth killing the evil side. In the evil campaign its basicly you taking 
 out the good side and there is not much to say about it.
  
  The online play in this game is amazing because it not only requires thinking but requires strategy. 
 There are many different ways to win games online but depending on on the side you are you can 
 do bad or good. Players online are really good so if you get the game right away and go online 
 and loose a lot dont give up, watch replays and keep playing.
  
  For an RTS I thought the graphics in this game were good, they land looked not cartoonish but kinda 
 real and the players were good (as long as you dont zoom in) . The sound was good but it could sometimes 
 get annoying when the players you use say the same thing over and over again.
  
  All in all I think BFME is a must have game for those RTS lovers, it may take a bit of time getting 
 into but once you play it and gotten good at it you won't want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsfla
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game in Christmas '05 and I think it is awesome! The campaign is challenging and 
 impressive skirmish maps are large and diversified, and the multiplayer maps are good. I would 
 recommend this game to RTS and LOTR lovers!!!
  
  However, I think that the fact that Gondor and Rohan have such low pop caps, the enemy forces cxan 
 easily over run you early in the game. Also, I would like to see a reduction in the cost of wall 
 upgrades for Gondo and Rohan and the heros in the game should be free.
  
  I really thought this game was revolutionary. The AI is very challenging. I plan to BFME II when 
 I get a computer capable to play it. I plan to get the Alienware Aurora ALX with 4 512mb nVidia 
 GeForce 7900GTX's running in Quad SLI! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. The game play is amazing nufin like this has really been made. War of 
 Ring was ok but this is the next step up. The factions are well thought each with their own unique 
 strategies. Online play helps to expand on the knowlegde of the game gettin new maps and learnin 
 new ways to play heros are well thought out with each hero havin its own advantages and disadvantages.
 
  
  Only problmes i have found are tht the out of synches and debugs got quite annoyin and y ea cudnt 
 sort tht out i dont know. apart from tht WOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  The battle for middle earth is great game if you are dont like real-time strategy games you will 
 love this game I'm sure.
  This game has a lot of goods that I'm gone talk about it .
  Graphic : great graphic with a lot of effects like heat effect .
  Physics : great physic engine 
 in the battles .
  Sounds : superb sounds with the music that used in the movie .
  Game play : superb game play with two modes campaign and skirmish .
  The bad things : there is 
 no bad things .
  My Last Word Is : its deserve to be in your collection . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBitt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  When realeased, this was the best game in the Lord of the Rings franchise. The graphics in the 
 game are very good and it takes very little time to get used to playing it. The first time through, 
 the campaign mode is fun and can be challenging at points. It will take you a long time to beat 
 it the first time and then you can play as the other side the second time through. The game however 
 is very simple. Its not a very complex RTS but it is still a decent game. There are a few other 
 downsides to the game. One is the fact that you can't have very large armies, especially as good 
 forces. But, no matter how good your computer is, it will lag when there are too many units. Online 
 play is decent but simple, but be sure to turn your firewall off or chances are you won't be able 
 to connect to other players. The game also likes to crash alot when your in the middle of an intense 
 game, and it gets really frustrating. But for the most part, the four factions are pretty much 
 equal depedning on how good the user is with them. I recommend this game to any fans of the Lord 
 of the Rings and people who are lightly into RTS games, but no one else would appreciate its value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game is awesome, from the massive battles in which your infantry is outnumbered 
 and quickly being overrun then BAM!!! you send in hordes of Warg Riders or Rohan Horseman and overrun 
 the enemy from the flanks.... SWEEEET. Graphics are the best I've seen in an RTS aside from EAW 
 and BFME 2, and the sound is superb, I personally turn UP the music and down on the other stuff 
 just because I love Howard Shore's score.
  This game will keep you busy for hours and hours on end with the massive multiplayer, and the skirmishes 
 and the multiplayer.
  Overall and excellent buy, especially for $20 now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  this is a great strategy game for real time strategy fans and for people that like lord of the 
 rings. there are lots of units and playable teams which are rohan gondor mordor and isengaurd. 
 they all have weaknesses and strengthnesses. it is pretty long same story as the movie different 
 powers and they have different units and buildings. it has good graphics sound and controls its 
 pretty easy to play. there are points you get by winning games and you can get up to 10 levels 
 and each level you must win more games to get to the next level. the powers are used to summon 
 units power enemies and make units produced faster. so if you like real time strategy games and 
 lord of the rings games you would definently like this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakDC315
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Now you can look at the lord of the rings franchise as a fat cow. And then think of EA as someone 
 determined to milk that son of a **** to the last drop, but is that a bad thing? Thankfully the 
 answer is no or at least in The Battle for Middle Earth. 
  
  The title is pretty self-exclamatory, you choose form one of four factions from the movies and 
 then duke it out with some other faction (s) from the movies.
  You can choose from four factions from the movies... if you haven't caught on yet to why I keep 
 saying 'from the movies' its because every damn thing in this game is from the movies! Anyways 
 the factions gondor mordor roran... balh blah blah you know. You can subdivide them into good/evil 
 or attacker defender. basically if you are the forces of good, you fill your base up with resource 
 buildings, lock you gate leave your computer for 4-5 hours then you have a ton of cash spend it 
 on some units and go kick some ass and take some names.
  
  Some super RTS snobs will look at how the game is set up and how it is veers more towards battles 
 and newbies. No seriously you get 'x' amount of SET building plots to build resource buildings 
 to gather only ONE resource (which is sill incredibly hard to gather in a surplus) . Then you build 
 a ton of beautiful units ranging from rohan's peasants to a personal favorite, the Oliphant. Again 
 the simple building layout is a gift and a curse. one the one hand people think it is way to simple 
 and to user-friendly (is that so bad??) but at the same time it can be a strategic game based on 
 where you build what or if you even build it at all
  
  the campaign takes a little while to get into but when you do... its soooo rewarding to bring your 
 elite isengard horde down to bear on the walls of minus triph or send a horde of mumikel to knock 
 down the walls at helms deep.... you can also play as the good guys to if your into that.... you 
 **** however the campaign won't keep you hooked forever just for maybe one or two plays through 
 and then it gets real stale real fast. 
  
  So thats that if you want a simple yet rewarding RTS that is almost a little to simple then you 
 should go buy this one. But if your some RTS snob who .... ummmm.... lets just say .... pleasures 
 yourself with your computer and consider it fun well maybe just watch a battle or go jack off some 
 more... or whatever it is that you do 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoarse_lord
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  The onbly RTS Lord of the rings that was good! The new one is bad! I think i like this one the 
 most cuz it follows the movies! Most of the heros have right powers and Also i just love the battles 
 of helms deep! :) Sadly some are pish and you can't build where you want hero's are very expensive 
 Eowyn kicks ass in this game and i love killin Mordor! Isengard are far too easy sometimes i wish 
 Mordor could build a MASSIVE army hell that'll be classic! I think that the gameplay is still not 
 the best! i mean sometimes it too hard sometimes too easy! Most PC Lord of the ring games should 
 be like thud they would rock amoung the rest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultragamer08
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle for Middle Earth (hereafter BFME) follows up on the LOTR franchise 
 even after the movies have all passed, which is cool and all, but I felt as if a few things were 
 missing, and with the release of BFME 2, I am hoping the second game corrects it.
  The campaign was one aspect of the game that was this way. You start out picking either evil or 
 good and then proceed to either capture or destroy the ring. In the good mode, you do this by raising 
 an army and conquering provinces and territories. This idea seems alright, but you only have a 
 limited number of places to attack (usually 3) and a similar process ensues for the rest of the 
 game. Even right before you complete the game, you cant really attack all of Middle-Earth. Come 
 this scenario, and you attack wherever you want before completing the game. The second is supposed 
 to have more territories, so I have high hopes. 
  You really only have 2 armies in the campaign. You have the factions of Gondor and Rohan and each 
 of them only has one army. So you pick one of your two armies (disappointed again that a faction 
 cant have more armies) and attack a province as described above. One other thing that was disappointing 
 was the massive battles. There are really only 2 (Helms Deep and Minas Tirith) and I felt like 
 I was jipped out of the Minas Tirith battle that we saw in the movie.
  Now this game also has several good things. The campaign while lackluster, gave several hours of 
 gameplay and now that its only $20, its a bargain. The graphics were good, and at points during 
 the game they would show movie clips at the bottom of the screen, which were cool. The soundtrack 
 was good, I suppose that is because of the LOTR music is well written. 
  The skirmish battles were okay as well and each of the factions are designed satisfactorily. While 
 the forces of good had good heroes (another cool aspect of the game) evil had several things to 
 offer as well. Some of evils basic fighting units were FREE to buy and they had trolls and elephants 
 as well. Both sides also got special abilities they could use in battle with points earned while 
 fighting. These points could do anything from heal units to attack or defense bonuses to giving 
 you extra units or heroes, and could change the tide of battle if used correctly. 
  Overall, I wouldnt buy this game at a full $50 or even $40, but with a price at $20, give it a 
 shot. With the new game out however, this game might now only serve as an alternate to the second, 
 as it seems that the second improves on the things that they missed in the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This wasn't what we were promised. We were lied to. Interestingly enough they've made a sequel 
 which should have everything that this game was supposed to have.
  
  I was so excited to get this game after all the reviews I'd read and all the hype that was built 
 up. I am a huge fan of strategic war games like Rome: Total War, Star Wars: Rebellion, etc... and 
 this was supposed to be better than those, but in Middle Earth!
  
  How could anyone pass that up?
  
  Well, if they'd known that the game didn't actually include 
 any of the elements that were boasted about by EA, GameSpot, IGN, etc... than they wouldn't have 
 bought the game and had to find out it was all a lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyMan90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This PC game is probably one of my favorite games that I have played for the PC. Right up there 
 is Warcraft 3. Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth is a strategy type game that is quite 
 a bit like warcraft. Basically, you start out with a main tower place that is able to create your 
 heroes such as Aragorn, Legolas, the hobbits, etc. You start out with a few peasants and you can 
 order them to build farms and buildings for you. You have a limited amount of space, however. You 
 have about 8 spaces for building structures. You can make custom games where you can be whatever 
 race you want. You can fight whoever you want, too. The graphics for this game are probably the 
 best I have seen for PC. The gameplay is very addictive and games usually last pretty long. Its 
 one of those games that has you sit there and make an army and then charge for a big battle. Very 
 fun game with lots to do. I recommend it to anyone with a computer, which is everyone nowadays. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cael_B
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game, i was really into it especially in the start. The whole idea of a Age 
 of Empires, Lord of the Rings type game was great. I really enjoyed controling your favorite hero's 
 from the movies in the game, not to mention the great graphics and wonderful story. This game made 
 me thisnk twice about the Lotr series. The best part of this game is playing other people in a 
 skimish. Playing against my friends was great.
  Cant wait for the Second one! The only thing that i would like better would be if u could chose 
 where yoour bulidings go instead of having to build them in a fortress. Fun Game never-the-less! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  LOTR is a very good RTS LOTR game, and the best LOTR game (though that is almost as great a title 
 as a "Best Harry Potter Game") . The objectives are usually similar, but in the larger battles you 
 can be: In Fangorn, wasting Treebeard or saving Merry & Pippin; in Minas Tirith, killing the fellowship 
 or wasting the Nazgul; at Helm's Deep, conquering oir defending; and Minas Morgul, getting the 
 ring off Frodo or saving him.
  
  It includes every hero and viliian from the films and books (except Bilbo, Haldir, Elrond, other 
 elves and Denethor) . It has the classic fellowship, Saruman, the eye of Sauron, the Nazgul, Gollum, 
 Faramir, Lurtz, even the spider at Minas Morgul and Treebeard.
  
  Not one of my favourites, but very good, very enjoyable, and worth getting if you're an RTS fan 
 or LOTR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixEA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Ohh my Buddha!! This game is so..... GOOD!! IT just like in the movie, but just modify it into a 
 game. The graphic is so awesome I'm telling you. There are many places for you to battle. Every 
 places has its level. IT's getting harder and harder every single destination. And it takes long 
 time to win the game. I know because my brother played and finished the game, and it take him to 
 long time to finish it probably a month or more. It would be more then a month, if he 1-3 hours. 
 But he play more then 7 hours. Well, that's not really the point. Just want you all to know that 
 it's a long game, but amazing. If you have chance, try it, and you might like it. Ohh. and try this 
 game one, before start playing the newest one.. well it doesn't really matter. Just mine opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: readingfc_1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Now when i first heard about a Lord of the Rings RTS i was very excited. I felt this was exactly 
 the type of story that would work with an RTS engine. Now to an extent i was right, however there 
 are some major flaws in both the games story mode and the multiplayer mode alike. 
  
  I will start with the story mode. When I first entered this mode i was pleasently suprised to see 
 how nicely set out it was. I selected the first mission for the Good campaign and got going into 
 the depths of Moria. I must admit to really enjoying the first mission, and this put the game in 
 good stead in my eyes. Making my way through Moria was not only thrilling, but i found myself having 
 to actually be tactical, using Legolas to take out enemies from afar. Playing against the Bulrog 
 at the end was fun as well, and seeing Gandalfs lightning blast for the first time was a thrill. 
 
  
  From here onwards the single player gameplay becomes repetitive and monotonous. Each single player 
 mission seems to follow the same pattern of 'Destroy the Enemy camps'. This seems fun for a while, 
 but soon you find youself becoming tierd at doing the same over and over. The only real difference 
 between each map is obviously the different terrain, but also the enemy skill level, which does 
 increase as you go through. 
  
  Some of the major battles are dissappointing as well, with Helms Deep not being at all what it 
 should be and Minas Tirith being pretty lame as well in terms of book values. As you come to the 
 end of the single player campaign you will find youself not wanting to perform the dark sides tasks, 
 as they dont vary much. 
  
  Now i move onto multiplayer. This is where the game should hit the spot and does to a certain extent. 
 Its pretty thrilling, but due to a problem with Firewalls and connecting, it is ruined slightly. 
 When you finally get into a game you find yourself needed to get a good start, or you will be finished 
 pretty quick. 
  
  My major moan about the multiplayer is the fact that certain teams are way more powerful that others. 
 Admitedly there is always some way to get into your enemies base if you are good enough, but there 
 is not enough support for newbies, which will not know strategies. I found Gondor to be way too 
 powerful when it came to defences and Mordor too powerful when it came to attacking. 
  
  Building bases is, obviously, the first thing you do in a multiplayer match. This is nothing like 
 a typical westwood style RTS. There are building points on which oyu can build. you are only given 
 a certain number, and must knock down other buildings if you need somthing built which a building 
 is dependant. This works well in single player, but in multplayer it become to restricted. You 
 cannot set your base out the way you wish. This would have worked better if you were given a restricted 
 area to build, rather than restricting to building points. I feel this weakens defence in a way, 
 which is undiscribable unless you play the game for yourself. 
  
  The heroes are obviously very intricle to the gameplay, with each faction having their own heroes. 
 These heroes come in handy for different reasons, and each heroe does help, if you know how to 
 use them. For example a measly Hobbit can stand near a building point and cloak, leaving the enemy 
 no way of capturing the building point untill they kill the Hobbit. Some heroes are too powerful 
 i feel. Gandalf for example, at level 10, can kill nearly any unit on the screen with his world 
 of power move. He can also destroy gates on Bases with his lightning blast. His Istari light move 
 can destroy Nasguls and Eagles in one hit. This sometimes leaves a match incredibly unbalanced 
 when playing against 2 Gondor armies with superior defence and superior heroes. 
  
  As for the game as a whole i feel it is worth a play, however is much much better in multiplayer. 
 Even though there are some flaws tha game plays pretty well. I enjoyed playing many games online, 
 and am looking foward to getting the second game. 
  peace out brothers
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammbasador
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Another time fighting in Helm`s deep you scream : "What are you doing? Gondor footmen must not 
 be THERE! And what archers are doing HERE? Battles are beautiful, but not so big. The game was 
 made to be a "son" of Rome: Total War. But, khmm, with 8000 units RTW was going great, but here 
 you need 200 units for lags. The camping is nice , but why we are just fighting? Some times you 
 must do secondary quests, but it is rare thing in this game. The real game is in multyplayer and 
 skrimsh. Rohan and Mordor against Gondor and Isengard! Nice... Music is like in the game, but I 
 like it. LOTR didn`t get Oscar for some child song! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oops337
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle Earth (BFME for short) is an outstanding game. Unlike 
 most RTS games I've found this one to be extremely realistic. It is a lot better in how the cavalry 
 tramples units, fire arrows being good against ents and other wooden units, as well as having set 
 lots to build units. Both campaigns are very long and there's a lot to do in them, as well as a 
 lot of "creative license" open . You can use Lurtz to pin down Gandalf while your Balrog destroys 
 Minas Tirith, you can have Eomer leading archers to win Helms Deep and much more. The campaigns 
 are extremely long and should keep you happy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keize
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I like the LOTR games, but this one is perfect for any collection. It takes a little while to get 
 use to, but when you start going you can't stop. This probably is my favorite game. You can be 
 any army, from Mordor to Gondor, from Rohan to Isengard, from Elves to Haradrim. It is a awsome 
 game. I love the way how horsemen run the orks down or you could do the same thing with wargs and 
 humans. There are tons of places to play on. After you done playing story mode, you don't have 
 to stop... there's skirmishes to play. It's great to be Evil and Good. But I advise to play the 
 skirmishes first so you can get the hang of things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narsilflammer
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  I found this game rather easy but it was good. The graffics are good with the buildings and characters. 
 When playing online it gets hard with other players. But as for campain it's very easy. You get 
 a good choice of teams Gondor, Rohan, isengard and Mordor each army has their strenths and weaknesses. 
 Such as Mordor and the Orcs. I think this game was really good but Helms Deep and Minis Tirith. 
 Were very bad, it's a shame how the two big battles were ruined. There was no need for Rohan or 
 Argorn to come at that battle. Also i found skirmishs ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playa_69_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is truly fantastic and even wonderful if you were a fan of the lord of the rings 
 sequels. The game consists of 4 armies. Rohan, Gondor, Isengard, and Mordar. I was a lotr fan and 
 was going to buy this game until i was thinking "Is this game gonna be like those other stupid 
 rts games? Where you can't control unlimited amount of units." Well i thought again and went home 
 to try it. Damn the game was awesome when i started playing. Control unlimited amount of units, 
 use strategy, use upgrades for your advantage, summon heroes, be forces of good or evil, intense 
 gameplay, awesome graphics etc. A MUST buy game for pc but also i can't wait for number 2 to come 
 out! Who ever is reading this i suggest you don't buy this game but number two is coming out pretty 
 soon so buy that unless u can't help buying this game haha.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  The lord of the rings battle for middle earth is a great real time Strategy (Rts) that gives you 
 control over hordes of golblins, orcs, uruk hai as well as troops of gondorians, rohirrim and even 
 elves. The game has official lord of the rings music as well which is a welcome addition.
  
  This real time strategy game is set in the scenarios from the lord of the ring's universe and 
 lets you control many differnet types of units int he four factons available, those being Gondor, 
 Rohan, Isengard and Mordor.
  
  The game has a story mode, a skirmish mode and online capabilities. All of which are adequate and 
 have unique qualities.
  
  In story mode you can command the forces of good or evil and using your armies conquer regions 
 of middle earth, all the while having cut-scenes and fufilling objectives. When you finish a stage 
 you can progress to the next battle with the things and troops acquired during that stage. 
  
  In Skirmish mode you can fight battles any way you want against the AI. You can choose teams, 
 strengths , scenarios and pretty much what else you want.
  
  In battles you start off at a camp or in a castle you must build structures to produce resources 
 used to build more structures and enlist units. 
  
  You can enlist the aid of powers and heroes as well in battle along with your units and structures.
 
  
  This means you could play a battle of minas tirith with:
  
  Evil:
  
  A Balrog, Orcs, Uruk-Hai, berserkers, Seige ladders, catapults, elephant troops, easterlings, with 
 the witch kings riding atop his fell beast with two wraiths.
  
  Good:
  
  The entire fellowship, the army of the dead, elven, gondorian and rohirrim archers, gondorian house 
 guards, gondorian foot soldiers, giant eagles, trebuchets and more.
  
  Their are many ways to play and strategies to addapt to. The game has good graphics and outstanding 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is based off of all the lord of the rings movies and has 4 main sides for you to experience.
 
  
  Mordor = a trechorus world with an evil enemy searching for the ONE RING that he needs to rule 
 Middle Earth
  
  Contains
  -------------
  Orcs, Trolls, Mumakills, Drum trolls, Smeagul, Nazguls (2) , Dark Witch or what ever that guys name 
 is.
  
  It also has those big transport ship things, it also has different orcs like archery , battalion, 
 ect.
  
  Isengard = this is a dredful world with tons of urakia and the evil saruman.
  
  Contains
  ------------
  Ura kai, Mines, Those wolf dudes, archery kai's, saruman, lertz,.
 
  
  has mines which need one of those ura kais that has the lightining thing.
  
  ladders, big arrow shooters thing. (foregot names)
  
  Gondor = a city high above the ground 
 with lethal dose of troops and weapons.
  
  Contains
  ------------
  Gandalf, troops with swords and archers, horse riders, weapons.
  
  Rohan = a poor and weakest 
 army of them all.
  
  Contains
  -------------
  All the good heros and also bad recruitment for fighting like poor people. has good horsemen. poor 
 people, good archers , Poor people
  
  There are points given to the players during multiplayer or 2 player games, thses allow you to 
 purchase your way up the bonus areas and buy good and powerful elements, like trees which help 
 beat up orcs and others but also are funerable due to fire.
  
  But i want to have a fast computer to play the game in great graphics and see the things happen 
 for fast real time style.
  
  Buy it and if you have it change it for bfme2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkmy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This is an incrediable RTS game that EA made. THey really made the books and the movies into a 
 great game. The sinlge player game has the fiarly unique function of letting you choose to be either 
 good or evil. The good campaign goes exactly like the movies and books went (cuts out one of two 
 not very important parts) while the evil campaign takes a "what if" look at the outcome of the 
 ring. They put all of the major factions into the game which includes Rohan, Gondor, Mordor and 
 Isengard. All of these factions have special units such as Gandalf and the Which King. The main 
 difference from other RTS games is that you have specifically designated plots where you have to 
 build your buildings. If you want to build more you have to continue expanding. They also have 
 group systems for you units so you will have all of you units in squaders per say that range from 
 4 units to 16 units in number (depending on your faction and type of unit, also large units like 
 trolls and elephants only come one at a time) . After you are done with the single player campaign 
 and the skirmish mode you can head online which pervides increasingly fun and difficult games that 
 you can play. This is a very good game and a most buy for lord of the rings fans and or RTS fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorgeibiboy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i ahve played (mabe because its the only one i have) buy its so cool i love 
 it you should buy it!! Its about the 3 movies all in one game, it had good graphics if you put 
 them on high only thing you need is a good video card to mae it go fast and cool like it should 
 if not you can put the graphics to a low version and ill play good and fast! its not that cheep 
 but itas at a reasonable price I promise you will love it!! buy it!! If not gett the new one! =) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  i love this game, just sending building up my castle then making a huge army of rangers knights 
 and soldiers then crushing the enemy like a bug and with the added bonus of eleven archers, the 
 rohhirm and to top it off a huge dosage of oath-breakers to completely slaughter the little goblins. 
 i just recently got this game and i haven't stopped playing it yet, i haven't tried online yet 
 either but i bet it will be even better. its a must buy and with the next one coming out very soon 
 it looks to top it by far which is one helluva mean feat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahshimi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth is simply a strategy game based on the story line of 
 the Lord of the Rings. The nice thing about the game is that you could choose which side you want 
 to play with the Good or the Bad. Every campaign has its own heros and its Special powers like 
 the Evenstar for the Good and the Power of the Ring for the bad. However, although the game is 
 nice it tends to get boring as the computers AI is the same and battles tend to be won by numbers 
 not by strategies. I mean it is not like Rome Total War where you could win a battle based on your 
 position and strategic planning. But over all the game is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  sure, I read the books, sure I watched the movies, sure I played most of the games, and while there're 
 some pretty good RPG and FPS games about Lord of the Rings, the last thing I suspected was an RTS 
 game. However, in spite of the unexpected arrival, this game is pretty cool and it's too hard to 
 give it less than a 8.5.
  
  The gameplay: brilliant, frikkin' brilliant. It plays like Rise of Nations in that certain units 
 come in battalions of 3-5 units. However, the building system is different, involving building 
 from pre-determined building foundations, certain one's can only generate resources. There's no 
 population limit, but there is a limit to which your command can go, and you can't train any troops 
 above this "command point" limit. This game really simplifys RTS, but not in a bad way.
  
  The graphics: The game has admirable graphics and is hard to fault when it comes to visuals. Also, 
 the game, depending on whether or not you have a good video card, runs pretty well and can seriously 
 drag you into the story.
  
  The other stuff: there's the usual options like skirmish and a world builder of sorts, but one 
 of the cool things is the factions you can be. They're not different to an incredible degree, except 
 to the other team. For instance, the Rohan and Gondor units are much stronger, but only have half 
 the number of troops in their battalions, whereas the Isengard and Mordor units are really weak 
 and are toppled easily, but there're tons of them, about ten per battalion. There're also the different 
 siege weapons, the forces of Middle Earth can only build so many siege weapons, but they're strong 
 like hell, whereas the dark forces can build huge armadas of siege weapons, but they can't dish 
 out or take much.
  
  In short, this is a game that all people new to RTS games should try and all veterans deserve a 
 shot, it's tweaked slightly, but it's still got the same principles as a normal RTS game.
  
  -Zim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, you ask me why are the graphics bad? Well it's not my opinion it's beucase I have a bad card 
 in my graphics slot that dosen't work very well. Difficulty vs a real player is hard PC depends 
 on the story level most are super simple but as you get past Helm's deep the missions get way harder 
 Minas Tirith was disapointing but it was a good challange as it took me 3 days to beat.
  
  Online the units are either too under powerd or too overly powerd, the heros were a little stupid, just 
 beucase they could beat your whole base and army in one go. The powers are average, the balrog is 
 good but compaired to the army of the dead (or oath breakers) spell, it gets killed super bad, as 
 the army of the dead took out 3 of my nazgul and one of my bases in not even five minutes, so that 
 spell should have been lowerd in strength.
  
  Though this game was promissing and good it just barley cuts the mustard looks like BFME2 will 
 blow this out of the water, but I bet it will have some minor and maybe one cripleing glitch but 
 hopefuly not as many as Battle For Middle Earth 1 but the story kept me going for a while and yes 
 the online play was a little sub-par compaired to other RTS's like WarCraft 3, and Star Craft but 
 all in all not a bad game at all a very desent RTS with just a few minor imperfections and bad 
 online play but great game thank you EA keep up the good job and make BFME2 better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmings11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  this games got everything but the resources bit are rubbish but the units you controll are brillient. 
 the heroes kick but and gandalf rules, the balroq is good looking. the only problem is you need 
 to have watched the film but you get over that problem vry soon. the controll system is very easy 
 to get over and there is a school that teaches you how to play. the campaigns are pretty good especially 
 minis tirith and helms deep. there is one little tweak in the game, the command points are too 
 little. you can build a army but the time it takes to build your allies have already won the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jones4j
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This might be considered an entry level RTS to some, or an absolute atrocity to others. Mandatory 
 build spaces, little strategy, and poor defensive structures make this baby RTS a complete waste 
 of time. Even the makers admitted to making this just to capitalize on the Lord of the Rings Trilogy. 
 This game had a lot of potential but fell massively short. This dumbed down RTS has way too little 
 substance to sink your teeth into for any length of time. I suppose the only highlights to this 
 game are the graphics and sound, both of which effectively capture the style of the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legions192
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics is amazing compared to most other rts games i have played in the past. The game difficulty 
 quite easy on the other hand on any difficulty. The idea of the horses crushing foot soldiers with 
 a charge had been one of the best rts ideas that has yet come. bit disappointing on the fixed position 
 not to build anywhere. This is the best lord of the rings game out now, i recommend getting it 
 if it is not part of ur collection. i am new to reviewing as this is my second time, hope u agree 
 to what i have said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamadelyafi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  one of the greatest game I ever played!
  
  the only thing i disliked is that i would have loved that i could create more units! Oh yeah, also, 
 when playing skirmish, it sucks when you are winning and then, the ennemies bring u some Balrogs 
 and phantoms. Hope these two caracteristics would be corrected in the LOTR BFME 2
  
  This game is for every single person who adored the trilogy, books and movies.
  
  It is also 
 for everyone who like strategy game, because you have to know what u are doing. And try surviving 
 the campain at Hard difficulty without loosing anu unit. GOOD LUCK AND HAVE FUN!
  
  MO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp192
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  this game is very good indeed. i spent about one year playing on it all the wile and now and again. it 
 is a must buy as it is the best game i have ever played in my hole life. the gameplay is very good 
 and it is vaule for money. you will spend days, weeks, even months on this game. i mean it if you are 
 a lotr fan it is a must buy if your not its a must buy. and if you dont like this you must have 
 some thing missing in the head. take what i say and get it in the shops then pre-order the other 
 and play on the first one untill you get the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Middle Earth stories since I was a child, I have seen the films (many 
 times) , read the books (many times) and at last have now played a game worthy to have the same 
 name.
  
  This game is great, I cannot stress that enough. It is not perfect, but it is good enough to keep 
 me coming back time and time again to play and for me, that is what a game is all about.
  
  EA have done a wonderful job in recreating Tolkiens world, everything is in place and placed correctly. 
 The world looks fantastic and you can tell that a lot of time has been spent making things look 
 good.
  
  "But looks are not everything" I hear you all shout. You will be glad to know that it also plays 
 very well too. It is easy to control the characters and they do what you want them to do.
  
  You really can re-enact some great battles here, there is nothing like sending a few companies 
 of Rohirim into battle, getting them to charge down some Orcs as they try and escape. It is just 
 fantastic.
  
  Underneath the combat there is a fairly basic resource building mode where you build structures 
 and collect resources so that you can buy more troops and buildings etc.
  
  What I liked most though was that they have put the heroes into the game. So yes, you can generate 
 Legolas or Aragorn or any of the other main characters and they will fight by your side.
  
  As the characters progress through the missions they get stronger and become more effective later 
 on in the harder campaigns. This also happens with the normal troops as well, they get promoted 
 as they fight through the missions.
  
  So yes, get this game, I would thoroughly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLTalpos
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Recently it was discovered the about five guys on my floor have this game. Using the network connection, 
 not a night goes by without a battle. Sometimes we duel each other. Other times we face multiple 
 computer opponents. 
  I am in no way that avid of a gamer. I play to have fun with my friends. Using this game for that 
 purpose has made for many interesting nights. Sure we all are losing sleep, but it's worth it. 
 The strategy involved with this game is fun, yet sometimes provides for some interesting combinations 
 (Isengard Mines and Elves w/ flame arrows?)
  Some drawbacks are the fact that after awhile the game starts to feel too small, but that can be 
 quickly fixed trying/inventing new strategies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwaywolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  This is most defiantly the best RTS game i have ever played!!
  
  all the casts voices for the characters, great background music while playing the game and sitting 
 in the menus, mind blowing graphics and unbelievable value = a masterpiece
  
  This game takes a while to get used to for the average gamer ( or maybe that's just me ) but you 
 defently have fun learning! You'll have to have a good computer to play it to it's full potential 
 but it is still good on the lowest graphics. It has two great campaigns, one good and one evil. 
 In both you can change the fate of middle earth and even if your evil enough help Sauron get his 
 mitts on the ring and dominate middle-earth!!!!!
  
  They also have skirmish, multiplayer and online play which are all great. Skirmish and mp (mutiplayer) 
 are basically the same except with mp you have other people or another person on another computer 
 with you to play against or with in a skirmish with up to 8 players!!! Oh and if you have a D-link 
 router it is impossible to play with the same disk so you have to buy another one. Online is a 
 safe gaming community created by EA just for LOTR: BM! You can join a custom game or you can go 
 into quick match which is like opti-match in x-box live! Or if you want to chill you can join the 
 fellowship club chat room (no membership required)
  
  Well I would tell you more but it's getting late over here in Australia.
  
  till next time!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimt0win
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  BFME Is a great game. There are however, some times I wanted to say... why am I playing this game? 
 These were mostly during the repetitive story mode. I would attack the same people again and again 
 over and over! Every level seemed the same. The only good ones where story levels, such as the 
 battle of Helms Deep, or the Mines of Moria (The First level) Also, it gets really annoying hearing 
 the LOTR music over and over again, along with everyones voice when you move a set of units. Why 
 did i give it such a good rating then you ask? Purely Multiplayer.
  Multiplayer is amazing. It gives you the opportunity to test your skills in a quick match, or play 
 practice in a custom match, where you choose the map and teams. The BFME also comes with a world 
 builder, where you can be the creator of worlds. Then you can post them online in BFME custom matches, 
 and duke it out on your own map. On the home page it gives an accurate rating of your rank.
  Even better, BFME has a gamespy ladder. Simply insert your name... and wallah! Your rank. It also 
 has updates and rewards, such as recent wins and losses, and medals next to your name such as 5-25 
 consecutive wins. The online is truly amazing. All in all, the BFME is a great game, and it is 
 well worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dren_gs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  -This game is good enough to be played all day :P, to be honest this may be one of the best strategy 
 games ever made, well that's my opinion. Two things, two things make it 'better than better' : 
 first it's the characters from the Lord of the Ring movie and second the best soundtracks I've 
 ever heard, made by Howard Shore which inspire me to play the game all day. I bought this game 
 on 31th December of 2004 and I spent my first moments of 2005 playing it, this really happened 
 for real, and I still play it.
  -Well because the game is based on the movie events, I'd say some things are wrong . First I'd 
 like to mention "Boromir lives after the "Amon Hen mission where Froddo and Sam leave with the 
 boat", but in fact he dies protecting the two little hobbits Merry and Pipin and second Gandalf 
 survives in Moria but in fact he goes down with the demon of the old world "Balrog" and third Helm's 
 Deep is not very good designed that's what broke my heart, there happens a great battle, it should've 
 been great designed anyway even though it isn't what I expected it still is good enough to enjoy 
 fighting in Helm's Deep. These things which I mentioned are not the only problems in the game but 
 I'd say all of them go behind the good parts of the game. About graphics, well there's not much 
 to say about graphics they could've been better but they're still great and won't be a problem 
 for your playing. Sounds, great, when I hear "Rohirrims" riding... great sounds and soundtracks 
 of course. This game is worth buying, worth playing and ... the best part of the game is the Good 
 Campaign and that Map of Middle-earth which inspires me to play the game even if I'm not in the 
 mood to play it................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry4herms
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is by far, in my opinion, the most intriguing Lord of The rings game. It allows you to experience 
 Middle-Earth in a whole new way. You learn of new Areas barely mentioned in the films (only in 
 the books) and the detail put into the massive events of the films are great!!
  
  There's nothing I would change to this game, I'm lying. The V1.02 makes the game less fun (if you're 
 a supporter of the good teams) . For the EVIL players the patch is the best thing upon the earth.
 
  
  The variety of Heroes all the way through to the weakest unit is amazing. However this game does 
 have its issues:
  
  -You have to pay twice for upgrades, that's ridiculous!
  
  Other then the few mentioned problems it's a great game!
  
  I suggest you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumboforme
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth is a highly addictive game. It has fabulous multiplayer and is definitely 
 worth buying or checking out. However, a problem with it is it does not have enough civilizations. 
 You can play as Gondor, Rohan, Mordor and Isengard. Four is good, but not quite enough. It would 
 be nice to be able to play as the elves. The sound in this game is just great. The trolls, the 
 mumakil and the warg riders, sound especially good. Another good thing about this game is that 
 it is not to hard, not to easy, but just right. Yet another good thing is that Battle for Middle 
 Earth is a nice and long game and it does not take that long to learn how to play if you are a 
 beginner. The graphics are good, but the farther you zoom in on a character the worse the graphics 
 get. Overall, I would say that Battle for Middle Earth is a superb game that will last you a while, 
 and is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  although wicked to start with became tiresome as the release date for bfme2 approached. tactics 
 limited, armies limited, building limited, so once u did it once u would be doin the same thing 
 over again, online play was the only thing that vamped it up for a while till that became tedious. 
 waitin for next game hopefully more freedom to enthrall u that bit longer. 
  online play was good but outta synch's , debug breaks and nat and firewall issues became a constant 
 annoyance. aswell as noobs from god knows what countries tryin to run the game on pentium 2's with 
 32mb ram and a mouse that runs a wheel to power it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth is a great games with lots to offer but lots of room 
 for improvement. The game has its problems such as balancing with heros and powers as well as not 
 the best graphics. Its a very simple game and easy to get right into. Watching Gandalf use his 
 word of power and kill thousands of orcs all around him can get addicting while looking a little 
 hobbits like merry stand there and just die after a few hits when their at rank ten can be disappointing. 
 The best thing about the game is the aspect of seiging your enemies although only Rohan and Gondor 
 have walls its still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stenny_boy24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth is an amazing strategy game with plenty of units for each army. The player 
 can either be the armies of good or evil, then in each alliance you can as gondor or rohan for 
 good, then for evil you can play as mordor or isengard.
  The game follows the story of the movie, with the good side you start with the fellowship into 
 moria and so on forth , changing between rohan and the fellowship until there eventual meeting 
 in Rohan. You then must defend land in rohan until u have gathered a good sized force and are sent 
 to helms deep as in the movie. The Good side story follows the movie and everything happens as 
 it should do. The good side changes everything it is more interestin as u can change the events 
 of the story and there is a lot more origanality to the Evil sides story.
  The mulitplayer on Lotr rocks as u can have up to eight people against each other or 4 vs 4 on 
 sum maps. This is a gd game and i recomend buyin it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth is a great RTS, balanced units and powers (The pathetic gondorians can 
 actually save themselves from the Balrog) but the game does get repetitive, and some of the level 
 designs aren't wat I expected. The idea that u hav armies in the game that u control is ingenius, 
 however sometimes it ruins a mission. The Battle of Helms Deep for example, u started off with not 
 many archers to defend the keep, but u hav the bases and $$ to make more. However, I had to start 
 the whole mission over several times b/c I found my riders consisted of 10 ARCHERs, 5 HORSE ARCHERS 
 & 5 HORSE RIDERS u don't get any message that one of ur armies is goin to be used as reinforcements. 
 The game is great, but sometimes the designers try to incorporate features like this and it makes 
 the fun go out the window. But the multiplayer is amazing, so if u can stand the single player, 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mordacai058
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth is my favorite game ever! I love this game it 
 is one of the few games (To my mind) that lets you be good OR evil so you can destroy the world 
 or save it. You can be Rohan, Gondor, Isengard, or (My personal favorite) Mordor. You have all 
 the fellowship characters if you are good (Most for Rohan, only 2 for Gondor) And you have all 
 your favorite evil characters on the evil side. (Gollum, The Nazgul, Saruman, etc.) The campaign 
 can either follow the storyline (good) or do the opposite (evil) . Also they have a great Skirmish 
 and multiplayer too. The only complaint I could have is you cant build anywhere you want. There 
 are build sites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncubusAZ
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  My only rant about this game is the lack of an in game pause feature to allow one to pause and 
 give orders. I think the gaming industry should consider this as a way to allow the disabled to 
 enjoy gaming too. I have found it impossible to complete the large scale battles because of my 
 disability. Even if I were not disabled I can't imagine how anyone can use much strategy when you 
 are trying to control so many units. This is why I enjoyed Age of Empires II so much was because 
 I really got into the strategy: I would pause the game and give everyone their orders and then 
 watch them be carried out. With Battle For Middle Earth strategy takes a back seat to hack n slash 
 playing. If anyone knows of a patch or user created mod please let me know as I would really love 
 to enjoy this game like everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 27, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth! A pretty extravagent name. On the contrary, not. 
 This game was actually fun at the beggining, when you first open the package you can't stop playing 
 for about.... maybe 20 hours? Then it hits you, I saw that, did that, been there before. The gameplay 
 is an improvement on most RTS games. Although this doesn't mean it's good... The controls are different 
 than every RTS game on the planet which makes it a bit annoying when you constantly can't move 
 your guys. The graphics are actually quite terrible. Some character's litteraly look like blocks. 
 The sound is actually the best part about this game. I'd honestly rather have the soundtrack on 
 CD than actually owning the game (i'm sorry to say i do.) This game tends to get good reviews, 
 which is mind boggling IMO. Maybe i'm not an RTS kinda guy...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamezmaster22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I f you are either an RTS gamer or a Lord of the rings fan then this game is definitely for you. 
 Like most RTS games at the main menu it has an option to play a skirmish match story mode and multiplayer. 
 In skirmish mode you can choose between four teams Gondor, Rohan, Isengard and Mordor and fight 
 with 1-7 different computers on a difficulty that suits you or you could have you and a computer 
 vs two other computers. Multi player is probably the most used play option where two human players 
 go head to head with each other. Story mode can be played in either easy, medium and hard and you 
 can choose weather to be good or evil. After choosing your options you start at a map of middle 
 earth and after you play the first level (Isengard if you choose evil and Moria if you choose good) 
 you can choose which place to attack/defend. After you have completed a mission you get a reward. 
 The only thing I found pretty irritating in this game is that certain teams are considerably more 
 powerful than others. 
  
  Gameplay: This game offers plenty of different locations to play and choose from. Story mode consists 
 of 20 acts and 1-5 different levels per act. There are plenty of different units and powers to 
 build and choose from.
  
  Graphics: Most of the graphics a pretty good but some of the characters faces look unrealistic 
 if you manage to zoom right in and the graphical bugs sometimes make the a small part of the ingame 
 map disappear, however these flaws are forgivable when you get into playing the game.
  
  Sound: I was pretty impressed the sound of this game because there are loads of different battle 
 cries and sounds when your units go into combat.
  
  Overall: I love this game and recommend it to any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth is one of the best Lord of the Rings games out there.
 
  
  The gameplay on this game is great. The game as two main single player modes, campaign and skirmish. 
 If you ask me, i would say that skirmish was the best of them. That was the mode that I most of 
 the time played. Before you start the skirmish you get to choose what army you want to be, how 
 many other bots are playing against you, what armies they are, and what area you will fight on. 
 It is really fun. The levels do not take to long and are not to short. On Axis & Allies (read my 
 review on Axis & Allies) it takes literally days to finish one skirmish level. On this game it 
 takes about 45 minutes to an hour to finish a skirmish which is a very good time. If i am doing 
 really good than it would take about 15-30 minutes. You can be the main armies in the movies. All 
 the armies have there own main thing which is really cool. An example is that the Mordor army can 
 make a bunch of ors for free. The game was very good at this part of the game.
  
  The graphics on this gamewas very good. I couldn't help just zooming in on a battle and watching 
 them fight at close range. They are very smooth and look great. One of the things that was really 
 cool was the Balrog. It was very detailed and really cool.
  
  The sound was really good. The fighting sounded really good. You could here the swords clanging 
 and the explosions blowing and it was a lot of fun to hear.
  
  Overall, you should buy this game. If you already have this game you should take a look at the 
 second one. It looks pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  I'm really glad I bought this game. i am a big van of the movies, and this game pulled it off nicely.
 
  
  The graphics are brilliant with a huge amount of detail on all the units. This is going to be a 
 bit of a problem for people with slower PC's. Putting the Graphics on low really takes away a lot 
 from the game but it doesn't make the game unplayeble.
  
  The gameplay is a bit different in that you are a bit restricted in how many building you can make 
 and where you place them. Yet there is enough space for you to make all the buildings, but you 
 will have to plan carefully what your strategy is going to be and then concentrate on building 
 only the buildings you really need. If you are like me, you'll build every single building, upgrade 
 all the units and attack.
  
  The game is a bit on the easy side. Although there are a massive load of spells you can cast and 
 hero's you can summon, you don't always get the chance to do this when playing Death Match games. 
 You end up killing the Computer long before you get the chance. 
  
  The Campaigns are great fun. They are based on the movie and gives you chance to play out scenes 
 from the Trilogy. 
  
  I am still on my way to upgrading difficuilty levels so that could be why I found this game to 
 easy. Maybe once I get past the Easier points I will change this review and say "this game is damn 
 difficuilt"
  
  All and all this is a great game and is well worth the money you spend on it. Great part of a gaming 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dukeboy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The gameplay makes this game the best war game ever. I can sit playing this game 
 for hours and not get bored of it. The game can sometimes run a little bit slow depending on how 
 good your computer is. And the units are very slow when it comes to issuing orders. But the battles 
 are totally amazing. The battles are really fun because of the amount of troops that can be fighting 
 on the battle field and how cool the fighting can be. The powers that you can unleash can really 
 make the battles epic and amazing. This game is definatley better than warcraft or age of mythology 
 or any other games like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has definatly earned a place in the gamer's hall of fame. Unfortunatly the lack of updates 
 has caused a large rift to open in the community. First Isengard then Mordor have caused huge gaps 
 in the win ratios. Oh well, still extremely fun and mostly balanced. Single player is laughably 
 easy on any difficulty but the multiplayer still shines. The graphics are still top notch even 
 though they use the old Generals engine and the ambient and latent sounds are very entertaining 
 and seem to fit perfectly. The 4 sides are varied enough to make it interesting enough to want 
 to play all of them and they are (mostly) able to be played in any combination with and outcome 
 possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_boy_del
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  when I first bought the game i can remember my excitment and anticipation they were not stifled 
 as i played the game....
  the game had Great graphics, right amount of difficulty and a great single player
  
  what i 
 really loved about the game was the fact that when you made a unit you didin't just make one piddley 
 little man, no you made a large battlion which made gamplay alot more fun and added depth to the 
 game esspesially the battles you can have, when your in the game you really feel like your in a 
 war because you can make so many men you can launch full scale attacks, armys against armys.
  I loved the fact that you had your own hero and he or she had his own special branch of powers 
 (this did lead to some flawed characters) .
  
  The game has many units and upgrades to choose from not to mention the fact you could choose four 
 tribes Gondor, Rohan, the forces of Sauron or the forces of Sauroman 
  
  But being me I wanted MORE!
  more upgrades
  more units
  just MORE
  
  But don't let that 
 detour you thats just me being picky 
  this really is a great game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Praline1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Great game for blowing things up and making big armies The graphics are beautiful. I just wish 
 there was a little more complexity in the buildings and units. The campaign is also on the short 
 side, I finished it in about 20 hours. That's for one side, though. The replayability should be 
 decent, but like I said eariler, the lack of many different units and upgrades is kind of disappointing. 
 It is very, very fun, and should be a keeper. If you like Tolkien, pick it up. Maybe in BfME 2, 
 there will be some more options, like naval units. There are good options for the units, like Porcupine, 
 that reduces the units armor by 25% but increases it effectiveness against cavalry by 50%. You 
 can combine different type units into a single group, making for interesting strategy choices. 
 Combining swordsmen and archers is one of my favorites. The archers attack a building or troops, 
 while the swordsmen defend them. The elephants are very powerful and you can put lancers on them 
 to attack nearby enemies. I've only played as Evil, but I assume Good has similar abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings battle for middle earth is the first RTS games made by EA in the lord of the 
 rings franchise. The game focuses on the army aspect of the books mostly and not much of the fellowship 
 except a few missions. The world map is just spectacular! You can see that obvious work was put 
 into it! The tutorial doesn't go into depth about contorls but the game was already made for hardcore 
 RTS fans. The game is really fun but not really hard. The veteran units you can carry on to the 
 next mission make it too easy sine the last mission of the campaign will be challenged by your 
 uber-strong army. Take nazguls for example, they hardley touched me. Also the evenstar and one 
 ring powers make it even easier. My balrog killed almost every enemy on the map! But the game is 
 still ok. Worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of strategy games, and when i herd of this one I couldn't wait! When I finally 
 got this game I was very pleased! First of all the graphics in this game are incredible! And the 
 movie shots look great too! The voice overs are nice and well done. The voices and screams during 
 battle are also really good! Also this game is fun and simple to pick up. It is not nearly as hard 
 as Rome Total War. Any Lord of the Rings fan will absolutely love this game, anyone else may find 
 it a little to simple for them to enjoy. This game is highly addictive and you will end up playing 
 this game for hours! The online was ok, just needed more people! You will probably play the single 
 player mode more than anything else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rohhirum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is a good solid game. u can have walls of gondorian Tower Gaurds march into battle with 
 arrows oractically bouncing off. You can break down the gates of Gondor with armored trolls. You 
 can have Rohan Calvalry traple Isengards legions. Or u can crush rohan with Berserkers. The choice 
 is yours.
  
  The best parts of the game are the Graphics and just plain LOTR based game. And of course the sound 
 is good. And it is the first gam t allow you to deploy troops on your walls if your Rohan or Gondor. 
 You can als have 5 units per troop in one recruitment if your good and 10 if your evil. You can 
 also have huge scale battles. Also the formations are one of the most important thing sin the game 
 they give you more armor or more attack or more speed master thm and u will be able to put up a 
 good fight.
  
  The bad parts are that the Rangers of Gondor can go hide in trees but once they see enemies they 
 fire sooo u cant wait till the enemy foces are in between your Rangers to crush them instead they 
 die fast. and u can switch them to use swords they use them only if they enemy is close and thes 
 till arent good with the swords. Another bad thing is if u attack the enemy from behind you dont 
 ge a bonus and they won't lose morale and run. another bad thing is retreating is almost gets ur 
 whole army killed your almost better off fighting them instead. The last bad thing is Rohan and 
 Gondor Calvalry online is almost unbeatable. They can kill your buildings in second if they have 
 upgrades swords.
  
  I didnt mention all the good things and i mention all the bad things in the game. Overall i like 
 this game i play online its fun. if u like RTS and especially LOTR you need this game or just wait 
 till March for BFME 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The first Lord of the Rings real-time strategy game that is really good beacuse there are also 
 some other Lord of the Rings real-time strategy game like War of the Ring and its not even close 
 to the sucess of the Battle for the Middle-earth. With some very cool epic battles like the battle 
 in Helms Deep or Minas Tirith the game is toped on one of the best real-time strategy games. All 
 of the heroes of Middle-earh are also in the game, like in the campaign also like in the skirmish.
 
  
  The way you paly the campign is that there is a map of Middle-earth and you click on the Felowship 
 or later on a Rohan or Gondor army mixed with the heroes of Middle-earth and then click on a province 
 to then pop out in that province in a real-time strategy way. The army you have in one battle is 
 going to be the same in the second so be carefull not to lose too much from it. The heroes of the 
 "Lord of the Rings"moves are in the game so that is a cool thing. You got you favourite action heroes 
 in you hands. Also some big and epice battles-the battle for Helms Deep-Rohan aggainst Isengar then 
 the Battle in Minas Tirith-Gondor aggains Mordor and the last the Black Gate, Mordor aggainst all 
 the free people of Middle-earth. It is sure a hude experience to play the battlefield you seen in 
 the moves and you can play them like in the moves, in that style. The game is a little bisare beacuse 
 of one thing, Boromir wasnt kill bye the Uruk`s and he is alive, a liitle strange but all-in-all 
 the campaign is vorth of a applause.
  
  Diffrent units and heroes gain experience and they rank up all to rank 10. The units have then more 
 healt and the deliver more damage. Also the heroes, just that heroes when they gain ranks, diffrent 
 abilitys are available like Gandalf`s Istari light that in one shot kills a Nazgul or Aragorn`s 
 Blade master ability with it he becomes faster and he delivers more damge to the enemy for a short 
 period of time. So the idea that the army is the same in the bext battle is great, with it your army 
 can become very hard to defeat so in one battle try to rank them up how much you can and also upgrade 
 them and don`t think that you don`t need that beacuse this battle is going to be over soon. There 
 are much greater battles to come.
  
  The map is one cool thing, with 3D view of a living, breathing Middle-earth, divided into more than 
 30 provinces, each of which has special properties that you earn when you control it. One province 
 may give you bonus resources, another will give you power points that you can use to invest in 
 powerful abilities, and yet another will give you extra command points, allowing you to lead more 
 troops in battle. Also its details, if you scroll up a little you will see a Nazgul flying overcast 
 skies, the sonorous tones of Ian McKellen or Christopher Lee (both reprising their roles from the 
 movies) will guide you.
  
  The battles its self take place in a real-time portion of the game and finishing the maps in compleating 
 mission objectieves. Once one province is taken or defendet you will switch back to the campaign 
 map. There doesn't appear to be any hurry to get anywhere, either, as the final battle for both 
 sides can wait until you're ready to proceed. That means you can spend time mopping up isolated 
 provinces and building up your forces.
  
  A nice thing is that you can rename you regular units to you personal names like Light Brigade, what 
 ever you want so you will know which is you best unit without looking at the level of the it. Not 
 just you will gave personal names to the best units but also the weakest.
  
  The skirmish mode is one of the reasons i bought this game. Its great, it runs great for me just 
 that its not quite the epic experience and for my opinion the maps are too small. You can play as 
 Gondor, Rohan, Isengar or Mordor. The four factions are not so good balanced, i think Gondor and Mordor 
 have a little more power than Rohan and Isengard, what is also the same in the Lord of the Rings 
 movies. But if you are a strog, good player you can be the best even with Rohan or Isengard. There 
 are tons of diffrent battlefields you can play, the maps are from 2 to 8 players. The difficulty 
 is not so hard, if you play on hard there will be some practice you will need, so first play on medium 
 and easy-from easy to hard. In Battle for the Middle-earth skirmish you can not place buildings 
 like stable, farms where ever you want and how much you want, but the EA made a new thing, you got 
 9 or less depending on the camp of signs, like by Gondor a tree, by Isengard the white hand and so 
 on. And on that signs you can place what ever you want to, just with a click on you can build. So 
 there is some differents between other real-time strategy games and this. As you win you also get 
 points and with 5 wins you level up, you got 10 levels by every faction. So you have to play all 
 factions not just one to be level 10 on all factions.
  
  By my opinion Gondor and Mordor are powerfull that Rohan and Isengard in skirmish, its wierd but 
 Rohan can not defeat Gondor without the mighty Ents beacuse Rohan doesnt got any catapults or balistas 
 and you know that Gondor is know for a "steel"hard defence. So without building Ents in the Entmoot 
 or getting them from the Evenstars abbilities Rohan has allready fallen, but its ok beacuse Rohan 
 and Gondor are not to be ment to battle, they are all on the good side but thats the skirmish. Mordor 
 has lots of monster like the mighty Nazguls, the trolls and the big, strong and slow Mumakils, but 
 this creaters are easly defeated if you got a strong fire-arrow equiped army of archers, and Mordor 
 also got orc that are totaly free, no resources payed, nothing just simply free, now imagine-you just 
 send lots of lots of wawes of attacks with the orch and the enemy is busy all the time, you dont 
 really care if they die, they are just cannonfodders so you just keep the enemy busy with killing 
 them and in the back you are making you a mighty army and also you gain points quick on the powers 
 of the ring and you send Balrog to work soon. On the other side Rohan and Isengard are more than 
 not poor, but many like these two factions, they are good if you are a good player but if you have 
 no experience then you will burn.
  
  The powers of the Evens star by the good site and the power of the ring by the evil site are very 
 usefull, you can spawn Rohan knight or the Elven arhers for a short time, spawn the army of dead 
 or the Balrog by the evil side. Many different abilitys that you ave to use to win. You gain points 
 on the Even star by battling enemys. So thats why you can call Balrog quicker by Mordor then by 
 Isengard aggain beacuse the free orcs strategy..
  
  Then is also the online play that is like the skirmish but you play with other persons, what can 
 be very fun. Watch out beacuse the level of hardnes will be much higher, so the old fact say "practice 
 makes perfect". So go on and buy the game beacuse with a not original you cant play online.
  
  All-in-all Battle for the Middle-earth is a great game, its hase some troubles but they can 
 be fixed in the nex game Battle for the Middle-earth 2 that is comming out in ferbruary 2006. I 
 cant wait for the next game.
  
  Gamplay-yes, very good, what i really like is the voice of Ian McKellen of Christhoper Lee that ar 
 guiding you.
  
  Graphichs-god, god and what can you expect from a strateg game, the graphichs could be better, if 
 you schroll nearer to an unit or hero you will se that its not so good. But all-in-one is very good 
 for a strategy game.
  
  Sound-The sound is really good, you hear the units battle and the background music, i think s almost 
 perfect.
  
  Value-this game offers quite a lot, it could be more.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthespartan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  listen, i loved the LOTR series, and this one could be the best so far, it is great that they have 
 an awesome LOTR strategy game!
  
  and i can't wait for Battle for Middle Earth 2, it's going to be awesome, it's going to be better 
 then this one! and this one was still awesome!
  
  though not as good as Warcraft 3, it still has fun gameplay, and is for sure worth your while, 
 and worth playing.
  
  so if you have a computer, but you don't have this game, go to the store, and buy it right now!
 
  
  and if you are a LOTR fan, this will probably be your dream come true, next to Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamesnake20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. I liked the story with both good and evil sides. Also the skirmishes 
 were fun with many levels and you could choose between good and evil sides or races. I liked how 
 the game was fast paced but it needed a scenario editor. But I guess that is what the next game 
 will have. If you have the money for it now or want it for Christmas get it. Only wait for LOTR 
 Battle For Middle Earth 2 if you are not so sure if you will like it. This game had a pretty good 
 value and great gameplay. THe only thing they need to work on is the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings: Battle for middle earth. I always knew that if someone created a Lord of the rings 
 strategy game, the game would be very good, and it is. Fron the universe that Tolkien (author of the 
 Lord of the rings books) created, you can make several products of the series, like games for example. Now 
 let's talk about the game itself. The game has a high quality graphics, that are more then good to 
 retract the creatures fron Tolkien's world. And the sound, well, good enough for you to hear the Lord 
 of the rings musics. But, ther-
  e is no such thing as perfect game, all the games have negative points, including this one. The biggest 
 negative point about this game, is that, you can't build your base any were you want, you are limited 
 to build it in certain limited area. Another bad thing about this game is that, it doesn't have much 
 units for you to build. Enough being negtative, now I will tell one of games positive points, instead 
 of you building one soldier you build 5 at the time, instead of 1. Well but this game is really great, 
 I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienSkeet
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  Very Good Game. Sound for this game is awsome. Im a huge Lord of the Rings fan so i had to get 
 this game. If Your a fan this is a must have! Favorite level would have to be moria the first level 
 were you fight the balrog with gandalf. Gandalf is the best! I use him all the time! The hobbits 
 i thought could've used better everything in this game i thought. I thought having them was a nusence. 
 I cant wait till lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2 comes out that will be another muss 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davstar14
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I have spent many hours enjoying this game. I have battled through both campaigns, slaughtered 
 tens of thousands of ors and men alike yet by the time i had finished playing it i realised, in 
 principal i had played the same mission over and over again for the past 30-40 hours.
  
  Being a LOTR fan with a brand new computer and a thirst for RTS games i was naturally drawn to 
 this. I picked it up for 15 and couldnt wait till i got home and played it. I installed it on 
 my computer with more than twice the recommended specs and it didnt work. Annoyed i took it back 
 and got another. When this didnt work i figured the problem was with my computer. So i tried to 
 sort the problem and after a few hours it still wouldnt work. Bugs in the game made it be rejected 
 by my PC. After a few minutes of gameplay it would close down.
  
  So off to a bad start.
  
  Eventually i got it working on another computer. I began with the evil campaign, i learned 
 the basics and was away. In no time id already crushed the walls of helms deep. By this time everything 
 was fairly new and i did not notice the repetitiveness. By the time i came to minas tirith i was 
 tired of it. Maps varying slightly played host to a similar game. You both built up forces. he 
 attacked, you slaughtered and then you attacked and you destroyed. The best missions were when 
 you already had forces to attack with and it was just a battle in an interesting location, e. g 
 shelobs air. No destruction of buildings just battling.
  
  I then started on the Good campaign thinking it would be different. I was wrong. Endless missions 
 trying to rank your heroes up until they were level 10 and trying to gain those power points. the 
 best mission was by far the black gate. But when i had finished that and my hopes were up the credits 
 rolled. 
  
  my computer meeted the min specs with relative ease but i could still only play on the lowest settings. 
 Still ok graphics but not brilliant. to experience the best you would need a 2000 PC. Money i 
 havent got.
  
  Sound was not brilliant. The idea of emotions quickly got tiring when all you could hear were cheers 
 and annoying heroes repeating themselves mindlessly.
  
  i may seem over critical but its not a bad game really.
  
  all in all a good well designed 
 game. highly enjoyable but for a limited amount of time before repetitiveness came in. 40 missions 
 of the same gameplay are incredibly tiring. Yet i still enjoyed it and look foward to BFME2. It 
 well worth it for 15.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsoJani
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  One of the best strategy games there are, but it seems that only so few has really played it. I 
 might be wrong about that, but this I must say... the Battle for Middle-earth (also know as "bfme") 
 has exceed all my expectations and every friends of mines! 
  
  The game balancing has been made unbelievable well and playing is smooth, fun and gives you dominating 
 feeling. Meaning that you can control huge Trolls and The Great Wizards that blows your enemies 
 to bits. 
  
  I'm quite sure that the sequel will get all the attention it earns and much more! *fact* Almost 
 every one knows that license games are usually really bad, but this REALLY is exception *fact* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruckinnumber2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth does not offer much substance that is not already out in other RTS games. 
 The game is fun to play through, and the strategic map to choose battles is great fun to play with. 
 I myself finished the good and evil campaigns and had fun. However, there was no motivation or 
 drive for me to play it again. 
  
  The game plays like most of today's strategy games: ranged, melee, and siege units duke it out 
 with some heroes supporting them. One thing EA did right was give the game the "epic battle" feel 
 the movies had with tons of units onscreen fighting. However, your heroes are lost in this mesh 
 of fighting and die far too easily for this to be okay. 
  
  No real innovation here, pick up and rent if you're a fan of the books or the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSaczva
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  it's made to be simple so some will find it easy to learn the game in 5 minutes some may take more 
 to try out every option, either way anyone can learn how to play.
  
  skirmishes are good but lack large amounts of units and often the more computor players you add, 
 the less soldiers you can own, ( this all involves command points showing how many units you have 
 and are allowed)
  
  the single player campaign was fun but slightly long and repetetive later on, but the hero fellowship 
 missions can be very fun and fighting as evil can be cool too. the main movies maps are excellent 
 to play especially helms deep where you can defend your walls against waves of uruk hai and it 
 can be very challenging and fun.
  
  the multiplayer rocks, theres no other word for it, the player made maps are mostly very good made 
 by skilled map creators such as
  
  i_show_no_mercy
  nordicsoldier AKA sharbutsan (or somthing like that)
  
  there are many must play maps when 
 entering the bfme1 multiplayer world and many remade versions of maps from the main game such as 
 helms deep, minas tirith and many unique fun hero fight maps.
  
  i strongly suggest you play::
  ringwars
  the movie
  gladiator
  WoG|herochampionships
 
  moria maps
  helms deep maps
  minas tirith maps mostly the v5 one
  
  prepare to meet very talented players out there who you can either beat or be beaten by lol.
 
  
  i used to play bfme1 multiplayer but soon the new bfme2 is coming out which i strongly sugegst 
 anyone to try and i will be whooping people at multiplayer alot on bfme2.. see you there. =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  I was very excited to get Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth, as this was the game 
 I had dreamed about for years. Being a fan of both the Lord of the Rings books and movies, as well 
 as being an avid strategy gamer set my standard high. Fortunately, Battle for Middle-Earth met 
 and exceeded my expectations.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth makes excellent use of its license. The creatures and locations of Middle 
 Earth are brought to life with beautiful graphics and unit emotions. Unit emotions are something 
 rarely seen in RTS (Real Time Strategy) games, but Battle for Middle-Earth does them excellently. 
 Your soldiers will cheer after winning a fight and cower when facing a huge monster. This is very 
 cool and really helps to bring the world to life. The heroes of Middle Earth are constantly present, 
 leading your troops and shouting lines from the movies. As you progress in the game, powerful monsters 
 like Balrogs and the Army of the Dead enter the fray. The sound is the best part of the game; I 
 am constantly turning the volume up, just so I can get the full effect. Battle for Middle-Earth 
 truly deserves the Best Sound of the Year award it received from IGN. com.
  
  Screenshot
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth has multiple game modes including: campaign, skirmish, and online multiplayer. 
 One interesting feature of the campaigns is that you can play as good or evil. Yes, you can play 
 Sauron and command orc legions to pillage Middle Earth. This may be offensive to some, but the 
 game does not force you to play evil and on the flip side playing the good campaign is exactly 
 the opposite morality wise. The most offensive thing I encountered was that on one map, playing 
 as evil, one of the bonus objectives was to hunt down and kill all the refugees. Yet being consistent 
 with the good-vs.-evil world of Middle Earth, on one of the maps playing as a good faction, one 
 of the bonus objectives was to rescue all the refugees. All in all, the game provides a very clear 
 view of good and evil and their respective results.
  
  The campaign is a mixture of plot battles and freeform play. You can pick a territory of Middle-Earth 
 to conquer or defend, and then fight a battle in that location.. No matter which side you play, 
 you will have to play several scripted battles from the Lord of the Rings storyline. But the game 
 doesn't explain the plot so it helps a lot to know the story.
  
  Skirmish games are only one map and can be played using any of the four factions in the game: Gondor, 
 Rohan, Isengard, or Mordor. All four factions play very differently, and none have an advantage. 
 User created maps can be used in skirmish or multi-player games. One skirmish takes about 30 min. 
 to an hour. A campaign may take well over 20 hours.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth is very beginner friendly. It eliminates many complex features that confuse 
 beginner RTS players, without removing from the gameplay. Like most RTS games Battle for Middle-Earth 
 is based on battles. There is no blood, and it is very rare to have human vs. human combat. Yet 
 due to the violent nature of battles it might be better to keep young children away from this game. 
 Although, this is the least offensive RTS game I have ever played.
  
  Over all I find Battle for Middle-Earth to be an excellent game. It has huge potential for reply, 
 and a quick learning curve. It's a must for any Lord of the Rings fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muldy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  When looking at Battle For Middle Earth we all remember the jive of the game being a large RTS... with 
 thousands of units fighting at a time.... if only it were to be.
  
  Ok, well Battle For Middle Earth is still a wicked game, the people at EA worked hard to achieve 
 the standard of each particular team with their special powers, units, heros and general landscape. 
 The graphics were excellent (if you had a decent computer.) And the sounds reminded you heavily 
 of the movies that gave us such an impact.... but were did it all go wrong?
  
  Firstly, the campaign mode was unique, the real-life map was unique and it was cool looking over 
 the maps for particular events to happen. (Helms Deep, Osgiliah etc.) However what really annoyed 
 the heck out of me, was the command limit. WERE DO I GET STARTED!!! Who the heck wants to have 
 a battle of Helms Deep, or Minas TIrith with a maximum of 200 men! Not me for sure, or was it the 
 ability of Helms Deep to reach a new level of lowness when I discovered that the orcs came in waves 
 of men. The same happened in Minas Tirith. As soon as these reckless modes happened off went the 
 campaign and onto the skirmishes I went.
  
  The skirmish reminds you a LOT of C+C Generals with the same engines and similar physics when getting 
 slaughtered. Take my advice wait for the new BFME and lets just pray to god that it is not a let 
 down like before
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun and addictive, i believe it is the best lord of the rings game ever 
 made. The graphics are solid and the frame rate is stable, great story line, and plenty of stuff 
 to do. The gameplay is great, and is unique from other type of strategy games i've playd. Instead 
 of making one unit, you get a "horde" of units, which is 5 people in a group. Also, you can get 
 ur fallen comrades back in the horde if you have a banner carrier, who revives them from the dead 
 basically. The story line isn't really accurate and based on the Lord of the Rings, since gandalf 
 doesn't die, boromir doens't die, and the orc that supposedly kills boromir doesn't die either. 
 Either way, this game is just plain fun and you should get the game, or wait till battle for middle 
 earth 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  A lord of the rings real-time strategy? wow... but this one was A LOT better than the war of the 
 ring. The campaigns, both good and evil, are long and difficult and most of all NON LINEAR!!! You 
 choose where to attack next based on the territories positioning, resources, population etc. THere 
 is a HUGE varity in troops and buildings and each team is TOTALLY different. The battles are long 
 and hard and really test your skill at times. Really, i leave the computer and let resources build 
 up so i can actually do something and level my resource buildings up. The heroes get annoying sometimes, 
 but they are all cool and unique. this game is truly a buyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Was a pretty good game for the price! If you loved the movies you'll love this game. A strategy 
 game that plays along with the line of the movie. The graphics are also pretty good for a game 
 like this. It also lets you decide if you would like to save middle earth as the good or even help 
 retrieve the ring and play as the evil. There is a long campain but will get boring after long 
 periods of play. but there is also a deathmatch mode where you pick one of the four teams and play 
 each other on anymap from the game. The cinematics in the game were also arranged perfectly and 
 it adds excitement to the game. Who will you chose? the good men of gondor and Rohan or the evil 
 urukai???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstngmusic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game inspired me into Middle Earth. Been a Lord of the Rings fan for a while, and this game 
 allows you to leave this world and enter into the greatest world of all, Middle Earth. My favorate 
 team to play is Gondor, but I wish thay would have more types of teams to play with. Looking very 
 foward to BFME2 so this great world expands even more. I have had this game since it has come out, 
 and I would still say it is the best game I own. Thanks to you people who create all these mods, 
 keeps the game alive. Thank you Ea Games for a job well done. Keep it up!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolgrin45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  I couldnt wait for this game to be released. I was on the website all the time waiting for another 
 video or piece of information and when it finally was released i was over the moon.
  This is the sort of game that you can play for hours and wonder after about 2 or 3 hours where 
 the time has gone. This game is highly addictive and follows the storyline of the film very well. 
 I also like the fact that al the voices are in the game including the faces of the characters. 
 This brings a familiarity to the game which i like. 
  The Single player missions are incredible, with a amazing attention to detail when it comes to 
 the bigger missions like Helms Deep, or Minas Tirith.
  The thing i like most about this game though is the multiplayer aspect.
  Whether you play the 
 computer with 3 different A. I difficulty levels or choose to play against friends it will be a 
 different experience each time.
  This is an amazing game and i cant wait for the next installment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael3423
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  This game is none stop fun. The only major fault with the game is that you could only build in 
 pre-planned places. That was a big disappointment. Giving you castle with a working gate totally 
 makes up for it though. It's a blast just trying to stop the enemy from storming into your caslte. 
 Another thing should have been worked on was more options in skirmish mode. You should been able 
 to turn of the evenstar powers, but they never gave you the option to. The game has a strong campaign 
 mode that follows the movies quite well. The battles of helm's deep and Minas Tirnath are incredible. 
 I just like the movie. Your put your men on the walls a try and stop thousands ( and i literaly 
 mean thousands) of enemies from storming your castle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas13355
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  If you saw the movies and loved them you should check this game out. Even if you didn't like the 
 movies it's still a great RTS. The only drawbacks are the loading times for slower computers and 
 the whole "you can only build here and here" thing. The graphics are gorgeous. The controls and 
 the unit management are both tight and easy to get used to. The ability to play as Good or Evil 
 is also a nice touch. Using heros can save you in battles and is a handy little feature. All in 
 all this is a title that is definetly worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  The single player missions for bfme was not that great, there were alot of "seek out enemy base 
 and destroy it". But there were also many really great missions that you can recongnize from the 
 films. Helms deep, minas tirith, black gate, ithilien etc. The gameplay is fantastic, especiallty 
 if your a lotr fan. So even the "boring" mission was quite entertaining.
  You controll armies of men, orcs, uruks, elves and so on, and all over the heroes from middle earth. 
 Each race has special powers you can use. Heroes and units have their own rank, which gets higher 
 the more you play woth them, after certain levels they also unlock new abilities.
  The multiplayer even better. Here you can experiment with your own tactics to break your enemy 
 base.
  
  The game itself had a few bugs, the sound ingame was fantastic, beautiful music and effects throughout 
 the game. The game have potensial to be better, and I cant wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miller_Time3818
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting to see if gamespot was going to give this game a good review or not. After i saw 
 the 8.4 (which isnt bad, but not what they should of gaven it) i wasnt sure if i should get it. 
 But then i checked out the videos and pics, there was no doubt in my mind that i wasn't going to 
 get this.
  I think this game is truley the best LOTR game. I was waiting for this game for such a long time. 
 Actually controlling the thousands or orcs or Gondor soldiers, playing the real Helms Deep battle, 
 or the Black Gate. Well now this is your chance to play these awesome battles. 
  When i first got this game, i played to Good Campeign and started to fall in love. When I finally 
 beat that i played to Evil Campeign, which was awesome too. Thats what i think is soooo cool about 
 this game, is your choice of either Good (Rohan and Gondor) or Evil (Mordor and Isengard) ! Aslo 
 the online play is so fun. Testing how good your skills really are.
  I love this game and cant wait until BFME 2!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metatronBLITZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  One of the best games of all time. Everything is brilliant especially if you love tolkien. I cannot 
 put in words the masterpiece that this game is. However there is one small problem.... ELECTRONIC 
 ARTS CANNOT RUN A SERVER TO SAVE THEIR OWN BUSINESS.
  
  1) It takes ages to find a game even if theirs are loads of people on line that you know for a 
 fact are searching too.
  2) When you get a game their is nearly always a FW error.
  3) If you do manage to connect the chances are that the particiapants will disconnect part way 
 through it.
  4) Sometimes for no apparent reason your game will pack up mith a DEBUG error.
  5) Sometimes 
 you cant even log on at all. 
  6) It is nearly imossible to find a 2v2 quick match for the same reasons as point 1.
  7) Sometimes 
 it wont even record your win/loss.
  8) The ranking ladder is unbelieveably incredibly randomly screwed up.
  9) If you want to play 
 a custom game then you have to be so patient because the amazing lag between game rooms. 
  10) When a new patch comes out thousands of people have problems installing it.
  
  Aha you 
 say, "you just have a rubbish computer".
  WRONG
  I have and have played on two other very good PC's and also in chat forums nearly all of the above 
 problems are discussed frequently. It is 100% EA's fault. However I refuse to let EA's stupendous 
 incompitence to ruins the masterpiece's score.
  
  BTW if you haven't suffered form the above problems, good for you, but I couldn't care less. I 
 represent the majority.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of both the Lord of the Rings movies and books, I nearly wet myself when I found 
 out that a rts was being made based on the movie. I am happy to say that the does not dissapoint. 
 The gameplay is pretty good, with a few flaws here and there. The A. I. isn't always to smart, but 
 it can suprise you as well. The graphics are stunning, even when set to their lowest levels. I 
 wasnt able to test out the higher levels becasue my computer would probably freeze up or explode 
 if I tried. The sound and music can be described as nothing less than brilliant. Voice acting for 
 characters are done by the actors rom the movies. The wonderfull, powerfull score from the movie 
 is there as well, and adds great atmoshpere to the game. The only thing I didn't like about the 
 game is that it just wasn't able to fully grasp the epicness of the movie. Besides that, this game 
 is downright spectacular. Every LOTR fan owes it to themselves to buy this game, and RTS lovers 
 do to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicotaku
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  Sencilamente me encant.
  
  El nivel del juego es increible, las grficas, para su epoca, son muy buenas. Hace todo lo posibe 
 para seguir la linea del libro y de la pelicula.
  Me parece excelente la gran variedad de personajes y de mapas. 
  
  PROS:
  Respecto a la forma 
 de juego slo hay que decir lo siguiente: "Fcil de usar", no se exige mucho cerebro para usar 
 ekl mouse y seleccionar jugadores. Eso deja mas espacio para la estrategia.
  Como ya lo habia dicho las graficas son excelentes, tienen todo lo necesario para meterlo a uno 
 en el juego.
  El sonido es el mismo del soundtrack y ese soundtrack es increible.
  
  CONTRAS:
  Despues de pasar tantas horas frente al computador se puede tornar un poco aburridor 
 y repetitivo y facil, se pierde la estrategia.
  
  Bueno, esta es mi opinion, el juego es excelente pero hay que saberlo jugar para que no se aburra 
 uno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Muhahahaha I am the Dark lord and i shall show you my Review for this game And evil shall Rule 
 muhahahhaha!..... Anyway folks ignor that bit of text it was a bit of humour But lets just get to 
 the review When Battle 4 middle earth was relesed Back in 2004 Just very close to the Date of Generals 
 and Zero Hour Then! Bammy this game comes out with the Almost similar Game engine Supprise supprise. 
 and for that i give them credit of course an updated engine. Now your woundering why has this info 
 got to do with the game Well you will find out.
  
  Graphics: The detail is very sharp when you have all the graphic settings on high But if you have 
 a lower spec pc you cant really say the same since the True grand scale of Middle earth comes from 
 its Gorgous Graphics
  Like Ground detail and Buildings. If you have it on the lower the grounds al blury and Units just 
 looks like a Blob with legs and you just cant see what your doing on. apart from that Detial up 
 close is sweet you can see the detail of the Mens face. so in this field its done nice. The graphics 
 engine might seem a bit old to some Gamers but its been updated in someways and when i mean updated 
 i mean its jut like Genrals: Zero Hour witch is a totaly Other game But lets not bother with that. Trees 
 sway but even if you turn that option off they still seem to do it. The frame rate is smooth most 
 times But odd time if theres a lot of Things going of on the screen you might get a bit of lag.
 
  
  Sound: Well what do you Want Its got almost Every Sound from the film Even down to some of the 
 Heroes. Also you get Gandalf and Suraman playing as the narrators depending what side you are Gandalf 
 for Good and well i dont have to say what suraman is for. The music ties perfect with the game 
 most times. Units will react with fear and scream Help Trool run for your lifes or some other Crazy 
 thing like that witch Gives the game an added Realness to it. Trolls Mumakill Fell beast all sound 
 like from the movie Even when the Fell beast Screams witch its awsome. its like so cool But you 
 will find that out when you play it. Map sound effects are also good Like rivers and Birds they 
 all pretty much sound nice.
  
  Gamplay: Well it plays darn good i have to say you get hereos, Seige weapons, And a whole lot more 
 from the films Heroes have there own Powers Like one of Legolas's Powers is to Giver archer More 
 EXP. some hereos have that too but works in a different way like Theoden's only works for mounted 
 horse men. You reaaly dont get to build anyay and to be telling the truth thats the only thing 
 what lest this game down from its true High peak you only get to build within a Big fort. witch 
 where the heck did they get that idea from. and you dont get to build Has many units at a time 
 you get a thing called Command Points each side you are has A set amout Like Mordor has 400 and 
 Gondor has 200. So it balances game out Heros might cost a far bit But they can really trun the 
 Tide in any battle and once you level them up to level 10 ohh boy do they become fun. if hereos 
 Die you can Buy them backat the town center Witch i like the idea of.
  
  My Say if that i would buy the game if you Like RTS or if you a fan of Battle for middle earth 
 since its a fun game with plenty of Fun offline or online. witch i know i dint say in the review 
 but theres really nothing to say its online and the Game is good Its got a good story good units 
 What more do you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickwalker0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Hello, Firstly i think the 3D map on the campaign should be improved for Battle for Middle Earth 
 2 but thats just my opinion. The game-play on the good side of the campaign is fairly easy because 
 after minas tirith if you don't go straight to the black gate you can win all missions by using 
 just your heroes but the evil campaign is much harder for heroes ar'nt avaliable until Minas Tirith 
 so you justhave to rely on leveled up troops. This is great for a LOTR fan and better for a newcomer 
 to the wolrd of LOTR. If you think this is not for you then go for the next in the series (Battle 
 for Middle Earth 2!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fish-Machine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  BfME is based on Peter Jacksons movie trilogy and while some people may say that it changes the 
 story too much, this is necessary in order to give the player some freedom, otherwise we would 
 be playing an incredibly linear game in which we knew all that is going to happen.
  
  The gameplay is easy to pick up and really simple, which makes this game so much more attractive 
 to a greater audience, and not as tedious as many RTS can be. The interface is innovative and gives 
 great access to all that is necessary while staying out of the way of the action.
  
  The elements that really make this game stand out are graphics, sound and presentation. It looks 
 really clean, and the producers managed to capture that little magic of Middle Earth present in 
 every detail of the movies. The sound is just simply amazing, including the great scores from the 
 movies, most of the voice work from the original actors and great sound of its own. Its encouraging 
 to hear your troops cheer whenever they win a battle, or warn you when your enemy is nearby.
  
  The hero concept is also a positive aspect, since they (heroes) can really make a difference 
 in battle and look and feel just right, not being just another soldier. And the powers both from 
 the heroes or the spell book are all compelling and well related to the source.
  
  Even though the game is somewhat limiting when it comes to the creation of massive armies, this 
 is done to maintain gameplay quality and balance, since most of us dont posses supermachines. 
 BfME still manages to pull out the epic battles present on the movies and maintains that feeling 
 of being overwhelmed and outnumbered by your enemy.
  
  The online experience is another strong aspect of this game, since it delivers a fast paced game, 
 with lots of variety from maps to factions well, the factions are only 4 but they are and play 
 REALLY differently from one another, giving the opportunity for some nice strategies.
  
  BfME while probably not being an epic game for the hardcore RTS fan, it still offers a well done 
 strategy game, approachable by almost anyone, that is certain to give the player some thrills, 
 surprises and many hours of entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  Does this game have epic battles? Check. Does it have licensed music and voicework? Check. Does 
 it reflect the movie's look and tone? Check. Does it satisfy modern RTS innovations? Oooh, no.
 
  
  This game was built on the unwieldy C&C Generals engine and the pedigree shows. Now, there's nothing 
 really bad about "tank rush" type gameplay at all. (The C&C line has reveled in it for years.) 
 But, it just doesn't feel right for the battles we saw in Peter Jackson's fantastic vision of the 
 Tolkien world. We should get drama. We instead get grinding attrition.
  
  Of additional concern is the decision to not let players build structures wherever they wish. I 
 know it was done to discourage "turtling" with sprawling defensive encampments, but it feels needlessy 
 arbitrary to be told I may not build "here" - I may only build "here." Weird.
  
  At the end, is there a community built around this game? No. That's really where it fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slboss926
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of this book and movie series it was a no brainer to pick this up and play it, like 
 all other Tolkien related games I own. Im more of an sports / fps gamer but like a good strategy 
 game now and then and this is one of the best I think. The gameplay is pretty standard to strategy, 
 but I love the main characters and the powers you can get for them as the game progresses. I chose 
 to powerup Gandalf fully and wow, can he kick some ***. Graphics are great and the game has those 
 few levels that are very challenging to keep you from getting bored. Cant wait for the next one!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. "Immersive" is the best description for it. Definitely the best way to relive the 
 movie. Although, cinematics playing in the minimap just when you are at a crucial point in the 
 battle in the single player campaign is not something appealing. It is funny how heroes can appear 
 in later missions even though they may have died earlier but I suppose they're trying to keep it 
 as close to the movie storyline as possible. I liked the movies but I love this game. I bought 
 it wondering if it would be worth it but was more than just pleasantly surprised. I think EA games 
 did a great job of keeping the game tied to the movie experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesneak
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  this game had a great theme and graphics and the game play was good but it was so easy. ill have 
 to admit it was addicting but it just wasnt good enough the biggest things were that it SO needed 
 blood and the archers were retarded. also you can only have like a maximum of 50 to100 guys on 
 a battle field at once and the heroes were also cheezy cause they could kill like 50 guys in one 
 wack, (did i mention the heroes were retarded)
  but the muti player was quite good but it could have been better so if your looking for a good 
 lotr game, keep on waiting and go home and play halo or WOW or one of the elder scrolls............ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and very addicting. From they very begging I was in love with the game. I couldn't 
 stop playing it! The music sucks you in, and the gameplay is fantastic. You will love this game 
 if you like this style of game. 
  The music and the charcters are the best part of the game. The battles can become huge and very 
 fun. And hey, you got Ents, trolls, and ringraiths. What more could you ask for. The graphics could 
 be improved just a little bit, and hey, were are all of my dwarfs! The game had two sided you can 
 play on, good or bad. The battles such as Amon Hen, Helms Deep, Minas Tirath, and The Black Gate 
 are the best of the game. Helms Deep has to be the best though. You will love this game and everything 
 in it. The only downside is where are my dwarfs! But I believe Lord of the Rings Battle For Middle 
 Earth 2 will solve that question for me.
  Love it and so will you! Have fun, and save MIddle Earth or destroy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: BFME is about LOTR. As many might know, LOTR is about a Ring. There are many magic Rings 
 in Middle-Earth. But there was one made to rule the other Rings with great power. It had been made 
 by the dark lord Sauron in the land Mordor. He took controll of it, and built a huge army of orcs 
 to conquer Middle-Earth. But there were some who resisted, the Men and Elves marched together to 
 Mordor with their huge armies and fought for the free lands of Middle-Earth. Isildur, son of the 
 King of the Men, cut of the fingers where the One Ring was on, off Sauron. But the Ring can only 
 be destroyed in Mount Doom, where it has been made, but the Ring took controll of him and was kept 
 alive, and so was the spirit of Sauron. 3000 years later, it came to a young Hobbit that must destroy 
 it once and for all.
  
  The gameplay is great, you'll have tons of fun in it's multiplayer mode and cool single player 
 mode where you can take on the good side or the bad side, to defend Middle-Earth or to conquer 
 it.
  
  The graphics are the best on the moment for RTS games, but still not perfect, it has some little 
 glitches, but next to that it's superb.
  
  The sound is overwehlming, it's great to hear your army full of orcs and other scum scream for 
 a fight. And the soundtrack of LOTR can't be missed, same goes for the surrounding sounds of birds, 
 water, wind and trees.
  
  The game is just superb, it's for a LOTR the perfect experience of course, but it's the same for 
 the RTS gamers who just love to play any good RTS game.
  
  Tilt, BFME is the best RTS game on the moment to me, it has everything what it needs, great sound, 
 great gameplay, great graphics and value. It's a real superb game in overall, not perfect, but 
 there are no games that are perfect though.
  
  Good points
  
  +Lord of the Rings armies finally able to control within a video game.
  +Superb graphics.
  
 +Sound just can't get any better with this high quality and the soundtrack of the movies.
  +Easy gameplay.
  +Original soldiers to command.
  +Upgrades not that expensive.
  +Easy to 
 make money.
  
  Bad points
  
  -Computer AI never gets very variating.
  -Computer bonusses are overreacting.
  -No Elves and Dwarfs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corkster77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  this would be a great real time strat even if it was not based on the lord of the rings movies. 
 it is so fun to build things with no peasents and put archers on walls. this game is trully like 
 no other rts. it has all sorts of cool details and gameplay, like the calvary can just trample 
 everything and how trolls can swing trees and send everyone it hits 50 feet away. the best part 
 is the emotions of the units. like when there scared they will just run and hide and yell "AHHH" 
 well its a great game
  
  i would recomend this game to any lord of the rings fan and to all rts fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to admit something folks... the game is one that I have borrowed from my friend.. however 
 this is the second time .....
  
  Why? Well being a stingy game player and hating the fact that I have to pay 30 quid for a game 
 I have waited and waited... till a buddy bought it. Sorry but true.
  
  I have played this game as the good side first which is cool, very nicely done and all the good 
 boys are there. It's awesome kicking ass with the likes of legolas and gandalf etc etc, however 
 with this game you have the option of being bad too. This is a nice touch as most game players 
 like to go against the grain and in some cases like it too much... (Hands up for those that agree) 
 come on now don't be shy.
  
  Unfortunately you bad boys will probably be a little disappointed, as hero characters are a little 
 sparse as bad goes, no ugluk, no black riders (guest appearances only it seems) , No mouth of sauron 
 all movie stars but none of the additionals.
  
  This said still very good and well worth 15 quid or so now... I will most likely buy my own legal 
 copy for the archives of playable games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the single best RTS games I've played and it just absolutley rocks. The gameplay 
 is excellent giving you a real sense of some portion of the scale of the battles seen in the movies 
 and the power of some of the heroes you can use. The few things I do have to complain about though 
 is that the AI doesn't exactly seem very well thought out where you'll have two battalions of archers 
 firing at advancing enemies and those enemies will completely ignore you to take out you're trebuchets. 
 I also have a complaint about how restricted it is, you have to stay within the southern boundaries 
 of Middle-Earth and can't fight in the north in places like Rivendell and Angmar. You also can't 
 fight as any other armies besides the Lothlorien Elves, Rohirrim, and Gondor. This game still is 
 great though and is still way better than War of the Ring which just plain sucks because you have 
 to use rediculously small armies and all the portraits of the characters and units look like the 
 were drawn by a cartoonist instead of some professional Tolkien drawing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02dthompson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game is seriously brilliant, at first it sounds very annoying and restricting when you say 
 that you can only build on limited amounts of build plots and you cannot place these plots and 
 that you cant build walls and other stuff. But when you play it you instantly know that its a 
 brilliant instant classic and is definitely worth buying. The map maker is pretty hard to use and 
 I never got the hang of it but you can get them off other players on multiplayer which is the best 
 part of the game, it seriously is the best part. The campaign is quite a linear one but does give 
 some options of where to use your armies but these are very small decisions that dont make a very 
 big impact on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, first of all i like the LOTR universe anyway but now folks, you can control the heroes and 
 armies of Middle Earth. Have fun.
  
  There is nothing quite like watching your Nazgul (the flying versions) along with your armoured 
 trolls smash into a rank of Gondor Soldiers. The Nazgul swoop, screeching there war cries and the 
 enemy flee in terror as 6 full armoured trolls, weilding spiked mace', charge throwing enemy soldiers 
 into the air with each swing of there mace. 
  
  There is NOTHING quite like watching your trolls, cavalry, nazgul, watever throw enemy soldiers 
 into the air, or stamp on them in a glorious charge of the Rohirrim with Theoden and Aomer (he 
 is the horseydude right?) at the head, yelling victory cries.
  
  This game is a very good example of an RTS done well, with some new touches - like your buildings 
 leveling up (unlocking more powerful soldiers) or your soldiers cheering after a victory, or cheering 
 as a hero throws himself into the fray. 
  
  All the sides are balanced with weaknesses to be defended and strengths to be exploited and i think 
 that this is a must have for all LOTR fans and RTS fans a like.
  
  ---Runs better with 1gig of ram and decent graphics card for all the features --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggyterra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game has superb graphics and great sound if you have the proper hardware. I realised that 
 it requires a very fast CPU to run smoothely rather than a faster GPU or 1GB+ memory.
  So make sure you have at least an Athlon XP 2200+ or equivalent. 3000+ processor highly recommended.
 
  Campain is very nice following the story of the movies. Not really replayable though. Skirmish 
 is fun and very addictive, but becomes very repetitive due to limited enemy AI. They attack almost 
 the same way every time you play! But still a great experience that should not be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  some asspects of this game really let it down others just seem to make the game better and better 
 like when you defending minas tirth from an oncoming mordor army composed of mumakils harradrim 
 etc, and when the game on high graphics its completely amazing breathtaking whatever you would 
 call it. if your lookinmg for a rts which isnt far too stategic like rome total war then this could 
 the game for you and if your a lord of the rings fan you should probaly get it also if your looking 
 for replay value then you can go online and battle against or with your friends. but if your looking 
 for a futureistic rts then go for dawn of war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayHalo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This has been among a handful of recent games that managed to make an excellent game out of a movie 
 franchise. Many of which being Lord of the Rings action games but also include chronicles of Riddick 
 and the rest escape me. As Im sure many of you have already read reviews about the game and know 
 what the game is about I wont bore you with the set up of the game and go straight into the mechanics 
 that make this game so good. If you dont know any thing about the game read the Game Spot review 
 first as it will fill you in on the set up.
  
  ***** The Campaign Map, continuous Armies and Experience *****
  The features that make this game 
 such a step in the right direction for arcade real time strategy (RTS) games is that each battle 
 or skirmish effects the big picture of the campaign which many other RTS games simply fail to 
 do. Unlike other RTS games that pit you in a linear struggle against an increasingly more powerful 
 and clever opponent, Battle for Middle Earth puts the campaign world right in front of you on a 
 campaign map. Other than the few instances in which youre drawn into one of the historic battles 
 that takes place in the movies you can move armies around the map as you wish taking enemy territory. 
 While the game lacks the intense story of say a Blizzard game (War Craft III for instance) what 
 makes the game intense is it gives you the feeling that your one nation waging war against another. 
 And to motivate you to capture these extra territories instead of rushing to beat the campaign 
 as fast as possible is that every territory gives you bonuses to our armies. Some increase how 
 much resources your building make others allow you to build larger armies by giving you more command 
 points and others give you power points for your sides special abilities. Thus the more territories 
 you control the better you can do in each succeeding battle. This brings me to the best parts of 
 the game, your armies and experience. Not only do you get to move from territory to territory to 
 improve the supporting features of an army but your army will keep units from previous battles, 
 allowing you to start with a sizable force every mission. I havent seen this feature since the 
 Home World RTS series, but its one feature that I wish was more common in RTS games because it 
 adds a new element to the strategy. Battles are no longer about simply destroying the enemy but 
 becomes destroy the enemy and keep as much of the army intact as possible. Times when you will 
 fail a mission most (excluding having to keep a hero alive) are not the battles you do poorly in 
 but the battles in which most of your good troops were wiped out last battle and you start with 
 a smaller force and have to replace experienced troops with raw recruits. This is the other motivation 
 to keep your troops alive is that over time they will gain experience and become more powerful. 
 A level 1 infantry unit might get wiped out by a cavalry charge but a level 4 unit might only get 
 knocked over. Thus a level 10 unit might be the star of an army, and should probably get pulled 
 from combat when they take heavy casualties because if their wiped out replacing them is a difficult 
 task as a level 1 unit is no substitute for a level 10.
  
  *** Balanced & Unbalanced; the rock, paper, scissors combat system ***
  Each side in the game 
 has two nations, the forces of good have Rohan and Gondor while the side of evil has Mordor and 
 Isenguard. Ill say that the sides are more balanced than the armies of the nations on each side. 
 What makes playing as good or evil so interesting is the special abilities each side commands, 
 each special ability being unlocked from power points gained from conquest on the campaign map. 
 For the side of good who can only get their command points up to 300 (The side of evil can get 
 their command points up to 600) most of their special abilities consist of summoning reinforcements 
 to aid them in battle. Regardless of reinforcements the forces of good make up for lack of numbers 
 with general skill meaning that while their units are smaller their forces are simply better than 
 the forces of evil. Evil on the other hand who has no trouble with troop numbers most of their 
 special abilities revolve around industry and resource gathering, to replace the large amount of 
 troops probably killed by superior good forces and to get siege weapons that do not follow armies 
 from battle to battle. They also have many abilities that revolve around weakening enemy leadership 
 and boosting troop damage to aid their weaker troops in combat. 
  What the game does right with its armies is that there is a wide variety of troops for each army 
 (except for Rohan) which a lot of other RTS games lack. The game incorporates tactical elements 
 (or more realistic elements) making kind of a elaborate rock, paper, scissors combat system. Cavalry 
 will topple infantry and archers (archers especially) but are destroyed easily by spearmen. Spearmen 
 on the other hand dont last long against infantry or archers. So the circle is cavalry kill infantry 
 and archers, infantry and archers kill spearmen, spearmen kill cavalry. But the game added a twist 
 with beasts in that beasts (trolls, elephants) kill infantry, cavalry and spearman but fall very 
 fast to archer arrows especially fire arrows. Then archers are killed by cavalry and infantry. 
 Infantry and archers are some what interesting because they will kill each other based on range, 
 archers dont stand a chance against close infantry but against experienced archers every heavy 
 infantry will not get close enough to kill them. This combat system makes Battle for Middle Earth 
 very fast and interesting and puts you in a position were you have to have a little of everything 
 to have the best army which brings me too how the game is rather unbalanced.
  To illustrate my point of how I think some of the armies are unbalanced by again using rock, paper, 
 scissors. With how powerful some units inherently are against others, an army thats lacking a 
 whole unit type is at a large disadvantage. If two armies are fighting one only having rock and 
 paper and the other having rock and scissors its not that bad but if one army has all three and 
 the other only has two then the more varied army can simply exploit that and you will be stuck 
 without a counter to their attack. For example this is most noticeable with Mordor which has no 
 cavalry but has plenty of other units and the Mordor armies are set up to fight Gondor a lot (as 
 they should) . Gondor has infantry, archers and cavalry; Mordor has spears and beasts to deal with 
 cavalry. They have infantry, archers, spear throwers, and beasts to deal with infantry, then comes 
 the task of beating Gondors archers. If theres only a few its not that bad, but if they have 
 50 archers, Mordors lack of cavalry puts them at a huge disadvantage. Archers with fire arrows 
 can take down any beast and wipe out most units with only a few volleys of arrows but a group of 
 50 is unstoppable. Rohan and Gondor have similar but not as drastic problems. Gondor doesnt have 
 spearman but tower guard in guard mode where they lock shield together gives them enough extra 
 armor to survive cavalry charges and take the place of spearman. Rohan is worse off; they have 
 no spearman or something to replace spearman. Their only infantry are peasants which are a joke 
 against any other unit in the game and their elven archers can become infantry but either way their 
 weak to cavalry. So to defeat Rohan is a matter of amassing spears, archers and cavalry. Isenguard 
 is the only faction in the game that has every unit type; though at low levels their units are 
 weak the fact that their army has no gaps in it makes them the all around best army.
  
  ***** Conclusion ******
  In the end Battle for Middle Earth is a great game with plenty of features 
 that move the genre forward or at least should be used more often in the RTS genre. Its Campaign 
 map, continuous armies from mission to mission and unit experience bring a new element of the big 
 picture to the strategy of the game. While the game does have more units and variety than most 
 over RTS games of a fantasy medieval battle style the tactical element that makes units very powerful 
 against other unit types, or the rock, paper, scissors combat system creates unintentional unit 
 type gaps that can easily be exploited by opponents and puts some armies at an obvious disadvantage.
 
  
  ~ Nigel of Gray Halo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazzinbrowny
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  This game is very much like dawn of war and kingdoms. the bad thing is you have to bluid on spots. 
 Also the map making is very hard (if you want to make a map) . 
  i like the way you can level up armies and heros and get speicail powers for them. 
  The campains 
 are fun because you can do missions with heros and also you can do like skimish campains. 
  its quite an easy game hard difficulty is easy to beat and easy is quite hard to defeat for beginers.
 
  i doidnt know this was going to be an RTS till a freind told me i fought it was going to be like 
 the other lord of the rings games and be rubbish.
  in my eyes thisis a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  the batte for miidle earth is an effort to present a real-strategy game combining the features 
 of a avery successful movie like the lord of the rings. despite the all time classic games of this 
 kind such as civilization, age of empires and total war the game has still many positive aspects 
 that make it appealing to gamers. its great advantage lies on the fact that it has a great multiplayer 
 mode that becomes grater since a ladder is added and increases the competition among the gamers! we 
 can't overpass the great graphics that present a unique environment as being inside the movie. the 
 sound is really great since it combines many of the tracks used in the movie as well as the voices 
 of the actors. however the gameplay is rather simple since you have to choose only among four cultures, and 
 the variety of technologies to discover is rather limited. moreover the two campaigns are toooo 
 long and you may get bored. hope that battle for middle earth 2 shall be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  Im impatiently waiting on the new release LOTR II. I figure, if they continue down the path they 
 have started and stay away from the long drawn out cinematics it should rock! Too often it seems 
 that the developers these days are going for the looks and not the game play! We as strategy gamers 
 want the game and not all the looks! If I want Gandalf to throw a hissy fit at Saramon I want the 
 effects and the game to show it. I could care less about the special cut scenes. OK I know some 
 of them need to be there, however I want the units, units formations, game play and weaponry to 
 be the # 1 priority. 
  
  PS please stop the formations, I would much rather have every unit act independently. Especially 
 when Im sending someone out on a no return visit???? 
  
  AS for LOTR I it rocks and will be at the top of my A list for play again games for many moons 
 to come. Super Addicting if this is your cup-of-tea!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guardiankitty10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well first if you are any pc gamer you should meet the system requirments cause for a whil i was 
 and it sucks cause it will lag now most u can download of internet but you need to get some memory 
 cause thats wat makes it bad but enough bout that hows the game u ask well i think its awsome but 
 it depends on u well it is an rts for starters it is online it basicaly covers the big battles 
 in the movies and some others that werent the coolest part i think is the option to do wat ever 
 u want and u can make custom maps and play other peoples maps u can play helms deep battle of minas 
 tirith and u can play as ents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin let me say that I have not read the Lord of the Rings books nor have I seen the 
 extended editions of the films. I have read The Hobbit and Ive seen the original theatrical 
 versions of the film trilogy; so if youre expecting a review by someone who is very familiar with 
 Tolkiens works look elsewhere.
  
  Battle for Middle Earth is set during the Lord of the Rings film trilogy and lets you control Gondor, 
 Rohan and the Fellowship of the Ring in the Good Campaign and the forces of Mordor and Isengard 
 in the Evil Campaign. The campaigns Im sorry to say; are the games weak point. The developers 
 tried too hard to make the campaigns last and it shows; there are only four to six missions that 
 have anything to do with the plot. Most of the ten to twenty hours youll spend in the campaign 
 are doing filler missions which are basically the skirmish\multiplayer maps thrown into the campaign 
 to make the experience last longer. The biggest kick is every filler maps objective is the same: 
 destroy all of the enemys castles, camps and outposts, and sadly even the story missions follow 
 this basic formula to a certain extent. The campaign lets you choose where you wish to attack (Usually) 
 in a method similar to the older Command & Conquer games; a world map.
  
  Liberties were taken with the Lord of the Rings storyline for the sake of the game. One of the 
 most upsetting to long time Lord of the Rings fans is that Boromir lives in the Good Campaign. 
 Yes, even if you leave him to die at Amon Hen hell return in the next mission which is another 
 one of Battle for Middle-Earths campaign issues: no hero continuity. The campaign is not without 
 its good points, however; the battles that are taken from the movies; though not as large in scale; 
 are very well crafted and manage to recreate those particular battles extremely well while letting 
 you play it out with whatever strategies you wish. It is unfortunate that you cannot fight the 
 battles at Helms Deep or Minas Tirith with other players online, regardless; the game manages 
 to be fun.
  
  The skirmish and multiplayer modes are standard RTS fare. You can play as any of the factions from 
 the campaign and battle other players and computers in familiar Middle-Earth locales such as Mirkwood 
 and the Dead Marshes. The skirmish and multiplayer mode also lets you recruit select heroes from 
 the campaign which can aid you in your battles but at the same time unbalances the game. Mordors 
 Fellbeast riding Nazgul and the Witch King are practically unstoppable if you dont have have a 
 lot of battalions with fire arrow upgrades and Gondors Gandalf with the Gandalf the White power 
 purchased is the apocalypse. One nice feature is the emotion system; the emotion system has no 
 real effect on the gameplay itself, but it is quite satisfying to see soldiers cowering and screaming 
 as your Nazgul swoops down and throws them aside.
  
  The graphics in Battle for Middle Earth are beautiful and match what is seen in the film trilogy 
 extremely well. From the depths of Fanghorn forest to the base of Mt. Doom you can see that the 
 developers spent a lot of time on the terrain textures and the character models are also not too 
 shabby. All of the graphics in Battle for Middle-Earth are recreated faithfully from the film source 
 material.
  
  The sound in Battle for Middle-Earth is just as good as the graphics. The game uses a combination 
 of actors from the film portraying their respective roles and substitutes for actors they couldnt 
 get on board. The substitutes are a mixed bag, some of them manage to do the character justice 
 (Aragorn) while some are a bit too far off (Boromir and Faramir) . The standard unit voices are 
 well done and you can tell they werent just people EA dragged off the streets. Units react to 
 what is going on around them in the game world and their tones mix in with their emotions very 
 nicely. The music is exceptional; Battle for Middle-Earth uses a combination of Howard Shores 
 orchestrated soundtrack and its own score; while not as wonderful as Shores soundtrack; is still 
 some of the best music Ive heard in a real time strategy since Warcraft II.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth is a solid RTS that captures the feel of Middle-Earth as seen in the films. 
 The gameplay is fun, the graphics and soundtrack are beautiful and it uses a wonderful setting. 
 The game may be plagued by a weak campaign mode, but the hours you can get out of skirmish and 
 multiplayer make up for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alakoma
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:05 am PT
Review:  Well i went every year to the cinema to see every year a part on the trilogy of the lords of the 
 ring. well i even bought the extended edition of the movie on dvd. When i first played the game 
 the beginning movie of the game was like the beginning movie at the cinema so i said, OK, all the 
 games have a really good movie in the beginning but the game really sucks, well.... not in this 
 case.
  
  The game move like the movie, all the huge battle from the movie you will find them here, Helms 
 deep and the White city all are here. and the battle goes like in the movie, in helm deep the wall 
 will fall, but you will beat all the evil creatures.
  
  You can play a huge army, but on a limited mens, in the good campaign you will get about 300 men, 
 in game it's like to command a 8-10 units, not much, but this is why it's a strategy game, you 
 will need to know witch unit you will need and witch unit wont help you win the game.
  in the evil campaign , yes the evil campaign, you will have to kill frodo, and aragon and all the 
 other's, you can play about 600 mens it's like a 10-12 units in the game.
  
  The sound and the graphics well this is a EA game, so you have the sound from the movie, the graphics 
 is look like the real thing from the movie, you will see that frodo is frodo and sam is sam not 
 little creature that you cant know who they are.
  
  So all is good in this game ? well...... NO. the limitation on the unit's is not doing well to the 
 game but in other hand i let you to be more strategy about what to buy and what to build. the things 
 that i didn't like about the strategy is that if a unit is been attack but the range of the unit 
 is limited so the unit will not defend it's self, they will die. and if you played age of empire, 
 you know that if you select a different unit to attack the horse man will stay together with the 
 rest of the legs units and not run to battle alone, here in the lord of the ring they will run 
 alone and most of the time they will die and then archers will come alone and they will die too, 
 and then the sword men will come and then, well i think you got the idea.
  
  So this is a great game to play, i liked it to play all the campaign and you can play a skirmish 
 games too. but after a whale you will get the point how to play and then the love to the game will 
 decrees, but still this is a Great Game To Play, so Play it !!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game really folows the movie. If you have seen it you will prety much know what to expect 
 from the game. The campaign basicly follows the movie by through every turn. Some of the levels 
 are a new addition to the conquest though.
  
  The campaign is what really brought me down. A limit to the amount of builings you can put in your 
 castle will make you really choose what you are going to build. Therefore impacting what you have 
 in your army and how much you can build. There are three levels of the castle. The first you can 
 only build three, second you can only build about 5, and the last biggest is about 7 or 8 plus 
 the towers you can put on you walls.
  
  The major let down is how much you can have in your army. Its 200 troops, sounds about right eh? 
 One group of horesman costs 20 of your population points. Thats what really limits the game from 
 its full potential. There is a wide selection of units though. There are the infoumas Giant Elephants 
 and all the main characters of course. 
  
  The AI show no real challenge in the end once you have learned it all and in the myltiplayer there 
 is a technique that never fails. Use all the bonuses at the same time and you can take out a single 
 player no prob.
  
  The resources are the usual things you would expect in a game. Farms you build give you income 
 and you collect wood to help build your buildings. There are also little spots that you can capture 
 to build a farm or a lumber mill to improve your collection of wood. 
  
  All in all this a good game that will keep most people playing for a while working on the campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_LordSauron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was AWESOME. You must have it. It doesn't really shatter any huge barriers other than 
 it's the easiest RTS to learn in the world, bar none. They added a lot of cool new things like 
 unit emotions and more realistic physics (though not the game I would have made, obviously - more 
 sprites are needed...) .
  
  Overall: you will NOT be ripped off at all. HOWEVER: you need a killer PC to run it! A dainty Athlon1400 
 or even a 2.0 GHz Pentium 4 with 256mb RAM and a nVidia GeForce 4 128mb GC WON'T cut the cheese, 
 not by a long shot. It was programmed by trolls - no, it's really just that it uses the hilariously 
 outdated DirectX Direct3D libraries (OpenGL is many times better) and futhermore it was compiled 
 using Microsoft's compiler, which is nothing compared to the GCC as far as the finished product 
 goes. This game would have been darn good in Linux, but no, we need Microsoft garbage every step 
 of the way.
  
  Seriously, the graphics are supurb, as is the sound, but the engine was obviously taken right from 
 Command & Conquer Generals - which was a huge failure because it wasn't doing anything new EXCEPT 
 graphics in the RTS genere. Come BFME: they took CCG and added more features making the game officially 
 bloatware. However, if your box can run it, it's still a superb game, and is VERY deserving of 
 respect. You won't be ripped off, though you might need to turn the graphics settings WAY down. 
 Also, if you don't have a VERY fast CPU, and at LEAST 512 megs of RAM (and, not or) you can't play 
 the evil campaign 'cause you run into some wonderful memory leakage problems almost invariably 
 at the end of the first mission.
  
  Final count: good eye candy, bad programming, lots of new things. Have fast PC will play. Don't? 
 Don't buy until you do have a fast PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  There are way to many things to list for this game. It is awesome in every category. 
  
  I love this game, it is just an excellent RTS. It has something for everyone, it is there for hardcore 
 RTS lovers, and those who are new to the genre.
  
  One great thing about this game is the ability to choose the side of Mordor? Isengard (evil) and 
 the side of Gondor/Rohan (good) THis choice gives you two almost completely different game experiences. 
 
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch, they make you feel like you are fighting in those battles. 
 I love the is game there isn't much more to it then that. LOTR rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederickmolina
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  The game is sooo addictive specially when you love lord of the rings movie ... but the game would 
 be better if there is no limit to the creation of units... Swarming the field with orcs, goblins 
 and ogres... and destroying them with hordes of rohirrims and archers with the heroes like the 
 hobbits, legolas and other character resent in the movie... my favorite hero is gandalf because 
 of his enormous power to send a platoon of monsters to where thy came from... a really goo addition 
 to the human side... all the heroes power auto use would be good too especially when the need arises... 
 the sound effects are good and the graphics is cool... overall a great game to play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enuff27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  unbelievably tense, smart and catchy... for those interested in JRR Tolkien's world game is largely 
 satisfying.. even for those who only have seen lord of the rings trilogy the game is "real" embedded 
 into the movies itself.. limited building and resources is the only thing lacking but when it comes 
 to middle earth war numbers is not the case so.. no big deal...
  real time strategies have not been my favorite, i often prefer turn-based ones, like civ or even 
 more calm no-battle ones like simcity etc... but this game caught me... i am not a fast mouse-clicker 
 but i survived most of the scenarios in the end, with some raised heart beat rate of course... 
 definitely good game, a classic-to-be in my opinion.. hope other games in same format regarding 
 other studies of Tolkien will arise sometime... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Lor dof the Rings has always been a good movie, but now it is more than a movie, it is one of the 
 best rts games now. it will only be the second best at the moment untill the lord of the rings 
 the battle for middle earth 2 comes out, and when star wars empire at war comes out as well. this 
 game i would have to say was one of the best, but only when you mod the game. because whith the 
 stupid command points so low and the starting cash low as well, there reall isnt anything to do 
 eccept fix it our selves. my friend and i like to play starting with fifty thousand dollars, and 
 good gets about two thousand command points and evil gets about three and a half thousand command 
 points. i know for all the people out there that think that is alot, well let me tell you, thi9s 
 makes the battles a lot more realistic than the origional to the movie numbers. you havent lived 
 until you actuall have survived a ministerith against tens of thousands of orks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:52 am PT
Review:  in my view i didnt like this game it didnt have much to offer, it became very repetative and too 
 easy, the maps werent very realistic to the movie and the visuals and effects were the only pretty 
 decent thing in the game... i wouldnt reccomend to get this game for full price, if it is on a marked 
 down price like it was when i got it then maybe it is a alright buy, but i know that there is better 
 sort of games out there that are much more enjoyable.
  
  Maybe in the sequal that they are making they will be making improvements because this game needs 
 just that.. but i suppose for a LOTR game it is probably the best one out to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  I was first sceptical about purchasing this game, because to be honest i am more of warcraft strategy 
 fan than a rome total war one. 
  
  So i waited a few months (more like a year) and decided to buy it. 
  Man how surprised i was.. 
 the game is amazing in every sense! 
  The single player campaigns are awesome, but the fun comes in multiplayer playing with or against 
 a couple of friends. There's nothing more satisfying than putting an arrow in golem with legolas 
 :) 
  
  All in all a must buy for any strategy lover, but with BFME 2 coming out in February, the ones 
 that don't have the game should probably wait.. if not you wont be disappointed with the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  Well all you have to do is to install the game and crack it up to feel the magic of the LOTR. The 
 intro is great (gets you right in there) then you're thrown in middle earth (either Good or Evil) 
 and from there on you're on your way to either relive the LOTR experience or try to overrun middle 
 earth with your evil minions.
  
  I loved the game mainly because it stayed true to both the movies and the novels. If you're and 
 RTS fan and LOTR fan then this is a MUST. Believe me you're gonna enjoy it and yeah the good news 
 is it's gonna keep you busy till the 2nd installment hit the shelves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  What I like in this game is the similarity in movies. This time you can take control of the heroes 
 of middle earth in an epic scenery, so it is not just like any ordinary rts. A LOTR fan would really 
 love this game, but suggest you go for a higher computer system for optimal performance because 
 it has some problems in lower end systems and it will take you ages to load the game. A 512 MB 
 DDR upgrade is a must for this game. The gameplay is nice but I don't like the limitations when 
 it comes to building. The heroes are awesome with their abilities especially Gandalf. Well i think 
 there is a room for improving ambient sounds. Overall the game as a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This thought would usually hit you when you think of a game based on a movie, and even more so 
 when it was originally based on a book. However, EA has done a great job with the LOTR license 
 with previous successes like the Return of the King video game.
  
  Now for the review, categorised Gamespot style. So when you first play the game, you're greeted 
 with a wonderful cutscene of the battle of the Last Alliance all in the game's fantastic engine 
 (pre-rendered though) . Next, you're brought to the rotating shell map of Baradur which is already 
 a beauty.
  
  So, we come to single player - as the movie goes, you play out all three books. You can choose 
 to play as the forces of Good or Evil allowing you to change the events that take place in the 
 battle for middle-earth. The game's interface is very clean and simple to use so it won't be a 
 problem to new RTS gamers and hardcore RTS gamers. The Living World is something to behold as it 
 is alive and breathing (and not to forget mentioning, beautifully rendered) and events take place 
 in almost real time. Single player is rather disappointing with the rather repetitive Search & 
 Destroy style of gameplay. Nonetheless, you'll be looking forward to key moments and large battles 
 such as the battle at Helm's Deep and Minas Tirth. Landscapes and structures are comparable of 
 that to the movie giving that extra depth. Also, in singleplayer you can carry over your units 
 from previous battles.
  
  Multiplayer - which consists of skirmish and online, is your typical destroy-your-opponent style 
 of gameplay. Though the game lacks in a random map generator, it supplies you with numerous maps 
 that are reminiscent of the locations and landscapes from the movies. Building in this game is 
 very simple with the build plots - but it may also hinder your ability to position certain structures 
 to get maximum effectivity. Nonetheless, it provides quick construction that is expected on a game 
 which mainly focuses on the large battles. Resource collection is straight forward - you need not 
 collect resources. It might give players 2 opinions which are removing depth or easing the process 
 of resource collections. The game's veterancy system also is amazing as not only does it apply 
 to the army you control and heroes but also the buildings. Buildings gain veterancy the more you 
 use them and therefore allows the unlocking of certain units and also and increased efficiency 
 of building. I won't go about talking about everything except features that really struck me.
 
  
  Graphics are simply fantastic in this RTS. Models are beautiful and true to Peter Jackson's films 
 giving you familiarity with the movies. The landscape, trees, water and shadows give an extra sense 
 of realism to the game. Particle effects are wonderful too from the simple smoke billowing from 
 a furnace to the fiery effects of the Balrog. Probably the most spectacular particle effect would 
 be Gandalf's Word of Power which releases a shockwave of light energy that kills and throws back 
 enemy units.
  
  Sound is another factor in this game that has to given credit. As expected, soundtracks based on 
 the movie by Howard Shore is in the game which is a real plus. Ambient and sound effects are accurate 
 and realistic to the game's atmosphere. To sum it all up, with excellent voice casting by the original 
 actors of the LOTR films such as Ian McKellen and Elijah Wood.
  
  The Battle for Middle-earth is simply a game that matches the movies in terms of scale and sound 
 that is simple awe-inspiring. Fans of the films wil enjoy being able to control the units of middle-earth 
 and even hardcore RTS players will find it something different from modern warfare that is exciting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakelim
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:41 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of expectations for this game. I was a little disappointed with it for a few reasons, 
 though. First of all, it's based on the film and mostly only contains areas in or described in 
 the films. This may sound good if you liked the films, but ends up with a few fantastic maps (like 
 Helm's Deep) while the rest are just the same (grassy, in the main) . Secondly, the way that you 
 build bases is extremely limited. If you were expecting a free, Age of Empires-like way of building, 
 you'll be disappointed. You can only build on pre-determined sites and the buildings you can build 
 are fairly limited too (you may find you'll be flooded with farms if you have more than one site) . 
 Finally, in some of the battles you'll be in control of you'll have all troops fully upgraded. 
 While this is kind of cool, it does provide a weakness in that it undermines the "normal" units. 
 Overall, however, it is as good a game as they could of produced (if they'd sorted out the above 
 problems) . It's generally great to command Nazgul and trolls and Mumakil (you can play as Mordor 
 and Isengard too) and heroes such as Gandalf and Legolas. There is a sore lacking of elves and 
 dwarves in this game, although you can't ask for everything and they will appear in the second 
 game. Overall, if you're looking for a good strategy game, you can do better with games like Age 
 of Empires, Civilisation etc. If you're looking for a good Lord of the Rings strategy game, you 
 can do better with Battle for Middle-Earth II coming out in the winter. If you're looking (perchance) 
 for an opportunity to explore Middle-Earth in a game from the view of the films, this is probably 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Hey,
  
  Yeah as i said in the title this is quite a good Lord of the rings game and worth the money (dont 
 think its that expensive anyway)
  
  But yeh its quite good you can be all the army's such as gondor, rohan, mordor and isenguard (soz 
 if i spelt that wrong) There is also alot of maps you can play and you can play as lots of the 
 heros. gandalf, gimli, legolas, arragorn, saruman, lurtz you can also use the mumakil and trolls 
 which is fun :D
  It is also quite an addicting game and i found it hard to leave
  
  all in all a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeak_man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I like the game, I really do.
  The single player is superb, especially the MAIN assault/ defence boards such as "Helms deep" and 
 "Minis Tirith."
  That's single player... but multiplayer is a little different.
  
  I spent an hour and a half on a multiplayer game with 6 teams.
  It just kept going on and on. 
 First the evil team would summon a balrog, then the good team would summon their army of the dead 
 to take the balrog down. And It just keeps going on and on like that. 
  My game never ended because the game just stopped, so it might have gone on for alot longer.
 
  
  If you don't want to play multiplayer, I would strongly suggest getting this game.
  And if you like long, long multiplayer games, I would suggest it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the single player (campaign) game is incredible. 
  One can take the FOD (Forces of darkness) of FOL (Forces of light) . From there on, it allows player 
 to decide who and where to attack. If you want to level up certain characters, just keep using 
 that group of troops. Whats more, all the experience will be retained and the troops will become 
 much more powerful. Upgrading weapons on individual troops will make troops more effective too.
 
  
  This concept is really wonderful, although it will make the late stage games much easier if you 
 are playing FOL. Since FOL forces can heal, as long as you heal them continuously, you might not 
 even need to build troops. Experience troops are much much more effective than green troops, especially 
 with all the upgraded weapons being retained.
  However, I am not complaining. All of the above makes it a very cool game.
  
  The graphics, 
 AI and sound are pretty cool too.
  
  On the other hand, the player actually has no sense of urgency in the campaign map. They can slowly 
 attack the individual provinces before the final battle. This basically means that the player need 
 not make decision on where to attack to secure extra bonuses or which bonus is more critical to 
 him. You can take your time and attack every state so that you can have all the bonuses. Honestly, 
 this might not be a flaw, since perfectionist probably prefers such a system.
  
  So much for the single player campaign game review. It is almost a perfect game experience.
  
 
  Unfortunately, I cant say the same about the multiplayer part. Balance is the biggest issue. Certain 
 factions became sure win against certain factions. The win-lose ratio also clearly indicate which 
 faction is the weakest. BFME have been patch twice, but each patch took a very long time, and after 
 each patch, they either over compensate or never address certain balancing issues. This is probably 
 the one and biggest flaw of this game. Another problem is that the number of units in a 2 vs 2 
 game is very limited. The population size is shared between teams and this mean the more players 
 involve, the less population limit each player has.
  
  Overall, I would still give EA the credits for doing such a magnificent game and I would say this 
 is 1 of the best games that follows a movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewagner501
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect such a great game with this movie property. I had tried a few other Lord of the 
 Rings games and they were all lacking. Lacking in video quality, audio quality and downright poor 
 gameplay. This game has none of that. The graphics are top notch and the audio will blow you away. 
 Voice responses can become repetitive but there are only so many responses to be programmed into 
 saying "yes" to what you are telling the characters to do.
  
  The game does a really good job of following the three movies while allowing you to stray from 
 the story line to have fun with things that weren't in the movie. Batteling the forces of Evil 
 all over Middle earth never gets boring. Having a brief introduction to each area is also great. 
 The game map is great at showing where everything was in the movies.
  
  Playing this game will become addictive the first time you lead a charge with the Rohirrim. Seeing 
 Orcs being flung in front of the horses is pure fun. Watching Gandalf send a pack of them flying 
 through the air will bring a twinge of joy to everyone's heart. There just isn't any better fun 
 to be had in Middle Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamefire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  Firstly, we should mention the fact that The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth isn't 
 necessarily revolutionary in any way when it comes to strategy games. It is much like any other 
 RTS that you may have played in the past. So for those of you who are looking for a much different 
 experience in a strategy game, then sadly this one may not be for you. With that said, it does 
 have a few differences from your traditional RTS games which we'll mention throughout this review. 
 As traditional strategy games go, you're given the opportunity to play a "Good Campaign" and an 
 "Evil Campaign". Both campaigns involve different types of buildings, resources and soldiers. Both 
 campaigns require different skills to win. So, for example, you ca not beat the "Good Campaign" 
 in the same way you would win the "Evil Campaign". This does add some variety to the game and sure 
 enough adds some more hours to the gameplay.
  
  The "Good Campaign" allows you to control the armies of Rohan and Gondor in an attempt to destroy 
 the One Ring. Occasionally, you'll have some missions where you just control the Fellowship of 
 the Ring or some of its members. The members of the Fellowship can also be seen during some of 
 the other battles. They are usually the strongest on the battlefield and are considered to be heroes. 
 However, these heroes can be killed, and this is where a certain flaw seems to appear in the gameplay. 
 If you kill a hero in an earlier battle, he may still appear in a later battle. Obviously this 
 is to preserve the storyline of the game, but it does take the realism down a notch. If you do 
 find that one of your heroes has been killed, all you have to do is just simply click on your main 
 Citadel building and wait for him to be revived. Some of the heroes in this campaign are Gandalf, 
 Gimli, Legolas, Aragorn, Frodo and many more. Heroes start at level 1, but can later upgrade to 
 a maximum of level 10 making them more powerful. You'll can also fight in large battles such as 
 Helm's Deep and Minas Tirith. The "Evil Campaign" allows you to take control of the evil forces 
 of Mordor and Isengard. This gives you the opportunity to finally crush those tricksey Hobbitses. 
 That's right, there's nothing like delivering a little bit of death and destruction to the lands 
 of Middle-Earth. Some of the heroes that you control in this campaign include Saruman and the Nazgul. 
 Obviously your heroes have more destructive powers on the side of evil. Also playing in this campaign, 
 you can rely more heavily on your large number of Orc armies as opposed to being outnumbered and 
 trying to survive in the "Good Campaign". This is just one way that both campaigns differ from 
 each other in terms of gameplay.
  
  Another main point that is different is the use of buildings. Buildings can always be built in 
 the area of your bases on the Combat screen. The Combat screen is where you spend the majority 
 of the game building, recruiting, and fighting the battles of Middle-Earth. In order to build a 
 certain building, you must first capture a predetermined plot of land on the map. This spot can 
 then either be constructed into a base or a resource building. Bases are constructed with a Citadel 
 building in the middle that serves as the main building of the base, and must not be destroyed 
 or else you will lose that base. Around the Citadel, are specific plots of land where you can build 
 buildings such as archeries, stables and barracks for recruiting troops on the side of good. The 
 side of evil allows you to create Orc and Troll pits for the creation of troops. Both sides have 
 specific buildings to collect resources with farms being on the good side and slaughter houses 
 and furnaces on the evil side. Much like any RTS, resources are needed to construct more buildings 
 and troops. Both sides can also construct certain buildings that allow for upgrading armor and 
 weapons. Even the buildings themselves can be upgraded to create more powerful troops. 
  
  Another area of the game that you'll spend very little time in is the overall Map area of Middle-Earth. 
 The map shows the whole land of Middle-Earth and the positions of armies around the lands. From 
 here, you can get the overall look of this world. The game also sends you in a specific direction, 
 albeit a very linear one, from here. The game will force you to fight certain battles and to engage 
 in certain missions. Only occasionally will it allow you to choose certain battles in whatever 
 order you decide to fight them. This was obviously done to coincide with the events of the movies 
 and to make sure that nothing was out of place. However, this does create a very linear way of 
 playing the game, since you are told where to fight. Once you are given, or sometimes choose, where 
 to fight, your view will zoom into the Combat screen where you can start fully playing the game. 
 Upon conquering the areas in the Combat screen, you will see the lands that you have conquered 
 turn your colour on the Map screen. Also, conquering certain lands will either gain you new troops 
 and allies or command and power points. Another interesting factor is that when you create your 
 troops on the Combat screen, they can be upgraded through fighting many battles or by giving them 
 heavier armoir or banner upgrades. 
  
  Fighting out the battles isn't very different from any other RTS. Simply clicking on a squad of 
 troops and commanding them to attack an enemy squad will initiate a battle. They will fight their 
 enemies automatically if they get too close. One great thing about The Battle for Middle-Earth 
 is something that is absent from almost every other strategy game: the liveliness of your troops. 
 They actually feel like real living creatures. They'll chant and ready themselves for battle, and 
 after the battle has been won, they will cheer for joy. This is a very welcome design in a genre 
 where other games just have the troops mindlessly standing there after they have defeated their 
 enemies. Another thing worth mentioning about the battles is that they aren't really very big. 
 What should have been a huge battle at Minas Tirith with thousands of troops turned into only a 
 few hundred. So the battles are nowhere near as large as what we have previously seen from Rome: 
 Total War. This is quite disappointing as it would have been great to see larger scale battles 
 like the movies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doggy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The Lord Of The Rings The Battle For Middle Earth is an awsome action base building game! This 
 game puts you in charge. Pick your side Godd or Evil. Pick you Group The Orcs The Hur-aki Gondor 
 Rohan. Pick your heros all the heros and villians from all the lord of the rings! Make Your Base! 
 Make your units! And make your battles. This is an awsome game but if you have a slow computer 
 do not buy this there are 4 discs and it takes alot of memorie. So if your coumputer is slow this 
 game will be boring, annoeing, and frostarating. but if your coumputer is fast-meduimly fast BUY 
 THIS GAME it is awsome! take my word it is one of the best games i've ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabourter789654
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  It is a really great game i liked many thing about expecially the rohirrim charges and soldiers 
 being smashed by trolls, mumukil and the nazgul.
  The graphics however are only good on ultra high but causes lag on bad computers (not mine tho) . 
 The detail taken from the movies is pretty good but i wish the armies were bigger (in bfme2 the 
 armies are bigger) . The seiges arent all that great or intense but if playing as good it is good 
 to know you can hide behind your walls. So if you like rts games or the lotr movies and games this 
 is definetly for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  So this game is really only fantasy game what i'm likeing. In this game there's so mutch war and 
 action that it's still good when i have been played it like 1 year! The coolest thing in the game 
 is that when you can build your own great military there is so many building and upgrades that 
 doing your own military could take like 40 min and it's pretty lot of time. And upgradeing the castle 
 takes time too some like 15 min or less. Teams: Orks, humans and eldars. Not so mutch teams but it 
 does'nt matter. Blood effects are wonderful too! So if u dont have this game buy it because it's 
 pretty same then batlle for middle earth 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulofgondor91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings, the Battle for Middle Earth is overall a great game and I highly recommend it 
 to any RTS fan. It is much longer than most and is loaded with optional content that one can play 
 as they go through the game. 
  Through the course of the game you essentially play through the movies up until Frodo destroys 
 the one ring in Mt. Doom. It's really fun to play as members of the Fellowship like Aragorn or 
 Gandalf as they have powers that other soldiers in the game don't. However if your in the midst 
 of a thick battle with 300 guys they tend to get lost in the heat. Yes, that's right only 300. 
 The battles in the game aren't quite as huge as the movie but hey what computer could render 10,000 
 orcs on screen all at one time? 
  
  After you beat the good and evil campaigns which are quite good despite being a bit repetitive 
 you always have the multiplayer to look forward too. This game has great online play and should 
 keep you busy for hours. 
  
  This is a great RTS game though it doesnt quite perfect everything and I highly recommend it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steel_carpet
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings battle for middle Earth is an awesome game! It is by far the best stratigy game 
 out to date.
  
  In the game you can create archers, knights, archers on horse back or peasents in good mode alone.
 
  
  The only set back with this game is the lack of many important characters such as haldir, elrond, 
 arwen and such. The good news about this is that you can download mods to get new character from 
 sites like middle earth center...!
  
  In Evill you get to take the journey of mordor and isengard... there is a lack of heroes on evil 
 mode, it is missing gothmog and many others...
  
  The good part of this game is when you train recruits you get more then one unlike warcraft... 
 which makes it easier to make a humungous army!
  
  Heros of this game do not over throw the game and make it easy to win with them, yet they are very 
 powerful. they include Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, gandalf, pippin, merry, frodo, sam, Theoden, Eomer, 
 Eoyne, and boromir for good and lurtz, saruman, smeagle, 3 ringwraiths for evil...
  
  A big plus for this game for me was how you can save boromir in amon hen...
  
  Overall this 
 was an amazing game which convinced me that strategy games are the best genre in gaming... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmaster09
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: Battle for Middle-Earth is a good game but it miss some key points. They did a great job 
 with the story-line. But the gameplay wasn't what I thought it will be. It was the building option 
 that got me. You could only build on the little circles the game proved for you. I read that LOTR: 
 BME II change that and you can build anywhere you want. And the graphs was a disappointment. But 
 thank God the sequel change that. There was also some things that I didn't like was in the battle 
 your amry only have two formation. And when you merge of amries together you can not do nothing 
 with them. I mean come on the archers and soldiers is a good batte but I can't change their formation 
 and that sucks. But in all the game is one for the best RTS I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777rak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  OMG This game is great! You get to control all the units in the Lord of The Rings films. The story 
 is great! May I suggest buying the Primas Game Guide Book also. If you are either a LOTR fan or 
 an EA fan you should get this game. You will love it. This game I give it 2 thumbs way up! EA did 
 an awesome job with this game. You can use all the heroes, and exp. of some powers is: army of 
 the dead, Belrog, and the eagles. Btw this game is Official product of the Lord of the Rings Movie 
 Trilogy Get this game you will absolutely love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  Installed onto many personal computers and even some work computers on December 6th of 2004, Lord 
 of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth (LOTR: BFME) provided fans of both the RTS genre and Tolkien-addicts 
 alike, with an experience that paralleled the movies battles and storylines that were portrayed 
 by a certain someone named Peter Jackson. Unlike the crap that was released over a year earlier 
 under the name, Lord of the Rings: War of the Ring, BFME, which was developed by EA, was made with 
 the rights and titles which helped them use not only the storyline elements of the movie, but also 
 the voices of the multiple actors that became popular over the ten plus hours of fantasy goodness. 
 
  
  From the get go, it was going to be hard for EA to make a bad single player campaign, because of 
 the fact that they received half of it from Tolkien himself, but they had to be a little more creative 
 with the other half of the game. Thats right, in BFME, you the player are able to play out the 
 storyline of the three movies/books from both points of view. The side of Frodo and his Fellowship 
 and also from the Side of Sauron and his hordes of Orcs that seek to ravage the land of Middle-earth. 
 Because of the need to make the game more RTS friendly, EA added and dropped certain things from 
 the context of the films and books to keep the game flowing from the beginning till the end and 
 did end up doing a pretty good job keeping he player motivated throughout each campaign to the 
 point where they wanted to see how each side would pan out and win. As fans of the movies, or the 
 books long before that, youll be able to play out the memorable battles such as Helms Deep and 
 Minas Tirith which left impressionable marks upon anyone who was able to watch or read the second 
 two films/books of the trilogy. 
  
  Making the game more RTS friendly and adding new features to the genre, EA, took a leap from the 
 norm making a RTS game that was different from the rest at the time. In LOTR: BFME, youre able 
 to build your towns and different buildings in pre-designated spots where theyve placed them on 
 the map. Yes, this does limit the amount of the different types of buildings youre able to assemble 
 for your needs, but it also puts a strategical aspect into the game where you can only build so 
 much and then you must depend on those places to provide everything for you whether its more troops 
 or more resources. Gone are the days of gathering actual resources though, because youll really 
 be building up only one resource for the entire game. You wont be sending out villagers or settlers 
 to gather wood, food, gold, or stone, because theyll be one building which constantly gathers 
 your only resource throughout the different battles across the land of Middle-earth. Also, to progress 
 the story of the game along, youll be battling the opposite faction for control of different provinces 
 on the chessboard like map of Middle-earth. Winning the battles and controlling these provinces 
 gives your side new abilities or improves your ability to gather resources. These new ability points 
 that are given to controlling provinces and also given for winning large battles are used on what 
 is known as an ability tech tree where you can pick from different powers for your military units 
 throughout the game. Some abilities will be passive and will always be on, but some abilities can 
 be used multiple times to help your army progress through each battle.
  
  A different aspect that makes you cherish your military units that much more is the fact that you 
 keep the same army from province to province. No longer will you be making mindless drones to pore 
 out into the killing fields. Youll have to care about your unique units now because of each upgrade 
 that you pay for only being for a certain group of units. Instead of all units of that kind getting 
 the new improvements, only that certain group of five units will receive those fire arrows. This 
 level of micromanagement really adds a lot to your game when deciding which troops to upgrade and 
 which troops will be the first line of defense for the coming onslaught. But your troops wont 
 be left alone out on the fields of battle, theyll have what are known as hero units to help them. 
 There to help you are familiar characters such as Gandalf, Aragon, Legolas, Frodo, and many other 
 units that you can recognize from the movies thatll help your army out with each individual battle, 
 and no worries, if one happens to fall in the heat of battle, youre able to revive him or her 
 for a cost of your resource. But do these hero units truly add to the fun in the game? Sure, its 
 nice to switch to Gandalf and throw out some powerful spells against the orcs, but the micromanagement 
 needed to keep track of these units can sometimes be tedious. When youre given five plus heroes 
 on the same map, youll have trouble keeping track of each one, and then having to switch their 
 special abilities on each time you want them to use them and that can be more work than you really 
 want to deal with when dealing with the opposite faction. 
  
  The graphics in this game truly shine up close or far away as you can zoom in and out of the map. 
 If youd like, youre able to watch individual units of yours either disperse their enemies or 
 die trying. The maps along the giant chessboard of provinces are all unique in design and the detailed 
 used for each one, including the memorable ones like Helms Deep or Minas Tirith, were definitely 
 given extra attention to please the fans of the movies. There isnt really a whole lot of unique 
 troops in BFME. In those regards, in a battle against the opposite faction, youll be seeing a 
 lot of the same troops over and over on each map, but this could be because of the lack of creatures 
 in the actual films from which the game was based off of. One thing that can be called to attention 
 though are the limited objectives when dealing with each province. Unless its a unique area, like 
 Helms Deep, Minas Tirth, or the caverns of Moria, youre going to be dealing with the same objectives 
 over and over and yes, over again. The task of killing and obliterating the enemy on each map can 
 build up the monotony in the game, but be rest assured that the memorable battles will definitely 
 stick out in your mind as your spend close to thirty hours alone in the single player campaigns 
 which is quite long compared to other games in its genre. 
  
  One pleasing aspect of BFME to RTS fans would be the interface. Its virtually not even there as 
 you are playing the game. EA took great measures to finalize something different than the normal 
 interface panels of every other RTS game out there. Covering up only the corner of your screen, 
 youll feel like your available view is much larger than any other RTS game youve ever played. 
 Whether you like this feature or not clearly depends on your opinions, but most players of the 
 genre will appreciate the time EA took with trying to minimize the space the interface should take 
 up on the screen.
  
  The sound of course is wonderful in this game. Much like the great musical score in the trilogy 
 of movies, EA took great means to put together a great musical score that would make each map and 
 battle play again and again in your mind long after youve finished the game. The voice acting 
 is superb considering they received the rights to the movies. From the opening credits to the final 
 ending credits, youll definitely feel like youre apart of the movie and that your actions do 
 matter throughout each battle in the game and that choices do matter in the RTS genre. 
  
  The multiplayer side of this game can provide many more hours of entertainment for the fans of 
 genre with playing out large scale battles with their friends. Gone are the days of rushing where 
 you could build military structures/barracks close to your enemy, but the style of resource gathering 
 definitely gives players the shortened time of build up compared to RTS games of yesterday.
  
  Overall, the game is definitely a good visual portrayal of the movies of Peter Jackson and 
 the vision of Tolkien combined. A fan of either RTS games or of the films/books could spend hours 
 upon hours on the single player alone, but with the addition of some different paced multiplayer, 
 theres no reason not to give this game a try. Sure, there are some short-comings involved in this 
 title, but most of them are because of the restrictions EA had to deal with staying true to the 
 movies they were trying to remake into the computer gaming industry. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaleIsBackAgain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  It was inevitable from the beginning that Lord of the Rings would have been treated to an RTS game. 
 Which to no surprise is being developed by EA, but what is surprising is how awesome it is. EA 
 has been known to develop standard games with amazing licenses, but there are a few exceptions. 
 One of them is Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth, one of the most addictive RTS's this 
 generation that delves into a pot of uniqueness that its exclusive gameplay alone should be a reason 
 to own this game.
  
  I'm not a very big fan of single player campaigns when it comes to strategy games, but the single 
 player mode was actually pretty rewarding to play. You start off within the Mines of Moria, leading 
 the entire Fellowship through the uneasy caves, battling against goblings and trolls. Like in the 
 movies, the group also splits up, where you'll simulatinously control a different set of heroes 
 at different times, while building an army for each hero to command. This is the main treat of 
 BFME; unlike in other RTS games, you'll actually travel along with the army that you left off in 
 the previous level to the next. Your heroes, as well as units, will also gain experience as they 
 progress through the campaigns. But if one of your units dies, it's impossible to revive him, so 
 you'll have to be careful with your more higher leveled warriors.
  
  The single player campaign, taking both good and evil campaigns into consideration, can last up 
 to 40 hours, which leaves a lot of room for repetition. When entering each level with already supped 
 up soldiers, it's rather boring seeing your army sweep the entire map without actually having to 
 build anything. And since your army should be leveled up, it shouldn't be hard conquoring your 
 enemies. The good thing is that you don't have play through every level; some are merely optional 
 for leveling up your army for the next difficult scenario, such as The Black Gate or Helms Deep. 
 The evil campaign is much harder than the good campaign, which doesn't feel as repetitive, but 
 sometimes can still be. Even after completing both campaigns, it's really fun to play it over again 
 in the harder difficulties.
  
  Though there is always multiplayer, or the less preferred fights against the computer. Multiplayer 
 is like single player, except you start off directly from sratch with only a couple warriors and 
 a base. What's interesting about BFME is that there are no workers or builders, save for orc woodchoppers 
 that don't serve any of the above purposes. So how exactly are you suppose to build? In each base 
 there is a limited amount of icons, and when you click on one, a list of buildings will be provided, 
 and you get to pick which structure you want to pick. There are different types of bases; a settlement, 
 outpost, camp, and castle. A settlement will only construct food generating buildings. Outposts 
 provide you with 3 build icons, camps with 6, and castle a large amount depending on which civilization 
 you've chose to pick. This set up does a good job of limiting your base, because one major nuisance 
 in past strategy games was how players build actual cities, consuming half the map. You'll be able 
 to generate using food processing buildings, which replaces the use of workers who were primarily 
 used to build bases and garner food. This puts BFME in a very interesting position because there 
 is no need to worry over economy.
  
  It would have been a pain if you had to concentrate on both your workers and main army anyways. 
 There are many units in BFME that have secondary attacks. Take the troll for example; he's able 
 to throw rocks, eat orcs to regain health, and even use a near by tree as a weapon! There are many 
 other examples which really require much of your attention, which is exactly why I think negating 
 concentration on economy was a very brilliant plan on EA's part. Though they also didn't want to 
 put too much pressure on microtasking, so what they did was have battallions rather than have lone 
 warriors. For example, when you spawn a group of orcs, instead of creating 1 orc, out comes 10. 
 However, it's not like it's a 1 for 10 deal; those 10 orcs act as one unit, so commanding one orc 
 to move will simply have the entire 10 orcs move as well. This was also another brilliant idea 
 because losses in BFME can be huge. The devastating Mumak is able to trample on those it can step 
 on, resulting in a 1 hit KO. Though one loss here in BFME isn't that big of a deal. Though there 
 are units that come out with only one unit, such as the Mumak and troll, and their loss alone could 
 be devastating to you. Heroes also come in singles, which can only be created at the citadel in 
 each base.
  
  The last thing I've expected from BFME was great gameplay, because I've mainly bought this game 
 for how realistic and dynamic it was. In the Orc's slaughterhouse, if you see up close, you'll 
 be able to observe an orc process one of the animals. Using the troll as an example again, when 
 you command him to grab a tree as a weapon, the tree doesn't automatically appear in his hand; 
 he actually walks towards the near by tree, grabs it, and shakes off any remaining leaves. Though 
 the realistic factor doesn't only create one of the most interactive games out there; it also contributes 
 to gameplay. Like in the movies, you can mount archers onto the Mumakil's back. But if any opposing 
 archers are equipped with the upgrade fire, which the Mumaks are vulnerable to, not only will it 
 die faster, but it'll go on a rampage, blindingly charging randomly, and in the process might knock 
 down those same archers from its sudden carelessness. This can also apply to the tree like species 
 Ents, who will not only die faster, but charge as well. EA has definitely created one of the most 
 interactive atmospheres this generation.
  
  What's quite disappointing about BFME is the lack of modes, civilizations and units. There are 
 only two real modes in BFME; its campaigns, and build and destroy against computers or humans. 
 After about a month of playing online, I found it quite boring. You wish EA would have added more 
 diverse scenarios, such as RPG maps. Though that's not the main reason for it loosing it's touch 
 after a month; the lack of races and units hurt it quite a bit. While you can mix and match different 
 combinations of units, there aren't that many to think of, and it's really not that fun to keep 
 on using over and over again. BFME is unique, but its uniqueness is also its biggest downfall. 
 Nevertheless, EA's latest offering to the RTS genre is a strong achievement in presentation and 
 gameplay, and should be recommended to every strategy fan. The single player is by far one of the 
 most compelling single player modes in any strategy game, and its multiplayer should last you a 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is very symplistic at it's core. There are very few unit commands (some hidden comands 
 you can only access view keyboard keys) and you have very little say in how your units repond and 
 where you place your builds.
  
  That said the gameplay is not overly shallow since the game uses a strong stone/paper/scissors 
 approach to combat. If you charge pikemen with cavalry your horsemen are good as dead unless the 
 are fully upgraded and outrank the pikemen by many levels. Archers have very high damage but die 
 off like flies. A single troll can take on 40 footmen unscathed but will likely loose to 10 archers. 
 This makes the gameplay very tactical since you have to make sure you charge the right unit at 
 the right time. At least when you play eaither gondor, rohan, or isengard.... mordor... well mordor 
 is a different bag of tricks.
  
  The different gameplay mechanics for each faction, raiding with Rohan, defending with Gondor, swarming 
 with Mordor, or tactical manouvering with Isengard make any RTS player happy.
  
  Where this game excelles is the sieges. I have not seen a RTS that can make a siege so thrilling 
 as this game does (TW games are good, but they have a much more methodical approach that does not 
 give such an action high) . Having your walls lined with all your brave men waiting for the hordes 
 of orcs to try and breach the castle is really a great experience; or when your on the offensive 
 and you finally breach those castle walls and your warriors spill into the soft innards of the 
 citadel.
  
  Both of the SP campigns are good, although some parts seems like skrimish maps strawn togather. 
 The MP is fun and entertaining, even more so because the computer is not very apt strategically 
 and does not create very large armies unless the SP scenario spawn the troops for him.
  
  The thing that bothered me the most was the lack of formations and a stand-ground command.
  
 
  Graphically this game is very nice, the only problem is the low res textures and low poly models 
 that become noticable if you zoom in, although from faraway they look just like the soldiers and 
 heros from the movie. The physics in the game are well implemented and the many monsters and spells 
 send soldiers flying left and right giving the battelfields a non-static feeling. The amount of 
 little details, like arrows stuck through enemies or random fauna, and the stunning particle effects 
 make the graphics a winner. I jsut wish i could change the camera angle which is awfully high.
 
  
  The music is good... does not always fit what's going on perfectly since most of the scored from 
 the movies are overly dramatic, but the music by itself is good. Sound and voice acting are also 
 very good.
  
  I would suggest this game if your a fan of the movies and/or like RTS games in the vein of warcraft.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite strategy game. Cause the battle sceane is definitely like the movie. 
 We get to use four different campaign. Which is really good cause I don't like to play stragety 
 games that has two or three campaign. I get boring very easily. The gameplay is great, we can summon 
 a lot of creatures especially big ones like the BALROG or the GIANT EAGLE. We can also use the 
 ENTS and the big MUMAKIL. For the good campain there will be a lot of heroes to choose from so 
 you won't get bored. I really like when we use GONDOR or ROHAN we can close the big gate so that 
 enemy's won't get in to our castle. Its just too cool. The only thing that I don't like about this 
 game is that there is no blood in the game. They should of put at least a little bit of it so that 
 it would look like a real battle is going on. Overall I recommend that all the fans for the strategy 
 game to buy this. I guarantee you that it won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_boobs66
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  This pick of a game for me was just a luck of the draw, but boy, was I lucky. This game is one 
 of the most well done strategy games out there among the ranks of Warcraft and Total War. This 
 game has not one but 2 campaigns and a great multiplayer mode making this a huge value, worth slipping 
 that 50 across the counter to purchase it.
  I'll start with the basics, the graphics and gameplay. Gameplay is the most important feature to 
 an RTS and this game pulled it off well. The controls only seem natural and there is so much to 
 do with your options they give you. The slight use of RPG elements add a huge bonus to this game. 
 The graphics are also astounding to their highest level, it's very pleasing to the eye.
  The sounds is great as with most LOTR games, I won't bother going into detail with this. I'll just 
 say, you'll think you're in the theater. The value is great, 2 campaigns and a great multiplayer 
 make this game at least a 100 dollar value but you can get it for the low price of 50 bucks, a 
 GREAT deal. 
  All in all, this is a great game worth checking out and I highly reccomend it
  
  Hope you all 
 enjoy it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20446535851778300866297271106250-StarTrekTrekkie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings : Battle For Middle-Earth is RTS Game that is similar to another Lord of the 
 Rings Game on the PC 'War of the Ring'. In my opinion Battle For Middle-Earth is a much, much better 
 version of 'War of the Ring'. I have played It and completed It twice through already, It's really 
 good.
  
  There are two Campaigns in Battle For Middle-Earth, allowing you to play as both the Good Side 
 and the Evil Side. Choosing the Good side first may be a good choice If your playing It for the 
 first time, both sides though similar in style differ quite a bit. In my experiance playing as 
 the Good Side allows you to settle into the Games Levels and learn tactics. The Good Campaign takes 
 you through the Mines of Moria and Amon Hen with the Fellowship, these are the main missions you 
 have to do. Aside from the actual missions you have to do there are several Optional missions to 
 complete, you play them with Eomers Rohirriam Army. Each mission regardless weather It's optional 
 or not allows you to earn Command Points - Allowing you to create more Units in Battle, Power Points 
 - Allowing you to possibly unlock one of 8+ Powers to use in Battle, these can range from Healing 
 to the Army of the Dead! Resources is the other which means ou start with more resources in a mission. 
 All the bonuses differ, from Power +2 or +3 to Resources +10% or +20% and so on. Playing as the 
 Evil Side is different in that you have totally different powers though in my opinion a bit poor, 
 apart from the Balrog! 
  
  In the Battle For Middle-Earth there are four sides to play as, although in Campaign you switch 
 from time to time as the Story progresses. Rohan - Lack defenses but have very good Rohirriam Riders 
 and Archers, they can also use Peasents as soldiers and upgrade at the Blacksmith. Gondor - Have 
 access to a vast amount of Buildings such as Marketplace and Seige Workshop, they also have stronger 
 defenses and can build Trebuchets. Isengard - Similar to Rohan but with Evil Units. Mordor - Allow 
 you to build Mumakil, Trolls, and train Orcs for free. NOTE - Playing as the Evil Side you do not 
 have defenses such as Walls only Towers.
  
  The Gameplay of each Side is different, for instance playing as the Evil Side you can build Lumber 
 Camps to use the Trees to provide Resources, the Good Side can only prduce Farms. And as the Evil 
 side you can have units of Orc attack each other for EXP or feed them to the Slaughter House (Farm) 
 to gain Resources. As the Soliders and Archers go, for both sides they can be combined to make 
 an effective combo ie; the Archers take out Units from afar and Soldiers defend incoming soldiers 
 ext. The same can be done with Pikemen and Horses respectivly.
  
  The Game itself as alot of Replay Value both for Lord of the Rings Fans and fans of RTS Games, 
 It has a Skirmish Mode with Rankings that will keep you wanting to play It to achieve the Highest 
 one. It also features Online Play and an in-built Tutorial.
  
  Overall I would certainly recommend this for any Lord of the Rings collecter or fan. You'll enjoy 
 the Battles and Resource gathering, you'll always want to play more. A superb game that will live 
 long in the memory as always being a brilliant Lord of the Rings Game and one of the best ever 
 produced, I think. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dedlhi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  I am a big Lord of the Rings fan, so I am totally biased. However, this game is fabulous. It really 
 grabs your attention and imagination so that you really feel that you are inside the story of the 
 Lord of the Rings, that you are part of something bigger. The good voice acting and sound draw 
 you in brilliantly also. This is, in my opinion, key in making this a great game.
  
  I am particularly a fan of the fact that you choose which areas your armies will attempt to take 
 over. You are nowhere near as free in your choices as, say, Rome: Total War. However, each choice 
 makes a direct impact upon, for example, your rate of resource gathering or command points (allowing 
 more units to be recruited) . It never feels like you are taking control of an area just for the 
 sake of territory. 
  
  The choice of units is reasonable but not too large, with a 'scissors, paper, stone' approach that 
 works very well in terms of which units you use against which enemies. However, far from being 
 a negative this in my opinion works extremely well because you are not overwhelmed with different 
 unit types, which helps with the strategic elements of the game. 
  
  The fact that each unit, as well as characters, gain experience levels which really do make a difference 
 in their ability to deal and withstand damage. Characters also gain more powers with experience, 
 though they never dominate proceedings.
  
  This is not a revolutionary game by any means. However, it does everything that it sets out to 
 do extremely well and I cannot recommend it strongly enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  First off I must say that this is one of the best movie adaption games I've ever played, outstanding 
 gameplay, graphics, voice acting, athunticity its all there. Like most RTS's your put in the shows 
 of a low ranking commander and slowly work your way from small missions to enormus battles such 
 as The Black Gate, Helms Deep, Minas Tirith and more. The multiplayer was really the only short 
 coming I found, the game only allows a small number of troops on the map at a given time, so instead 
 of getting epic battles of thousands of Orcs against hundreds of Rohhrim Riders you may only get 
 to have 100 orcs against 20 riders, a big dissapointment for me, esspecially after seeing the battles 
 in the movies. The Battle For Middle Earth comes out as a great game single player wise with the 
 ability to fight as the Humans or Armies of Sauron / Saruman. After playing through a great single 
 player campagin I can deffinently reccomend this title for its Single Plaayer alone, but with the 
 enormus army restrants in the Multiplayer, I can't say I can reccomend it for that purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabssnbo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The Battle for Middle-earth is a game that has a lot of new and classic features in its gameply. 
 Besides the usual build-up a base and army, new details are added to these features to making them 
 more interesting and intense. The bases now are only limited to certain parts of the map, which 
 makes you much more cautious about some things. Armies are now built up by batallions, helping 
 the armies be in great numbers, and therefore enhancing battles, making them bigger and much more 
 intense than in other usual strategy games. The usual hero system is up, with no big improvements. 
 The huge campaigns are a definite plus, because you can get caught up in the game by the days, 
 and the difficulty of some of this missions help you get more interested. The online play adds 
 months of gameplay, because fighting other humans is very intense and you can never get used to 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  What can i say... if u are a FAN of lord of the rings u will like this game it is like an movie 
 execpt some unwritten things.. you can play a Campaing "GOOD Campaing & Evil Campaing" as good 
 people .. u must send the ring to mordor but instead u must fight against the enemies.. the most 
 greatest missions are , "Helm's Deep" where u must defend the city from enemies which counts around 
 1000 Soldiers "Evils" , u must defend a lot of Territories , with Faramir and his Army , then arrives 
 the "Minas Tirith" where u must defend the city like in Movie.. the enemies count around 2000 evils 
 soldiers or more.. nasguls also attacks.. the Minas Tirith and the Helm's Deep are perfect made 
 , like an Movie , or lord of the rings book.. the story is perfect too , exepct some unreal things 
 , or how could i say things that didnt happen in the movie , or things that happend on the movie 
 but in the game , these things wont happen.. so it worth the 8.9 Score.. its an Great.. u need 
 to be strategic to destroy the enemies , in other way u will lose , the evil will control the Middle-Earth 
 , if u know what the Movie is , u better play this game , u will have Middle-Earth's fate in your 
 hands.. the game also includes , missions with Felloship like , Aragorn , Gandalf , Legolas and 
 the others , the baddest thing is that u still have Eomer , in the movie he dies , but in the game 
 he still lives.. u have some missions with "Frodo and Sam" its the mission when Sam loses frodo 
 , evils got frodo and sam gotta find him , u are sam , and u need to find frodo , through the roads 
 u help some soldiers and they come with u to find frodo , at the end u must make n army then fight 
 against the enemies , and help frodo.. IF u know what "LORD OF THE RINGS" is i suggest you to play 
 this game.. 
  
  Kuruptt.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajkloft
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Where to begin. When comparing LOTR: BFME to say Warcraft or Starcraft RTS games, one would have 
 to first point out "hey! LOTR is WAY too simplistic!" That is one of my biggest complaints about 
 this game. The lack of units is one major downfall of this game. Another thing is the size of the 
 units. They are microscopic. Here are the good things though about this game:
  
  1. easy to play
  2. immersive and fun
  3. LOTR fans will love this game
  4. HUGE Battles
  5. did 
 i mention easy to play?
  
  that's really all I have to say about this game. I'd recommend it if you are just coming into the 
 RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  It's Generals, It's Lord of the Rings.... It's great if you like either and a must if you like both!. 
 This admittedly may not be the best Real-Time Strategy there is, i will be the first to admit that 
 being a huge Real-Time Strategy fan. However this game is so much more than just a Real-Time Strategy, 
 it is Tolkiens world in your hands. 
  
  There are 4 armies to chose from Gondor, Isengard, Mordor and Rohan and each have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses as you would come to expect. For example Mordor needs a quick start to shine and 
 they can achieve this due to the fact that they can build orcs for free whereas somebody like rohan 
 will find cavlry to become quite an expense. Each side has a great selection of heroes, for example 
 Gondor has Gandalf, Boromir, Faramir and Pippin at their disposal just like in the films/books. 
 Each has their strengths and can help turn te tide of a battle if used correctly for heroes in 
 this game can be key. Gandalf is almost god-like and when he is levelled up to his maximum level 
 can wipe out a screen full of enemies in a blast. While somebody like pippin is handy at taking 
 out only a few orcs with stones and then running away, however he is just as vital a part of your 
 army because he can capture resources early on. Each army can also buy powers as the game goes 
 on, the good having the Army of the Dead at their disposal while the evil armies can summon the 
 deadly Balrog. 
  
  The way this game is set-up isn't like most Real-Time Strategies you will come across because you 
 can only build at certain points in the map inidcated by symbols on the ground unlike a game like 
 generals where you can build anywhere you like basically. This has its positive and negative points 
 but brings a fresh feel to the genre. 
  
  The game features a skirmish mode for battling against the computer, 2 campaign modes where you 
 can take on the mask of good or evil with all the key-battles from the films/books like Helms Deep 
 and Minas Tirith. The mode i found myself playing the most however was the online multiplayer, 
 once you have honed your skills and became a master of Middle-Earth naturally you will want to 
 see how your fair against opponents from around the world and it's pretty easy to find a game. 
 The game also comes with a World Builder which they have basically taken out of Generals and stuck 
 in here with their own models to use however you chose.
  
  Gameplay - Very good gameplay and brings a fresh edge to the genre, stick Legolas in your castle 
 and watch as hoards of orcs fall to his arrows.
  
  Graphics - Brilliant and where the game really shines. You feel like you've been thrown into Middle-Earth 
 and it's brought to life with astonishingly high detail.
  
  Sound - The music is authentic and the game benefits from it. The voices for all the characters 
 are amazing and makes them come alive. Shame more weren't added to take out though.
  
  Value - Last you for months and even when you feel it getting a little repetitve you will keep 
 telling yourself to go back for another battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marclar1104
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  When I bought BFME, I was not expecting anything ground-breaking. What I was looking for was a 
 solid RTS that was fun to play and enjoyable with friends. That is exactly what I got with this 
 game. The base system was a bit off-setting at first, but it grows on you. No longer do you have 
 to set up a base exactly the right way or worry about structure positions. It also serves as good 
 motivation to gain territory. Sure you want a Gondor workshop to start cranking out trebuchets, 
 but you have to earn it by gaining some land and uses the freed up camps and settlements. The spots 
 allotted per castle, camp, or settlement were fair. I never felt like I needed one more spot or 
 I could not win the game. The interface is ingenious in its simpilicity, you can combine forces 
 of different types into powerful legions. When you order differ types of battalions to move together, 
 they automatically move in a postion to guard the vulnerable troops and put the strong men up front. 
 The game looks great on high settings and the sounds are astounding. When their is no fighting. 
 You can hear the sounds of the city, people bustling about and blacksmiths taking their hammers 
 to the iron. In war you hear the scream of orc, the clash of steal, and the screams of you companions 
 as they perish in battle. The herons are well balanced and the leveling systems makes you feel 
 the need to keep them alive to do well. Gandalf systems a bit overpowered compared to Saruman. 
 His level 10 attack is capable of leveling entire battles if you position him right. The multiplayer 
 very fun is whether you are taking on a friend or helping them slay computer opponents. All in 
 all, the game is fun and addictive RTS. It may not have the depth of some other games in the genre, 
 it is an enjoyable experience that any LOTR fan should not miss and any RTS fan should definately 
 give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Painkiller29
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 11, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  As a huge Tolkien fan, I was eagerly following and anticipating this title. Unfortunately, the 
 design choices just didn't work for me. What I liked about the game:
  
  - sound & music was fantastic (of course)
  - graphically pleasing, with clips from the movies 
 interspersed directly in game
  - overhead map & choosing of missions
  - the way troops were upgraded was well done
  
  What I did not like:
  
  - I understand 
 the developers wanted a balance of constant combat and the feeling of 'just winning in the nick 
 of time' but I felt the game had repetitive clicking and I didn't like the fact I couldn't just 
 pause and issue orders (at least in single player)
  - Heroes dying too easily and thus not being used to their full potential in all occasions
  - 
 Felt too linear during the single player campaign (I played on the good side)
  
  Overall, I just couldn't get into this title despite my love for the license. If it wasn't for 
 the license, I wouldn't have even invested the time I did into this game. Maybe it gets better 
 at later stages but it's frustrating gameplay just wasn't worth it to me.
  
  I don't recommend it unless you are a hardcore RTS gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 27, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  I have been hyped for a while waiting for this game and I have to say I'm dissappointed, with its 
 overall product. That's not to say this is a bad game but it could have been so much better.
  
  The campaign for BFME was supposed to be a really cool non scripted real world map, but while 
 the map looks cool it basically forces you to go to certain places and its not your choice. I must 
 als osay that both campaigns were way to easy and some of the coolest battles of the movies were 
 a huge let down in this game. Wiith that said though it is still solid in gameplay for the most 
 part, but during the gameplay brings me to it's weakest point, its lag it just destroys the atmosphere 
 and makes it almost unplayable.
  
  The skirmish matches for BFME are pretty good except for some balancing issues with mordor, whoc 
 can't win hardly at all. Also speaking of balancing issues Gandalf is just to ridicuously good. 
 THere are also a few other balancing issues which include Isengard just being to good overall, 
 ex: great siege, heroes, calvary, and infintry. Another big disappointment for me was the low population 
 cap, I don't mind low caps in some games but when its Lord of the rings then thats just wrong to 
 have a populationcap lower than 300, (And thats for the bad guys the good guys can only max out 
 to 200) . Lastly though is the online play , which for the most part is bad, the lag most the time 
 just ruins the game and the cheaters are just everywhere and its just a waste of time to play online 
 so I gave it a really low tilt because if the lack of anti cheating devices and horrible lag.
 
  
  I know this review was mostly pessimistic but there are some good things about BFME. The easiest 
 one to notice is the graphics and details that were put int othe game. Also the game added something 
 where building gainveterancy which is a very good idea and makes for good strategy on what units 
 you want powerful later in the game. The sound is also very noteworthy because of its actualy people 
 from LOTR doing the voices and the music really puts you in the atmosphere.
  
  All in all if you play RTS games only for their beautiful sound and graphics then by all means 
 go purchase this game now, but if your like me and most other RTS gamers then you will be sadly 
 disappointed when you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cparker1980
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings has been one of the most exploited franchises in recent history. This has 
 caused many people, myself included, to be skeptical to new games featuring its title or content. 
 Thus I was a little hesitant to play the Battle for Middle earth. I have always enjoyed the civilization/conquest 
 style games for the PC. One of my favorite games in this genre is Age of Empires 2. I have not 
 been able to find another game that was as much fun to play as this one. However, LoTR Battle for 
 Middle Earth shot right past this game to take the coveted spot as my favorite. 
  
  Imagine a world that is thrown into chaos and despair. Imagine a world where darkness is slowly 
 spreading across the land destroying everything you hold dear. Imagine a group of heroes and soldiers 
 stepping forth to battle this darkness. Now Imagine that all the people of the Earth, heroes included, 
 look to you to lead them to victory and conquest. Only you have the power to direct the paths of 
 those around you, to guide them in their quest to destroy evil. You are the one in control.
  
  This imaginary world becomes a vivid reality when playing the Battle for Middle Earth. At your 
 disposal are the heroes of the books and movies as well as the various soldiers from the different 
 lands. You must build and train this soldiers and provide them with better equipment in order to 
 make them successful in battle. 
  
  The game features amazing graphics and music to make your senses tingle with anticipation of the 
 battles and give a real sense of atmosphere while playing. The voice acting is great and features 
 some of the original actors from the movies. EA Games also did a great job of finding other actors 
 to fill the roles of the other characters that make them sound like the original cast.
  
  The controls are straight forward and a bit simplistic at times. You are limited in the number 
 of formations available and by the location of your buildings. Other games I have played allow 
 you to build anywhere on the map, but BfME only allow you to build in designated spots. This can 
 be a little limiting given the fact that a castle is a lot stronger than a camp, but you can only 
 build what the game will allow you to.
  
  Overall this game is great. It is the type of game that you can sit at for a few minutes or a few 
 hours and have a blast. This is due to the fact that the game features roughly 30 missions that 
 game be saved at any point during gameplay. Thus you can play for as long, or as little, time as 
 you like. You also have the ability to play as the evil side, thus increasing the replay value 
 and give you a different perspective on what is going on, however the evil side has a tougher time 
 at winning.
  
  The Lord of The Rings The Battle for Middle Earth is a fantastic game that allows you to control 
 the dictates of the heroes in Middle Earth and give fans of the movies a great chance to experience 
 this amazing world all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Though there are some noticeable omissions (where is Minas Morgul?) the game does a good job of 
 using the Command & Conquer: Generals engine. Some additions could have made the game very balanced, 
 like giving Mordor defensive structures  la Barad-Dur.
  
  Animations are smooth and special attacks look great. The hero powers are well-balanced (summoned 
 armies are on a time limit, for example) though the game leans in favor of Good, especially Gondor, 
 whose defensive structures are more fun to build than attacking armies.
  
  The use of (some) voice actors from the films adds great authenticity, especially Sir Ian McKellen 
 as Gandalf, who handles the voice-over for the computer-generated prologue in place of Cate Blanchett. 
 Overall, the voice acting is good, but it would have been nice to have Sean Bean as Boromir and 
 Billy Boyd as Pippin again; those two are missed, since their replacements are the weak links in 
 the voice acting, which can detract from the gameplay experience.
  
  Though the single-player game can grate at times, especially on missions where you must protect 
 the Fellowship, the Skirmish mode is excellent. Picking a faction and battling with a desired number 
 of CPU enemies is a great way to kill time in a quick go, or slog through a long campaign against 
 several enemies.
  
  A lot of thought went into this game to create an accurate PC gaming experience akin to the films 
 massive battles, and to preserve authenticity to the films and to Tolkiens work (the Boromir fiasco 
 aside of course) .
  
  This comes highly recommended to fans of the trilogy or of Tolkiens works who have the necessary 
 PC hardware.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chipslice10
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 24, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  When I tried this game, I expected EA to do the usual: find a satisfactory or even successful game 
 franchise, skin it with whatever pop-culture deems necessary and resell it in conjunction with 
 the movie release. Had this game simply been a Warcraft 3 in LotR's clothing, I would have been 
 much more impressed.
  
  You'd think that since the entire storyline, character design, script, FMV's and terrain were already 
 predesigned they could have spent the resources normally devoted to that on other areas of the 
 game. The character models look just plain gross when zoomed in. Due to the amount of characters 
 on screen, I can understand why this would be. What I don't understand is why there was seemingly 
 no quality assurance done to weed out the numerous bugs and design flaws.
  
  Controlling ~12 heroes at once, managing each of their skills in battle and ordering various battalions 
 simultaneously might have achieved the effect of frantic, constant battle that EA was most likely 
 aiming for, but it turns out to be a nuisance more than anything. The pacing of the whole game 
 is just off; the only truly fun battles were (predictably) the defenses of Minas Tirith and Gondor. 
 The majority of the remaining maps turn into a painful game of cat and mouse.
  
  This may or may not have been the fault of my computer, but when loading videos and when changing 
 regions and loading any particular level, I experienced stuttering and horrible wait times. What 
 WASN'T the fault of my computer is the terrible target acquisition by more or less every unit. 
 Hobbits (while it may be true to the source) blow in battle. Not because of their weak attacks 
 or limited vitality, but because they don't attack unless they are specifically told to. I don't 
 know about you, but I'd consider that as something that should be weeded out before shipment. The 
 addition of an "Attack to..." command a la Warcraft would have been a welcome addition, but I guess 
 that wasn't important enough.
  
  I could keep going on this, but if you've read that much, you should know not to even bother with 
 this game. The only redeeming quality I found was the LotR license and the things that accompany 
 that. I should also note that I don't blame the programmers at EA; I'm sure they did the best they 
 could given their resources and work conditions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKokopelli
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 22, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game offers little to distinguish itself from the standard cookie cutter RTS 
 titles available. The graphics, stability, and sound are very nice and well done. Unfortunately, 
 one can only play so many titles involving "build more units faster than the other guy" before 
 they become boring. About the only strategy this style of game uses, is protecting your farms and 
 citadel from the repetative attacks from the enemy. This is where the game fails. It is difficult 
 directing your forces to flank enemy units, as they almost always hit the side that is closest. 
 Nonetheless, it is still one of the best movie franchise games to hit the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  If you play the game thinking you'll be replaying the movie, it's close but missing on several 
 fronts. If you think you'll get to play out your version of the battle your close there too, but 
 again not quite. BFME seems to try to strike a middle ground between following the epic adventure, 
 and letting you decide the course of the battle but really fails in both. Don't get me wrong, I 
 loved the game and have no regrets but I wish the developers had chosen their path and stick with 
 it. 
  The game control is typical and striaght forward enough. I have to appluade the building techniques, 
 no peons or peasents needed, this removes an annoyance that is typical with these games. The maps 
 got a bit redundant after a while. The good guys are always on the left and the bad guys are always 
 on the right and you fight for the middle. zzzzzzzz A bit more creativity in the layout would have 
 been good. The battles got a bit out of control for me at times as well. I had so many soliders 
 and archers and areas to defend I couldn't keep track of, it was overwhelming at times. I survived. 
 The cavalry notion was sort of fun, play until re-enforcements arrive. I needed them everytime.
 
  I thought it was interesting that no cheats were made available, at least at this point I haven't 
 found any other than the published INI hacks. I finished both sides without it but sometimes it's 
 fun to replay in almost a god mode to explore more of the game.
  Re-reading this I come off fairly negative, I really did like the game and am glad I played it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First thing I have to say is, that this game is the best in the LOTR serial. No point of talking 
 about the story or anything related to it, because i suppose you all know the LOTR story.
  
  This game is not focused on any particular time of LOTR history, just the opposite, in this 
 game you will go through entire history, including all the big battles you have seen in the movie. 
 I must add that playing that levels is really a big enjoyment.
  
  About the game, there are numerous of great new feature, which will make this game a great experience, 
 allowing you to sink in the magical world of Middle Earth. One of them are the units. You don't 
 build one unit but entire battalion, which makes the illusion of a great army, when you build more 
 of them. I must admit it's pretty cool when you have a whole screen of army and you charge on the 
 enemy. 
  Second is the RPG bit, because your units gain experience whitch is carried in the next level, 
 so at the end of the game you can have a very powerful units at your command. There are also the 
 hero's, all of them which you know from the films. They are a great help, when they are stronger, 
 especially for good side. 
  Third thing is the map. You can strategically put your unites in different parts of the region 
 depending do you want resources power points or command points. 
  Forth thing are the power points, which you must gather to gain new spell, like the summoning of 
 the Dead Army or Bartolg, which can turn the tide of the battle very easy.
  
  You can play with the good and bad side, which is great, at beginning you will see that good and 
 bad side are very different. While good forces are stronger you can produce a lot more of orcs 
 and other creature. Unites are balanced very good, and you have special units for special enemy, 
 so a battalion of horse riders can destroy 4-5 battalions of archers, so you must be very carefully 
 while attacking.
  
  Graphic is pretty good, there are a lot of small details like animals, units are animated very 
 good. Spells are also very nice and smooth, and fun to watch. Sound is on the even higher level. 
 Music in the game is just awesome, and if you like the music in the film, you will love it here 
 also.
  
  There are also some down sides to this game. For begging it's a bit to easy. If you have some experience 
 in RTS, you will have to play it on hard to have some real challenge. While the great battles, 
 which are known known form film, are great, everything else is becomes boring at some time. At 
 end whey you have more powerful units, it very easy to win, and there is nothing special about 
 the ordinery levels. You must take care of all, because your units don't do anything without your 
 order, even defend them self's ( don't know if that's good or bad ) .
  
  All in all, i advise you to play this game, and if you aren't the fan of the LOTR, after this game 
 you will become one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakinBacon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 10, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  Reviewers PC
  
  Pentium 4 3.0 GHZ
  1 GB (2X 512 MB) DD2 SDRAM PC3200
  PCI-X ATI Radeon X800 SE 128 MB
  
  
  
  
  When a new Lord of the Rings Stratgey game was 
 announced based on the movies. Alot was to be expected to be on the same scale as the movie battles. 
 While from screenshots this game looked like it'd be huge in Scale and amazing. it falls flat on 
 a few occasions. The battles are not as huge as you would like them, and theres nothing inovative 
 for strategy based a games in this game. In Battle For Middle Earth as you may of guessed you are 
 able to choose between 4 sides: Gondor; Rohan; Isengard; and of Course, Mordor. The two campaigns 
 are very long, but a bit drawn out. they are still very fun at first but as you proceed the long 
 campaigns begin to loose there magic.
  
  Gameplay- 7
  ---------------------------------
  This is probably the biggest let down of this game. this game 
 does not improve on old formulas of the older stratagey games. While the incoperation of multiple 
 heroes was added for each race. but they dont prove to be as useful as some of the heroes in other 
 games such as Warcraft III. this game follows the same forumla for Stategy games. except you dont 
 need to use pesants to built structures. you use these circles inside your camp to build structures 
 and you gain more territory by taking over other camps located on the map. this game uses a very 
 simple Build and mass troops type of gameplay.
  
  Graphics- 8
  -----------------------------------
  Battle for Middle Earth uses the engine as Command and Conquer: 
 Generals. the graphics are very nice and all but i think it would of been nicer to use a new engine 
 for this game that could handle the massive size of Middle-Earth. but for each unit there is very 
 nice ammount of detail. maybe EA didnt go all out on the engine because of slow down. Who knows
 
  
  Sound- 9
  -------------------------------------
  This is where the game really shines. the sound for this game is very good. the Soundtrack for 
 it is the same as the Lord of the Rings movies. which is a very impressive soundtrack. the battle 
 sounds are very nice also. though they could of used a bit more boom to the sounds still they suffice.
 
  
  Value- 7
  -------------------------------------
  this game is a very good buy but I personally would suggest waiting for the price to lower to a 
 more resaonable price. for what you get its not worth $50 off the stand. still what you recieve 
 in this package is the Battle For Middle-Earth singleplayer and the multiplayer which is just the 
 singleplayer against human opponants.
  
  Overall Battle For Middle-Earth is an game that tries to capture the essance and size of Lord of 
 the Rings size battles, but seems to trip and fall one step short of its goal. while still being 
 a very fun game it does not require the same strategy as most current games do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  Not bad at all, especially if its Lord of the Rings, anything about the movie I like even the 
 games :) and EA is doing a great job.
  
  The game is very entertaining, and what I like the most are the massive armies, you attack by numbers, 
 and you see your army running over the enemy, engaging many deferent fronts at the same time, but 
 a powerful processor is needed otherwise you will notice frame drops and the game will slow down.
 
  
  The map interface is really unique, I like the idea of a clip from the movie will be played for 
 each location on the map, gives a very good relation with the three movies.
  
  But still like in any game there is always something to bother you, like its very easy to lose 
 track of your heroes in the middle of the battle, and suddenly you will notice that one of the 
 heroes died.
  
  The new behavior AI is very nice, your army will cheer up if winning, and I find that its very 
 nice addition to strategy games. Over all, its very a nice game, I loved playing it, normally I 
 do not complete strategy games :) but this one I did, and I will play it again but this time I 
 will be the bad guy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  First lets take a look at the graphical presentation of BFME. If you've seen Peter Jackson's movies 
 you will not be disappointed. The characters are recreated to match their on-screen actors, and 
 you'll have no trouble recognizing all of them (except the hobbits perhaps, they all look rather 
 similar) . The maps and backgrounds are well done, and all cinematics are done using the in game 
 engine to give it an immersive feel. Its nothing too groundbreaking, but it is enjoyable.
  
  The audio is my favorite part of the game, as far as music goes. The soundtrack from the movies 
 plays throughout the entire game, and seemingly changes depending on who is winning battles, which 
 adds a really cool touch while you play. The downfall here though is that not all the actors were 
 able to do the voices for their characters. Sean Bean (Boromir) is noticed as absent from the cast 
 off the bat, as is Faramir's actor (I can't remember his name off the bat) . Little things like 
 that shocked at first, but many of the main character's you'd expect in there, are.
  
  The gameplay comes off decent as well. Don't expect anything nearly as groundbreaking as Rome: 
 Total War, or even Warcraft 3, but it does give you enough for some really exciting multiplayer 
 skirmishes and matches. For all the hype the game had, there just seems to be a slight something 
 missing. Perhaps its the AI, which is definitely lacking at times, but still pulls off some decent 
 strategy to keep you on your toes if you're not paying attention.
  
  I think many people in the end, are going to find the single player portion of the game to be much 
 more fun than the multiplayer. Not to say its bad, it really is not. Its just not as good. 
  
  Overall, a decent product, but slightly overhyped. I don't see BFME being a long lasting edition 
 on your gaming shelf as compared to other existing titles, but it is worth a look nonetheless. 
 
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Impressive graphics, great music and sound effects. Good start. LOTR map and characters. Excellent. 
 Now what about strategy, challenge, and novelty? Sorry, not here. The game plays most like warcraft, 
 starcraft, and command and conquer -- but flawed versions. The gameplay is dumbed down, especially 
 in building construction and defense. This is sad and unfortunate, as a potentially fun strategic 
 component is practically nullified. 
  Combat is pretty standard, but using your hero's special powers can be very difficult. How can 
 you click on 5 different characters at once to use their special powers? Exactly, you can't. 
 
  Let me get to the point. This game is mediocre if judged on strategy and combat. The fact that 
 it is LOTR adds one or two point to the total score, if you are a fan. Thus, if you love LOTR, 
 and like real time strategy games, I would recommend it. Otherwise, I would steer clear of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebooker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  With Stellar graphics and sound, ease of troop movement, and a simple interface, the only thing 
 this game lacks is an advanced set of options for both economies and tactical strategy. The first 
 thing I noticed about this game was the graphics and sound. The only thing I can say is STELLAR!! 
 Awesome Job EA GAMES!!
  
  Another thing that will catch your eye is the way the movies are woven into the game, escpecially 
 in the single player campaign. As a long time Strat game player, I can honestly admit that this 
 is the first game that I have ever played single-player. Why?? Because this single player campaign 
 is a MUST is you like the movies and the story!!
  
  A couple draw-backs for online play. First is the simple economy, a little too simple. I would 
 like to see many more options for the economy like more use for the civs that you can make besides 
 repair tasks. Let them chop some wood, mine something . . . . Lets get a market system for team 
 play . . . . Maybe expand the economic building patterns to let you generate an economy off the 
 designated base foundations. With all those mountains and trees, surely my civs can get out there 
 and generate some eco!!
  
  Second is a mixed bag dealing with tactical troop movement. Thought the current system really is 
 nice, there is no advantage for attacking on higher ground, flanking, rear attacks, etc. Going 
 all the way back to Age of Kings and every strat game since that did not have these options and 
 lacked an advanced set of economic options turned the game into who can make the most the fastest! 
 Now all strategy games are like this of course, but what holds players over time playing match 
 after match is the variety of ways to do it. In this game, your options are somewhat limited. Now 
 this doesn't take into consideration your options with heros, but sometimes, I want a troop formation 
 to get the job done . . . .
  
  -Bob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth is one of the best games in not only the Lord of the Rings franchise, but 
 in the genre itself. What also makes it that much more breathtaking is the presentation. Menu systems 
 are graced with all the Tolkien magic you can possibly handle, and Howard Shore's sensational score 
 thunders though the speakers with a force to be reckoned with!
  
  Visually the game is not that far removed from Command & Conquer: Generals, from which this game's 
 engine was in fact spawned. I was hoping the design team were going to focus on a Rome: Total War 
 style battle system, but alas the 'Generals' engine has not been tweaked quite enough. The result 
 is a game that is screaming out to be more epic, more audacious and more concrete that it is currently. 
 
  
  Still, this is a game you will play for hours at any one time, and one you will likely still be 
 glued to many years from now.
  
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngbloodza
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 22, 2005 4:08 am PT
Review:  I found this game very entertaining at some parts, and A LIVING HELL AT others. THere are disadvatages 
 to this game and advantages. The advantages are strong gameplay, Good realtion to LOTR series and 
 a Good vs Evil thing. YOu can conquer the world of middle earth with the baddies or the good guys. 
 Lots of units. Can Combine units but once theyre combinded, you cant take them apart. THere are 
 four races. THe good sides seem to be so much more strong then the evil (WHich PISSES me off!!!) . 
 The disadvantages are many. THe AI Totally sucks!. I had a whole army of units at the gates of 
 Rohan's capitol, and archers started shooting at us. My units were fully armored and pumped up 
 with new armor and weapons. ALl I hear was cries. They made no attempt to move at all. They all 
 died, and that pissed me off to the max. Also, the units seem t hav eproblems getting around eachother. 
 Also the units really have to be advusted because its almost impssible to take down one ent let 
 alone 10! First you need to fend them off with weak units, then Get enough money to get fire arrows 
 (WHich are 10000 a UNIT!) and they are the ones the ents go after first which reely pisses me off. 
 Overall this game is a rush... that dies out in the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozistyle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 20, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When i heard that a strategy game, based on the well-known Lord of the Rings series, was going 
 to be released i was soooo happy. it was a desire of mine since i saw the first movie. When i read 
 that the game was going to be developed and published by Electronic Arts (EA) i was sure that this 
 game wouldn't be as good as it could be. Unfortunatelly my fears came true.
  In my opinion if that game was developed by another company, such as Creative Assembly, it would 
 have been atleast 2 times better. OK enough i had said. Lets now see why i was so disapointed by 
 this game.
  
  Firstly the gameplay. That kind of stategy games is a little bit "old" today. Other games of the 
 same gerne are so progressive in contrast to that game that droves us years back. 
  Secondly the graphics. The graphics have nothing revolutionary to show. To be honest there are dead 
 as a dodo. We have seen such graphics and in other game before this one (like Kohan)
  Thirdly the sound. Ohh yes the sound. The phase that discribes that part of the game is "nothing 
 special". 
  
  These were the three most important parts of the game. All of them were simple, too simple for 
 such a game. Its unexpeptable.
  
  There are and other minor problems to that game. For example the fact that you can't move the armies 
 freely, but you just have to click in the teritory that it is showed by the game is very annoying.
 
  
  To sum up this game was, as i have already said, a letdown and I consider EA as the base reason 
 for that. 
  
  Buy it: cause its the first strategy game about Lord of the Rings.
  Don't buy it: ^all above
  
  THANKS
  OZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtleMilk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I find the game to very fun, and have extremely good looking action. At first, I did not really 
 think it was going to be all that fun. It was then however, that I started to almost fall in-love 
 with it. 
  
  Seeings things such as someone being picked up by a flying creature, and then dropped from 50 feet, 
 is simply not done in any other real-time strategy games. I believe that the reason for this, is 
 because most games like this are based more on strategy, and not action.
  
  In the Battle for Middle Earth, it's both. You never have to worry much about where you should 
 build things, because you are restricted to building on certain spots in the game. This helps eliminate 
 things such as rushing, or being cheap by building towers in the middle of the enemy's base. Also, 
 you never have to constantly check on the rescources you have, because there is only one thing 
 to collect. Buildings that collect rescources will constantly give you rescources at a steady rate. 
 The more you have, the more rescources you will collect.
  
  I believe that all of these features, add a vibe to the game and make it actually "feel" just like 
 the movies. The Battle for Middle Earth seems to attempt to do this, and it does it quite well.
 
  
  As for the graphics, they are pretty good. However, if you scroll the camera all the way in to 
 get a close look at the action (Even though there is no reason to do that) , then all the units 
 look pretty blocky, and overall not very good. 
  
  This is especially a downside, when the game decides to take the actual units from the gameplay, 
 and use them during the game's movies. It is a negative, but really does not matter that much at 
 all. Seeing as how almost no one plays the game up close because you can never see what is going 
 on around your units, I'm fine with it.
  
  The sounds seems to fit in perfectly with the action, as well as the soundtrack. Seeing several 
 battalions of Uruk-hai going toe to toe with an army of Gondor soldiers, is quite impressive.
 
  
  However, watching calvary storm through several units, although impressive, makes them extremely 
 overpowered. A calvary unit's only weakness is pikemen. 
  
  However, if you were to use King Theoden and his skill called Glorious Charge (Makes calvary only 
 take 10% of the damage they are supposed to take) then there is really nothing at all that can 
 take them down. 
  
  Another downside to that, is that it is quite easy to accomplish. Also, once you tell your calvary 
 to charge into the enemy, they will stop charging, move slowly, and then continue to fight in hand-to-hand. 
 However, most players will simply charge, run back, charge again, run back, and repeat until the 
 enemy is dead.
  
  Despite that huge negative, I still find the Battle for Middle Earth to be a very fast-paced, entertaining, 
 and solid real-time strategy game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  At first, i went out on a limb to buy this game and shrugged off the grognards that were ripping 
 it because the game did not give +2 to attirtion bonuses if marching on a muddy road or have all 
 units strengths halved if mad cow disease borke out among your supplies.
  
  Lets face it people, this is not the Age of Empires or Rise of nations of the RTS crowd, this game 
 is totally about capturing the essence of the large battles in the movies, and boy it does that 
 great. The battles play out with an ebb and flow like the films, you teeter on defeat and then 
 call in eagles or elvish reinforcements and save the day. All the heroes are there and can be recruited 
 (even Lurtz) . 
  
  The game has some annoying things like unit control could be a little better, and sometimes they 
 dont respond well, but overall its a solid BATTLE game, hence the name BATTLE for middle earth. 
 Resource management is less tedious than Dawn of War. Base building is like Kohan, so whoever rips 
 that is also ripping Kohan. Skirmish mode is great and I have a ton of fun just wreaking havoc 
 in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth has quickly become one of the most popular games in 
 my library. It takes the elements that made the movies so outstanding and transfers them to the 
 video game world in the form of this stunning RTS. In the single player campaign, you play from 
 the perspectives of either the good (following the events in the movie) or evil (writing your own 
 version of history in Middle-Earth) . The campaigns are long and involving taking from the mines 
 of Moria to the spectacular battle of Minas Tirith. The game also comes with a fully functional 
 skirmish mode and multiplayer client. While in skirmish the A. I. is a total cake-walk on easy, 
 it gets much more challenging at the higher difficulty settings. The A. I. will use tactics such 
 as sending multiple groups at you in a pincer formation, or go around the map to attack from the 
 rear, or even seeing your forces and deciding to take another road. The only real problem I have 
 with this game is that the units tend to need to be baby-sat. They'll sometimes run off on their 
 own or hurt friendly units accidentally or run straight into a cavalary charge (an instant kill 
 for most infantry) . Other then that however, Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth sums up 
 to be an outstanding game, and quite an enjoyable Lord of the Rings experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure what it is about the game but I just cant get into this title. I was probably like 
 many of you I eagerly awaited the release of this game buying it almost the instant it hit the 
 shelf, but it just hasnt captured the same delight that titles like Warcraft III and Rise 
 of Nations did.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the sound is excellent but the gameplay seems to be a bit linear and 
 boring to me. I also like building things where I like and in the game you have place holders for 
 where you can build things, I didnt like that to well at all.
  
  Overall this is an ok RTS, but it lacks anything that sets it apart from other titles. I would 
 recommend any of the aforementioned titles over this if you do not own them already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 5, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Will please LOTR fans.
  - Immersive graphics and sounds. Especially the sound and music.
  - Extremely Fun, movie-esque 
 game play.
  
  The Bad:
  - Some new ideas, interesting concepts  mixed results.
  - Tries too hard to be innovate
  
  The Ugly:
  - Limited replay value
  - Boring multiplayer 
 (unlike generals)
  - Lacks any strategy. More of real time simulator, than real time strategy game
  
  
  Final 
 words:
  This game is worth getting for the 10-14 hours of fun it offers in single play mode. Don't expect 
 anything after that. If you are looking for a successor to C&C: Generals or a rival to Warcarft 
 III you will be sorely disappointed. Dawn of War and Ground Control II are better RTS games if 
 you are looking of something.
  
  Retail, eBay or Never"
  Not worth buying at full price, but shop around for it in value bins or look for it on ebay for 
 no more than $20
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabernac
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 3, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  This LOTR game is probably the best in the series. However, to get the full effect of the graphics 
 you better be running a high end system. Even on higher end machines this game is not graphically 
 stunning (Gamespot is out to lunch on this one) relative to WIII or Armies of Exigo. Music is great! 
 During battles and elsewhere. Simple story though: relive the trilogy by taking the fellowship 
 to Mount Doom while having the "Good" guys taking control over middle earth. One different thing 
 about this RTS is that you don't send peasants to gather resources. You build farms or other buildings 
 on pre-assigned "blueprints". Farms will automatically collect resources and buildings can be ordered 
 to train batallions of 5 or 6 instead of individual units. Battles are fun to watch with horseman 
 litterally running over orcs and warriors. Not too much strategy involved though. Crank out the 
 units, upgrade, swamp the enemy, repeat... Overall this game is relatively easy to play and becomes 
 quickly intuitive. However, a veteran RTS gamer can start on the "hard" setting right off the bat. 
 Good for the LOTR fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2004 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot of MOMENTS such as using ring wraiths to pick up people and dropping them 20 
 feet to thier demise! You build buildings in certain spots which is a downside! and you have a 
 limited number of units for each race (Which is 4 SIDES) .. The game has mordor, Isengaurd, Rohan, 
 and Elves (forgot names lol) . the sound is AWSOME the music is immersive and perfect you will certainly 
 love this game for all it is worth!!
  
  If you enjoy these kinds of games or even just enjoy Lord of the rings you will like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyg_20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2004 7:06 pm PT
Review:  First the gameplay: Very fun game mechanics, the 2 different play styles i have personaly adapted 
 to from the two different sides are quite fun. Gondor and Rohan i found troop preservation important, 
 upgrading your archers and calvary. And Isenguard and Mordor was just about big powerful armies, 
 lots of seige and just running troops in while making enough to constantly replace the ones being 
 slaughtered. It was fun, i found myself loving the calvary in this game. Ive always been big on 
 knights and what not since Age of empires 2. But they did them really well in this game, you can 
 charge and trample other troops, i found this ability very important in all my strategies. The 
 heroes are very well done too and i found balanced. Wasnt a big fan of heroes in WC3 just because 
 you had so few troops then a couple big heroes, without a hero you were toast. In this game i found 
 you could survive for a while without heroes, but once u got them (especially for the good side) 
 you were much better. Rohan is a bit stacked with heroes (i guess for balance reason) gondor gets 
 Gandalf but most of the other heroes go to rohan, 3 of their heroes can ride horses making your 
 calvary that much better, and legolas grouped with a couple elven battallion is a force to be reckoned 
 with. 
  
  Graphics are right up there i found, i dont have a high end machine but i found the game very good 
 looking, the animations on the units were cool, and some of the magic pretty neat.
  
  Sound was good, im enver much of a sound person usually turn off the music, but i found at the 
 begining of each skirmish tehy played ( on most maps) that nice relaxing shire music, and it was 
 kinda neat so i usually kept it on. The only thing that got annoying was what the troops say when 
 u select them, its too repetative, need some variaty there.
  
  Id say the value of this game is good, im not the type to play a game for a long time usually, 
 ive already moved on lol, but thats just me. I can see people playing the multiplayer for a long 
 time, the human aspect really makes the game unpredictable. 
  
  All in all a good game. oh ya.... the things it lacking mainly for me was all those extras, like 
 controling formations... although putting archers and infantry in battallions is nice and quite 
 cool u cant get them out of the formations. And little shortcuts im so used to in other strategy 
 games.
  
  Difficulty all depends on what you put it on, easy is too easy, hard (skirmish) is fun against, 
 very challenging.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2004 5:10 am PT
Review:  EA's long string of Lord of the Rings titles based on the blockbuster film trilogy has left much 
 to be desired. The Two Towers and Return of the King games used simple button mashing gameplay 
 which was amusing but grew tiresome. The Third Age, an RPG based on the world of Middle-Earth but 
 not the films directly was to easy and the characters were uninspired. The Battle of Middle-Earth 
 was a toss-up. It had a good chance of reaching the same mediocricy of the other titles in the 
 franchise but it was so ambitious it could be the saving grace for the games.
  
  I am happy to say that while The Battle for Middle-earth has some deep flaws, it is a worth while 
 ride altogether. While the graphics are astounding and really absorb the atmosphere of the movie, 
 the gameplay is good enough to be enjoyed. 
  
  The skirmish and online play consist of just building a base and battling to the end which unlike 
 most RTS games is the least inspired aspect of the game. The biggest drag is that once your castle 
 or citadel is built in the center of your base you can only build structures on the limited circles 
 around it. So you can only have so many buildings which really constricts you and makes you deeply 
 wishing you had WarCraft III's freedom once again. 
  
  The gathering of resources is weak and only one kind of resource is collectable. That being just 
 what the game calls "resources". You build structures which automatically gather them rather than 
 sending peasents to do the work. Although in some stuctures like lumber mills you can get worker 
 units. But altogether, the resource and building aspects of the game leave much more to be desired.
 
  
  Fortuantely, the combat aspect of the game is great. The battles which are inspired from the great 
 battles from the films look brilliant. With huge armies and creatures like Ents, eagles, Balrogs, 
 Nazgul and more adding the signature feel to them. Although the game has a rather low population 
 limit or "command points" which restrict players at times. Units usually cost around 10 command 
 points because to great displeasure almost all units come in groups rather than individuals that 
 can be put in groups. Most units are forced into groups of about five and can never be broken into 
 smaller groups unless some units are killed. But this allows for much bigger battles on a much 
 bigger scale. The absence of villagers makes more room for soldier units.
  
  The game lets you play as four different armies: Rohan, Gondor, Isengard, and Mordor. Two good 
 and two evil. Each with their own strengths and weaknesses. There are several different heroes 
 you can aquire through different armies from the films with various abilities. The evil armies 
 don't have walls around fortresses while the good armies do. But the evil can get high powered 
 Warg Riders and Trolls to fend off incoming troops as well as Mordor can produce Orcs at no cost 
 what-so-ever. The nice siege weaponry of the evil armies can make quick work of the walls too. 
 But the good army do have the luxury of shelter and better defense and their horsemen can often 
 overpower group troops. Also with the ability to use the extremely strong Ents the good make tough 
 competition for evil. It's a shame there are so few building for troops because the few you have 
 gives you a limited amount of units and you'll end up only using tons of just one or two units. 
 You often wish there were more interesting and tactical units avaliable because you begin to grow 
 tired of the same Orc and Bowmen. But while it's close, there are still balancing issues and evil 
 usually reigns supreme over good.
  
  Much like games such as Age of Mythology, you can aquire powers thorugh Power Points which you 
 get for winning in combat and completing missions in campaign. With enough Power Points you can 
 aquire anything from Extra Attack and Armor for troops to a huge special unit like The Army of 
 the Dead or a Balrog. Power points are extremely useful and add an extra essence of strategy to 
 the game. 
  
  The campaign uses the highly talked about "World Map" feature which is admittingly really cool. 
 You can scan the entire map of Middle-Earth, even places like the Shire and Bree which you never 
 fight at. As evil or good you can control armies and battle at a series of different locations 
 to try and gain control of Middle-Earth. You usually don't have a choice where to go but sometimes 
 you can take different routes by choosing different battlefields. You eventually reach important 
 locations in the films like Helm's Deep, Rohan etc. which offer some excellent battles. You always 
 have one hero guiding each army which you can use to grow levels and aquire powerful abilities. 
 Conquering different regions of Middle-earth gives you things such as more Command Points, Power 
 Points and Resources. After conquering a region you move onto the next with your surviving army. 
 The game gives you pretty basic and unimagintive objectives. Usually just something like Kill all 
 Good or Evil forces and other things along those lines. But there are often Bonus objectives which 
 give you points and are fun to figure out and accomplish. The single player campaign is polished 
 and brilliantly executed. It is extremely fun and entertaining and more than makes up for weak 
 skirmishes.
  
  The classic music from the films is naturally put into place in this game. Like all the other Lord 
 of the Rings titles released by EA Games the music is one of the best parts. Unlike the other games 
 though, the voice overs don't feel like pre-recorded archive dialogue. They feel more natural and 
 while there are often few different lines when a new unit is produced or a unit is selected the 
 lines still reflect the movie and make you think you're actually there on the battlefield.
  
  For a great single player RTS, Battle for Middle-earth is great. It should meet your expectations 
 once you get used to it's ackward and unusual interface and system. The battles are great and abilities 
 and power-ups add to the fun. While random and quick skirmishes are best left to games like Age 
 of Mythology and WarCraft III, Battle for Middle-Earth has one of the funniest campaigns in an 
 RTS I've played in quite some time. This is the game Lord of the Rings fans have been waiting for. 
 Probably the best use of the licence so far, Battle for Middle-earth forgets the Fellowship's story 
 and goes for full scale war. And who'd have thought it could work so well? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2004 4:31 am PT
Review:  I spent three days trying to install this game. EA tech support sent the standard "out of the manual" 
 suggestions and none worked. I went online and checked the forums to find that there were many 
 (too many) players out there who alos couldn't install this game. So after the three days I returned 
 it for a full refund. Fortunately I purchased it at Amazon. com and they WILL take it back. Most 
 of the other people who couldn't install it were stuck as most retailers don't take back computer 
 games. I hear the games not bad but not great, if only I could have found out for myself. So buy 
 it if you dare, but be aware that there are many copies out there that won't install for a variety 
 of reasons. Maybe I can wait a few months and try again after they have ALL the bugs worked out. 
 PS. Yes, my PC does meet all the game's requirments. This isn't the first time I've installed a 
 PC games. Buy "Half-life 2" instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtender30
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2004 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game I was a little skeptic to buy because I was dumb enough to buy the other LOTR strategy 
 game, The war of the Ring, because the one previous was not at all what it was cracked up to be, 
 I wanted that game to be a whole lot like this one made by EA. This one is spectacular. The visuals 
 are amazing, and the gameplay is a ton of fun. Plus if your a diehard fan of the series of movies, 
 like myself, you must own this game. Ties in very much with the story line plus you get to have 
 on your side the MUMAKIL, those big elephants from the movie! Plus how you get to keep your units 
 from the previous mission really adds more strategy to the game because in other games you can 
 just send your units on suicide missions and not have to worry about it because you get a clean 
 slate next mission. Overall I love this game and if you are a fan of the series you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_campbell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2004 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of The Rings: The Battle For Middle Earth may very well be the best game to date in the 
 LOTR series. For starters, the game has great graphics for being an RTS game which you will find 
 great. Also, I found that the sound also was good with all of the original LOTR music in the game 
 which adds a nice touch.
  
  The game is based around two campaigns, one evil, and one good. The campaigns mostly follow the 
 story lines of the movie, however when you aren't fighting the big movie battles at Helm's Deep 
 and Minas Tirith you will get a chance to take your armies around the map taking over smaller territorries 
 to gain certain attributes like power points and resource bonuses which carry over to other battle. 
 The power points are used to gain certain powers like the ability to summon battalions of Elves 
 or creating lush terrain to give your troops defensive bonuses and eventually even the Army Of 
 The Dead!
  
  One of the best aspects of the campaign mode is how you are able to carry your troops over from 
 battle to battle and how you have different armies at your command. This gives you incentive to 
 try to preserve your troops who have gained veterency so that you can use them in tight battles. 
 By the armies I mean Rohan has Eomer's army which you use to take over territorries and Theoden 
 has his army at Helm's Deep. When you then fight the battle of Helm's Deep if you are able to hold 
 out for some 14 minutes, you are able to call in Eomer's army as reinforcements which is very realistic.
 
  
  Some of the other gameplay modes are skirmish and online play along with network games. Skirmishes 
 are fun to tune up your skills and try playing as different armies in different situations. Online 
 and network games give and added boost to the game's replay value as you could play online forever 
 as it is so fun to play on teams against other people. When you play online you can also use maps 
 that you have created, which comes with the CD.
  
  The only places that this game needs work in is to add more unit types and building types as Rohan 
 only has a selection of 6 buildings to build and most of the armies could use a few different unit 
 options. Also, the population allowances could be increased to make the game better.
  
  However, this is a great game and if you are a fan of RTS games you should pick up this game today 
 as it is one of the top RTS games of all time. Also I expect EA to probably be making an expansion 
 pack for The Battle For Middle Earth down the road.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickedBadMan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2004 6:32 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting an amazing RTS experience, i'll tell you right now that it is just OK. If 
 you are looking for an amazing LotR experience, then I can tell you it's a great game.
  Using a updated Generals engine the game is hard on some of today's moderate computers, though 
 at the same time great to look at. The single player revolves around taking over various territories 
 for good or evil (2 campains) While some of the levels are fantastic (Moria, Minas Tirith, Helms 
 Deep) you will run into missions that are the old, "Destroy all forces of darkness!" I would recommend 
 getting the CD version, I have the DVD at the moment and from what I have heard that is where all 
 of the errors stem from. I at the moment cannot play multiplayer due to such an error. Overall 
 the game is great for a Lord of the Rings fan and okay for an RTS, just lacking a little depth 
 that hopefully will be fixed as time goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Easy to use and quite exciting to use, you become really involved in the battles, you 
 order your armies out to slaughter the enemy and tell your heroes to use their special moves. Usually 
 this is just standard procedure, but here it is elevated to the extreme when you hear the chants 
 of the enemy, the roars of your armies and voice talent, by the usual cast (although Christopher 
 Lee has made his debut in a Lord Of The Rings game this time around, and when instructing him to 
 kill off the opposition, you get a great deal of satisfaction when he says his catchphrases and 
 then cuts through an Ent etc...
  Commanding armies is easy, developing bases is quick and doesn't take up a great deal of time, 
 its about building your army more, and it is a great deal of fun. 
  
  Graphics - "Great" (CPS) same on all machines with varying hardware, although sometimes the framerate 
 will go downhill when in the heat of battle.
  
  Sound - Great voice acting, the usual lord of the rings soundtrack, brilliant sound affects, really 
 brings the war into your ears. 
  
  Value - being able to play as both Evil and Good sets this apart from the competition, and also 
 a skirmish mode and online capabilites. 
  
  Conclusion - A worthy game to all Lord Of The Rings fans, or not. A brilliant strategy game, that 
 concentrates on strategies of war, rather than gathering resources to build and survive, this is 
 the first strategy game I've witnessed that involves the player so much, as if it were a different 
 style of game (eg. Kingdom under fire) . 
  A surprising development from EA here, and a real treat for RTS, and Lord of the rings fans, or 
 anyone looking for a big battle!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2004 4:01 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of RTS games, and I ahve played every game in this genre that is worth mentioning 
 - twice.
  
  Honestly, I did not expect much from this game, as games licensed from hot movie brands are normally 
 mediocre at best. Yet, we have seen some good games like this lately, like Chronicles of Riddick 
 and the other LOTR games were not all bad either.
  
  I was a bit hesitant to get this game as I saw reviewers say its building system gives little freedom 
 compared to other games like this, and the building and resource management part is in my view 
 a very important aspect of such games.
  
  You are forced to populate already laid out maps with indicators telling you where you can build 
 the various kinds of buildings. At first this was a bit of a turn-off, but I later came to enjoy 
 this twist which takes a lot of the tedious micromanagement found in similar games away. For example, 
 if a building gets damaged, it will be automatically repaired once the battle around it heats down.
 
  
  But it is clear this kind of simplifications in no way is done to ease the job of the developers. 
 In fact, you will find tons of details in the game, so nothing was spared to polish every aspect 
 of it.
  
  Some of the details you will enjoy is full rag-doll physics on every character in the game world. 
 Looks amazing when Gandalf reaches the highest level and blasts off his most powerful spells, resulting 
 in literally hundreds of orcs flying helplessly far distances before landing with a satisfying 
 realistic tumble.
  
  The audio is also very detailed, and the characters actually say sensible things when you click 
 on them. For example, if you order a group of soldier back to the city they will say "Retreat to 
 the Citadel!" if they are in trouble, and other things if they are at full health. You will never 
 become annoyed at someone saying the same over and over. This actually improves the atmosphere 
 a lot, and makes the world seem more real and alive. Details like animals running around in the 
 wild, and an overall amazing graphics also adds tremendously.
  
  The game is quite well balanced. It is very easy though, so you do not want to play this on anything 
 else than the hardest level.
  
  One major criticism of the game is the lack of a proper pause key. This has become quite standard 
 in most RTS games, and allows you to freeze the game and give order to your units in pause mode. 
 The lack of this feature often makes it impossible to administer any real tactics as you will be 
 unable to handle many separate units at the same time. So you will usually end up making one monster-army 
 that sweeps across the landscape.
  
  The game adds a lot to the genre when it comes to atmosphere, and also the huge battles with hundreds 
 of real-time units clashing in epic battlescenes are at times amazing to watch.
  
  It is also a long game with lots of replay value. I can recommend this heartily
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycfoster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Battle for Middle-earth did an outstanding job of capturing the feel of Middle-earth. 
 The interface is elegant and beautiful - I particularly like the build scheme, which is fast, easy 
 and doesn't require as much micro-management of resource gathering as most RTS games. 
  
  I have a few minor nit-picks about the campaign (i. e. you start off in Moria, effectively eliminating 
 90% of the original book "Fellowship" and 75% of the movie version; some useless scenarios; failure 
 to flesh out combat that might have been going on in the rest of the world, etc.) . That said, every 
 aspect of the game, from the world map, to the graphics in battle mode, and even to the load screens, 
 are gorgeous. I think other reviewers may have dinged the graphics because they're relatively simple, 
 but the art more than makes up for it. Sound is also excellent. Using voice-captured phrases from 
 the films helps you feel like you're actually working with the same heroes. 
  
  With a strategic world map, I would have preferred to have seen more integration with "big picture" 
 management. The game would have been MUCH better if there was more strategy involved in establishing 
 and guarding a front to allow safe territories to produce troops ala Rome: TW. Combat is another 
 area where the game falls short. Strategic play is relatively unimportant - you simply crank out 
 troops and run them over other troops. There's a bit of "counter-troop" strategy, but it's so simple, 
 and the AI is so basic, that you generally just end up producing troops and running them over - 
 that's really a shame, because the build interface is so well-implemented that you actually COULD 
 engage in flanking maneuvers and intricate ambush strategies. 
  
  This game got somuch right that I was very disappointed by the limited AI and gameplay. The expensive 
 pieces - license, engine, graphics, sound, are all outstanding. If EA will pony up just a bit more 
 cash for dev time to add some gameplay and combat intricacy with a patch, they'll have a real winner 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2004 10:54 pm PT
Review:  B4ME (Battle for Middle Earth) is a game that I have mixed feelings about. On the one hand, it's 
 a fun RTS that attempts to capture the spirit and grandeur of Peter Jackson's groundbreaking cinematic 
 epic. Unfortunately, it compromises in too many areas and is overshadowed by other superior RTS 
 offerings - Warhammer 40k and Rome: Total War being the two main examples.
  
  Despite EA's attempts to market the 'world map' as a groundbreaking innovation, hardcore gamers 
 will immediately recognise the similarities to the Campaign Map used in Rome: Total War. The big 
 difference is that B4ME's world map severely restricts which mission the player can choose next. 
 For instance, at the beginning you can only play as Rohan (in which case you choose from 2-3 maps) 
 or as the Fellowship (choose a single mission based on a movie scenario) .
  
  Another criticism I have is with movie-based missions, which don't adhere to the film-based events. 
 For instance, in the Mines of Moria it's possible for Gandalf the Grey to survive the battle with 
 the Balrog. All that would've been needed is a cutscene showing Gandalf and the Balrog falling 
 off the Bridge of Kazadhum - problem solved, and gameplay wouldn't be compromised. Better use should've 
 been made of the game engine during cutscenes - there are several good examples of this in Warhammer 
 40k.
  
  The game really soars in regards to how individual units are implemented. One good example is Gandalf, 
 whose powers are exactly what you would expect from the greatest of the Istari. The Wizard Blast 
 can take out an entire battalion, and you can eliminate half an army with Mithrandir's Electric 
 Bolt. And his finishing moves are perfect replications of what you see in the film. Aragorn's swordmaster 
 abilities are another understimated ability, which is graphically demonstrated during the 'Amon 
 Hen' level, where you can use it to take out two whole hordes of Uruk Hai. Impressive.
  
  Another innovation which should've gotten more publicity is how buildings are built. Instead of 
 using peasants to build, certain areas of the map are allocated for base building (outposts, castles, 
 etc...) . This is makes base building less irritating as you no longer have to decide where buildings 
 need to be placed, and leaves the player more time to concentrate on strategies and troop building.
 
  
  In summary, B4ME is almost a classic. But compromises in areas like the world map and single-player 
 campaign spoil the atmopshere of the game. If you're an LOTR or Tolkien fanatic, stay clear of 
 this game. If you're an RTS fan not too fussy with gameplay, then by all means, plop down your 
 hard earned money and have a go. However, I do wonder how B4ME would've turned out if Relic or 
 Blizzard had developed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2004 2:37 am PT
Review:  While most games with film tie-ins generally line the bottom of the barrel in terms of quality, 
 the recent games based on the Lord of the Rings franchise have actually been fairly solid. The 
 Battle for Middle Earth is not actually the first RTS to take place in the Tolkien universe: Liquid 
 Entertainment's War of the Ring first attempted to milk the movies' popularity in 2003, although 
 it was based specifically on the novels, not on the films inspired by them. However, while War 
 of the Ring was a somewhat bland and unexciting effort, Electronic Arts has managed to make a first-rate 
 tactical title that seamlessly integrates set pieces from the films directly into the gameplay. 
 The results are often spectacular, and commanding familiar scenes from your computer chair is exhilarating. 
 Some may roll their eyes at the simplified base-building and resource-collecting, and the artificial 
 intelligence may occasionally underwhelm, but most strategy enthusiasts will find a lot to love 
 about The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth.
  
  Both good and evil campaigns are available to you at the outset, and both faithfully follow the 
 events of the films, although the few players left who have never actually seen them won't feel 
 lost, particularly as key moments are enhanced with movie clips that play in the minimap. All of 
 the key players are here: Gimli, Frodo, Gandalf, and the entire Fellowship and their supporting 
 characters are faithfully created, functioning as hero units that carry over from map to map. Actually, 
 their function as supercharged units seems at first to be an exciting one, since the possibility 
 of losing heroes that progress the story could change the entire dynamic of a linear narrative. 
 Instead, should you lose a hero, he will return the next time he is needed, keeping the game faithful 
 to its source material, but losing some continuity as a result. There is no doubt, however, that 
 fans of Peter Jackson's trilogy will be flabbergasted at just how well the spirit of the films 
 has been integrated into the game. 
  
  The campaigns begin on a world-view map of Middle Earth, which is broken into sections that represent 
 various cities and territories. It's not really a campaign map, such as the ones you would find 
 in the Total War series, or in the turn-based element of Rise of Nations. You are really only choosing 
 the location of your next battle  and often, not choosing much of anything, since there may be 
 only one location available. Which territory you choose will determine what kind of bonuses you 
 will receive in the next skirmish, be it resources, experience, or command points. You make no 
 real strategic decisions from this view, however; instead, you are simply getting your overall 
 bearings on the large map of Middle-Earth, which is itself made up of individual maps used for 
 combat.
  
  Once you have chosen your destination, you are given your orders and jump into the fray. More often 
 than not, your primary mission will be to simply destroy the enemy base, although you can complete 
 other goals to earn different rewards. Battle for Middle Earth features some huge battles  but 
 not a huge number of different types of units. Most of the variety will come from your heroes and 
 the powers that they develop as the game wears on. Gandalf summons a handy lightning attack that 
 can fell many units at one time; Aragorn can sound the Horn of Gondor, which forces nearby units 
 to flee. Unfortunately, while the interface allows you to easily select any given hero unit at 
 any time, managing many of them at once is a chore, since they get lost in the shuffle. As your 
 heroes defeat units, they gain experience, which then opens up new abilities. You also earn power 
 points as you go, which you use to purchase some wonderful abilities, such as unit healing  and 
 later, Balrog summoning! These powers must be used sparingly, but they can easily turn the tide 
 of battle if timed right. 
  
  Other units are the Tolkien version of RTS standbys: cavalry, archers, pikemen, and the such, although 
 The Mordor and Isengard units are much more interesting They, too, earn experience points, and 
 the units that survive the mission then carry over to the next, giving you some powerful units 
 when you need them most. When the combat works, it works very well, especially when there are dozens 
 and dozens onscreen at any given time. Most skirmishes end up being waves of enemies in a free-for-all, 
 although some weak artificial intelligence made for more babysitting than we would have liked. 
 Friendly units have a frustrating tendency to watch idly as their countrymen are slaughtered a 
 few feet in front of them; other times, they seem to gravitate towards weaker units as they let 
 huge trolls lumber on by. The game also uses the Eye of Sauron to effectively cheat against the 
 forces of good; as they eye's gaze passes over an area and identifies your base's location, a group 
 of orcs generally appears nearby. Leaving a few veteran units behind to guard will fend them off, 
 but at times it seemed a flimsy excuse to distract us from the inconsistent AI. Don't expect to 
 use any fancy flanking maneuvers: battles are generally a head-on affair of arrows and swords. 
 
  
  Base building and resource gathering has been highly simplified, and while this at first seems 
 to BfME's detriment, it works well as you get used to it. Building locations are predetermined: 
 you simply click on a foundation, choose an edifice from the radial menu, and build it. Farms will 
 accumulate resources, and can also give life to peasants, although the uses of peasants are mostly 
 limited to calling them to arms when in a pinch. As you discover other foundations and destroy 
 enemy buildings, you can then use them as well, although you must have a unit close by to begin 
 construction. The interface itself makes it easy to set up camp as you fend off your enemies, but 
 the generic resources and inherent limitations of this system don't seem the best way to let 
 the player focus on combat, particularly when Ground Control 2 and Dawn of War conquered this goal 
 with more aplomb. 
  
  Outside of the immersive campaigns, you can also play skirmishes with up to seven others via internet 
  or the CPU, if you prefer. There are 37 maps available, all of which were used in the single-player 
 game, and these multiplayer battles can last for hour after nail-biting hour. If you register at 
 EA. com, you can also take part in ladder matches that will assign you an opponent of similar expertise. 
 This is where the special abilities of your heroes really come into play, and watching Gandalf 
 cast dazzling spells on battlefields overflowing with glowing swords and flaming arrows is as thrilling 
 as it sounds. Considering the main campaigns will take you upwards of 30 hours to complete, Battle 
 for Middle Earth could keep you occupied for quite some time.
  
  The game's stunning visuals are a large part of what makes the film tie-in so successful, and the 
 in-game re-creations of familiar cinematic environments are often amazing in their faithful detail. 
 BfME is based on the C&C: Generals engine, although it is barely recognizable behind the polished 
 veneer of the colorful surroundings. Unit animations are top-notch, particularly in the occasional 
 moments of celebration after a successful confrontation. Heroes, in particular, are the spitting 
 image of their silver screen counterparts, and unlike many RTSs, units are just as attractive up 
 close as they are when zoomed out. There are some moments of sluggishness in the most active assaults, 
 but this is a minor hindrance. Of course, the Lord of the Rings films are as beautiful to hear 
 as they are to watch, and the game is no exception. Both Christopher Lee and Ian McKellen reprise 
 their onscreen roles, leading a solid voice cast. Howard Shore's moving score is also featured, 
 although EA has added some original in-game music to round it out, and it is such a good fit, you 
 would be hard pressed to know where Shore's score ends and the game's original tunes begin. 
  
  Battle for Middle Earth does not revolutionize any genre standards, but it is a polished, solid 
 strategy gem that will thrill most RTS fans  and please quite a few film buffs, too. It is easily 
 one of the best movie-based games yet produced, and a strong title in its own right. Experienced 
 players may be somewhat annoyed by the limited AI and rudimentary base building, but those drawbacks 
 won't stand in the way of a surprisingly compelling game. If you enjoy sweeping strategic combat 
  or just love Peter Jackson's movies  you should play The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle 
 Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostthemaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game will immediately strike you as beautifull. There are many small details that make this 
 game worthy of looking at! Such as just small improvisations like the unit emotion or the different 
 unit types which is one of the things that can really take you out of a game if they are all the 
 same. There are some amazing visuals as you watch Gandalf unleash his powers on the hordes of Mordor.
 
  
  The sound is another highlight with most of the actors doing voiceovers for the heroes. There are 
 battle crys and the hooves of a Rohan cavalry charge! These things can really immerse you into 
 the game.
  
  The gameplay, strategy wise is a dissapointment. Many important strategies are non-existent. Flanking 
 is gone, even though in the charge on Pellenor fields heavily relied on flanking techniques.
  
  The value as well is really good. The multi-player is fast, arcadey and fun. This is a great 
 recipie for long lasting appeal. Overall this is a great game that can probably last a long time 
 in any RTS gamers game collection without collecting dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacarr02
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 15, 2004 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Did I mention extremely slow load times? Well, it bears repeating. I have a Dell 8200 running at 
 2.0 Ghz with 512Mb memory. I could read a newspaper article while waiting for games to load.
  
  My overall response - "Eh? That's all you got?" But I never bought a C&C game because I was 
 not thrilled with the graphics or gameplay so I don't know what I was thinking once I found out 
 this game used the same engine.
  
  I scored it as low as I did because I could not bring myself to give it anything higher than the 
 default settings of 7 and in a couple of places I was pissed enough at the quality to mark it down.
 
  
  Not sorry I bought it, will have fun with it, but should have gotten WoW instead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2004 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I have only played skirmishes against computer-players (Ai) , so my comments are limited to that 
 dimension of this beautiful game. 
  
  My scores being very positive, I limit myself, here, to the negatives :
  
  1. One huge problem, 
 which might vary from one player's computer to another, is the too low framerate on certain maps, 
 which drag down the flow of the game to a crawl when there are many units involved. My system is 
 a P4/2.8GHz with 1024MB of DDR-RAM and a GeForce 5 (with the very latest nVidia drivers) . Well, 
 despite such powerful specs (and no background programs running during the game) , I cannot enjoy 
 acceptable framerates beyond the basic 800 X 600 resolution !?! By contrast, I can play at Warhammer 
 2K : Dawn of War at higher resolutions (with maximum visual options) without any problem or slowdown. 
 Obviously, this LoTR software has not been efficiently coded for seamless & smooth gameplay on 
 all maps. There's a big problem here.
  
  
  2. There are no game-speed options ! When many units are in play, the game seems to run at one 
 specific speed : very slow.
  
  3. Siege engines are too powerful and behave in the same absurd manner as in other games. In ancient 
 & medieval warfare, siege engines NEVER were mobile "tanks" that could move isolated from the rest 
 of a big army. In LoTR, you can spend too much time hunting down a siege engine that should be 
 less mobile, with less hit-points (as they are cumbersome & fragile pieces of un-armored equipment) .
 
  
  4. One could argue that defensive towers have too many hit-points. Unless you employ certain hard-hitting 
 units (such as Trolls & Ents) , those towers take way too much time to destroy. The consequence 
 is that the end-game can drag on too long if the besieged (and fatally surrounded) enemy has many 
 towers. For example : It is frustrating to see a new tower being rapidly rebuilt while your troops 
 are taking too much time to destroy a neighboring one. It's a tedious chore, with no strategic 
 merit or fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r_kuo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2004 7:41 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a complex and deep RTS, look elsewhere. But if your one of those people who 
 like to get right into the action, this is your game.
  There isn't much thinking involved in playing this. No flanking or strategic stuff like that, although 
 some units are stealthed. Unit variety usually is just one to three, infantry, archers, and calvary 
 with some faction specific guys. This is definently a game for people new to the genre. Even the 
 interface has been dumbed down to a minimap that changes into a unit info panel. The powers, like 
 Balrog, are very fun to use, though, and occasionally require some thinking.
  The environments are absolutely incredible! Unit models are just like the movies. Battle animations 
 are realistic. The only problem I see is that MInas Tirith isn't big enough.
  I won't go over the sound simply because, well its a LOTR game. It's always top-of-the-line. Oscar-winning 
 music included.
  The main problem I found with the game is the unbalance, such as cavalry being able to run over 
 just about anything, even pikemen. Online play isn't very well done. As far as I can see, there 
 aren't any filter options and the only official matches playable are through "Quick Play.
  Overall, this game is worth the $50 ( I got mine for $40) , however, you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiben
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2004 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is OK but not much... the camera could be more effective I think. Managing many units 
 at the same time can be a difficult task to accomplish... and managing the special powers of the 
 heroes is not really obvious when you are in a big battle.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are OK but not much too... they should add the option ''anti-aliasing'' or ''sharpness'' 
 because the objects and the 3D is a little bit too much aliased. And if you watched the Official 
 Trailer 1, 2 and 3 and think ''WOW Its great!!'' STOP! First, all the shots are made by EA to look 
 good, the camera in the game CANNOT move like this, you cannot zoom in that way and pan like this. 
 Also the graphics are not like the trailers at all. and i have a really powerfull PC dont worry, 
 Pentium IV 3.0ghz with 1024mb of DDR and a 128mb GeForce4.
  
  Sound:
  Its the best part of the game I think. Its all the official sounds from the movies. With EAX3 activated 
 its beautiful.
  
  Value:
  The game should cost 39.99$ not 49.99$ .... But yeah i know... just because they put the logo of 
 The Lord Of The Rings and Newline on the box that mean they can do it because people will buy the 
 game anyway.
  
  Reviewer's tilt:
  I give a 9 to burst up the total because its not a ''bad'' game... its just not where i was thinking 
 it would be.
  
  
  RESUME:
  Its a good game but not much. - The official trailers are not the reality, not look like the real 
 thing. - A little bit disapointing. 
  
  Its ''OK''. Not much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimb05678
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2004 7:00 am PT
Review:  disappointing.. it's not the sounds that will disappoint, not even the graphics, but the gameplay. 
 it's cool to make this game as simple as possible but what they did was oversimplify. i cant even 
 manage a group well there isn't an onscreen indicator.. you have to look after their lives in the 
 battlefield (which can be a mess due to the number of units) .
  units die very fast too.. just put them under a hail of arrows and your units will be down in no 
 time at all.. and oh.. you can combine archers with melee like uruk archers and uruk horde into 
 just a single battalion.. only that when you are attacking an enemy, the archers fire away while 
 the melee sits right there.. yeah they sit just right there doing nothing..
  that happens even if you don't combinr your army too! there are just times that even how many times 
 and how hard you click your soldiers ain't just like to follow or what.. they're not even scared! 
 i think they're just being stubborn that's all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whlee87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2004 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Played C&C Generals? If you like it then chances are you'll like this as well... This game uses 
 a simple "rock, paper, scissors" system, unlike R: TW or RoN which rewards players for using flanking 
 in order deal maximum damage..
  
  That said, the rock, paper, scissors system isn't really a bad thing as it allows gamers to get 
 into the game fairly quickly, yet it does not "kills" the fun of the game either... I havent really 
 touch any other game ever since i've got this game and I havent really even touch the MP part (where 
 the fun really is) of this game yet... The single player portion is surprisingly good even though 
 i've watch the movies.. It re-create the atmosphere of the movie superbly and even includes an 
 "alternate" outcome for middle earth for those who wants Sauron to win the battle for middle earth. 
 
  
  While i did mention it having a simple "rock paper scissors" system, it's far from being a mindless 
 strategy game where all you have to do is produce units and hope for the best.. In this game, you'll 
 still have to capture settlements in order to maximize your resource output and depriving your 
 opponent from enjoying the benefits of it.. You'll face decisions as on what seige weapons to use 
 agaisnt a Gondorain wall, when and what special powers to use in order to turn the battle in your 
 favour, etc etc..
  
  If you're looking for a deep strategy game like R: TW, look elsewhere... Otherwise, this game offers 
 addicting gameplay and endless hours of gaming enjoyment without you tearing off your hair when 
 a cavalry catches your pikeman off-guard.. If you're a lotr fan, get this without any further doubts.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_xxxx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2004 9:59 am PT
Review:  Well this is a great game. The setting the engine, the sounds, everything. Allways wanted to controll 
 the big armies of Mordor. Se the neverending hordes wich is quite fun. And the heroes is a lot 
 of fun too. But it lacks something very important. DEPTH. 
  
  If you for example play the rohan army, what you got is horsmenn with swords (great) , horsmenn 
 archer (great) but where are the rest of 'em. Light and heavy cavlry f. example. You got two kinds 
 of horse menn units and that is all with a few uppgrades. 
  Rohan is known for their horsmenn were are you hiding the rest of'em. EA should realy have made 
 up som other units too. There is the peasants and bowmen and that is all, or have i missed something??. 
 Where are the siege weapons, i know they aint in the movie, but hey what happends when you play 
 rohan vs gondor. They will never breach the walls of gondor
  
  And the same it is with all the armies, the lack somthing and what they got is not taken very deep.
 
  
  But it is realy cool too combine troops together. That's very well done, and the ranksystem is 
 good too. Your units can realy get to be old vets.
  
  The tactic aspect of the game is very wide even with so few different uints. You are revarded good 
 for tactical waring in this game and that is something nicely done.
  
  An other bad thing is the upgrades that you get early. Well there was said that the diffrent armies 
 should be diffrent in every aspect of the game, they are not here. everyone gets the four upgrades 
 bannercarrier, heavy armour, fire arrows and forged swords. 
  
  And then there is the building, it is realy made a little to simple. it's okey that you aint allowed 
 to build your way into the enemy but hey isn' it a little bit to strickt with apointed spaces to 
 build in. 
  
  But in spite of all the faults i have written here this is a GREAT RTS GAME, and i will keep playing 
 it. 
  
  I hope EA can correct this in an expansion VERY soon i will gladly buy and expansion for this game 
 if it adds anything. 
  LOTR is an will be an amazing world, with endless opportunities for expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmband21088
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2004 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall I enjoy this game, its fun. If you love the movies, then I would say get this game because 
 it does a fantastic job at working the movies into the game...
  
  It uses movie clips and sound clips right from the movie as well as making their own cinematics 
 out of scenes from the movies. Some actors from the movie also did the voices so you do feel like 
 your in the movie in a sense.
  
  Just as EA said, the base building is easy. You have your plot of land with the building circles. 
 You click on the circle and then what building you want to build. There are no peasants that you 
 have to move around the map to build different builings. You can also add towers and even trebuchets 
 if you are Gondor. What I dont like about the bases are its the same all the time. You dont have 
 a variety of putting up walls where you want because the layout of the base is the same, you can 
 just change what buildings you put in which places.
  
  Sound is great with many different lines by the units as well as the beautfil music right from 
 the movie sountrack.
  
  The graphics are also great but you need a good computer. My only big complaint is if you dont 
 have a great computer you have to run the game on a low detail setting which of course doesnt make 
 it look as good. That also ties into not making thousands of units like the movies because the 
 game will lag too much, but you can still make enough units to feel like the movie.
  
  The game is great and a lot of Lord of the Rings fun. There is nothing like plowing down some Uruk-Hai 
 with the Rohirrim or blasting units away with Gandalf. Its a fun game which you should enjoy yourself 
 for a while, especially LotR fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooli0
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2004 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The first chapter in the Middle-earth universe was published in Great Britain back in 1937. In 
 The Hobbit or There and Back Again a kids book, the public got its first peak into the fantastic 
 world. I bet no one was imagining the complex world that J. R. R Tolkien was creating, which was 
 later revealed with the six books known as The Lord of The Rings.
  
  Peter Jackson and crew did a very good job transferring the universe from the books to the white 
 screen. EALAs Battle for Middle-earth doesnt do the job quite as well, trying to capture the 
 scope of things, this time moving from the white screen to a PC screen.
  
  A strategy game is a good idea for the Middle-earth universe but EA plays it safe with a classic 
 RTS and its okay but they didnt have to do that. I cant help wondering what could have been if 
 some one like the company behind the Total War series had the license.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccgamespot
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 8, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has got it all. It's fun, it looks great, it sounds great, and it lasts long.
  However under strange circumstances the gameplay is horrible. Because of that, I give it a tilt 
 of 1. It is quite a disappointing game. I expected more out of this. Looking at the screenshots 
 and movies for this as previews made it look awesome. And it is awesome. But when you start playing 
 it, you realize that it only looked good. It truely is not. This is due to the fact that the controls 
 are difficult to master, and the fact that it is not a very stable game. It is all fake. The story 
 is altered. And so in your mind you know that this game has a horrible tilt. Too much graphics, 
 sound and value can really damage a game's gameplay. And its tilt. As a result, The Lord of the 
 Rings, The Battle for Middle-Earth is a total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2004 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I sat down to play after installing it last night and ended up playing for 4 hours straight. I 
 was engrossed by the presentation and had alot of fun with the game. I wish the campaign would 
 have been played on a more open ended map of provinces like in Rise of Nations. But it's close 
 to that style and still does a nice job of presenting the LOTR storyline while letting you battle 
 for provinces along the way. The AI at medium level seemed spotty. I was clearing a map with Rohan 
 and found a small area where about 100 Isengaurd troops were hiding 500 yards from my castle. It 
 seemed odd they didn't attack it especially when I didn't really have it defended. I hope the difficulty 
 on hard will be a bit more aggressive. 
  
  I switched over to playing some skirmish games with the AI on medium level. The computer would 
 send enemies in waves but never mounted an aggressive attack. I think it was because my allies 
 were storming across the map and clearing them out for me. The best games will be online against 
 other players though. Each of the 4 factions are very playable and have different styles. EALA 
 did a great job of designing them from the source material. The game makes you feel like you are 
 saving (or destroying) Middle Earth. It will have you cheering for the heroes who save the day 
 or curse at them while you crush them under foot. The game has a polished feel from graphics to 
 sound and is just plain fun. You've never been able to put yourself into the role of Tolkien fantasy 
 this way before. It has been so well recreated by the team at EALA. Just don't go into it looking 
 for Warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farid2001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2004 5:29 pm PT
Review:  If you're a strategy fan, then I would say this game is a MUST-HAVE. LEt me start by Graphics. 
 This game simply delivers one of the best graphis available in Strategy Games, it's hugely cinematic 
 and highly detailed. Sound is incredible as well. All famous soundtracks from the movies plus high 
 quality scroes give this game an indredible edge to compete with the most games out there (if you 
 have a sorrounded Sound System, then you're blessed) . Gameplay is nice as well. it's not revolutionary, 
 but it's quiet good and solid, and in my opinion, it's still one of the best out there. Missions 
 could be easy or hard, while choosing to play on easy mode will little make it too fast to finish 
 each mission. Campaign is long and very satisfying with the exceptions of some crappy mission. 
 Overall, i must emphasize that this game is great and very solid. If you're a fan of the movies, 
 then forget everything else and get this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private-Cowboy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth is a great game, no doubt. The visuals are really great (hard to imagine 
 the engine originally came from C&C Renegade) and the sound and music score ist very well made 
 too. So you are drawn into a game that is basically a playable version of the trilogy, nothing 
 more.
  
  It lacks a little bit of depth and is far away from gameplay juggernauts like Rome: TW but what 
 can you expect from a game that is based on the most simplistic story available: good vs evil - 
 no turn of events, no suprises, nothing.
  
  Basically BFME is like a no-frill airline. You get what you pay for and you get a lot of it for 
 but no extras. You'll get a great game but don't expect anything new.
  
  One more thing: For every great mission in the game (like Minas ...) there are 3-4 dump anonymous 
 "kill them all" maps to do in between - that is a bit odd and reduces the gameplay experience somewhat. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
