-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Last Remnant
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/thelastremnant/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A long, epic tale in a fascinating new fantasy world.
 Fun, uniquely strategic battle system.
 Gorgeous musical score.
 Beautiful art design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some texture pop-in and screen tearing.
 Battle system can be obtuse.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 499 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 24, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of this fun and fascinating role-playing game is far superior to its Xbox 360 counterpart. 
 

  The PC has not provided a home to many Japanese role-playing games, and when it has, the results 
 have been uneven. How refreshing, then, that The Last Remnant is such an entertaining experience. 
 It features a rich, original fantasy world, obviously crafted with great care and artistry, and 
 it tells a strong, politically charged tale that will keep you glued to the screen. Although somewhat 
 flawed, the battle system is fun to play around with, particularly in the second half when enormous 
 armies go head to head in some dramatic, bloody showdowns. When the game was released on the Xbox 
 360 in 2008, these elements were partially buried under an avalanche of shameful technical problems. 
 But with nary a hint of slowdown and less noticeable texture pop-in, The Last Remnant's excellent 
 gameplay shines on the PC, making it a journey that almost any RPG fan should take.  

        var shown = false; function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  Rush Sykes is 
 the prototypical fantasy hero, innocently sulky but totally devoted to his sweet sister Irina. 
 When Irina is kidnapped, Rush hurries to liberate her, but unsurprisingly, it's not the most straightforward 
 of rescues. Rather, Rush finds himself caught in a political struggle centered around powerful 
 magical artifacts called remnants. These objects are both the center of society as well as a great 
 curiosity, heavily researched at the Academy by hosts of scientists, including Rush's own parents. 
 What starts as an upheaval between the pro- and anti-remnant factions explodes into an all-out 
 war when a formidable hulk of a man calling himself the Conqueror appears, apparently able to control 
 any remnant, no matter how large or potent. Political forces clash and hidden powers are unleashed, 
 and though a tenuous peace is eventually achieved, it isn't long before conflict reawakens. The 
 story is epic, though Rush himself isn't the most interesting leading man. Fortunately, his supporting 
 cast is excellent; the noble David is a charmingly haughty presence, and David's guard Emma makes 
 a strong impression, thanks to some excellent, emphatic voice acting.  

  Whereas other RPGs tend to center on their protagonist, The Last Remnant eventually focuses on 
 the Conqueror and his secrets. He's a solemn, momentous presence who makes an impact each time 
 he appears, and it's easy to believe that this man may actually be capable of controlling the universe. 
 But though it will take you a good 60 hours or more to unravel all of his secrets, the journey 
 is entertaining, given that The Last Remnant's distinctive fantasy world is so beautifully constructed. 
 Each city you visit is different from the last, yet the overall vision is cohesive, so nothing 
 feels out of place. Landmarks such as the towering, glowing remnant in Elysion are not soon forgotten, 
 and numerous side quests will have you exploring scorching deserts, caves of bubbling lava, and 
 even the land of the dead. Most of these locales are lovely and beautifully lit.  

  Those attractive environments were squandered on the Xbox 360, on which awful technical problems 
 soiled the artistic beauty. On the PC, the frame rate remains smooth, which makes it easy to drink 
 in the scenery and fully enjoy the bloody drama of The Last Remnant's spectacular-looking battles. 
 Texture pop-in, a telltale sign of the Unreal 3 Engine, is still present but less conspicuous, 
 and the loading times have been markedly improved, which keeps the pace flowing nicely. However, 
 a new problem has cropped up in the form of some occasional screen tearing, and the lack of an 
 in-game v-sync option means that you'll need to adjust the settings in your video-card software 
 if it gets bothersome. Nevertheless, these issues are relatively minor, and though some low-resolution 
 textures and simple geometry may occasionally distract PC enthusiasts with keen eyes, the game's 
 technical aspects ably support its art design.  

           Raptors taste like chicken, once you remove the crunchy shell.      

  The Last Remnant's 
 battle system is intriguing, though you will be several hours in before you can appreciate its 
 intricacies. Rather than controlling party members during combat, you recruit leaders and soldiers, 
 and group them together into unions. Although each unit has his or her own stats, equipment, and 
 arts (the game's versions of spells and combat skills) , you issue union-wide, turn-based commands 
 on the field. Whereas in most RPGs you choose very specific actions, such as casting a particular 
 spell or using a particular item, in The Last Remnant you choose broader commands. These may include 
 healing unions that need it; performing mystic arts (though you can see which arts the units will 
 use, you can't micromanage them on a unit-by-unit basis) ; or summoning Rush's awe-inspiring, beautifully 
 designed cyclops to assist in battle.  

  Early in the game, when you don't have a whole lot of unions under your command, you may bemoan 
 the lack of micromanagement that this system entails. The fundamentals are a little confusing too, 
 given that there doesn't always seem to be rhyme or reason to the process that decides which abilities 
 are available to you and when. Later on, however, you'll have a lot more units under your command, 
 and you'll discover how elaborate battles can become. As units use certain arts, they level up 
 those arts and learn newer ones, all the while improving stats -- though it's unclear how some of 
 those stats affect the outcome of your actions. (Units possess such attributes as gluttony; what 
 does that do, anyway?) Thus, grouping units into sensible unions is crucial, as is grouping them 
 into an appropriate formation. You can get through many standard battles without putting too much 
 thought into these aspects, if you take a lot of side quests and grind your way to power. However, 
 even with a bit of grinding, the biggest battles require care, both before and during combat. As 
 you play, you'll gain a better grasp of your enemies' weaknesses, the pros and cons of each formation, 
 and the best way to develop your individual units through battle commands.     

   

  Eventually, you'll experience some large, impressive-looking battles. They can also be really challenging, 
 so don't expect to rush to a victory, particularly when dozens of unions are involved. On the PC, 
 limits on the number of leaders you can employ on the battlefield have been removed, but financial 
 restrictions and more resilient enemies prevent battles from getting too easy. Individual turns 
 can take a while to complete, but by repairing the frame rate issues that plagued the Xbox 360 
 version, developer Square Enix has also accelerated the pace of battle. The game will also throw 
 quick-time events called critical triggers at you that require a rapid button or key press; performing 
 it correctly may initiate a counterattack, or will improve your units' position in the turn order. 
 These events, like most of the game, are best experienced with a gamepad in hand. We were able 
 to play successfully with several different gamepads, including an Xbox 360 pad. The keyboard is 
 supported, of course, and that scheme is perfectly functional, if less natural than the alternative. 
 Thankfully, if you aren't a fan of quick-time events, there is an option to have critical triggers 
 resolved automatically.  

           RPG heroes earn fame in direct proportion to how hard it is to make a cosplay version 
 of their outfit.      

  The colossal battles are the highlight of the game, not just because they are impressively dramatic, 
 but also because you can see the effects of your union makeup, formations, and in-battle decisions 
 more clearly than in the smaller ones. A morale bar across the top of the screen adjusts during 
 the constant tug of war, based on whether you are attacking an enemy's flank or rear, which status 
 effects are active, and a number of other factors. Location on the battlefield, attack range, and 
 potency of healing items and arts are among the many other dynamics that you'll need to consider 
 as you plan out your turn. This thoughtful preparation makes it all the more heartbreaking when 
 you lose a long, well-planned battle. A significant number of late-game skirmishes take a long 
 time to complete, often stringing several tough encounters together. Considering that formations 
 and union setup can require a bit of trial and error, you might lose a bit of progress the first 
 few times you attempt these colossal battles. Thankfully, the combat is fun and addictive, and 
 a high-speed battle option new to the PC version also alleviates the frustration. But given the 
 length of these lengthy clashes, it's vexing that you are not allowed to save between turns. Otherwise, 
 you can save almost anywhere, and the ability to skip cutscenes should you need to replay a section 
 is also a welcome convenience.  

  Outside of combat, a little scavenger named Mr. Diggs will excavate various raw materials that 
 you encounter in dungeons. Along with the monster parts that you forage, these items can be used 
 to upgrade your equipment or create new weapons and accessories. There's not much to the process, 
 and you can customize only Rush's equipment; other units take care of things on their own, using 
 the items you let them keep in the postbattle screen to upgrade their stuff, or asking if you'll 
 take them hunting for a particular resource. Considering that characters develop based on the attacks 
 they perform, there is a lot of flexibility -- and intangibility -- to party progression. As a result, 
 there is a certain amount of replay value here, if only to see how differently battles can play 
 out if you decide to make Rush concentrate solely on mystic arts, or see what happens when the 
 four-armed Torgal focuses on combat skills.  

           Swords are nice, but sometimes, fists are the best way to get the job done.      

 
  The Last Remnant sounds mostly spectacular. The voice acting isn't always excellent, though it's 
 hard to fault the actors when they're forced to deliver some of the game's awkward dialogue and 
 odd bits of slang. Everything else is of top quality, particularly the fantastic symphonic soundtrack. 
 Even after hundreds and hundreds of encounters, the battle music is always rousing, and the triumphant 
 fanfare after every conflict rivals the best of the genre. Every town has its own theme music, 
 and the melodies are terrific in their own right and flawlessly match the city's unique visual 
 design as well.  

  By fixing the frame rate and other technical issues that encumbered the Xbox 360 version, Square 
 Enix has improved the entire experience, allowing the great story and fun gameplay to sparkle on 
 their own terms. Granted, The Last Remnant could have been tightened up even more, but even with 
 its occasional visual and gameplay foibles, it's a delight from beginning to end.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:47 am PT
Review:  When playing a game like Dark Remnant, I am prepared to overlook the graphic glitches, awkward 
 combat, and long loading time issues. I am a firm believer in the ability for good plot to make 
 everything else right, and for the most part Japanese games have not failed to deliver (read: final 
 fantasy, fire emblem, etc.) . Therefore, the lack of originality and depth in this game's story 
 came as a sharp slap in the face.
  
  First of all, the protagonist, Rush, is overdone and cliche; being only the ten-millionth hero 
 to start with absolute lack of experience and clueless-ness about everything that's going on. He 
 is, obviously, endowed with mysterious artifacts and the inexplicable ability to make powerful 
 friends. I call this ability inexplicable because the other flaw in Rush is that he is instantly 
 unlikable. I for one developed an immediate distaste for his enormous ego and overflowing amount 
 of idiocy. This is not the kind of character I would want to be in the same room with, much less 
 have him star in this 20 hour story.
  
  The story itself is highly contrived and reeks of inconsistency and unoriginality. For something 
 as overdone as being plunged into the middle of a war over powerful artifacts against satanic demons, 
 you would think the creators could at least have managed a few sparks of innovation. Probably the 
 worst part is that none of the companions the game casually tosses at you are very interesting, 
 and since none of they have much to say they all just sort of act as mercenaries while you basically 
 take on the world alone.
  
  To advance the plot, the game takes you on a very linear path (that is, unless you count the highly 
 irrelevant and unimaginative sidequests) . It is strange how a game capitalizing on plot also tries 
 to reduce player interaction as much as possible... in general, you can not interact with the environment, 
 the mobs, or even your own party members. As the story progresses you begin to realize that you 
 as the player has as little role in it as you do in combat (which, by the way, involves you clicking 
 the same 2 buttons once every 50 seconds and watching the ensuing fight scene) . I've played a few 
 games where the plot is completely linear but the story was just so enjoyable that I still liked 
 it. However those are incredibly rare and sadly it is not the case here.
  
  Lastly, even though I said I would be judging on plot alone, I'd just like to mention that the 
 Unreal engine is bad at both handling a lot of characters at once as well as detailed modeling 
 of a few, so in short it really isn't suitable for this kind of RPG.
  
  Well, aybe something was lost in the translation, but it'd have to have been a lot of somethings, 
 because all I can say is that in the English version, this game is not worth your time: if you 
 are looking for a good story, look elsewhere... especially if you have already been spoiled by 
 Square Enix's other games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alm80
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  First of all I'd warn all hardcore RPG fans that this game is NOT an RPG. There's so many missing 
 elements of RPG that the game can hardly be described as "role-playing". You don't really control 
 the development of your character, neither you control the development of your party members. The 
 amount of weapons and equipment in this game is very small, compared to other RPG games. The story 
 line is linear, you don't get to make choices anywhere, you just move along the path set for you 
 by game designers. You don't interact with your party members, you even travel alone and your companions 
 appear only in battles, so you can't really talk to them.
  
  So, why despite all this I rated the game at 8.0?
  
  There are several reasons for that. The 
 story is good. The protagonist is plain and rather shallow, but supporting characters are more 
 complex and interesting, there's also a very interesting political struggle that is going on behind 
 the scenes so that unlike in many other RPGs you don't have a feeling that your character is the 
 only one doing anything important in the world. 
  
  The battle system is great. You have to plan the role of each union, its formation and it's tactics, 
 what enemy to engage, when and how. Without this battle system, where you have to control large 
 groups that can engage in large-scale battles, most of the appeal the game has would be lost. I 
 also didn't find it difficult to play just using my keyboard.
  
  The graphics is very good, cut-scenes are beautiful. I didn't notice any frame rate problems throughout 
 the game. Sound is good, but there's a ridiculous problem which I couldn't solve that you can't 
 hear characters speaking when not in battle or a cut-scene. The game as a whole is rather stable 
 although I had some crashes in battles.
  
  Overall, good hack-n-slash RPG, but don't expect this game to be as good as Fallout 3, Oblivion 
 or good ole Baldur's Gate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all the characters, the story from what I can tell is okey. I know I have played the game 
 not enouch in order to give any accurate description of the game. One of the things that comes 
 as a smack in the face for PC users is the fact that you have to do with XBox360 tooltips. In example 
 in order to get to the party screen you need to press the yellow Y button on the Xbox controller. 
 I do not have a Xbox360 controller and surely don't have a yellow Y button on my keyboard! I have 
 to quit the game in order to be able to be able to see the button to access the party screen. Ofcourse 
 it wouldn't be much of a problem to figure out what button would be the Y button but due to the 
 fact it changes according to what situation it's in it's nearly impossible to find out what's what. 
 I bought this game via steam so there is no manual that can help me with this problem. 
  
  This ofcouse is a huge defect of the game but does not make it unplayable. The other prolbem the 
 game is suffering from is lack of depth in combat the inability to customize your characters. You 
 can however customize a union (division) to your own liking by placing different types of characters 
 in there but still it does not give the same feel like customizing your own character. 
  
  That being said the combat is original in it's own sort of way yet it does not leave you many options 
 like your used from Final Fantasy. The combat is simply dull and repetative.
  
  Conclusion if you like a solid story I am sure this game is what you need. But personaly I have 
 trouble grinding trough the hours of repetitive fights in order to see a few minutes of cutscene 
 every now and then. 
  
  I really hate to say this but this game is probarly not worth your money. I am sorry SquareEnix 
 I genneraly like your work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas182
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  An absolute gem, this game will make you lose a whole lot of sleep. Unlike what the critics are 
 saying, I personally think the story is quite good. Granted, I haven't finished the game, but I 
 have put in a little over 40 hours and there hasn't been a single minute of boredom. You play as 
 Rush, a teenager with a weird and powerful talisman. Rush's sister, Irina, has been captured and 
 your character needs to save her. You end up meeting a legion of generals led by David, the marquis 
 of Athlum. They will join your party and guide you on your journey to find your missing relatives.
 
  
  If you played Pokemon (and I did, back when I was about 12 and had a Game Boy Color) , or if you 
 played Final Fantasy (I haven't.. lol) , The Last Remnant will look familiar.
  
  I haven't played FF, so I don't know how deep that game is. What I can say is that The Last Remnant 
 has a LOT of depth. You control "unions", basicly a legion, composed of units. You start out with 
 the ability to control only a few of them, but eventually this will increase and sooner than later 
 you'll be controlling a small army.
  
  These unions require "Formations", which are gained and leveled as you progress. Different formations 
 have different pros and cons. The way you set up your unions will have a big impact in the outcome 
 of battles. Think of it as a party in a game like World of Warcraft, where it is always better 
 to have a well balanced group. Well, it's like that, but with 5 groups, all at once (once you've 
 progressed enough, that is) , thus it's recommended to have a few healers/hybrid healers in every 
 group, and to place them well protected within the union's formation.
  
  The combat is turn based, and you have little control over it. You start out by giving orders, 
 and your unions will execute them. During the battles, however, you may trigger a critical. When 
 that happens, the screen flashes and, if you hit the right button on your keyboard or gamepad, 
 you will unleash a critical, followed by another critical, and so on. These criticals not only 
 deal extra damage, they also benefit your entire party for they also alter the order of attacks 
 (the game calls this Teamwork) . The only bad thing about combat is that you cannot turn "Turbo 
 Mode" on DURING the action, only when you're giving orders. Turbo Mode, as the name suggests, lets 
 you fast forward thru most of the fight, which makes fighting stupid weak monsters a heck of a 
 lot easier. Overall the combat system is very neat.
  
  The game is a RPG, which means items, leveling up and crafting components. You don't have any control 
 over your party's equipment (unless you change a line in a .ini file in your My Documents folder.. 
 which I did ;) God bless the PC... lol) , but as long as you have extra stuff laying around in your 
 inventory, your party members will ask you to lend them the items they want. They will also confiscate 
 loot from monsters. This is how they upgrade their equipment; you kill a baddie, it drops some 
 stuff, if it's a component one of your followers can use, they confiscate it (you can, however, 
 say "no") . When they've gathered enough components, they will automatically create new equipment.
 
  
  Technical Analysis:
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good. Not great, not legendary, just good. The cut scenes are wonderfully detailed, 
 the battles are filled with neat effects.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is excellent. It makes battles a heck of a lot more interesting when you're pounding bad 
 guys with hectic electric music playing in the background.
  
  Gameplay:
  Described above. This game isn't perfect, but it is VERY GOOD.
  
  Depth:
  With over 800 weapons.. 
 That's right.. just weapons... imagine the other things, like a million union possibilities, and 
 one heck of a long game, The Last Remnant is trully amazing.
  
  Story:
  A good story that ties the game together. Thats all you need when you've got solid gameplay anyway... 
 just a good story.
  
  Addiction Level:
  INSANE... I crashed at 7 in the morning yesterday... =O
  
  Bottom Line:
  GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:33 am PT
Review:  Well again I am fooled and misguided by the gamespot ratings... Along many players, gamespot also 
 rated this game as a great game, but I have to say I didnt find anything great, or even good about 
 this game.
  
  First of all I have to tell you, I am a hardcore RPG player, I played many RPG's, fallout series, 
 Baldur's Gate series, Arcanum, Vampire series, Hell I even played Eye of the Beholder series... 
 So what I expect from an RPG is a solid story, good gameplay and roleplaying! In today's gaming 
 world, RPG is shredded down to hit hit hit, run run run, loot loot loot... No my friends Diablo 
 II is NOT an RPG. It is a HACK N SLASH game... If you played both Baldur's Gate and Diablo II, 
 you know what I mean... If you played BG and didnt like it, dont bother reading my article cause 
 as I said before, I am a hardcore RPG player and I dont give a damn about the graphics or something.
 
  
  So to the game at hand, The Last Remnant. I am not really familiar with the Japanese RPG's like 
 Final Fantasy so I was curious and took a peek at it.
  
  I have to say it is totally horrible. When you get past the good looking graphics, the rest is 
 not enough to keep going. Where to start?
  
  The story does not even appeal you to look at it, a boy searching his sister. The worst part is 
 after a while the game becomes "Oh alright, there is place A, which contains bla bla monsters, 
 and there is place B, which is infested with bla bla thiefs. Which one will you explore?"
  
  I was stunned... no searching no talking to other NPC's to look for clues, nothing! It is pretty 
 straightforward, you go to point B from point A, kill the monsters, find items and move on. 
  
  The moving on part is more incredible, you walk alone, the party you form does not travel with 
 you, only join the battles, which means you walk alone! which means there is no interaction with 
 your companions. After playing BG, Arcanum, even Lionheart, this is amazing... Truly amazing. Imagine 
 playing BG without speaking to Aerie, or witness the phliosophical arguments of Keldorn and Jaheira. 
 In TLR, your "companions" are merely henchmen, get in battle and move out. I am pretty sure some 
 cutscenes will appear at some moments so you talk with your companions, no ability to interact 
 with the NPC. 
  
  As for the battles, the only good part is it is turn based, so I can get to kitchen and grab a 
 coffee or beer. that is it. I didnt like it one bit, cause I dont know how my character is effecting 
 the combat, I didnt see any scores like STR, DEX, INT and so on. so it is merely turn 1 hit, wait, 
 turn 2 hit, wait and it goes on and on.
  
  I personally couldn't hold on much longer and I just quit playing... It is absolutely horrible, 
 I didnt find one bit to interest me. I guess it is suitable for younger players, like 8 or 9 year 
 old gamers.
  
  If you like RPG's stay away from this game, go play Drakensang, it is much much much better, and 
 I have to say Drakensang is a good game, worth a try believe me, or go play arcanum, BG, or any 
 older RPG's. This game is not RPG, it is something different, but no RPG. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  The game delivers a gaming experience I haven't felt since FF7. I still think FF7 is perhaps a 
 bit better, however, the last remnant makes up for it in how different it is from another JRPG. 
 The game keeps you glued to the console, err I mean PC. It has rare monsters which drop items needed 
 to construct weapons, the micromanagement of the team has been dropped and instead you have a fairly 
 good AI which takes care of the rest. You go into the open and you decide which task you are going 
 to do next. What will bring you that much more power. How many battles to go up that one point. 
 Each battle gives you power.. a bit of it.. but power none the less. Most likely you will see your 
 levels go up after every single battle.. but that is the beauty - You see yourself level even though 
 it is by a slight amount. After 100 or so battles, of course, you can see a big difference in your 
 party. The game is a bit hard to describe and its intricacies hard to master. But you will have 
 fun finding all of that out. The story is not that bad, most reviewers are knocking it. The game's 
 story is better than most garbage that has come out so far. The game is truly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n8hfx08
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  This doesn't even fall into the 'old-school' area of jap rpgs, it's just bad. It reminded me of 
 Final Fantasy: Tactics, and will probably only appeal to a niche audience of diehard Square/JRPG 
 fans.
  
  I played the PC port of this sub-par Xbox 360 game. I use that terminology because if you don't 
 have a 360 controller, you'll probably toss this game in about 10 minutes.
  
  Every part of the tutorial and explanations to the obscure and strange combat system are all push 
 the Red A Button, Push the right trigger, etc. I use a keyboard. I use a mouse. Nowhere do I find 
 a Red A Button unless I get creative with my magic markers. Sloppy ports deserve to go into the 
 circular file, since the developers didn't even care enough to port the instructions or key binds 
 to your platform.
  
  The combat system is far from intuitive. The pacing of the battles is one of the major issues that 
 threw me off. You will be a field general of sorts, commanding combat units to destroy your enemy 
 generals combat units. The setup pre-combat is fairly straightforward, magic/melee/item/etc, and 
 once you've assigned an action to each you hit the go button. This takes the fight from excessively 
 slow to very fast, as you have to pay attention to button queues for special attacks after you've 
 launched your battle. This leads to some lengthy, repetitive and uninteresting fights. Toward the 
 end of the game, some of these fights drag on for half an hour. No thanks. Clunky, poorly designed 
 combat system, totally unintuitive to operate and very unengrossing.
  
  The story I have nothing to say about. It belongs in an ages 6-8 love story comic book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitemute
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is a tough game to review without sounding too biased. Without enough of your 
 own time thrown into playing the game, it's very difficult to give an accurate overview of the 
 pro's and con's offered by Square's new title. If you are thinking to yourself, "I don't want to 
 read all this junk, just tell me quickly what you think of the game!" just skip to the bottom for 
 my summary statistics. 
  Let's start off with some good points; the graphics first off are superbly done. The character 
 models look great from the overall structure to the details on the clothes. I was especially impressed 
 with the realistic movements the characters made, even in some somewhat complex scenes. (There 
 is a one on one fight scene between two people that will make you think you are watching a real 
 movie) 
  Graphics aside, the story is better than most but definitely not up to Final Fantasy standards. 
 A very headstrong young lad will do anything to save his sister; he finds help from the nearby 
 brigade and many events unfold with a plot twist here and there. As hum-drum as it sounds, the 
 voice acting and writing is well done and makes for an immersing adventure.
  If you have read any other reviews, it's probably been said that 90% of this game is fighting. 
 That is a most accurate statement. Normal battles will last anywhere from 1-15 minutes depending 
 how ambitious you are. (You can engage multiple units at once in hopes of obtaining greater battle 
 rewards; most worthwhile) . Boss battles can take you all the way up to 45 minutes. Some of the 
 boss battles will try your patience, but don't worry, The Last Remnant strays from Square's save 
 point system and lets you save anywhere you want. Saving on PC takes no more than 4 seconds and 
 you are back to the game. Save before a boss and if you find yourself getting stomped out, just 
 reload and try again. Nothing is worse than having to re-do 30 minutes of work due to a boss thrashing!
 
  It wouldn't be a very good review without pointing out a few low spots in the game. The first, 
 and albeit very obvious, problem has to do with the level up structure and battle structure. This 
 game has more random elements in it than you can shake a stick at. Instead of giving your characters 
 individual commands like "Materia --  Bolt 3 --  Shinra Soldier", you choose "suggestions" for 
 your "Units". For example, you may see a suggestion that says something like "slam them with status 
 ailments" and whomever has status attacks in your unit may or may not cast them on the enemy unit. 
 You have zero control over what will pop up as suggestions (you get 4 each turn) and even when 
 you get the suggestion you want, there is a chance that the character in your unit you want to 
 act may just attack. This really is a difficult system to explain to those who have yet to play 
 the game; but it can get tedious. Thankfully, this randomness is not TOO hindering and you can 
 still make some good tactical decisions on your own.
  If you consider yourself a control freak and like to micro-manage your characters, you may want 
 to reconsider this game. You are not allowed to equip any other characters besides the main character. 
 Other characters, or recruits, equip themselves and upgrade their weapons periodically through 
 the game. If you happen to have a spare accessory, they may ask for it and equip it. There are 
 many many recruits in the game, and it is rumored you can manage up to 70 recruits in a battle 
 towards the end of the game. (I couldn't tell you because I'm only about 20+ hours into the game 
 as of yet)
  If you are expecting to play another Final Fantasy, be warned, this game may look similar on the 
 surface, but it really is more of a tactical-type RPG. Personally, I am enjoying the game a lot 
 as it offers a gorgeous landscape, many well done sidequests, an engaging story and a dose of square 
 to keep me from having withdrawals while waiting for FFXIII.
  
  Summary:
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Story: 8/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Learning Curve: High
  Worth the money: Yes
 
  Replay Value: Medium-High
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Thank you,
  Mute Mike
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuahng
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  glad to see someone break new grounds in graphics and new gameplay. the design team in charge or 
 the cities are on another level as the others. the level of detail put into the walls, pillars, 
 floors, tinted glass, stores are just so nice to stare at and go wow. 
  
  however the designers that were in charge of world terrain and trees were below the rest. with 
 such big terrains of just grass or sand or caves can be eyesore & boring. throw in new world elements 
 or scenic waterfalls & weird life forms would be nice.
  
  the overall characters design was as expected, nothing surprising. however, the monster are such 
 a let down, really so few of them, the only difference are that you meet them on higher level just 
 to see that they have new names and different colors, like from white to greenish, then later again 
 but in gold. like wth? go no time left for the bad guys?
  
  anyhow the SHIFT button turbo is a magic wond. to fast forward those repetitive battles. i wish 
 there was a SKIP button for some video clips that you have to rewatch when you load game after 
 losing to a boss. its so drainingly annoying.
  
  however, overall game is addictive, and personally finished it in 3-4 days. about 12 hours each 
 day. i like how the harvesting system and forging new weapons go. Also not to miss out that each 
 character can be so different according to which path YOU take them, very customized to your style.
 
  
  And YES, its one of those games that you have to try out, and an advise, you will be totally lost 
 in the beginning, slowly as you progress things make sence, game gets fun, and before you know 
 it, you cant leave it. so hang in there the first 2 hours is very.....?!...!.... . -_- ?
  
  .... and the ending. sign nice emo jap style ending. does hint that another episode will be coming 
 for sure. hope it doesn't go till like FFXx?
  
  JoshuaHng 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  First of all i want to warn every one that it needs a nice card so it can handle the nice scenes 
 both in combat and in the nice story. Now i have waited for this kind of game for a long time not 
 to mention that it is a role playing of it`s own kind. I do had some problems about just walking 
 around like a zombie of some kind. But the good part is , well you will see it for your selves. 
 I almost forgot to tell you all who like real role playing that it rely is worth it. This game 
 has a wonderful story almost takes you to the Final Fantasy long nice cut scenes that you love 
 to see and a lot of magic in it to so i promise you it is worth buying, but if you are not certain 
 then try the demo or just take and try it with a friend who has it. Remember this game takes a 
 little time but it is worth it, those who have long time jobs however can ply to relax when they 
 come home from work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The Last Remnant is a great game, and well worth the money. The story is very engaging and well 
 thought out. The combat system is different from normal rpg's as well. The combat keeps you involved 
 in the game so you're not just sitting there watching. There is an option though to turn combat 
 to all automatic if you wish. You have the ability to make and customize weapons in the game as 
 well, this is a nice touch.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in The Last Remnant are outstanding if you have a PC that can run it at the high setting. 
 I have mine turned all the way up, and have had no issues with texture popping or anything. I don't 
 have a monster rig either, I have a AMD 5000+ , a Gforce 8600 GT 512mb, and 3 gigs or ram, nothing 
 special, and it ran this game very nicely. The only issue I have is with the load times. If there 
 wasn't a load screen every 30 seconds I would have rated this game a 10.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds in the game are quite pleasing, they don't get respective quickly and sound good while 
 doing major battles.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  The replay value is very high, with the ability to hire hundreds of different people to join your 
 party, and countless ways to progress your party, the replay value is amazing.
  
  Recommend ? :
  
  I would recommend this to anyone, fan or not of RPG games. This game will 
 be on my PC for a long time to come. I have been playing for about 40 hours and still have not 
 finished the game. With all the side quest and things to do, you will be kept busy for many, many 
 hours ahead. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twugofski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Plays like a Japanese-style RPG in a richly rendered 3D world. The storyline is fairly linear and 
 the combat and character advancement system can seem obtuse, but it comes together in a surprisingly 
 enjoyable manner. The combat animations and cut scenes are a lot of fun and, quite frankly, sometimes 
 I just want to zone out and kill things without the stress of a FPS.
  
  While TLR takes its cues from the Japanese-style RPG where you roam around hunting and collecting 
 in real-time and then move into a turn-based combat system, combat is significantly more developed. 
 How your parties approach encounters does lead to different geometries once combat begins. How 
 your parties are organized does result in different tactical combat options. 
  
  Even the hunting and collecting is well-developed and an advancement over the alchemical systems 
 developed by most RPGs (like Oblivion) . Weapons can be created and customized and the each monster 
 can be broken down into the components necessary to advance your systems -- giving added purpose 
 to many of your adventures.
  
  Highly recommended and a great way to spend hours. The cut scenes and combat scenes alone are attention 
 grabbers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall_gunbl
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Unrestrained by the 360, this version of the game is able to shine to its fullest. It's very pretty, 
 loads fast (though its all given your pc) , and really is fun.
  
  The battle system is unique and though you may think that not having complete control sucks, games 
 like the old Tactics ogre were still good and had even less control then this game. Besides, giving 
 orders to 20 characters per round would really drag things.
  
  The setting is very nice. Each town is very beautiful and unique. The dungeons less so, but then 
 again, they are dungeons.
  
  General game play wise it is a good game. Collecting materials for yourself or your party members 
 aren't too much of a hassle, and once familiar with an area it is a breeze and is still fun to 
 go through with light grinding for whatever the occasion calls for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this will be a short review... I do not have too much to say, and haven't really played 
 the game for more than 4-5 hours, so it is not my place to make a deep judgement really, just wanted 
 to share my feelings with everyone. Those who have read my other review are free to decide if they 
 give credit to what I write.
  
  I do not want to offend anyone by the way, nor do I want to argue about what I have experienced. 
 This is just MY opinion, and everyone can have Hers/His.
  
  After this short prelude, let me just say, that this game was the most disappointing thing I have 
 seen these past few years in RPG.
  
  I'm inclined to say, that it is a shame that Square would disgrace itself with this after providing 
 such a series as Final Fantasy.
  
  The Graphics of the game are quite good, though Mass Effect looked just as well almost a year ago 
 - and this is a fact. If it did not, you did not play it maxed out.
  
  The sounds are ok, but the music is annoying... really it is. Just try walking around town for 
 a short time, and you'll notice that too.
  
  The weakest points are not the ones above, however...
  It's that fight-system. If you just blink 
 into the Gamespot review or the forums, you'll see that this is not my problem only... and if you 
 try the game - 2 things could happen:
  
  1. You'll get the feel of that robust, obscure thing and might even enjoy it.
  2. You'll feel 
 sick of it after a few hours.
  
  The latter one happened to me... With this bitter taste in my mouth do I end my review. I do not 
 have much to say... a real disappointment, and I am really sorry - I was looking forward to a great 
 Square game : (
  
  But this is just not it... No feeling of success in gameplay, no fun, only anger.
  
  I hope 
 the next RPGs I am looking forward to - Dungeon Hero; Dragon Age - will be worth waiting for unlike 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abahng
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't know why people didn't even buy the real game and gave it a terrible review? How 
 can you review the game without even playing the full version? The demo won't really tell you anything 
 about it. But enough about the rant, just hate ignorant, err... no blissful people.
  The game looks beautiful on the highest resolution, and they really perfected the unreal 3 engine 
 towards this game. Not only is it beautiful with the eye candy turned up, the flow and storyline 
 is intriguing enough to play for hours at a time without stopping. They really transitioned the 
 console version to the PC very well. Haven't found a glitch, bug, crash, save issue, driver issue, 
 random fps drops, or anything like that yet. Loading times are fast (three seconds at most for 
 me) .
  At first I didn't like it, as a matter of fact... I thought it sucked but playing Square Enix games 
 in the past I thought I would give it more time, and I'm glad I did. I haven't been this addicted 
 to a game in quite some time now. All you really want to do is battle, battle, and battle some 
 more getting the items you want and building your unions. The music doesn't get old, and the soundtrack 
 in the game is simply awesome. Leading unions of people at once, finding a strategic way to win, 
 and making decisions is all about the battle-system in this game. Your weapons upgrade on it's 
 own which is strange, or you can "imbue" your weapon to a more powerful one. 
  Your union makes decisions on their own, so whatever drops from the enemy they'll pick up and use 
 to see if it's necessary towards them... which is nice; so that you don't have to worry about 10+ 
 characters, what gear they're using, stats, etc.
  If your computer sucks, and you know it, I wouldn't bother buying the game. There is literally 
 a loading screen for everything, and although mine loads in under three seconds, it sort of kills 
 the momentum. But if you like RPGs, have a fast computer, and wants a interesting story, go for 
 it and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjutsu2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Though The Last Remnant has been out for some time on the Xbox 360, it has been a very rough start. 
 Having bought and played the Xbox 360 version, I am very well aware first hand of the problems 
 that pledged the console version of the game. Though The Last Remnant is literally an exact port 
 from the Xbox 360, Square-Enix has taken the time to go through and attempt to correct the very 
 obvious mistakes from the first release of the game. The Last Remnant for the PC does have some 
 very significant minor changes, which in the overall view are what the game desperately needed 
 to get an edge over the other games in the genre. The PC version features a number of improvements 
 - graphics were finally adjusted and optimized for the PC, which in term does reduce lag significantly 
 it still has it flaws in terms of texture loading, which actually seems to be an occurring theme 
 in third party games that use the Unreal 3 Engine. Though the engine runs great on the PC, you 
 still do need a decent gaming rig in order to get the most out of this title (refer to personal 
 specs at the bottom for what I was using throughout this review.) and even if you own a Crysis 
 owning system you still have issues, thanks mainly to the very common loading screens you will 
 encounter quite often. The character designs are nice, and there is a good amount of detail involved 
 with every character, however you will almost never get this kind of level of detail unless you 
 boost the graphic settings that even surpass that of the original console version. Environments 
 come in a rather wide verity, consisting of wide open plains to desserts to ruined castle dungeons, 
 while the actual environment you traverse is nice, the battle environments are left bare and empty 
 consisting of only a plane and walls reflecting the current environment your in. One of the new 
 features is the ability to view your items and weapons before purchasing, which is a nice addition 
 allowing you to actually take the time to view what your character's are using in combat. Lighting 
 effects in The Last Remnant are quite stunning at time, and the amount of detail that goes into 
 some of the in-game cut-scenes are of course on par with most Square-Enix made titles before it.
 
  
  The combat in The Last Remnant will not be for everyone, that I can promise everyone that lays 
 eyes on this review. Combat in The Last Remnant (PC) is pretty much the same in the Xbox 360 version, 
 though there are some minor tweaks and features added to give it some extra spice. The main battle 
 screen HUD is exactly the same as that of the Xbox 360 version, though you will notice changes 
 that come in the form of... more buttons and text. The Last Remnant's battle HUD is actually pretty 
 clustered to be honest, and even if you increase the resolution, the HUD will actually adjust and 
 fill to that specific resolution, so there's not a whole heck of a lot you can do about cleaning 
 it up. The game at first is very straightforward, teaching you the bare basics to survive a battle 
 before you are eventually in command of your own unions. The Last Remnant does have a pretty good 
 tutorial and help system, however the amount of detail involved in the game proves how useless 
 the tutorial system actually is sometimes. Battles are indeed turn-based, you have no direct control 
 over characters, but instead issuing command orders to your specific Unions throughout a battle. 
 While this system might be confusing at first, it does actually work well and your character's 
 do a pretty good job when it comes to reacting to different situations. As for the new features, 
 they are most apparent in battle, one of the most noticeable new feature is the Turbo Mode, which 
 when turned On, enables the attack and battle speed to increase very significantly, thus greatly 
 reducing the amount of time wasting on pointless battles or grinding. Turbo Mode however does not 
 work well in boss fights, since you have no chance to react quick enough to a Quick Time event 
 such as dodging or countering, this leaves all your Unions open to attack, so use with caution. 
 Another change to the battle system comes in the form of Union customization, which enables you 
 to recruit any amount of Generals so long as you haven't reached your total recruit cap. This also 
 enables you to place as many Generals within Unions as possible, which isn't bad idea, though you 
 do still have the option to recruit basic units via the NPC in the Market Square. One of the most 
 noticeable changes between the PC and Xbox 360 version is the fact the battles lack the lag which 
 hurts the Xbox 360 version. This lag during the battle though did make it rather easy to hit the 
 Quick Time commands during battle, however since the PC lacks the lag, it's actually harder to 
 hit those commands due to the reduce lag and increased speed in which battle constantly remains 
 at. 
  
  As for storyline, I have to get one thing out of the way. While playing the Xbox 360 version of 
 the game, you will notice the game comes with 2-Discs, which is not a bad thing, however they actually 
 serve as a separation between arcs in the game. The PC version of the game, once installed takes 
 a whole 15GB and it will feel weird once you come upon the part when your suppose to change discs 
 on the Xbox 360 to set up for the next arc of the storyline. Not saying that it's a bad thing to 
 have 2-Discs, but on the PC version it actually feels out of places and disrupts the flow of the 
 storyline when you are almost rushed into the next arc which has almost no connection and different 
 plot then the beginning, this is also annoying considering once you get done with the first arc, 
 you will lose the ability to perform any actions, quests, etc from the first arc upon entering 
 the second arc. Which is why I think it feels weird having a continuous flow of dramatic storyline 
 to be suddenly disrupted and completely changed. At least the Xbox 360 Version gives you a that 
 break between changing discs to actually comprehend what's going on. Anyway, the story is pretty 
 lengthy, as noticed above it's taken me quite a while to actually complete the main quest, partly 
 due to all the little side questions which the main quest demands you to get involved in. While 
 annoying sometimes, it does a decent job of getting you prepared for the up-coming boss fights 
 in the main quest. Story might be a bit cliche yes, having to save someone important to you has 
 sort of always been a constant theme to go out and buy an RPG. While playing as Rush, you will 
 come across multiple story lines which in due time will begin to join together, and actually change 
 the main quest from which you initially thought you were trying to complete. On the Xbox 360 version, 
 you were able to save your sister and get owned by the Conqueror all within first disc, however 
 like I stated above, it being on the computer, this does give you the false impression that you've 
 completed the main task at hand, only to be introduced to a new quest in which only you can undertake.... it's 
 completely different from the first quest you initially began the game with, yes it's not wise 
 to suddenly change the overall plot, but it does at least give you a fresh start on the second 
 arc. 
  
  Overall The Last Remnant for the PC is a very nice attempt by Square-Enix to correct it's mistakes 
 on the Xbox 360. Though these fixes and additions are great, it's still the same game that was 
 released months ago. While the lag is gone, it is now replaced with another issue, which is not 
 only beefy system requirements but also annoying loading screens. The controls for the basic mouse 
 and keyboard are honestly not that great, though if you've played Final Fantasy XI, you'll feel 
 right at home with some of the controls. Controls are all customizable however, and you are allowed 
 to use either a Xbox 360 or computer game pad which works really well either way. The music is 
 very fitting for the type of game and the different environments connect well with their respective 
 tracks. Voice acting for the most part is your typical Square-Enix high value acting, though some 
 lines will make your head look down and shake in disappointment, The Last Remnant (PC) also offers 
 the option to use the original Japanese voices, which again are well done, however after listening 
 to the English voices for quite a while, listening to them in Japanese does make one wonder about 
 some of the character's age... Still before you decide to actually pick up the title I would recommend 
 visiting their site and running their benchmark and picking up the demo they uploaded before forking 
 over the money. I can just sit here and give you my honest opinion, but it's your money.... spend 
 wisely now.
  
  Personal Computer Specs While Playing PC Version:
  OS: Windows Vista 32-bit Ultimate Service Pack 1 w/ Directx10 Enabled
  Resolution: 2560x1600
 
  Anti-Alias: 4x
  Texture Quality: Highest
  Graphics Card: PNY Nvidia GTX 260 w/ Latest Drivers (overclocked)
  Motherboard: Phoenix Technologies 
 - Asus CrossFire 
  Processor: AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 6400+
  RAM: 4GB DDR3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeminemLaede
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  My first impressions from this game (+ and -) :
  
  (-)
  
  - Dialogs are not wired for sound, it's bad (remember Mass Effect?) ;
  
  - Playing very uncomfortably 
 on a keyboard (as always) ;
  
  - Story is poor...
  
  - Battles are interesting, but bother quickly;
  
  - I don't like characters in this game...
 
  
  (+)
  
  + Square Enix ^___^
  
  + Comfortable rotation of camera by a mouse;
  
  + Turn-based battle system (for me it is +) ;
  
  + Great music (as I expected) ;
  
  (+/-)
 
  
  +/- Better, than version for X-Box 360;
  
  +/- A great (but banal) beginning;
  
  +/- When I looked beginning of this game I remembered FF: Unlimited (did it seem to me?)
  
 
  +/- Japanese voice actors in this game is great, but English isn't so good.
  
  Verdict: not very good, but not so bad. To pass one time, you will not want anymore.
  I pray, 
 that FFXIII will not such as this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_Schmay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  TELL ME A STORY...
  ~It's a fantasy world with a dash of kidnapping, a pinch of Mystical items the hero can use, and 
 not to mention a four armed rabit/wolfman? I've just entered the world of The Last Remnant!
  
  I am a SNES/PS1/PS2 RPG player in my days and the best IMHO are the oriental, lore or anime-ish 
 art and story drama that make good RPG titles, well for me anyways. Seen the scene with R2D2/Princess 
 Leah hologram? Lol
  Anyhow, I love Japan RPGS imports!!! I am intrigued by the story so far about *spoiler spoiler* 
 and can't wait for the next twist. hehe
  
  LETS BATTLE!
  ~What won me over was the Battle system (reminiscent of Suikoden2, but this gots more 3on3 that 
 a platoon on 50 feel, anybody understand what i'm trying to say?) , sorta mixed COHwarhameri-ish 
 unit w/o the RTS feel, o well. I just looove the stat, skill, equipment upgrading buy/sell, and char-lvl-uping 
 aspects of RPGs and the action graphic sequences are dazzling!
  
  
  Pretty Pretty Pictures! and nice Dialogue...
  ~I remember playing campaign of COD for the 1st 
 time (and thats coming from me last thing i played was Doom1, ahhhh, oooh.... I was blown away 
 in that same way. I had it playing on high on my so-so 8800GT512 OCed/C2D e6400@2.66 and i noticed 
 little frame rate dropping, so i lowered setting to med on towns and dungeons, but high on the 
 awesome battles mode (i think thats what i did.) The character's facial expressions in cutscenes 
 where good, but becomes robotic and pauses a bit in those 3D rendered scenes in towns. i liked 
 the Japanese lang set and eng subbing, but just noticed that the lips followed the english script 
 more. 
  
  
  Awww, The Downside...
  ~The loading as others have mentioned is probably my biggest gripe, but story-wise, Voice acting 
 and battle system/grfx make up for it. (Pretty stuff naturally affects the length of the loads 
 so that's that.)
  
  My VERDICT....
  ~I would recommend this game to those into the FF/Suikoden kinda titles on the PC. It gets yer 
 fix for those epic Japanese RPG games. Try out the Demo if your wary, I dove head first and dd 
 not regret coz lets face it, its Square Enix! 
  
  Arigatou for reading my review of The Last Remant! *bow* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazzerz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Another half baked product from the SE engine. What was it last? Infinite Undiscovery?
  
  There isn't much to say about TLR. I never played the 360 version of it. SO I can't comment on 
 if anything was improved or what. From what I've played of this game though... well, I've seen enough.
 
  
  To start with, the voice acting in this game is just atrocious. No one sounds even remotely believable 
 in their role. Like GS mentioned, the script is pretty out there, so the voice actors were probably 
 all going "wtf?". Can't blame them too much. But scripts like the one in FFX or 12 aren't exactly 
 normal either and the voice sounded fine. So no real excuse there.
  
  Graphics are outstanding, even on medium settings across the board this game looks fantastic. Textures 
 are crisp, clean and clear, effects burst off the screen, dungeons and towns are meticulously detailed, 
 everything is very vibrant and alive. There is some noticeable texture pop in but... who cares.
 
  
  The camera could have used a bit of work, it's such an odd view. It's too sensitive, it's too close, 
 it just doesn't show enough of the environment around you. You'll get ambushed constantly in dungeons 
 because of the odd perspective on the camera. Put simply, it's a mess.
  
  Battles are interesting, if at first a little overwhelming. The game does a good job of holding 
 your hand for a bit though to get you used to it. I don't know, personal preference on this but... the 
 battles just aren't any fun. I found them boring. Strategy later on in the game plays a larger 
 role then it does at the beginning, you'll have to think a bit which is a good thing. And there's 
 lots of different ways to customize your characters (even if it doesn't seem like it) . But battles 
 themselves just drag on forever, even with turbo mode turned on. Add in the fact that monsters 
 are capable of some pretty fantastic cheap shots, boss characters can wipe your entire party in 
 a single hit and a questionable level up system and you've got a recipe for disaster here. Kudos 
 for trying to come up with something new, but if it's squad based combat you're looking for... look 
 elsewhere.
  
  I won't even go into the story much, there are some memorable characters and the plot has lots 
 of twists and turns but it takes a very long time for it to get interesting.
  
  It's not a bad game, there just isn't much here to like for the hardcore rpg fan or for those who 
 expect better from a company with the rpg reputation that SE has. It's an entertaining romp for 
 a while. But after you put it down you'll most likely never pick it back up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelly76
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  My word !! another new (lol) PC game that doesnt suck? Things are getting better..... maybe :)
 
  TLC is a very polished product, grabs you from the off-set with its nice visuals and slick interface, 
 although the UI may be a little confusing at first, Like with many games in this genre you stick 
 with it and ultimately you are rewarded.
  
  As mentioned the GFX are pretty awesome in The Last Remnant, although they sure aint perfect, ATI 
 users are already reporting performance problems even with the high end cards, Im an Nvidia user 
 so I guess Im lucky there.
  However no basic AA support on a new release still annoys me and seems a bit silly, yes we can 
 force AA from the NCP.... but should we really have to? Thats a different discussion I guess.
  There are texture pop-ins however as some of you may have heard elsewhere, but I feel this has 
 been slightly exagerated, yes its there, yes its all too apparent but its not really as bad as 
 people have made out.
  Also when it gets really busy onscreen (battles etc) fps do drop, but I dont really think it interferes 
 too much due to the nature of the gameplay (turn based combat etc)
  
  Audio is nice, a bit cheesy at times voice acting wise, and the 'tronic-rock' can be a bit tiresome 
 after a few hours battling ;)
  
  The new (is it new? dunno) battle/combat system seems to work very well indeed, but be warned it 
 will take a good hour or so until you are fairly comfortable with it.
  It must be said though that at times when you instigate a battle, occasionally you are unsure exactly 
 how many foes you will be facing.... hard to explain better than that. Basically you could be attacking 
 say 2 monsters but end up fighting 2-8 monsters or opponants, sounds confusing and at first it 
 is, but once again stick with it and all will make sence lol.
  
  Control wise things work without any major hitches, works well with mouse & keyboard but you can 
 also use x360 controller or a generic pad (after playing for 30 mins or so I started using my crappy 
 Logic 3 pad, and the game works perfectly with it) . People have stated experiencing control lag, 
 but as of yet I havent had this issue.
  
  All in all my scores would be ;
  
  GFX - 7.5 (Nice visuals but pop-in is a tad unforgivable)
  
  Sound - 7 (Nothing special, but 
 works well)
  
  Controls - 9 (Any game these days that doesnt REQUIRE an xbox pad is a winner for me)
  
  Gameplay 
 - 9 (As with most SquareEnix games it sucks you in from the start)
  
  OVERALL - 8
  
  If there was no pop-in on textures this would be a 9 from me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
