-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Matrix Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/matrixonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fairly open-ended character development system gives illusion of freedom.
 Some good-looking fighting moves and a fairly interesting combat system.
 Story-driven missions let you involve yourself in the Matrix's fiction.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very rough around the edges; runs sluggishly and filled with noticeable glitches.
 Repetitive mission design--mission types all blend together after a while.
 Not much diversity of content.
 Quirky interface takes a while to get used to.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.8, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,837 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Mar 22, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Matrix Online has some very good qualities, but you'll need to wade through a lot of potential 
 frustrations to enjoy them. 

  The Matrix is famous for its spectacular action sequences and its distinct sense of style. But 
 it's also notorious for burying all that silver-screen excitement under a heavy-handed parable 
 filled with overt biblical references and assorted philosophical agendas. Either way, the movies' 
 premise -- artificially intelligent machines have incarcerated humankind in a virtual prison resembling 
 our everyday lives, whose rules can be bent and broken by will alone -- makes for a compelling setting 
 for a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. Sure enough, the Matrix Online has a lot 
 of original ideas that are clearly inspired by concepts from the movies it's based on. Granted, 
 it's not that different from the many other games of its kind, since it's characterized by the 
 same sort of time-consuming and generally repetitive gameplay that's conventional to the genre. 
 It's also beset with glitches and an overall lack of polish, above and beyond what's par for the 
 course in a style of gaming in which rough edges are to be expected. It's not that this is a game 
 that only hardcore Matrix fans would enjoy (since they certainly might not) , it's that it takes 
 the same sort of person who can appreciate the entire movie trilogy in spite of its flaws to appreciate 
 this game. It's got some very good qualities, but you'll need to wade through a lot of potential 
 frustrations to enjoy them.  

          The real world runs at a much smoother frame rate than The Matrix Online.     

  The 
 Matrix Online takes place in the Matrix itself (a place also known as the Metro World) after the 
 conclusion of  The Matrix Revolutions , during a time of an uneasy truce between the machines and 
 the humans. A third group called the exiles, comprising self-aware humanlike programs that have 
 appropriated the Matrix as their home, further complicates matters. Amid all this, you play as 
 a newly awakened "redpill" -- a human freed from servitude to the machines and made conscious of 
 the state of the real world and the nature of the Matrix. You'll initially begin your journey in 
 the service of Zion, the last bastion of humankind on Earth, who'll help train you to survive and 
 thrive in The Matrix. But, soon enough, you'll have the option of choosing to align yourself with 
 any of the three organizations vying for priority in the Matrix.  

  One of the most enticing aspects of The Matrix Online, at least in theory, is the promise of an 
 evolving storyline that develops based on players' actions. The game has a smattering of voice-over 
 to augment key moments, such as your meetings with the leaders of the different factions, but most 
 of the "story," such as it is, unfolds in simple text messages during the many missions you'll 
 undertake. The dialogue is sprinkled with occasional typos and isn't especially remarkable otherwise, 
 but Matrix devotees will still like to think that their actions in the game have a greater meaning. 
 And, to the game's credit, it does a good job of defining the discrete identities of the three 
 major organizations: the determined humans, struggling to coexist with their one-time oppressors; 
 the machines, working to assert their authority in a changing world; and the exiles, a shadowy 
 group resembling a criminal underworld. While the humans are ostensibly the "good guys" in the 
 struggle, the other two sides are somewhat sympathetic in their own right, and being able to play 
 as a human in league with the machines or the exiles is an interesting option. In practice, though, 
 your choice of allegiance doesn't have a significant impact on what you do in the game. You'll 
 be undertaking similar types of missions over and over no matter what, and the only difference 
 is that you'll be performing them for one organization at the expense of the other two.  

  The nuts and bolts of the gameplay in The Matrix Online are reminiscent of what you do in other 
 online RPGs, so much so that even the manual acknowledges that the Metro World's "hackers" and 
 "operatives" are equivalent to the wizards and warriors you'd find in other such games. So if you've 
 played other online RPGs before -- especially ones with science fiction elements, such as Anarchy 
 Online or City of Heroes -- then you'll be in fairly familiar territory from the moment you start 
 playing The Matrix Online. Gameplay is heavily focused on quasi-turn-based combat, structured around 
 randomly generated missions that send you to different locations in search of targets or objects. 
 You earn currency, experience points, and loot (in the form of guns, gender-specific clothing, 
 and other items) from accomplishing these missions and from defeating opponents. You may take on 
 missions alone or in teams consisting of several players. It's also possible for players to form 
 more-permanent groups of up to a dozen, called "crews" (like the hovercraft crews seen in the Matrix 
 movies) , and multiple crews can form a "faction," which is equivalent to a guild in other games 
 of this type. In addition to fighting foes using hand-to-hand combat, guns, and "viruses" (i. e., 
 magic spells) , players can create useful items by "compiling" them. In short, The Matrix Online 
 offers most of the features you may have come to expect from this kind of game, though they're 
 all thinly veiled within the fiction of the game's universe. Despite a somewhat clunky interface, 
 The Matrix Online also has a few of its own perks, such as a built-in media player and built-in 
 AOL Instant Messenger compatibility.  

          The game's open-ended character-development system lets you freely customize what kinds 
 of abilities you bring to bear.     

  Probably the most original trait of The Matrix Online is how it doesn't force players to lock themselves 
 into a particular character profession, but instead allows them the freedom to mix and match different 
 abilities at their whim. So, much like how Neo rapidly mastered a variety of martial arts or how 
 Trinity suddenly understood how to fly a helicopter just in the nick of time, it's possible to 
 customize your character's proficiencies in The Matrix Online and make dramatic changes to your 
 skill set on the fly. But the system isn't as open-ended as you might expect. As in other online 
 RPGs, your character has an overall experience level, which directly influences both how powerful 
 you are and how many abilities you can have "loaded" at the same time. It also limits which abilities 
 you're capable of using. So, for example, while every character begins with basic self-defense 
 skills, it's not until you reach the 10th level -- which should take the average player from 20 to 
 30 hours of play -- that you can learn kung fu (and karate and aikido) .     

  Also, your character has certain innate statistics, such as "belief" and "perception," which make 
 him or her predisposed toward one style of play or another. This means that, even though it's theoretically 
 possible to unload all your martial art expert character's abilities and replace them with those 
 of, say, a "patcher" (i. e., a healer/priest/cleric) , your character might not excel in the new 
 role. Furthermore, a rather strict "memory capacity" limit, as dictated by your character's level, 
 means that you can either specialize by choosing as many abilities as possible within one of the 
 game's three different branches -- coder, hacker, and operative -- or be a jack-of-all-trades by picking 
 a smattering of abilities across two or three branches. Predictably enough, much of the player 
 population of the game seems to gravitate toward the "operative" branch, which is where all the 
 martial art and firearms skills are found. At any rate, the game's ability system is fairly complicated 
 and fairly unusual, but it ultimately boils down to giving you the same sorts of choices that you 
 get in other games like this. If you want to be on the front lines, slugging it out with exile 
 programs, or if you'd prefer to support your fellow players with helpful programs, the game lets 
 you. One interesting aspect is that, while some abilities can be purchased from vendors or found 
 as loot, others can be crafted, which helps foster interaction and commerce between players.  

 
          The interlock combat system sometimes produces great-looking results, but just as often 
 it doesn't look quite right.     

  Combat in The Matrix Online is emblematic of the entire game, in that some aspects of it are unique 
 and appealing yet the entire system is decidedly rough around the edges. Hand-to-hand combat involves 
 what The Matrix Online refers to as the "interlock" system, in which two characters square off 
 in choreographed martial art showdowns. In true kung fu movie fashion, if multiple characters target 
 a single foe with hand-to-hand attacks, they'll then take turns exchanging blows one after another, 
 rather than striking all at once. Of course, there's nothing to stop several characters from firing 
 on a target simultaneously with assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, submachine guns, and so on. 
 As you might expect from having played other role-playing games with guns in them, guns really 
 aren't any stronger than martial art moves, though they weren't so effective in the Matrix movies, 
 either.  

  Interlock combat allows characters to execute different tactics, including basic offensive and 
 defensive maneuvers, as well as various special moves. Special moves drain from your "inner strength" 
 pool, equivalent to your mana or energy or what have you. In a nod to pen-and-paper role-playing 
 games, whether your moves succeed or fail essentially depends on a random die roll by you and your 
 opponent -- whoever wins the roll hits his or her adversary. Some types of moves confer certain bonuses, 
 while others may inflict status ailments on the opponent, causing their subsequent rolls to suffer 
 a penalty. At any rate, it's not impossible for a weaker character to hit a stronger one, thanks 
 to the luck of the draw. Also, when dueling against human opponents, showdowns effectively become 
 a guessing game in which you try to repel your foe's strongest tactics and counter with your own. 

  In practice, the interlock combat is pretty interesting and fun to watch, even though you'll be 
 seeing a lot of the same animations over and over -- including the occasional slow-motion beat down, 
 courtesy of the bullet-time effect. You'll gain powerful, new moves as you gain in levels, and 
 the various attacks at your disposal certainly seem very strong. The system really isn't so different 
 from the combat you've experienced in other online RPGs, if you've played any, but it's different 
 enough. Unfortunately, the choppy frame rate and occasional bugged animations take away from the 
 experience. These problems are especially noticeable if you're fighting as part of a group, at 
 which time combat tends to devolve into a frantic, stuttering mess (albeit a potentially entertaining 
 one) . Regardless, the foes you'll be facing aren't very interesting to fight, as they're pretty 
 much all the same. You'll see hoods standing around in alleyways and enemies loitering about in 
 your mission areas, and both groups tend to attack on sight.  

          You can take on missions for Zion, the machines, or the exiles led by the Merovingian. 
     

  Missions in The Matrix Online are as repetitive as the combat -- meaning, they're just interesting 
 and varied enough to be fairly addictive, but not diverse enough that you lose sight of the fact 
 that you're doing the same thing over and over. Eventually, you reach a stage where you can elect 
 to take on missions of varying type, length, and difficulty. But even with these parameters under 
 your control, most missions still boil down to hightailing it to a certain building, then clearing 
 a floor of enemies either for the sake of it or in search of a given item, after which point you 
 need to head somewhere else. You can teleport between different "hardlines" (which look like phone 
 booths) that you've discovered in the Matrix and you can also take the subway. But even after you've 
 learned how to hyperjump across building rooftops, you still might wish you could drive. How come 
 the bluepills get cars?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (78 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the money. The city was HUGE, and not only that, but you could go into ANY 
 sky scraper you see, ANY house, or ANY place you want. There is so much variety to the different 
 places, the combat is amazing. The way your character fights resembles the way Neo fights in "The 
 Matrix: Reloaded". Your inventory has TONS of space. One con is that it's extremely hard to find 
 other players. Maybe because they're in buildings doing these amazing missions, or that they're 
 just offline. The only reason people quit the game is that there weren't other players, and that 
 is still happening. Playing with others is one of the ways to have fun with the game, and if you 
 play by yourself, it's practically like a single-player game, which is still fun, but you'd miss 
 the idea of the MMO. There is great customization with characters, the in-game world is like New 
 York, it's HUGE. If you do not believe me, download the trial! Just go to the official Sony website, 
 pick a trial to download, click on the trial, once you finish downloading the Sony station launcher, 
 cancel the download for the trial and instead click "Show all games" and click on "Matrix Online" 
 then the game will automatically download. You must make an account with Sony to do this, though. 
 Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakesOfFire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  In the plus column:
  It's sci-fi... Finally! No orcs, no elves, no magic... and no F'ing gnomes. The writing is really 
 cool. There's no "real world" experience - when you log in, you choose which "hardline", or phone 
 booth, you want to rez in front of, and then you appear in a world that slowly transitions from 
 streaming green code into gritty urban textures. All the buildings are fully-modeled buildings 
 and not just box-shaped landscaping. You can climb water pipes and fire escapes or run into buildings 
 through the front door and dash out the exit. The hardlines and the subways create a decent public 
 transportation system with quick load times. The missions, though atypical MMO quests of killing 
 npcs, escorting npcs, delivering items and/or conversing with npcs, are scripted and presented 
 in a reasonable, semi-convincing fashion (as opposed to fetching an orc's butt-scratching stick 
 or wasting scores of pigs for the hell of it) . There's a strong RP community on the Syntax server, 
 and Sony has gone with the flow. There are weekly players events at different landmarks for trading, 
 teaming up, and hanging out. There's also several nightclubs for hosting rp events and some sort 
 of in-game streaming audio service that allows players to enter URLs, which has spawned a community 
 of third party MxO "radio stations" and in-game DJs.
  By far the best thing about MxO is character management. As a character levels, the player distributes 
 bonus points to stats at will, and the character's level determines its maximum skill points and 
 "memory capacity". After that, the player acquires and increases all skills with currency collected 
 from dead baddies and builds the character's spec by downloading the skills from the Operator through 
 a hardline... Though most of this sounds Greek, the bottom line is that a player can re-spec his 
 character on the fly. If I met a group of players and they say, "We're looking for one more, we 
 already have a healer and dps... Can you tank?", then I can go to nearest hardline, call the Operator 
 and switch up my programs from dual-wielding submachineguns to hand-to-hand combat. "Woah... I 
 know kung-fu!"
  
  In the negative column... I feel like Sony gave up on this game quick. There doesn't seem to be 
 much added to the game's content since it's initial release, though there seems to be great strides 
 made in improving server stability and lag reduction. The graphics, both in-game and cut-scenes, 
 are noticibly dated. Occassionally, I'll run into a broken quest or a glitched NPC... But the worst 
 problem is a lack of new players. Most people don't even remember this MMO is still around, and 
 what few remember it are still convinced it's a bad game with no growth. Easily 90% of the characters 
 I see are at max level, and I get the feeling that the only way to find characters my level to 
 team with will be to join a guild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigpoppa
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  This game sucks now that all the actors have quit and they killed off all the primary characters. 
 The story in the online RPG used to be told in chapters until they all quit. Now they just show 
 some storyboards with some hammy voice acting. YET THEY STILL CHARGE YOU THE SAME AMOUNT!
  
  So after level 25 your granted access to interact with NEO who is always there but ignores 
 you like a buffoon and just stands there. At level 25 he tells you that you have "ascended". Then 
 NEO sends you on a bunch of fetch quests for him that involve tracking down rogue spies in ZION 
 outside the mainframe. Its kind of cool piloting the ship but they could have added some better 
 missions than pick up this pipe or searching for broken wires to repair. At level 30 Neo goes through 
 his transformation revealing he is actually not human but the collective consciousness of the earth 
 itself. 
  
  WHAT THE CRAP IS THAT! I dont member that in the movie.
  
  so anyways he then sends you on more quests and after about the 10th one they just stop and he 
 goes back to standing there like a tool. The war mechs should have been used to battle sentinels 
 not move things around. When he gave me the mech quest i was hoping for something better than just 
 moving solar generators from one place to another.
  
  If your a die hard fanboy you will like the game. if your not then avoid this like the plague!
 
  
  MY MEMBERSHIP IS NOW CANCELED AS OF TODAY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanharn
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Don't get this game, I loved the whole Matrix Idea, watched the films 100's of times, played all 
 the games and had the Animatrix.
  
  But this game is nothing like the Matrix,
  
  Its like a Matrix themed party, but everyone got it a little wrong.
  
  I played for 1 month 
 and all u do is the same missions over and over, but with a different name.
  
  AND IF I EVER USE A LIFT AGAIN IN A GAME I WILL KILL SOMEONE.
  
  90% of missions you go in 
 a building, use a lift kill loads of NPC, some times steal and then u do it all over again.
  
  One major problem is lack of content and weak story. Where are the cars, Zion, Actuallly where 
 is everything from the Matrix.
  
  You can pick from a poor selection of guns and clothes and to call the option at the start of the 
 game CHARACTER DESIGN IS A JOKE.
  
  Also the plot NPC have been changed, So they do not resemble the film, Ghost looks like a Nazi 
 now and Smith is very camp.
  
  this game is soooooooooooo, so small and don get me started on all the bugs and I started playing 
 in 2007-2008.
  
  If you like MMO's and liked the Matrix don't play this game, your only going to ask yourself "WHY"
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 1
Date: May 8, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I was playing City of Heros in the states when i heard about this MMO. I was of course excited 
 and interested so i kept looking into it and everytime i read or watched something about it i kept 
 saying to myself "this is the game", the ONE (game) if you like.
  So the game is released and i buy it, install it, register it and create my first character. After 
 a few hours i relised the level of bugs in the game were staggering and the difficulty was emmense.
 
  
  I remember...
  ... When you couldn't even walk from the pavement to the roads without invisible walls stopping 
 you.
  ... When enemies could fight you all at once and you could only fight them one at a time.
  ... When 
 Enemies would follow you for miles and your aggro range was so high, that if you stood on the roof 
 of a building you could aggro mobs.
  ... When they killed Morpheus.
  ... When the BEST thing to do ingame was break items down into code and make more items.
  
  
 Despite all of this and how much i eventually hated the game, I do remember being able to change 
 your skills when you wanted so you could move from karate to judo etc in a mere second. You could 
 also create the skills needed to arm yourself with better weapons, you could create clothing for 
 yourself and your crew. the crafting side of this game was really great, just the game was bugged 
 and it sucked as a result.
  
  A total letdown for me I am sad to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 18, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I first tried Matrix Online (MxO) when it first launched and was quite excited about it. However 
 the poor combat system really turned me off to it. It was basically a rock, paper, scissors type 
 system that really didn't make much since. Frustrated I gave up on it after about a month. Then 
 I heard about the new combat upgrade it got last year and decided to give it another go. The new 
 combat system was GREAT and game became very fun! The only probably though is the lack of content 
 and being restricted to certain areas due to large groups of higher level NPCs around every corner. 
 The missions at first are fairly fun, but after awhile, it's the SAME mission, killing the SAME 
 NPCs, in the SAME building (graphics wise) over and over and over again. Some times I just wanted 
 to go out and explore on my own, but the higher level NPCs that seemed to infest areas I had not 
 yet ventured in thought that was a bad idea and dog piled me. The live events in game are VERY 
 well done and the game does have an excellent story line to it. All in all it a great game, however 
 it just get very repetitive fairly quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbie_sla
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  most under-appreciated piece of art since porn, if you are a fan of the matrix and feel like being 
 dragged down the rabbit hole, jack-in. you wont regret it. art work is great, combat is original 
 and a perfect reflection of what you would expect from the matrix . sound is average, but you get 
 so dragged into it you don't really care. the ever advancing story line adds substance to an all 
 ready great game. it just goes to prove that there are great MMO's apart from world of warcraft 
 that are out there if you would just look outside. one word. under-apreciated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elder_Scribe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a long review... just a fair warning.
  
  First, let me start off by saying that I've played a lot of MMO's in my time, i started with the 
 original Everquest, Final Fantasy Online, EQ2, SWG... none of my characters were low level, my lowest 
 being 40 and my highest being 70.
  
  Matrix Online is my latest MMO, i wanted to play it for quite some time and i figured now was as 
 good of a time as any.
  
  Graphics: in a word? Beautiful.... it was everything i was expecting and more.
  
  Sound: Fitting, 
 it's not going to knock your socks off... but it goes well with the setting.
  
  Quests: This has led me to a bit of confusion with other reviews I've read, quests are slammed 
 and i don't really know why... here's the skinny:
  
  Basically you have two types of quests, fetch-and-carry and hunting, which is basically the same 
 as every other MMO out on the market.
  
  Go to point A pick up package B take it to area C, claim iffy reward... sound familiar?
  
  For 
 the most part there easy to do, and feels like free XP to me at times.
  
  Population: small, that's to be expected though.... it's going on two years now and other MMO's 
 have come out since that time, so you have to expect a smaller population, SWG suffers from the 
 same low population.
  
  Personally i like a small community... I'm a older gamer, I'm not running around the area spamming 
 or acting like a fool, as such i get treated well by the community.... more than once did somebody 
 chat me up asking if i was new, welcoming me, asking me if i wanted a Power-Level and so on.
  
  So yes, the population is small but friendly, basically if you treat them right you get the 
 same in return.
  
  Availability: This game is hard to find, i went to three shops until somebody who actually plays 
 it said that most stores no longer carry it but he pointed out where i could find it.
  
  I purchased this game for a little over seven dollars (including shipping) on the Circuit City website, 
 this i feel is a small price to pay to see if a game is worth playing or not... hell I've spend 
 more than that on games i didn't like.
  
  All in all i'm glad i gave it a try yes it's a grind but most MMO's are, yes the quests aren't 
 very exciting but at my current level i don't expect them to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LimeOfDoom
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I've been with MxO (The Matrix Online) from the very start, I was one of the first people in beta, 
 I stayed with it through SoE (Sony Online Entertainment) until today. I watched all the best features 
 go to hell, I watched a solid community with player planned events and storylines disappear. I 
 watched as SoE basically stomped on the game. I mean bugs Monolith fixed in BETA are back. And 
 I mean, I really wanted to keep playing because the beta had that effect on me but I just couldn't. 
 It's too bad too, because this was a great idea, I mean after all, wasn't The Matrix about an MMO? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daishi90
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix online features some of the greatest features an MMO should have. Huge content that 
 is actually updated and ongoing. Every month a new chapter is formed, and an entirely new set of 
 missions and things to do are released. The combat system is unique and very well designed to suit 
 the style and pace of gameplay. Encouraging team events the fighting style in this game can go 
 on for 10's of hours before you even realise you havn't eaten all day.
  
  There are 100's if not 1000's of missions with different content to do. The game has been out for 
 2 years now, I've logged over 2500 hours of in game time and I've still only done about 30% of 
 the missions available. Live Event characters such as the Merovingian appear weekly and give you 
 the opportunity to be heard and reconized by a movie character. Your name might even be in the 
 upcoming patch as a part of the next set of missions.
  
  The ongoing story picked up right where the Matrix moves left off and allows YOU to be a part of 
 the story. The City is filled with clubs, subways, hidden areas... Did I even mention you can enter 
 every single bulding in MegaCity? Literally 1000's of buildings you can enter and explore the floors, 
 find hidden offices and call them your own.
  
  The new age style of clothing pulled straight from the Matrix, fine Italian made suits and huge 
 curb stomping boots. No pig skin and axes, this game has the latest fashion trends.
  
  Melle combat that includes animation from Kung Fu, Aikido, Karate... Multiple guns and rifles. 
 There must be over 10,000 different animations revolving around combat. Not to mention the 100's 
 of emotes you can use to interact with one another.
  
  The game had some flaws, but those were 2 years ago. This game definitly deserves a second look. 
 You simply can't read reviews from the original release date. The game was released too soon, and 
 was full of bugs. The game is very stable now, and is worthy of a look.
  
  - Kshana 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berd
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Well, the matrix online, when I first heard about this I though: COOL I CAN LIVE IN A VIRTUAL CITY, FIGHT 
 AGENTS, INTERACT WITH THOUSANDS OF NPCs ,DRIVE ALL SORTS OF CARS, AND FIGHT THE MACHINES IN THE 
 SO CALLED REAL WORLD.
  
  Well, think again, the game doesn&acute; t have all that, the only thing you do in this game is just 
 do quests (that are very repetive, and are pretty much all are the same) , try to level up (that&acute; s 
 very hard) and walk around killing street gangs, and sometimes you get to meet some charecters from 
 the movies.
  If you play this game, I wish you well, but it if are thinking on getting this game, DON&acute; T, it&acute; s 
 a waste of time and money, the game crashes a lot, and the graphics are not very good, you will spend 
 hours and hours doing quests and leveling up for nothing, the only rewards you get are cool cloths, like 
 the ones from the movies, that&acute; s it.
  So, even if you are a hardcore matrix fan, don&acute; t get this game, instead get World of Warcraft, it&acute; s 
 much better. You don&acute; t want to spent 15 bucks a month with this game, men this game could have 
 been a great game worth of a 9 out of 10, but it&acute; s just a waste of time.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarman86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok where do I start. Should I talk about the huge amazing city, the GREAT multiplayer or how about 
 the different classes. This game is wonderful, even if you don't like the matrix series, its still 
 a great mmorpg. Since I don't have that much time right now, just let me tell you that if you listen 
 to the other people that give it a 5.6 or a 1.9 rating, they are just noobs and don't know how 
 to play mmorpgs or they don't like the matrix series and just gave it a low rating without even 
 playing it. So I wish I could tell you more but I have to go so try the game you will love it :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  This game flat out blows. I've played WoW, FFXI, Diablo 2, and this is by far the worst. The supposedly 
 revamped combat system is frustrating and confusing. Your abilities that cost you Inner Strength 
 (read: MP) are constantly blocked and countered and you don't know why. Lucky for you the enemies 
 can't do much damage otherwise their constant barrages would kill you. An average battle will consist 
 of you getting hit about 20 times while you land about 5 hits and yet you win. The only thing about 
 the combat system that makes sense (sort of) is the free shot mode. It's just the mode where you 
 run around and shoot with your guns. With that at least it's either you land your shots or you 
 don't, same goes for the enemy.
  
  Next up, bugs. OMG THERE ARE BUGS IN EVERYTHING. I've gotten stuck in the sidewalk, a door, a wall, 
 I've fallen through the world, and I've been randomly dc'd... and this was only in my first 3 days 
 playing the game. The missions you have to do are mostly bugged, as something important is usually 
 missing or broken, keeping you from completing the quest and obtaining your prize. Sometimes doors 
 don't pop up with the icon to open them, keeping you trapped in whatever room you were in. And 
 speaking of which, you have to open so many freakin doors in this game. It's TOO realistic in that 
 sense. I don't think office buildings have this many doors.
  
  Speaking of missions, they are probably the worst design I've ever seen. While the description 
 for a particular mission might sound really fun (aka frame the Machines for Zion murders you are 
 going to commit) it turns out really boring. You just run into a very generic building, kill 2 
 or 3 random enemies (after opening a million doors looking for them) and then leave some stupid 
 folder on a desk that basically says, Machines were here! And no matter how many times you do this 
 type of mission, there never seems to be any effect. The Machines are still honoring their truce 
 with Zion, and the Mervs are just screwing around doing w/e they want.
  
  What's next? Hmm... oh yeah, NOBODY PLAYS THIS GAME. It's damn near impossible to find anyone to 
 play with, and if you do, they're probably just power-leveling you so you can get to the good stuff. 
 You'd think for a vast world such as MegaCity, it'd be more populated. All streets are devoid of 
 people and clubs have a whopping 2 people in them. The only time you see any people are when they're 
 out to kill you.
  
  Also, there are supposedly cinematics that will catch you up on the current story that has progressed 
 since the end of Matrix: Revolutions. You can supposedly access them from the Loading Area. Have 
 I seen any of them? Nope! They don't work for sh*t. I did manage to download one, however. 55 MB... 
 for a 1 Min 30 Sec cutscene... outrageous.
  
  There is SO MUCH MORE to say about how horrible this game is, but I've said enough, I'm starting 
 to have flashbacks. I'll close saying the only truly good thing I can, the graphics. Even at low 
 detail, the world looks crisp and clear, although it does look more like an abandoned town than 
 a bustling city. Don't bother with this game if you don't have to, but if you do just to say you 
 did, use up your free 30 day subscription and then try to wash away the stench of this miserable 
 failure of an MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luppe
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Good=Graphics are really good for an mmo but was also had a negative side to it. Not that many 
 could play the game whitout a good computer.
  The sound was exactly like the movies no complaints there and action sounds were perfect.
  It's 
 innovative in the ability system so that you can swap from a healer to a gunman.
  The best part of this game is the combat system it looks really good and it does bullettime and 
 all that.
  
  Bad= Right now there are three servers, none of them are a European server, so if you are a european 
 don't buy this game, you will miss the live events. And the server lag is amazing.
  In the beginning the storyline was pretty good, it had a live event group happen once or twice 
 every month, the sentinel (newspaper) came out every time it was an event. The cinematics were renderd 
 in-game, secret messages, secret meetings.... Now some of it is gone or happening once in a while.... The 
 live events went completly down the drain when Sony took over.
  Mission system is a complete failiure, it's so repetative.... only good thing about it were that 
 you didn't have to go and talk to mission dealer... just pick up your phone and start a mission. 
 The dungeons and constructs that are supposed to be fun to go there and explore it. Monolith just 
 placed out a couple of dudes there a couple of dudes there and a boss in that house.... it's like 
 every level in a dungeon looks the same, every part in a construct is symmetrical... there's no 
 hills... well of course it's a city... then they could have made the buildings interior a little 
 bit diffrent every time and little bit mystical so players can explore the city, it's so dull, so 
 repetative. There's 4 districts in megacity, it's The slums and the barrens the exterior and the 
 interior practally looks the same, then it becomes a little bit diffrent when you come to international 
 and becomes diffrent when you come to downtown....
  
  I could probably say 10 other bad things about this game.
  The only people i recomend this game 
 to is to people who want a really good action packed mmo or people who want moore freedom when 
 it comes to choosing abilities.... this game was an 7.3 or higher when it started but is now a complete 
 failiure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoGoMobaHog
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I was in the beta of this game and let me tell you it was alot of fun. I was a
  bit late joining the full game but I got around to it, and I gotta say it was
  alot of fun. The 
 most fun feature was probably the Interlock combat, not only
  is it unique to the game but it really gave it a fast feel. Although Interlock
  wasn't the only 
 way to have fun, Hackers and Gun-users could cause quite
  the hurt without setting foot in Interlock, so there was something for
  everyone. It was a bit 
 of a challange to level because after awhile it took
  ages, but the challange of the game keeping you on your toes made up
  for that. Overall it had 
 its glitches but in the end it made up for that with its
  awsome and unique gameplay plus good graphics. However, like all good
  things the fun stopped 
 when Monolith sold the game to Sony Online
  Entertainment. For the first few weeks the game was neglected by its
  newfound owners, followed 
 with a patch which for some people caused
  the game to stop all function which ment reinstalling or running a full check
  on the game. It 
 was about a week or so after that I quit.
  
  Now skip ahead a few months. Summer passes and I'm bored so I decide
  to see how the old game 
 is doing. I go to station. com (SOE's website) and
  realize I can't remember my information. I get my Screenname back but
  when I try and get my 
 password it asks me for my favorite country which
  apparently I don't know being when I put it in it told me "incorrect". Eventully
  I got my password 
 and I log in, after the hour long patch I start a new
  character. Seems ok, for a second I think "Wow maybe SOE didn't screw it
  up after all...". But 
 soon after Reality hit me in the face like a hammer to a
  nail.
  
  First off they messed with the skill tree. To those who don't know the skill
  setup in MxO is 
 made so you can basicly change classes at will as long
  as you have the skill codes and are at a hardline. However, not only did they
  mess with some 
 class skills, they changed and/or removed other extra
  skills, the ones they changed also became useless. Now you'd think that
  changing the skills 
 around would make the game a bit more difficult right?
  Well apparently SoE doesn't believe in MxO being a challange. They
  managed to make the game 
 easy to the point you WILL become bored with
  it. To give you an idea, I went Hacker spec on my new character. I could
  (And did) take on groups 
 of 4 enamys without loosing as much as half my
  health. And for those who don't speak matrix, hacker is like a mage so it
  gets very VERY bad 
 Health. Before I quit I tried to start a hacker and I died
  many times on a hard mode mission at low levels. Hacker was easy to kill
  at low levels but it 
 made up for it with godly damage at later levels. However
  not only is the entire game easier now, they also Nerf'ed hacker damage.
  Meaning Hackers now 
 are just as easy as every other class. Now this
  doesn't seem to bad right? Being its only lower levels it'll get better right?
  Sadly its not 
 true. At later levels the game becomes either as boring and
  easy as the low levels or deadly and annoyingly hard depending on what
  you set missiong difficulty 
 to and if its a normal or critical mission. So
  basicly what used to be the bearable task of doing countless FUN missons
  to level up is now 
 the unbearable boring task of grinding easy mission after
  easy mission until you figure out that you shouldn't be playing this and
  would make better useage 
 of your time by eating paste (It would probably
  be more fun too...) . Oh did I mention that they removed the interlock
  Interface? Now if your 
 a melee class you have to waste 5 Action bar spaces
  on the different kinds of attacks that in the past you could access by simply
  pressing an arrow 
 key. Also you can't see how high or low you or your
  enamy's rolls are. Are you getting Slaughtered? Is it possable to win if you
  use a roll-enhancing 
 shot? Well you won't know because you can't see the
  rolls in the first place!
  
  Overall this used to be a good game, but it isn't and I'm afraid it never will
  be again. If 
 this game had stayed with Monolith then maybe it would have
  stayed one of the most kick ass games out there. But now all it is will be
  a game you buy, join 
 and get yourself to level 10 within the first few days
  then stop playing because your already bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning it sounded like a great idea, a mmo with live events with real interaction with 
 characters from the movie. Fighting against the Machine Factions (pvp) . New story's continued from 
 movies end. Sound great, does it yep to good to be true. The game itself was a bug, nothing every 
 seemed to work the way it should. Most servers were down more then they were up, the devs could 
 keep up the storyline on all the servers, some would have to want 2 days or more for an event to 
 come to there server, by that time they already read what was going to happen on the forums. By 
 this many people cancelled there accounts, this leaving most servers empty in return I believe 
 theres only 3 servers left.
  
  Good Idea Bad Execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanier
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow I bought this game a little more than 2 weeks ago. And from the minute I launched it my jaw 
 dropped. The Graphics are astounding. The way it plays astounding. I was in tears of joy once I 
 really got into it. I really enjoyed the way it linked into the Matrix world, It almost gave me 
 the felling I was actually a red pill.
  
  As always, though, there has to be a downside. The only major thing I can think of in this game 
 as a downside is the loading times, at every loading screen I was brought to tears, not of joy 
 this time. Besides the occasionally bad lag this game is extremely astounding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  The Matrix is famous for its spectacular action sequences and its distinct sense of style. But 
 it's also notorious for burying all that silver-screen excitement under a heavy-handed parable 
 filled with overt biblical references and assorted philosophical agendas. Either way, the movies' 
 premise -- artificially intelligent machines have incarcerated humankind in a virtual prison resembling 
 our everyday lives, whose rules can be bent and broken by will alone -- makes for a compelling setting 
 for a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. Sure enough, the Matrix Online has a lot 
 of original ideas that are clearly inspired by concepts from the movies it's based on. Granted, 
 it's not that different from the many other games of its kind, since it's characterized by the 
 same sort of time-consuming and generally repetitive gameplay that's conventional to the genre. 
 It's also beset with glitches and an overall lack of polish, above and beyond what's par for the 
 course in a style of gaming in which rough edges are to be expected. It's not that this is a game 
 that only hardcore Matrix fans would enjoy (since they certainly might not) , it's that it takes 
 the same sort of person who can appreciate the entire movie trilogy in spite of its flaws to appreciate 
 this game. It's got some very good qualities, but you'll need to wade through a lot of potential 
 frustrations to enjoy them. 
  
  The Matrix Online takes place in the Matrix itself (a place also known as the Metro World) after 
 the conclusion of The Matrix Revolutions, during a time of an uneasy truce between the machines 
 and the humans. A third group called the exiles, comprising self-aware humanlike programs that 
 have appropriated the Matrix as their home, further complicates matters. Amid all this, you play 
 as a newly awakened "redpill" -- a human freed from servitude to the machines and made conscious 
 of the state of the real world and the nature of the Matrix. You'll initially begin your journey 
 in the service of Zion, the last bastion of humankind on Earth, who'll help train you to survive 
 and thrive in The Matrix. But, soon enough, you'll have the option of choosing to align yourself 
 with any of the three organizations vying for priority in the Matrix. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Not much... this game sucks...
  
  There is a story... so well maybe something for the Matrix fanbois out there.
  
  Combat? There 
 is, but very bugged animations and bugged NPC's etc. And how you move the camera is just retard.
 
  
  You can fight "gang" members in the city. Something that sucks so much I must puke. Again boring. 
 You can also do missions, but they are also boring after some time. Only good thing about them 
 is the cash and xp.
  
  And if you don't wanna do missions you can do "dungeons" (Exil hideouts) ... its just a bigger place 
 you run around in with a boss in the end that drop crap loot. And I have never ever seen any player 
 inside that place... so in other words... boring and sucks content.
  
  Pvp system have no point, no vehicles, no house etc. What this game have most is freaking cloths.
 
  
  Also the chat, mail, faction system is **** wierd.
  
  BORING! 1 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 22, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game when WBI (warner bro interactive) were running it and despite some bugs 
 it was a great game to play and i was having fun, made friends, was in a faction and had a crew 
 etc but then the worst thing of all happened........ SOE (Sony Online Entertainment) took over. 
 First of all they decided to merge 9 worlds together into 3 causing horrible lag at first in a 
 certain areas but i ignored it and there were other things. Secondly they decided to move EVERYTHING 
 to their new offices and people had to transfer accounts which is where they messed up with me, 
 i transfered my account and it got stuck somehow so it was neither in WBI or SOE and this is where 
 i tell you about how helpful the customer services are. I sent my email asking for help and explaining 
 the situation saying that it came up as me having an account error with bills etc for some reason 
 and the response to that was. "yes well it seems that there is a problem with your account billing", 
 well thats just really helpful isn't it.
  Plus the gameplay is alright i suppose with missions and things but it just took so long for new 
 missions to come out and you just spent your time doing the same thing over and over and over gaining 
 information (MxO currency) and xp.
  
  In conclusion i want to tell you not to go for this game since i personally think you should not 
 have to pay this much for an MMORPG of this standard anyway but go for a better MMORPG because 
 even some free ones are better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Matrix Online is one of those games that we're suppose to be a New age MMO that was suppose to 
 change gaming as we know it. Now, before I began to trash it.... no, not really. ... but I will 
 say the combat is great. With it's "lock on" system, as long as the battle was no more then 2 on 
 1, it looked pretty good. However, after that, it got ..... wierd. As for the missions, it was actually 
 ......... small. Smal as in, not many different missions. You had a catagory of Delivery boy, transport 
 person, or go assassnate. 
  
  The way you created your character was interesting enough. Link guilded you threw a tutoral that 
 was very inventive.
  
  If your a Matrix fan, yeah, this game is nice. It fallows and continues thr storyline that was 
 set out by the W. Brothers. However, if u are someone looking for a game or MMo to play. You Might 
 want to continue heading in the World of Warcraft Department. If your someone who doesn't like 
 The sword and Shield games.... I'd go to City of Heroes/Villians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archchunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all i love this game im on the 10 day trial and i played 3 days nonstop
  (: best mmorpg ive ever played and ive played pretty much all of them....
  
  Gameplay:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  It looked so good before it came out, but that was before I found out that it was a click game, 
 and not a game that you use "controls" if you know what I mean..
  
  The good: Its cool the walk and jump around in the big city, and inside buildnings. Many missions, 
 and many fight comboes and that stuff.
  
  The bad: Not fun to yust use to mouse when your fighting, and yust click to deside what to to. 
 Graffic and sound could have been better, not "extreme" fun game to say it that way.
  
  Matrix fans will mabye enjoy it, put I would rather play the path of neo, or enter the matrix isted 
 of this. Much more fun. I have only tried a 10 days trail, but that was enough for me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  It's one thing to buy a game and play it, but this game you have to do more than just buy it you 
 have to pay for services.
  
  This is a great game, but I think they should be givin gmore than just a month free, I mean they 
 are already getting money when you buy the game, but then they are making even more money when 
 you play because they want money for their server. The game is great and the scenery is fully constructed 
 with all things openable. All buildings have insides and the world is amazingly huge. It's truly 
 a great game, but they could have at least given one years worth of subsription for free and then 
 charged after instead of just one month, but still over all the game is great the possibilities 
 are almost endless and you can rome around all you want.
  
  Words Of Edvice: Look into the price of service first before you buy this game, but still look 
 into getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taegre
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I'll have to make this brief because I am sick with the flu and possibly dying. To summarize what 
 I am about to write, let me say that this is a great addition and possible savior to the once proud 
 mess of online RPGs that is now so chocked with vague titles. bizarre techno-jargon, and the occasional 
 orc. The Matrix Online clearly stands out from the crowd not only for it's movie license but for 
 it's unique approach to character management and it's surprising interactive story events.
  Fantasy and sci-fi online rpgs are commonplace, but an RPG with a gritty, urban environment is 
 a rare find, and MxO (the nickname the game took up instantly) sets the mood just right. High-rise 
 buildings can be seen eternally off in the distance, and the whole place reeks of decadence and 
 decay due to it's varied eerie skies and venomous green tint (another clever implementation from 
 the revolutionary films) . Best of all, the place is huge! There are four districts but just one 
 of them would have made a solid map, and there's loads of landmarks to absorb. One of the highlights 
 of this world is that every single area is accessible, every room, every rooftop. The downside 
 is, except for the rooftops (which are a blast to jump off for bets) there isn't any incentive 
 to explore these buildings. Every floor seems to be the same as the one below, and unless you're 
 on a mission they're entirely vacant with scant decorations. Unique buildings such as the nightclubs 
 are a completely different manner and warrant visiting regularly.
  Without spilling on more into the game's various encounter features like the other fifty reviwers 
 have, fighting is as cinematic as you'd expect and fun to watch. The recent combat revision makes 
 combat much faster paced and allows for mutiple fights at a tome, finally allowing large-scale 
 battles that is sure to become this game's trademark. The animations, though sometimes way off 
 que, are well done and capture the superhuman abilities you'd dream of having in the Matrix. You'll 
 spot your character pulling off newer, stylish moves as you level up too. Speaking of levelling 
 up, there's plenty of encouragement to gain experience, which is both good and bad. MxO's abilities 
 are varied, creatively designed, and satisfying to execute. Once you grab hold of the super jump 
 things REALLY get interesting. The one flaw is that starter players have virtually nothing until 
 level 10.
  I'll bypass the concept of instant class switching because it's been discussed everywhere and is 
 every bit as useful as it sounds. The game's most entertaining aspect, and it's most original, 
 is its constant progressing storyline. At last, players actually have a chance to participate and 
 make a difference in the world around them. You probably can't become a crucial player until you 
 reach level 50, but you can still partake in whatever parties, meetings, and epic battles you come 
 across in. Meetings are a great opportunity for fans of the movies because you get to actually 
 meet characters from the franchise, accurately portrayed by a live actor. Battles are a new concept 
 to the Matrix and are therefore very rare, but considering most RPGs take to slow one-on-one fighting, 
 this all out chaos is probably the most intense aspect of any mmorpg. It's literally guns blazing 
 all around you while you're dropkicking three or more people at a time! Getting involved in the 
 story recquires having friends in high places or sheer luck, the former can be done simply by joining 
 a faction. Either way, you'll have to have a lot of patience before you'll find yourself a member 
 of a historical event in the Matrix, but that patience is well rewarded.
  To say it fast, the Matrix Online is what MMORPGs should have been from the beginning. With awesome 
 abilities, a strong community connection, and the hope of saving or destroying the Matrix, this 
 is an RPG for people who hate MMORPGs, and it is a gift well recieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I was involved in this game ever since it was in beta release back in November of 2004. It was 
 a good game and had a ton of potential, if only the bugs would have been worked out sooner.
  
  The game is true to the matrix feel and look. Greenish backgrounds that take place in the city, 
 (matrix) . Here you visit contacts, call you're mainline contact on the cellphone, and get critical 
 events that coincide with the live events that may or may not be going on at that time. The missions 
 are different, but after you've done them about 20 times, that old feeling of Deja vu sets in.
 
  
  The abilities and powers are outstanding and the fighting system is done very well. The Karate/Kung 
 fu moves are the most entertaining in my opinion but everyone has to go with what they like best.
 
  
  The graphics are very good with the sounds making you really feel like a part of the action. The 
 story lines for the live events have all been done very well and haven't really left many people 
 feeling left out. There is plenty to do, but after level 20 it starts to feel like a grinding game 
 that just tires you out.
  
  Instead of getting new powers at every level up, you have to wait 2 or sometimes even 3 levels 
 to get a new power.
  
  Mixed reaction to this game. Good and yet so far off the mark at the same time. Sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Infamous_MD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game more than any other game for the moment at least :-D 1st mmorpg I have really 
 played and enjoyed... I tried WoW and couldn't get into it. Only paid 1 penny for it at best buy 
 also... gotta love that. This game is very exciting (there is always something happening) . You make 
 your character grow and become as powerful as possible. Join a faction and do missions together 
 and have their help for the tough times. You definitely won't be wasting money on this if you choose 
 to purchase it. It's even better if you already have an EA made mmorpg that you're paying monthly 
 because there will be no extra charge for playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I came to MxO because of the fall of swg. i was their for 3 years of 2003, and nge sucked. oh yea 
 i came to Mxo in 2005 because i want to do it for fun and i left because their was a billing problem 
 and i made a bad move to continue swg. heres my review.
  
  The game takes place after the movie, Matrix Revolutions, in which peace was forged by Neo between 
 Zion and The Machines. The game pushes forward the concept of factions vying for survival and control 
 within the Matrix. There are 3 main factions; the first two - The machines and Zion - you already 
 know enough about if you've seen the movies. The Merovingian faction represents the self-aware 
 programs, the Exiles from the movies. The machines use the Matrix to control the unawakened, as 
 always, and Zion is working to waken many from the bondage of being a copper top (human battery) 
 to becoming a Red Pill." So we have three factions, and within those factions we have many gangs, 
 including gangs made up of players. The player gangs correspond to the guilds of other MMORPGs. 
 These are numerous and their benefits are the same as in other online games
  
  Im Coming Back To MxO! :D
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamer666
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I am offering my opinion about this game, albeit it is slightly biased. I have played The Matrix 
 Online for a few months, and I hope that I can write an honest review. Oh, by the way, I am definitely 
 not a fanboy, I've had my problems with it as well, and have voiced my opinion as such.
  
  The Matrix Online has a very original style of gameplay, which is, of course, based loosely upon 
 the events of the Matrix trilogy. The ability system is very good, and allows for greater replay 
 value. Most of what makes the game great is it's community, and incredibly original style and form 
 of gameplay. Unfortunately, the development team that is completely apathetic about how the community, 
 and game as a whole, function. The Graphics are quite good, I'm not sure about how well it runs 
 on a lower-end system, but with 256Megs of video and 1Gb of RAM it runs very smoothly. The sound, 
 on the other hand, is exceptionally bad. You hear the same 3 songs all the time, and in some areas 
 you get ambient noises that become so irritating that you must force yourself to either listen 
 to music, or turn the sound off all together. The in-game radio is a good feature, it allows you 
 to listen to music that is integrated into the game. In terms of value, basically, once you get 
 to level 50, there is nothing else to do. Usually, by the time you reach level 50, you will have 
 experimented with all the ability trees anyways. 
  
  In conclusion, you should definately try this one, if you don't like it, whatever. You won't die 
 simply because you got a game you didn't like, it happens. If you like it, great, join a faction. 
 It could have been much better, and hopefully the development team can get off their posteriors 
 and fix some of the bugs. If they can manage that, MxO could be big again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: night-wolf145
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Well The Matrix Online Is My Favorite MMORPG, Its Fun, Never Gets Boring, And Lots Of People Play 
 It, Its Not That Laggy, Fighting Is Kool, The Skill System Is Awsome, There Is So Much Stuff You 
 Can Pick!, Me I'm Martial Arts, I'm Only Level 10, The Highest Level Is 50, Controls Are Good, 
 Graphics Good, Learning Curve Half A Hour Maybe, Moves Are Kool, Later On When You Beat Some Missions 
 You Get To Pick Which Way You Want To Go, Work For The "Zions, Machines, And Mervoginians" Or Somthing 
 Like That, I Recommend Buying This Game, If You Can Pay The Online Fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Because of most reviews, it took a significant amount of time for me to buy this game. One of the 
 main reasons why I have it is because it is a continuation to the Matrix Trilogy and is supposed 
 to answer all my questions about the Matrix. The graphics in the game are so-so. Of course, I have 
 a so-so video card and a better one would most likely improve the appearance. Gameplay, if you 
 like constantly killing and killing for more points, this may be a game for you. It gets a little 
 repetitive after trying to get another million points for the next level. The sound gets you into 
 the matrixy atmosphere. Many songs from the movies are played and and a few new ones. If you want 
 answers to all your Matrix questions, don't mind the so-so graphics, want to find out what happens 
 in the end, and don't mind killing and doing missions for endless hours, then this game may be 
 for you. Otherwise, there are many other great games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey2cool
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all, when people say:
  
  SOE's forums suck. As soon as you post negative feedback, a mod will ban you. 
  
  That's a 
 big lie. If you look, there are only a few closed topics, and those topics contain so much flame 
 that your eyes will bleed. "I think MxO is bad", says Rob298230, "You're a **** because ******* 
 sucks your mom's ***** in ******** that **********", says Lemonpie3. CLOSED!!
  
  Another thing, I agree when someone says "SOE sucks". Mostly because... well... they do! I had 
 to cope with the loss of SWG by locking myself in my room and hiding in the corner of my closet (sarcasm) . 
 There is but one thing I need to say: Eventually, MxO will die. It will burn. It will kick, scream 
 and try to fight back but SOE will take a knife to it's throat and that will be the end of that. 
 But until then, I am enjoying the more redeeming qualities of MxO.
  
  What most people don't know is that there are many Live Events going on. Like: Agent Gray conducts 
 business. But with who? Or what? It's a mystery, really ;) . And sometimes, you'll stumble upon 
 Niobe or Ghost. Just because the Twins aren't sitting at a bar or Morpheus isn't seen jumping from 
 rooftop to rooftop doesn't mean the world of The Matrix is as barren as SWG. SOE shows a lot of 
 effort for MxO, they even said themselves MxO is one of the best games/communities they've worked 
 with. Of course this is a lie as big as Bush, but some people like to think of it as a sign for 
 hope. But with the new Combat Revision, you can't say SOE is done with MxO... or at least... YET.
 
  
  Who knows what SOE will do after the CR2.0? Maybe some new animations? Or improved Character Customization? 
 Or perhaps NGE's like:
  
  OMG 15,000,000 NEW MISSIONS AND 19358535,5-3535-53..5,3K NEW BUGS!!!!11
  or...
  OMG I JUST 
 SAWZ NEO AND HE WUZ LEIK: kid, don't do drugs. I WAS LEIK, WHOOAOAOAAA...... whoaa..
  
  I hope not! Of course, nobody does. Every time a MMO dies, my 'dead-MMO' sense starts to tingle. 
 And it hurts on the inside...
  
  What I'm going to talk about next is the System Requirements. I know they're rough and it's quite 
 a hastle to keep up with today's technology (why, just a few weeks ago I couldn't even play Half-Life 
 2!) , but MxO's requirements are repulsive. And it's a stench that must be blown onto a tissue of 
 redemption and placed into the trash bin of Liberty. Or... something. But 1gig of RAM isn't all 
 that much money! Once you find out what kind of RAM your computer needs, head out to a Nerd Collective 
 and you'll find that RAM isn't very expensive. $150-200 dollars! I can make that much money in 
 a week at my job. But for some people, that IS quite expensive and I understand how you feel. Back 
 in the day I had to work for 3 months to make $50 alone. But now...
  
  Now, let's talk about the missions, shall we? First of all, before you buy MxO if you haven't bought 
 it already, I'm telling you now:
  Have fun!
  
  Yes, that was indeed a sarcastic remark. The missions repeat themselves like the background of 
 a simple side-scroller. Find someone here, kill someone there and retrieve your reward... if the 
 bugs haven't eaten you alive yet. Gee, Bob, let's crash at an Apartment. Sure, John! *moments later* 
 Hey, Bob, haven't we been at this building before? Yes, yes now I remember. It had these same exact 
 sofas... and, and that TV set, too! Wow...
  
  Yes, that's everyday life here in the virtual world of The Matrix, but sometimes you must learn 
 how to deal with it. It's like selling your house that you've been living in for the past 20 years, 
 and once you've sold it you feel all warm and fuzzy inside, but once you enter your NEW house it 
 looks just the same as your... old house?
  
  I like the way the traffic moves and the pedestrains walk down the street not knowing what the 
 hell is really going on. The cars actually OBEY traffic lights, unlike some games (*cough* Auto 
 Assault *cough*) you wont get hit by a car cruising through the park. And that's a good thing! 
 So remember to look both ways!
  
  The overall appearance of MxO makes you feel like you're really IN the Matrix. It's quite fun to 
 hyperjump like Morpheus! It's almost as if, even in the mornings, the sky is always green. Or gray. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this since it was released early last year. At first I loved it, once I had 
 upgraded my computer so that it was able to run it at a decent framerate, but the shine on the 
 apple soon wore off.
  
  For me, a good game is defined by it's ability to keep me coming back for more. This one does not 
 do that, if anything it is just too frustrating and confusing and has nothing really outstanding 
 to offer.
  
  Don't get me wrong, there are many fine points to this game, it looks fantastic, the animation 
 is spot on and the city feels alive and real but it is the gameplay that lets it down.
  
  Combat is a pretty straightforward affair, just choose how you want to hit something and click 
 the button, nothing too hard there. What drags it down however is the fact that if you try and 
 kill anything even remotely close to your own level then you will die.
  
  This means that the only way to get anywhere in the game is to group up and I found that good groups 
 were very hard to come by. So for someone who likes to go off and solo for a while (like me) , then 
 you end up getting very bored because you can't do any of the missions.
  
  But if you like grouping up, can get some decent people to play with then I imagine that the game 
 would be a lot more fun.
  
  Couple that with the fact that it is now covered under Sony's compete subscription, you can play 
 this along with SWG, EQ, EQ2, PS etc all for one low monthly price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix Online, was my first MMORPG. Seeing to from the buggy days of beta, to present day I 
 have seen a lot. The first thing that comes to mind, is of course, the martial arts. Being in martial 
 arts myself, I find this to be a great to watch. Although after a long time of playing, the moves 
 to seem familiar after a time, but not as bad as any other MMO where your person simply hits your 
 enemy. The story is great as well, players are fun, but missions seems to be a bit repatious sometimes. 
 ( but what MMORPG isnt repetitive? ) The massive urban set city is great as well. Although all 
 the interiors buildings are the same, the game does give you a feel of that you are in the matrix.
 
  The Player vs. Player in this game does have its ups and downs. On a positive, being about to 
 kick your opponents @$$ with amazing kung fu action is indeed rewarding. Although, no pvp ranking 
 system yet to come such as World of warcraft, doest indeed leave you with to rewards. ( other than 
 pride.)
  If you are a big time matrix fan, or just want to give this game a shot, I highly recommend it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  What got me to play this game is the beta version which me and my friend played to death. of course 
 the problem was that after the game came out all my hard work was put to nothing. the game play 
 it self is the standard MMG type game. while doing mission for either the humans the robots you 
 can gain friends and take on tougher missions. you have to play this game a lot to advance and 
 be powerful so replay value is there for a while at least. The graphics it self are not bad. PC 
 games are just that. the problem with this game is that there are many glitches and freezes during 
 the game. this is with a great PC and a fast connection. many complain especially when they had 
 to reset a lot fo players profile. the developers make it snappy by making real time mission, but 
 to no rescue.
  once we had leveled up to the point were we could only do so much to level up we stopped playing 
 the game and canx the subscription. I recommend this game but no to new comers. why take on players 
 that are at a greater level than you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix online, is one to compete with titles such as World of warcraft. The game pritty much 
 feels like City of Heros in comparison as in much of the game mechanics is different.
  
  More people to work for to do their quests for, or go punch up the local street gang. Just like 
 you can do inside COH. But that is where the similarities end.
  
  The Atmosphere generated by the community inside the game is one of maturity. Warner bros have 
 handed the keys over to Sony and it remains to be seen if Sony will destroy the Matrix just like 
 they did Starwars Galaxies. However at the current state it remains to be much like it was in its 
 early days of beta.
  
  It hardly looks different from beta aswell, few bugs fixed but still more showing. The need to 
 be a fan of the Matrix is I would say is rather a must have to keep playing the game the interest 
 has to be there cause there isn't enough for people just interested in the Genre to want keep paying 
 the $41.99 for 3 months of limited gameplay.
  
  The Graphics looks great although the matrix just feels like its missing that something, perhaps 
 the lack of wind or birds in the sky. 
  
  The control interface takes a bit of getting used too, the Defaut video settings is at 800x600 
 I have a powerful computer and I found changing the screen resoulution to the best I could have 
 resaulted the game lagging. When I restored the resolution to 800x600 the lag vanished. 
  
  Overall the games looks and feels great, the game play maybe not as good as world of warcraft but 
 with WOW. The Atmosphere generated by the players ther makes playing wow very! undesirable. Where 
 as the Matrix seams to have the better aspect of that. Which makes up for the game play in it self. 
 
  
  The game sounds great too, however during beta they said they was going to try get celebs to do 
 the voices but nothing became of it. So we have the characters that appear in the films but with 
 different voices which doesn't exactly help to make the game feel like the movie.
  
  This game has to be a must have for the fans of the series Matrix that has everything else to do 
 with the matrix.
  
  Fans of the MMORPG genre will like this game, however unlike for the matrix fans there isn't going 
 to be enough to keep you there I feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdaweasel
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This review originally appeared on www. cjdaweasel. com as part of the series "Curse of the MMOs". 
 You can view it there with pictures included.
  
  The Matrix Online is a game that was obviously designed by a group of developers that hate people 
 and want to hurt you personally. MXO punishes the player for playing the game and Monolith Productions 
 makes sure you feel the burn. After spending several more hours that I probably should have playing 
 this game I've determined that for the most part, they've succeeded. 
  
  Wanted: Editor
  
  The biggest glaring problem with MXO is that for some reason the dialogue was written by the 
 janitor while he was drunk. Sure it saves money, but the typos in the game are horrendous. Some 
 times I don't know what the heck is going on. I'll just pick out the words that look like places 
 or people, go there and kill them and hope that's what was I was required to do. I didn't even 
 get paid to write this, but I can bring myself to put a period in the right place every now and 
 then. Sometimes, when I'm feeling really generous I'll correctly capitalize a letter. The developers 
 can do complex mathematical computations, code entire worlds, but don't know where to put a comma 
 in a sentence?
  
  It's A Boring World After All
  
  When I get the occasional mission that makes sense it'll just be the same crap I've done for the 
 last far-and-few-between coherent missions repackaged. All of them follow the same form: Find something, 
 talk to something, kill something. And once in a while in a mission you'll be given the pleasure 
 of using one of Metro World's great elevators. Whoever decided that it should take fifteen thousand 
 mouse clicks to open a f***ing elevator should be drug out and shot. No, change that: Drug out, 
 insulted, slapped, beaten, THEN shot.
  
  I wish the problems with the environment ended there. If FFXI's dominant color was gray then The 
 Matrix Online's dominant color is turd brown. Everything is brown. Everything. This wouldn't be 
 so bad (I like brown) if the environments were actually interesting. It seems that every four blocks 
 in any given area its the same brown buildings in a different order. I usually don't like to get 
 into arguments about textures, bump-mapping or any of that tech crap, but it bears mentioning that 
 the brownish textures in MXO suck. Doom 2 had better textures for walls. Oh how I wish that were 
 sarcasm.
  
  When you bore of looking at the brownish world, take a look at the brownish clothing that you can 
 buy. For being a major selling point of the game, the clothing line would make even "Let's do the 
 same damn thing over and over" Levis hang their head in shame. The local Salvation Army has more 
 clothing types than this game. Not that it really matters as everyone is either dressed like a 
 Pimp, Ho, or a Goth. There's only so many places that you go with those styles.
  
  Stand Still!
  
  When you actually get around to fighting someone, you'll find that the game 
 tries hard to imitate the fighting in the movies. I mean "tries" in the same way that a four year 
 old "tries" to help you paint your living room and ends up painting most of the carpet or your 
 mentally challenged cousin "tries" to help you with your math homework. Initially you'll go through 
 a period where you'll try to find a pattern or develop a strategy around the battle system. This 
 will be brief, as you'll soon catch on that it all breaks down to just guessing or in my case, 
 guessing poorly.
  
  Whatever you do, don't pick up a gun for you character, they're worthless. Apparently there is 
 a disarmament deal going on between the humans and the machines where the machines won't enslave 
 the humans if the humans replace all their high powered weapons with BB guns. Really. In The Matrix 
 Online, a kick is deadly and a bullet is just aggravating. No, I don't understand it either.
  
  MXO: The Slideshow
  
  All of this is rather pointless though, considering that most people 
 will never get the d*** thing to run in the first place. I won't go through the particulars with 
 you, but four hours into the game I still hadn't played it yet. There were several problems getting 
 the thing to install, the biggest of them being the system requirements. You almost have to have 
 a Cray supercomputer to get this game to run poorly. You have to do twice as good as that to get 
 the game to run decently. The game box should read "Recommended System Requirements: Deep Blue".
 
  
  AC: 20% To be quite honest I really didn't see that many people online. It must have just been 
 the time of day or the server I chose. It also may have been because I spent most of my time running 
 into walls as my Alienware struggled to keep my frame rate above 3.
  
  LLA: 80% The few people that I did run into didn't seem to either speak English at all, or thought 
 that they could imitate English by giving me a random string of letters. "LLO!!1 wtF RU saiz??/? 
 kiLLR?!?!1" In my country that translates to "I love to suck d***. Please put one in my mouth so 
 I'll shut the f*** up."
  
  LSR: "Farscape Fan" You'd have to be one exceptional masochist/loser to play this game for more 
 than a couple of days. The game is grinding (not in a good way) , and tedious. The story stinks, 
 and their mother dresses them funny.
  
  
  My Character: I played a Brittney Spears clone posing as a prostitute. So basically I played as 
 Britney Spear's sister.
  
  Conclusion
  
  All in all Matrix Online is a bad game. The more you play it the more you get the feeling that 
 the developers are truly out to make you suffer. The real pain will come when you realize that 
 you paid for it. That probably hurts the worst. Truth be told if I were a red piller and I had 
 to deal with this s***, I'd jack out, go to Zion and give cave dancing lessons.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  i just have to say the only let downs in this game is some glitchs that may prevent you from finishing 
 missions and that the graphics arnt the best they could be.
  But over all the game is great.. the story cant die out which is the great thing about online games... 
 it gives you updates so you can get all new story lines.
  
  There are some challenges, but there is a let down for australians which is that the game will 
 never come out in australia so just like me you will have to buy it threw EB or Amazon.
  
  I recomend getting this game.. the best part is that the map is so fricken huge. it takes up 7gb 
 and you can go into every building... every roof top and open every door.. you can even fight people 
 off the street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbob13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Worthless. Completely and totally worhtless. I stuck with this game for far longer than I should 
 have and even defended it on many occasions. Bad graphics, bad controls, bad community. The only 
 good thing about this is that you got the feeling you were in the Matrix, if you could make it 
 work. The feel of the game was really good, if you could make it work. I had fun on a few occasions, 
 if I could make it work. Do you see the theme running through here. IT DOESN'T WORK. If they finally 
 got around to fixing, well anything then yes, this would be a good game to have. But to pay for 
 an online game that doesn't work is stupid. And I'm plenty stupid without reaffirming it by playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos162
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  This new matrix is better than the last one simply because you can play as neo for one, also all 
 the new moves weapons levels etc. The graphics havent really changed too much from the last matrix. 
 Since the majority of people have seen the matrix movies and Since this game is based on the 3 
 movies most people will know what they will be having to do in future levels of the game.
  
  The matrix also seemed a little intimidating to me since you will be playing as neo you will 
 most likely be fighting agents. But once I started getting to parts of the game where you will 
 be fighting agents a lot it wasnt really that hard. The thing you need to remember when fighting 
 agents is that they will block head on attacks so you should press square to dodge their attacks 
 and get behind them to attack them from behind which is where they are easiest to attack. This 
 does not work too well if you are not that experienced and fighting multiple agents at once. If 
 this is your situation you should first activate you focus ( L1 ) and dont right away attack them 
 because they can still block attacks when your focus is activated, so press square and the direction 
 the agents are in to try and get behind them, then attack so they cant really block anything. 
 Another really affective way to kill agents is to activate your focus (L1) then jump in the air 
 and hold L1 and circle to charge up the attack, then let go when fully charged. This will do an 
 attack on the agent that will take at least  of their health at its weakest. Note: if you have 
 upgraded this attack so you can charge it up and hit 4 enemies instead of one than you can use 
 it on 4 agents in one attack which is one of the most affective attacks to used on agents in the 
 game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I played this game in beta and was very excited about it upon release. However my excitement and 
 even my interest has waned since release.
  
  The game is defiantely best suited to someone who is interested in the Matrix Storyline otherwise 
 the gameplay will become common and boring even sooner.
  
  The combat is very fun. Its new and original and by far the best aspect of the game. But after 
 awhile doing the same moves over and over does get old. The outside world looks good and is quite 
 large. However there is still never really any sense that this is a inhabited city, without really 
 emersing yourself in anything except the building used for missions you still feel a bit detatched 
 from the city and its inhabitants.
  
  Missions are the main source of experience and also are the main driving force behind the evolving 
 storyline of the game. This is where the main failing of the game also comes. Missions all involve 
 doing the same thing pretty much no matter what type of mission you get. Example: Recruit mission 
 would involve going to a building ( the inside of the buildings all share the same 5-6 layouts) 
 to find someone who has information on where to go next. Then you run to another building which 
 on the inside looks just like the last one you were in, kill another group of people to either 
 be told where your target is or where the next person with information is. You do eventually find 
 the person you need to recruit and get them to their destination. The problem is, if I now pick 
 lets say an assination mission. I will end up doing the exact same thing but instead of escorting 
 someone out of a building I endup killing them instead. Running missions gets very very tedious 
 and boring after awhile. Problem is that the game relies to heavily on the missions for its content 
 so the game becomes stale.
  
  I saw these aspects towards the end of Beta but had always expected more content to be released 
 with the game but it never came. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  I played this game for like 5 months and this game is an awsome game!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You build your own player and you go kick some agent's butt. You can customise your player 
 with tons of abilitys and combos and you can level up your player like an RPG game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are'nt special. It is like a normal RPG on the computer. The graphics are 
 just like "City of heroes".
  
  Sound: There isn't much sound except when you are in combo mode. But still the music is awsome. 
 I just wish that there is going to be soundtracks fo the next game if there wiil be a next game.
 
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours meeting friends, leveling up your player or just hanging around.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome RPG game and you should definitely buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xhunterp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played almost any MMO you can think of... Ultima Online, Everquest, Everquest II, Star Wars 
 Galaxies, and the most overrated game in the universe, World of Warcraft.
  
  I'll be upfront about it... I'm a Matrix junkie. But that wouldn't stop me from blamming a truely 
 bad game. So, let's get down to it.
  
  The Best: Combat in this game RULES. The action is fast and furious (especially PvP) , and looks 
 cool. Nothing feels better than smashing an Exile (the renegade programs headed up by the Merovingian, 
 and a more imminent threat to Zion than the Machines) face first into the floor. Hand to hand combat 
 is not the boring tedium that it is in any other MMO, but rather a series of opposed rolls (in 
 which both players have a second to pick a tactic or special manuver, and whoever has a higher 
 resulting total after modifiers is the one who's tactic works, the other players is discarded) . 
 Bullettime is not player controlled, and it is only visible to those directly involved in the combat, 
 and doesn't really do a whole lot of extra damage, but if you have your camera set to "Scripted 
 Cam" mode it's pretty sweet looking.
  
  The Good: The Mega City is portrayed very realistically. Every room of every building is accessable. 
 And the graphics are amazing for an MMO. And there is none of the "character regret" of other MMOs, 
 by which I mean that you can class change via a simple trip to any Hardline in the game, or create 
 your own hybrid class based on the skills "loaded" into your memory. The interactions with important 
 characters in the game is pretty interesting too, but taken down several notches since the merge 
 with Sony. The story is updated quite frequently altered via patches written by the Wachowski Brothers, 
 which is pretty cool.
  
  The Not-So-Good: Pretty glitchy. Probably in part of course due to the fact that the entire city 
 loads at once, and there is far more going on graphically than any other MMO. And my internet connection 
 is not the best for it... stupid college network! /shakefist Also sadly, there aren't very many 
 players, and thus some limited interaction, but there are enough, especially in certain districts, 
 which makes sense. There are certain areas that are more dangerous or where you are more likely 
 to attract an agent, where you avoid, and some areas people like to hang out and find crews. But 
 more players would certainly help. It also takes a very long time to build up your "redpill." For 
 instance, I have been playing for a month and a half and am still only level 15. In most other 
 games you'd be almost double that level in the same amount of time. I like it and find it more 
 realistic, but I can see why some would not, and I believe it to be a turn off to the game for 
 many.
  
  The Terrible: Not much. The game markedly improves with each patch.
  
  So there you have it. A review of the most underappreciated game in years. If you love the Matrix, 
 play it. If you aren't a huge fan, check it out anyway. It's only twenty bucks and the first month 
 is free. You'll get hooked. If you already play any other MMO owned by Sony, check it out because 
 if you like it, you can just get a station pass for only $20 a month and play both. If you have 
 no interest at all, how did you make it this far into the review? Oh well, check it out anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've been fortunate to beta test several games - this one included. For the first three months 
 of its lifecycle (after launch) it was a great game. But then, things just started going south. 
 Gameplay just turned into a grindfest and PVP got boring. At its peak, this game had 14 servers 
 that were usually running a load. When I left and cancelled my account, it was down to 3.
  
  I wish I knew what went wrong with this game. Every single playpoint that it had for me was 
 slowly removed by the devs, who seemed to be kow-towing to the endless incessant griefing from 
 kiddies who "wanted to be neo". So myself and my faction/guild just walked away from it.
  
  Graphically it was beautiful and had moments of fun, but shame on ME for paying for a grindfest.... 
 I miss it now, but I miss how it WAS, and NOT how it is today - you couldn't pay me to play it 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagon90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  You know, when I first bought this game, I found it quite enjoyable. As I played more into the 
 story, I realized something: There was no story. Unfortunate, yes. But not essential in this case. 
 Usually, I would have gotten out then, but the enigma known as the Matrix deserved a second chance, 
 right? Right. Thought you would agree. Although this game has a lot to live up to, and not a lot 
 of marketing promise, there is a shining hope in this game. Like how along with being able to master 
 Kung-Fu, karate, and aikido, you can explore new types of game play, such as becoming a cowboy-style 
 gunslinger, pulling out a gun and blowing you opponent to bits. Or perhaps a silent assassin catches 
 your eye. Or perhaps you have always wanted to be an operator of sorts, making useful items on 
 the fly. Guns, clothes, even abilities, you can make them, break them, and bring them to life. 
 It really is profitable if you apply yourself to it. Or maybe you just like to sit back and watch 
 the fight, while a subordinate gets kicked around. Lo and behold, proxies and daemons will fit 
 the bill. Then there's the last part of your discipline, one I don't use much, but still useful, 
 a hacker. You can infect enemies with deadly computer viruses, and thats about as far as I got 
 with a hacker. Either way, this game, like I said, has promise.
  
  As far as game play, I met a few drawbacks. Like the fact that it took me a week of intensive game 
 play to reach level ten. Only forty more levels to go. Though, the reward was worth it. Two words: 
 Hyper. Jump. Yes, the much sought after ability that neo failed miserably with in the first Matrix 
 movie. Also, thats when you can begin to use martial arts as an operative, ir truly begin your 
 coding abilities as a Coder. Another drawback, yeah Im pretty pessimistic about this part, is 
 the high requirements for playing. You need top of the line technology to get the true experience 
 out of this game. You also, even with Alien tech, crash a lot. And I mean a LOT. Its painful, 
 really.
  
  You know, even with all the drawbacks, I liked this game. You get to really feel like youre in 
 the Matrix. The feeling of a living, breathing, artificial prison, while it sounds depressing, 
 is a deep sea of mystery and deceit. Oh, and if your good enough, you van join, or even start a 
 crew, or a clan of sorts. These crews come together to make factions, like the Merovingian, Zion, 
 or the Machines. Speaking of the three, you have to choose who to align yourself with also. Heed 
 the Oracles word, for you will hear it. It will become the guidelines of your survival. What else 
 guides you, is entirely up to you...
  
  You can reach me in the game under the name Stow, who I currently use. Low leveled, yes (12) , but 
 I can get you the help you need. Or you can email me at Residentevil92@msn. com (Only Zionists need 
 apply)
  
  Good luck, soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thigeic
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, just to bad its so bad, not the game it self, but everything around it.
 
  
  The game isent really that bad, but its so full og glitchs that it makes very haevy to play, makes 
 you feel like you have played it forever already after 2 hours, makes your head feel so heavy, 
 but if most of the glitchs this would probebly be gone, since it playing it involves so much frustrations.
 
  
  But to the better sides of the sun, the combat system is pretty cool, and the fighting scenes looks 
 pretty cool aswell. And the let you be anything in the game, as long as you got the skills for 
 it, all you need to get a skill is to buy it and you can use it, you cant be everything at once, 
 but you can be anything when you want to. So you arent forced to be one profession, and i dont 
 think any other game has done this before. As long as you are the right player level you can be 
 the profession you can at this level.
  Even if you chose a type of red pill at the start of the game, something that makes you suit a 
 profession better then others, you can still be something else of your choice, but at level 50, 
 you can be anything
  
  My conclusion, without looking at things thay should manage to fix, is that this game is worth 
 playing, aslong as SOE improves it.
  But if im looking at it with the glitches ect, this just isent worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyeRazor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how much flaming this game has gotten... It's stupid. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  A game with a good storyline can die easily if it's gameplay is crap. And MxO's Is FAR from crap. 
 If you've played for a few months to get a good understanding of it, then you can write a review 
 with ease, but with a few days? I'm surprised in this review... I doubt they would get that bad 
 of a review if they played this game for a few months. The gameplay is composed of Ranged, and 
 Melee combat (My personal favourite is Melee) . The interlock, not something I see with other MMOs 
 most of the time. And it's fair too! If you know what you're doing of course. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Sure, they aren't the best, but they do the job, and make it look nice! I don't 
 believe in the saying "Graphics can kill the story". What the hell do Graphics have to do with 
 storyline? Nuff said... 
  
  Sound:
  
  For me, this is one of there better factors. The sound (besides the helicopters) is pretty damn 
 good.
  
  I better stop here before I get off the handle...
  
  TAKE THE TIME AND PLAY IT BEFORE YOU REVIEW IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopoo909
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  Great in places , awful in other MXO tries to be differnt and does but somethings just dont work 
 and after all this time. It also tries to get more of a audienece by killing off main charecrter 
 Mopheus but they shot themsleves in the fott with that 1 as 1 of thhe best parts of it was Morpheus 
 wandering the matrix and having chats with you. Overall this is just for die hard matrix fans , 
 everyone else go play WoW and SWG as this offering of the matrix is just luke warm and nothing 
 else ......... a pretty big dissapointment : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I loved the Matrix movies, own all three on DVD. When I head about the MMO being developed, I was 
 pumped ... not only because is this a rich universe, but the sci-fi setting and virtual reality 
 make the options almost endless to what this game could have been.
  
  Unfortunately, what made the movies great... the conflict between man, machine, and exiles.. doesn't 
 exist! Sure, there are three opposing factions, but every in-game event revolves around them all 
 working together and singing songs and having picnics and hugging. There is no strife or conflict. 
 The in-game events and storytelling were made even worse by focusing on werewolves and vampires 
 and swarms of flies, rather than on the conflicts and technologies that made the movies.
  
  I liked the large sprawling city, with buildings you can go into. I liked the interlock combat 
 system. Takes a bit to get used to, but found it very innovative and enjoyable. 
  
  But in the end, it just got really boring running around a dull, lifeless city doing the same thing 
 over and over... ignoring some common lag and bug issues.. and participating in storylines that 
 just made no sense and weren't compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixdude666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  The Matrx Online was a interesting concept from the first time I heard about it. The main draws 
 were not being stuck in a class, and pushing forward the Matrix Storyline. The promis of a new 
 and inovative MMO
  
  These features were almost as good in pratice as they are in concept. The game which introduces 
 an interchangeable ability system, that allows you to be what you want, when you want. The interlock 
 combat system alows the player to be in an interesting fight that requires alot of user-imput but 
 is exactly what you'd expect from the Matrix.
  
  The live events team brings an aspect to the game like no other. A team is dedicated to play the 
 game roleplaying as the famous movie characters. Interaction with these chacters will allow you 
 to actually feel like you part of the story.
  
  Unfotuantly, no game is without its flaws. In between live events there is an extream lack of content. 
 Some of the classes have sufered nerfs that make combat unfair. Takeing missions from the three 
 main organizations will force you into districts that are far above your level once you have certian 
 abiltys loaded. Outside of these flaws the game is decent and interesting.
  
  The game was recently aquired by Sony Online Entertainment. They have promised to add new content 
 to supplement the story. What will become of this game after this point is unsure, but Sony's knowledge 
 of MMO's should bring some interesting new features to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryry92
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 8, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  The Matrix Online is really just any other MMORPG out there but its just really nothing special. 
 You can upgrade your character and give him or her different apparrel and accesories and u can 
 even buy weapons like revolvers and uzis. One of the worst parts of the whole game is that its 
 very buggy. It lags somewhat often and sometimes you have to restart missions because something 
 didn't load or something like that. On the plus side though, the game has plenty to do like doing 
 missions for Zion or the Machines or even that faction I can't spell, and there is always a weekly 
 event like finding an assasain or looking for bits of coding. The game to me feels like it was 
 rushed because of the many technical issues I spoke of earlier, and the monthly subscription prices 
 are harsh! But if you wan't a budget MMORPG to pass the time until World Of Warcraft's price reduces 
 to 30 bucks then by all means buy this game but if you have the money then just forget about this 
 game and buy warcraft for god sake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawksolo24
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  So ive been part of the matrix online sence the first beta. Ive watched this game come from almost 
 unplayable, to pretty good stable. Now for all you matrix fans and non. This game really doesnt 
 need yah to go out and watch all the movies to know whats going on. Which is rather nice considering 
 how much detail was put into the stories.
  
  Graphics: Lets start here, well the graphics are not top notch if you are a player of the most 
 rescent state of the art FPS, But their is alot to offer here for those high end desktops. The 
 building's extiror are quite unique you are able to climb poles, climb ladders, and even look inside 
 and outside of the windows. Rooftops all can be accessed aswell. Characters are pretty good as 
 far as detailing. the sky is what i think is very unqiue the dev team has used something that really 
 no other game has and that is the sky.. Floating eyes, hazy clouds, sometimes rain. It just adds 
 a very nice effect to the world.
  
  Gameplay: You where put into this world as a redpill and of course that is where you will stay. 
 You dress yourself up to what you feel is your ideal ware. But thats where the game takes the plundge 
 once you have that nice shiny glasses you spent 100k info on or you just bought that nice jacket, 
 After about 2 days of non stop running around fighting, and i mean non stop... Your item is ready 
 to be replaced. So yet again you are looking for that new outfit. And let me tell yah the chances 
 of finding a male outfit is like a 1/20 chance . Missions is at first very interesting due to the 
 fact you can submerge yourself in the world, After you take sides and start your faction missions 
 you start to realize you just entered this building over 100 times. So you then you decide to group 
 up with higher levels you gain a little edge, Well after about 5 hours you are still running non 
 stop and jumping and even sometimes dying cause a level 40 mob just shoot yah thru the door lol. 
 And when all the dust is settled you get to take that younger player that is level 14 now and do 
 the same for him and when all is said and done what was done really??.
  
  Story: the stroy line is very nicely put togethter. From the second you come into the world you 
 already have cinematics to update yah on what has happend. If yah didnt watch those just grab the 
 daily newpaper avaible almost every corner. The DEV'S team interact with the players of XMO which 
 in my book is very nice, They play as characters in the series and they make certain events around 
 certain people. Now keep in mind 65% of the players just play to try and be the one, Well let me 
 tell yah straight out if thats why you are playing this game or is going to playing, Then give 
 it up now.... 
  
  Overall: overall this game is still in its early state, Im sure with a little time on its side 
 it will turn out to be a better game. If running is your game then matrix is where you want to 
 be, If yah like looking like the next guy, then matrix is where you want to be. If you are a casual 
 gamer and cant spend that 4 hours a day this is not where you want to be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofekjosef
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  hello i wanted to say that i think that the game is so wonderful but i have waut for this game 
 3 years like a lots of gamers in web but game producters have to do a monthly payment that not 
 every gamer will pay........ the game make a lots of gamers be decopoint from the game becuse of 
 the monthly payment....... i hope that in the future the game producters will cancel the monthly 
 payment for all the gamers that wont to pay but thay cant...... and for all that gamers that can 
 play so have a fun but you all shoud think of it too.......
  thank you very much and my english maybe sucks cus im from israel...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schillinger
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 22, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I thought to myself that this would supposedly be the Wachowski's 
 digital apology for their attempt at modern day reverse alchemy converting gold to lead, then to 
 excrement, then to celluloid, a. k. a. The Matrix Revolutions. Although an MMO is the next logical 
 step for the franchise, the genre itself is still rather touch and go, you need patience of steel 
 for a lot of them. One minute, you're riding the crest of the wave as you level up to where you 
 can finally get that ability, the next you want to put your foot through the monitor and curse 
 gaming's every epoch for leading up to this moment because you got a Margin Server Failover message 
 towards the end of a mission you spent the last hour trudging through.
  
  This game has both of the above, although the latter seems to happen a lot more often. I should 
 probably point out that I live in Europe, and unlike the kind folks at Blizzard [for World of Warcraft] , 
 the guys at Monolith don't see the need for European servers. Bizarrely, they've made two servers 
 (input & Output) for the benefit of European players (live events are 16 hours later) , but have 
 them in America. So seeing as it's not the most efficient way to play it, perhaps I'm going to 
 be overly harsh in areas that won't affect the people in America reading this. As I said above, 
 you need patience for MMOs. Lag is more prevalent than in, say a multiplayer FPS or RTS, but more 
 often than not an experienced gamer can look past it and enjoy the game at hand. But in this game, 
 the lag is absolutely unforgivable, a disgrace. Playing WoW on a US server, I never got a ping 
 of more than 300, and that was in the most extreme and built up of conditions. While playing this 
 the other night however, my ping maxed out at nearly 11,000. Yes, 11,000ms, on a 512k/s connection. 
 The average ping for this game is somewhere in the 200 - 500 region, which is insanely annoying. 
 For example, seeing as this is set in a "living, breathing city", there's the ubiquitous gang members, 
 ranging in skills. If they are of a higher level than you, they'll more than likely challenge you 
 to a fight. I was running by, minding my own business in the middle of a mission, when a level 
 11 challenged me to a fight (me being level 7 at the time) . However, while the combat music started 
 to play, my old friend Laggy McJitter decided to drop by for some ping crumpets and latency tea. 
 That is, the fight begun was carried out and finished without me having so much as a mouse click 
 to do with it. Thankfully, the screen unfroze in a bit under a minute, where I was greeted with 
 the heartening view of my corpse, post being beaten to death. And that was not an uncommon occurrence.
 
  
  After you *sigh* "Jack in" *vomit*, you will be met with the overdone gimmick that is the scrolling 
 lines of Matrix code. This is used to form everything; Buildings, people, scenery (or lack thereof) 
 and probably even the digital tears I cried. I was left staring at this green mess for times in 
 between 2 minutes 11 seconds to 4 minutes 38 seconds. Everything appeared to have loaded, so I 
 got ready to take my first step away from the phone booth I arrived from. And that's all I saw; 
 my first step. For when I attempted to continue my stroll I was met with a static screen for about 
 a minute or so. That happens 4/5 of the time.
  
  That said, the game is not without its highpoints. The abilities section is incredible, there's 
 a myriad of skills to choose from, and thanks to the ability to change the layout whenever you 
 please (so long as there's a hardline near by) , you can change yourself from a patcher to pathogenist 
 on a whim. It can admittedly take a bit of getting used to. To get a new ability, you must get 
 code bits, use your code analyzer tool to convert them into fragments, then hope that writing the 
 code was successful (if not, you generally lose all the fragments) . Of course you can just go to 
 an ability vendor and buy it instead, you bum. To get the aforementioned code bits, you must loot 
 the corpses of your enemies. The combat system used here (Interlock) is great sans lag. You choose 
 speed, power, grab or block (or can even opt to use a gun) , and a number is generated in accordance 
 with your skills. Operatives can use kung fu and submission holds, hackers can use viruses etc. 
 It's a nice system that works relatively well. A skilled lower level player can win easily. If 
 your more of a psychopath, you can just shoot them from a distance, although this system (Free 
 Fire) is rather hit and miss, pardon the pun. You could miss someone 5 levels lower than you 3 
 times in a row, even with enhanced chance weapons, and yet they can hit you every time no problem. 
 But seeing as I spend most of my time in hand to hand combat or launching viruses, this isn't a 
 big problem. The missions are all in or around the same; go to building, ride elevator, kill operative/recover 
 document/lead person out of building. They don't really vary from Organisation to Organisation, 
 but who knows what future updates may hold. On top of Organisation missions, there are contact 
 missions. There's about 50 contacts scattered around the (first) city, so it's a challenge to find 
 and complete them all.
  
  If this is your first MMO (some people would say that non-MMO enthusiasts will buy it purely due 
 to the franchise) you may be getting in a bit deep. Starting off, like any MMO, you design your 
 character. This can be randomly generated or specifically tailored. The selection here is terrible. 
 If you're looking for something on the level of the character design features seen in recent sports 
 games you'll be disappointed. A very limited selection of hairstyles, faces etc. The clothing is 
 even worse, although you can get far, far better apparel after you play the game for a while, so 
 that's not too bad. The tutorial is helpful, but it isn't intuitive enough. It doesn't explain 
 enough about the various items you get, how to write code for certain abilities etc. The learning 
 curve on the missions is mild enough, but the tutorial could've covered many more gameplay facets 
 than it did.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7 - From what I've experienced so far, this is an insanely addictive and enjoyable experience 
 which is completely ruined by lag on the scale of a war crime. A lot of people are going to be 
 turned off by this. The missions can be a tad repetitive, but it's fun to do one with a team, or 
 trying the same one again with different abilities.
  
  Graphics: 7 - My computer was more than capable of running Half Life 2 with maximum settings, so 
 I presumed that the Lego-fest graphics on the Matrix (judging by the screenshots I had seen) would 
 run relatively smoothly. Ouch. This just makes the lag worse, so running it in minimum mode is 
 de rigueur, which is unfortunate, because the graphics, while not revolutionary, have their own 
 little sense of style which is quite nice.
  
  Sound: 9 - The sound is great throughout; clear, crisp and quintessentially Matrix-y. The viruses 
 click and whir in an appropriately sinister fashion, whereas the patches (healing spells) sound 
 instantly recognisable as the godsends that they are. The guns are loud, the punches and kicks 
 *zip* and make devastating impact, the area shakes when you hyper jump off a building. Great sound 
 effects. The music can be a bit repetitive, but it's in the same acoustic vein as the movies. It 
 changes regarding on the situation and area you're in, so it never seems to be one tune for too 
 long, which is refreshing. Having the radio on is a nice touch too, plays a variety of music and 
 generally keeps you updated with what's going on where.
  
  Value: 8 - Would've been 9, but the lag is so terrible that it knocks a full point off. Levelling 
 up can become an obsession for some people, so they'll play this to death. The community's pretty 
 good too, so it's nice to just hang around and have a chat or friendly duel with people sometimes. 
 Exploring, especially in restricted zones usually throws up some nice items and challenges.
  
  Tilt: 6 - I'm trying really, really hard to like this game, but the lag is just Alt & F4 unbearable 
 at times. I liked the Matrix series (save for the third one) , and its urban setting appeals to 
 me more than an orc infested forest.
  
  In conclusion, I don't think any of us has the right to fully review this game yet. At the moment, 
 I'm a level 11 Virologist (50 is the cap) , and there is so much of the game still to be explored, 
 many new missions, level-dependent items and of course, the main draw, the Live Events scheduled 
 to happen over the next year. There's always the anticipation of seeing Morpheus hyper jumping 
 in the distance. This isn't so much a review as a status report, I doubt any MMO can ever be fully 
 and comprehensively reviewed. This game, like Neo, has so much potential, but poor execution will 
 banish it back to being Thomas Anderson. Only time will tell... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shieldy21
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The matrix online is set in a vibrant matrix city, you are a redpill waking up from the dream that 
 is the matrix, your thrust into a world with many others.
  
  Set in the time after the movies you are sent in as one of the classes including hackers to fight 
 the machines via NPC quests.
  
  The game is highly graphical and pvp is included ingame however from what i've seen it gets very 
 laggy. Maybe it's just my computer?
  
  Movement ingame is very much like enter the matrix other than the commands are menu driven, as 
 far as this control system goes it's not unusual among the mmorpg scene, the fight scenes however 
 are something to be proud of, it's just like the movie battles.
  
  When you start creating the look of your character, you'll find that the range of appearance options 
 is pretty good. It's not as broad as you'd find in EverQuest 2 or Star Wars Galaxies, but you do 
 definitely get a bit more variety than you'd find in World of Warcraft. The initial clothing options 
 are pretty slim, but you'll soon be able to supplement your wardrobe once you get into the game. 
 There are some odd gender restrictions on some of the items. My male character can wear culottes, 
 for instance, but not a fedora. 
  
  Overall, Matrix is a fun game and is recommended for die-hard matrix fans. IF you like the matrix 
 series, you will like this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 9, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics in Matrix Online are very good. The textures are crisp and the polycount is very good 
 for an MMO, the combat animations are cool, and the Megacity looks pretty nice from the outside. 
 You have a decent variety of clothes and items to outfit your characters. The models look very 
 slick and their styles are reminiscent of what you saw in the movies. However, unlike in the movies, 
 the interiors of all the buildings does not have much style and does not have any art deco to them 
 - only IKEA furniture.
  
  The sound in the game is disappointing. It's cool to hear the voice of some of the actors, even 
 though you will only hear them rarely throughout the game. Still, you have to read what the other 
 NPCs are saying, since they don't have any voices (this includes some of the famous NPCs, like 
 Niobe) . Another bad thing about the sound is that the in-game music can get immensely repeating 
 after a short period of playing the game. Thankfully, the developers now added a radio in the game 
 so you can listen to your own WMP10 playlists. Since Warner Brothers are involved in this game, 
 I would have expected a lot more from the sound of this game. They could have added voices to the 
 NPCs like they did in Everquest2, and hire some of the people who contributed to the soundtrack 
 of the movies to make a better soundtrack for it.
  
  The gameplay in Matrix Online is repetitive. After playing through the initial missions, you can 
 select a contact from either Zion, Machines, or the Merovingian. It does not really make a difference 
 what contact you choose, as they will all give you the same type of missions anyway. When you have 
 done a certain amount of critical missions for your contact you can select from different types 
 of missions, like assassination, courier, retrieval, rescue, escort, and infiltration. Sadly, there's 
 not a big difference in the variety of missions in Matrix Online, as you basically end up searching 
 a building for something, talking to someone, or just killing someone. The only variety which can 
 be seen in the game is the live event that the development team just launched. It's fun to see 
 the streets starting to swarm up with agents and find clues to what happened to Neo, but after 
 a while it gets boring again.
  
  This game does not have anything that makes it different from the other games, except for the fact 
 that it has a realistic setting in a modern environment instead of a fantasy setting. Except for 
 the combat animations, all of the features in the game are not any better than what I Have seen 
 in other MMOs. In conclusion, I can only recommend this game to hardcore Matrix fans, as they will 
 get the most pleasure out of this game. But even if you are a Matrix fan, this game can only be 
 played a few hours a week without the game getting too boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When I read Gamespots review I was pretty disappointed. How can a game that looks 2 million times 
 better than WoW get such a low score in graphics when WoW got a 9?
  
  Its true, this game brings nothing new to the table: basic going from point A to point B, kill 
 guy C or escort him. But it brings something good: action, action and more action.
  
  The way the fights are choreographed, the music and the fact that you no longer have to kill rats, 
 snakes or dragons makes you come back for more.
  
  Another very good point is the fact that you do not have to go to a quest giver like in other games 
 to start your missions. Just pick up your cell phone, and go straight to the action.
  
  Having plenty of clothing choices and different looking characters also adds atmosphere to the 
 gaming experience. I remember in WoW for example, everybody would look like a clone of everybody 
 else, since there was no variety on clothing or characters for that matter.
  
  The best about The Matrix Online is the fact that it does not penalize you for choosing one certain 
 class over another. You can just unload your abilities and get new ones without having to create 
 a new character from zero like in the rest of MMORPGs I have tried. 
  
  The bottom line is: if you are a Matrix fan, you HAVE to at least try this game. Stay away if all 
 you like are dwarfs and orcs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solah-dax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the perfect game I enjoy sharing with my friends. 
  
  I meet my best friends and enjoy a few hours every day and I am having the best non-stop action 
 gaming experience I have ever had in cyberspace.
  
  With most MMORP's I have lost friends, friends who have stopped their education, quit jobs, and 
 no longer have a life. The Matrix is addictive but to a very mature point. You control your gaming 
 time, the game will not control you.
  
  No more 10 year-old kids, this is not the type of game for them. I understand where the low ratings 
 come from, "this game is simply not for you, kids". Go back to WOW, only don't forget you have 
 a real world to live out there.
  
  Dax.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: earhard
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 8, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I was bored in the first two hours. The scenery is monotonous, the interlock system was designed 
 by crack babies and coded by autistic kangaroos. The whole game is basically a late alpha early 
 beta. The missions are the real snoozer- Get mission --  run to building --  go up elevator (don't 
 get me started on the clunkyness or efficiency of the elevators, why should one have to click so 
 many times to work a frickin' elevator?) ---  talk to npc, and get them to folow you or get something 
 from them --  go back down the elevator ---  run to another building, do the same damn thing. rinse 
 repeat. rinse repeat. rinse repeat. I don't even play this game when WOW is down. The environs 
 in other games are varied, interesting, and make you feel like you're exploring a world. In this 
 game you don't even notice them. They're so "blah" as to make one wish they were somewhere else. 
 If I was REALLY a red pill I'd jack out and never jack back in, if this was what I had to deal 
 with. This game is bad that it's almost funny. The only thing going for it? It is part of the (now 
 over done and silly) matrix legacy. It feels like they just ported Enter the Matrix to a MMORPG 
 and said to themselves "We need a combat system that is completely arbitrary and meaningless, yet 
 is so complicated that only the truly dedicated would be interested in figuring out how to use 
 the bloody thing... Content? Oh, yea, that might be important, but we can let the users create 
 their own, so that can be an afterthought." So this is basically my opinion, and you can take it 
 for what it's worth (which is, I'm sure, not much) . If this review prevents ONE person from buying 
 this loser then my work here is done. The music is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo690
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I must say after playing the beta and maxing my level to 50, i thought i would be bored with the 
 game before it even came out. Boy oh boy was i wrong. Everything about this game is top notch. 
 You start the game as a low level nobody doing jobs like go here and get this. But as you progress 
 you will get to meet People like Morpheus and Trinity and in my case the Merrovigian. You can chose 
 to go with Zion, The Machines, or The Merrovigian. The combat in this game is not at all like any 
 other MMO out there. You have Karate, Kung Fu, and Kaido as Close Combat skills. Then there are 
 the weapon based classes like Rifleman, Duelist, Sniper, and SMG'er. There are also other abilities 
 like Hacker which comes with abilities that effect the enemies attributes like there hit percentage 
 and how fast they are. the Coder can summon minnions who help fight and they can also create abilties. 
 The world is massive and every part of it is different from the last. You know where you are just 
 by the gangs in the area and the evniroment around you. The people in the game a some of the nicest 
 people i have ever met in a game, they are willing to help you even if you are a low level while 
 they are a lvl 30. The story is very strong and continues the trilogy. This is like no other MMO 
 begore it is truly revoultinary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazznutty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  This game of course has bad features, but alot of the bad features are needed to push up the good 
 ones. I recomend this game to MMO fans who like a true urban setting. This games storyline is perfect 
 for adding on to the movies. At this moment the truce between the machienes and peple of zion is 
 breaking and the searching for Neo is starting. Buy this gaem and jack in fast before you miss 
 out on a life altering experiance. This game is not for people with a slow computer, you MUST have 
 a fast computer to play this or the lag will be so great you will feel ike shoting this game squarly 
 in the head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  1) The intro was very good. I enjoyed the tutorial and I liked how they set you up for the game. 
 I really liked how they included your chatacter visualy into the intro. It isn't anything fancy 
 or amazing at how they do it but it is a great touch that I hope future MMO's run with.
  
  2) The skill system was a bit different than the other's in the genre but nothing so different 
 that you will be confused (if you've played MMO's before) .
  
  3) System performance was good. I had few moments where I had any issues with the game. This game 
 will run on most of today's average or better systems with little to no problems.
  
  4) It's about the Matrix which happens to be one of my favorit movie/s. This is what attracted 
 myself and probably 95% of those who tried it or are still playing it.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) After the intro I felt like I have played this game before. It took only a few minutes to realise 
 that if I were dressed in a blue and white suit, with long white hair, had blue eyes, could encase 
 people in blocks of ice and was named Nuclear Winter then I'd be playing my old City of Heroes 
 character. This game is a carbon copy of CoH as far as game play. The gameplay is boring and I 
 am not the biggest fan of 3rd person gaming in MMO's. I do enjoy the 1st person more.
  
  2) Staying on CoH for a moment one of the biggest negatives in CoH was/is that you spend a lot 
 of time fighting thugs. You eventually gain XP and levels to move on to fight... harder thugs. In 
 Matrix I jokingly said to myself as I explored the first area of the game I entered that I wonder 
 if there are thugs, since this game was so much like CoH so far. Well wouldn't you know... I saw 
 thugs. The quality, difficulty, and variety of enemies in MxO are a HUGE bad.
  
  3) The combat system was a joke. The skill is so/so when fighting in large groups which is ok but 
 the visuals are so bad I couldn't bare it for long. I whip out my machine gun and shoot a man standing 
 dead still. I miss. He then takes some sort of projectile that will explode and I watch it do so. 
 It missed. It landed on me. It missed. Did I mention it landed on me and the exploding projectile 
 missed? I also was able to run around and the exploding projectile which could not have possibly 
 have hit me did just that. Granted those of us who like to be mindlessly entertained might ignore 
 something like that but I on the otherhand find that to be a huge problem. Watching the combat 
 in that game is hillarios. To walk up to someone and do a flurry of kung-fu moves that smack them 
 around but register a "miss" in the game is sad.
  
  4) The clothing was true to the Matrix style but you didn't get to choose much. Sure you had some 
 ability to pick and choose what colors you want and what outfit to wear but when you got the special 
 stuff you were stuck with it. I think the Matrix and what you wear have a lot to do with each other. 
 They are apart of each other. It's like living in Cali, what you drive and wear is a big part of 
 life and so is it in the Matrix genre. Players want to be able to be their Cyber Matrix selves 
 and although it was an ok attempt at providing this a little more effort would have resulted in 
 a huge difference. More options in this area please.
  
  Overall:
  
  The game lived up to my expectations but they were not very high. This is a game that will survive 
 only if MxO holds true to it's promise of VERY interactive story lines that contiue the true Matrix 
 story. If they slack on this the game will die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryker67
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  After having been in the beta test for the last several months, I'd have to say that Sony and Monolith 
 have done a fantastic job with MxO. Yes, we all know about the problems with bugs and initial stability 
 after launch, but you show me an MMORPG that hasnt had similar problems at launch... it's unfortunately 
 the nature of these types of games.
  
  Combat, while it can take a bit of getting used to... espeicially the Interlock, is excellent. I 
 love the random "bullet-time" and some of the animations on the moves is incredible.
  
  Dont let anyone tell you about the game though. Get it, see for yourself. Form your own opinion... dont 
 follow like a lemming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistermulder
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  It would be nice if their own PAID reviews gave enough thought to their reviews they are writing 
 to justify their employment.
  
  For instance, this gamespot review has totally misunderstood the story system of this game and 
 has not reviewed the game in it's entirety. He doesn't understand it and has not experience the 
 story system because the story has really started yet in game. It's starting April 6th for most 
 players. If he would do his work and research enough he would find that out himself.
  
  Guess if you are getting paid the big bucks you can not be expected to be responsible for your 
 work, huh?
  
  Notice not a perfect score but a great game none the less. If Gamespot won't screen their reviewers, 
 I won't waste my time writing a detailed review either. I will just enjoy my game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firesion
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 5, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Sorry if you like the matrix this is not a good game. Save the money for something that is good 
 or wait a year untill the matrix is fixed. If you want a matrix exsperiance get 2nd life. It costs 
 less and is better in every way. You can even code in 2nd life. Codeing in the matrix is not codeing. 
 It is really hard to express how bad this game is in its current incarnation. This is NOT world 
 of warcraft in the matrix. The game has so many bugs I could not list them all here. There is little 
 balance in the system, and they change the powers about once a week. If you really need to play 
 an online scifi game play starwars. Yes even starwars is a better game. Infact starwars is light 
 years ahead of the matrix in the fun factor. Just so you know your character will not become the 
 'one' or anything close to it by playing the game. Even at max level you will still be below even 
 Morphious in power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to this game by a friend earlier in February. He showed me a lot of the game, 
 and to be perfectly honest, The first time I played it, I was not impressed. Well, never judge 
 a book by its cover. As you play the game, it definitely grows on you. The premise is very simple. 
 You are given a choice of living the lie of the matrix, or the choice to live in a very grim reality. 
 The game takes place a little after the events that took place in the third movie of the trilogy, 
 The Matrix Revolutions. Humans are now being freed and there is a very shaky truce between the 
 humans and the machines. The game will be cut into three different factions. You can fight alongside 
 the Merovingian, Zion, or even the machines, so you are never stuck with just Zion wishing you 
 could meet up with the Merovingian.
  
  The game starts out simply by having you create your RSI (Residual Self Image) . You can change 
 the features of your character by changing build, skin tone, hair, face and so on. You also get 
 a few different clothing choices to choose from, although that part isn't too deep to start out 
 with. Fortunately enough, once you get in game, you can buy new clothing and find a style to your 
 liking, but you will see a lot of leather and shades. What would The Matrix be without them? Once 
 you have created your character, you will be put through a short tutorial guiding you through a 
 lot of the basics that are involved in the game. After you are finished with the tutorial, you 
 will be thrust into the matrix. 
  
  Once you have jacked in, you will want to get a set of skills started. This is a big highlight 
 of the game. Setting skills for yourself is a matter of buying "code" for the skills or even crafting 
 them, and changing the skills at will. At any time during the game, you can run up to a phone booth, 
 and click the abilities button and change up what you are good at. There are three basic skills 
 that all branch off to different styles, Programmer, Hacker, and Operative. Programmer is this 
 game's crafter. You will be able to code clothing, tools, and new skills for other players. Hacker 
 can use hacking skills to fight or hack systems in certain missions to complete the mission with 
 a little more ease that to look for keys or access codes. Lastly is the Operative skill. This is 
 the typical spy, gunfighter, or martial artist... Need I say more? The great things about the huge 
 amount of skills you can get is the fact that if you have the skill saved, you can turn off your 
 martial art skills and turn on your coding skills by a couple clicks of the mouse button. So if 
 you are feel like being a hacker one day and a gunfighter the next day, it has never been easier 
 to do.
  
  The game developers have told the community that there will be a story to follow, and will continue 
 the story of the matrix in a whole new way. To keep the players wanting more, the developers have 
 added little things in the game. You can pick up a newspaper called The Daily Sentinel, in which 
 blue pills (people still part of the matrix) write about the odd occurrences that are happening 
 around them, and also provide players with clues to things going on in the matrix. There are cinematics 
 that help the story progress. Even little things such as graffiti give clues to progression of 
 the storyline. One thing that has not been done until now is interaction with movie characters. 
 Morpheus, Niobe, and Seraph have been in the game giving speeches and even seen fighting. I had 
 the liberty of fighting along side Seraph on the final day of the beta test. Others from the movie 
 don't make appearances but do lend their voices. Link, Commander Lock, Sati, and The Oracle are 
 some of these who continue their role. 
  
  The game play still does need work, but it is more than playable. When you get into a hand fight 
 you will be thrust into what is called Interlock fighting. You will have a few quick buttons show 
 up during fighting. You can do a quick attack (blue fist) , hard attack (red fist) , grapple (green 
 hand) , or block (yellow hand) . Once you have chosen an attack, that icon will drop to another box 
 showing what attack you are going to try to pull, and also what they are trying to pull. There 
 is a random number generated for you and your enemy. and whoever has the higher roll will win the 
 attack. This may not sound like a winning formula, but it is never a slow fight, and is defiantly 
 fun. Another type of attack is using firearms. You can fire from a distance, without ever going 
 into interlock, instead every time you fire your weapon at someone, you must wait for a timer before 
 you can fire again. 
  
  Graphics in the game, are just a little dated, but nothing to be upset over. The game looks and 
 feels like the matrix. It feels so much like the matrix that when you first jack into it, the world 
 will be over ran by matrix code. A way to load textures without having to wait at a load screen. 
 Sound isn't way too bad either. you will hear punches land, guns firing, and even when you go into 
 bullet time, you will hear sounds drone slower. When you see someone laugh, cheer, clap, yell or 
 even do "Ernie's Rang-Rang Dance" you will hear the correct sounds.
  
  PvP in the game is by choice on a couple of different levels. There are a couple of servers that 
 are labeled "Hostile." In these servers, once you reach level 16, you will be a target all the 
 time. You could be targeted by your enemies and taken or you can take someone out. This adds a 
 new layer to the game play due to the truce. You now have to hide, and be careful who you trust. 
 In other servers, once you reach level 16, you will stay out of constant PvP, but if you choose 
 you could type /pvp and fight with others. Also if you wish, at any time you can have a friendly 
 fight by dueling someone, which has always been a pretty nice feature in any MMO.
  
  All in all, the game is really good. There are still quite a few bugs in the game that could defiantly 
 hinder your experience somewhat, but when you look past them, it's a wonderful matrix experience. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 30, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry but this game feels soo unfinished! The graphics are terrible, the controls are terrible, 
 terrible combat system! You get dropped in the deep end at the start of the game and have to work 
 out what to do, which will make you want to rip your hair out!
  Theres just sooo many better mmorpgs out there like:
  
  eve-online
  World of warcraft
  
 COH
  
  
  Theres more promising mmorpgs to come! www. mmorpg. com
  
  Just don't get sucked into this, sooo poorly done! Beent aken over about 3 times and it's just 
 a mess :P
  
  I can honestly say the only good thing about this game is how the levels load. They start off al 
 green numebrs and slowly load up as time goes by which is cool!
  Apart from that it's a mess! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aintraba
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 30, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  I thought i would give it a try since i had been playing WOW for so long i wanted to try something 
 new. Well this game was a mistake. The grafics are very dated. The user interface is completely 
 useless. And the missions are repetiteve even more than COH was but at least COH was fun. The lag 
 on the servers should make anybody that complained about WOW feel lucky. Just totally booring. 
 Content is non exhistant and the tutorial/ Instruction manual really dont help you at all. And 
 this combat system everyone talks about doesent seem to do much of anything except constantly attack 
 and i dident see much change when i hit other buttons. Just a total letdown and waste of 50 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merimitsu
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  One year and a half waiting for the revolutinization in the MMORPG franchise- one year with full 
 hopes to blow fantasy fanboys (like myself) out of the water (how corny is "out of the water" hehe) . 
 I'll go over a standard recap covering the fields GameSpot considers the most important and then 
 end off with my personal and excess comments. 
  
  Gameplay ( 6/10 ) - I'm still waiting for the great MMORPG and the great man that will say to the 
 gaming world, "Leveling is not necessary. Period.". I've never enjoyed leveling and exp grinding 
 and it has always been a great turn off for me as far as the MMORPG genre goes. 
  
  In games like Star Wars Galaxiess it seems that you are grinding that experiance for something. 
 You know there will be rest and fun when you have completed your task. In SWG you complete the 
 entertainer profession and now you get to relax in the clubs, speak with travelers, all while perorming 
 kick-ass dance moves (LOL except in SWG it totally and entirely wasn't kick-ass!) 
  
  In MxO you grind experiance and fight your way up the levels to... Fight... and fight some more. 
 PvP is held in these large "constructs" in which you find maybe 5 people at one time so there's 
 not much in the way of open PvP. That brings us to the fight system. This new system called "interlock" 
 is at first eye original and exceptional for the MMORPG genre. Then you actually learn the system 
 and what you thought was based on rock, paper scissors you learn was actually based on how buffed 
 your clothes are... or- just nothing. It's so unbalanced and has no pattern to go by. If an unbalance 
 is not bad enough, you then play Guild Wars and you're like "Why can't they all do combat like 
 this?"
  
  Missions are slightly better than your normal "quest" though. You do things that are actually slightly 
 entertaining instead of hunting the gallapa worms that are terrorizing farmer X's cabbage patch. 
 They'll have you running data disk from location A to B, sabatoging Mainframes, killing renegade 
 exiles, rescuing idiots who can't jump from the hands of super powered security and generally repeating 
 the process. So what they once had which was good turns into the repetitive mubo jumbo that you'll 
 find yourself not caring about.
  
  Graphics ( 8/10 ) - As far as the capturing the look of the Matrix with decent graphics, Monolith 
 does well. You watch the movies and it had this gritty feeling-while not depressing- feeling I 
 thought would be hard to capture in a game. While not revolutionary or stunning, the graphics are 
 satisfying and the world is detailed.
  
  Sound ( 8/10 ) - As whoever said on the Revolutions DVD, hitting somone in the neck will make you 
 feel like you're hitting them in the neck. This is mostly because of the sound. All interaction 
 sound is bordering on good while remaining in decent (mainly becuase they messed up with the gun 
 sounds) . When you land from a hyper jump, the caboom makes you feel like you just hit the ground 
 from 500 feet in the air. All kicks and punches are crisp, again, in the sound feild. The music, 
 however, restricts the sound rating to an 8. There is hardly any music, and when playing, is extremely 
 dissapointing industrial crap. 
  
  Value ( 7/10 ) - As stated before, there is not much to do in this game but fight. This is always 
 a great decrease to value as far as MMMORPGs are concerned. The city's size seems dwarfed because 
 there are only about ten different interrior building designs. The "ammount" in this game is slightly 
 dissapointing.
  
  Tilt ( 8/10 ) - I beat this game up thoroughly so now let me contradict myself: This game has depth. 
 It is up to you to explore the depth. This means completing tasks great enough to let you meet 
 the developer controlled main characters. I myself have spied on meetings between these chracters 
 and factions, I've collected information regarding important faction activity, and I've generally 
 set myself up for great opputrunities in the future through exploring the hidden depth of this 
 game. Do so yourself and it will come out a decent experiance.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinjite
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  I recently have taken the faithfull leap off of the deep end and "jacked into" the Matrix Online 
 game. I was sorely disappointed from a game that had such a great concept to go off from. The game 
 as a whole is too buggy and there is no in game tech support or customer service. I like games 
 that have personnel there to help you vice send an email and wait 2-3 days. Also as a community, 
 the people inside the matrix are very reluctant to help or join up for missions. There is very 
 little to promote that save for just getting some friends together to play together but not for 
 perfect strangers to work together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll have to admit. I had my reservations when I heard they were making an MMO based on the Matrix 
 Trilogy. I mean, how could they possibly capture the stylish look and feel of the movies, as well 
 as the amazing special effects? And then combine them with an appropriately story-driven MMO? I 
 was lucky enough to get into the last few days of beta testing, and boy was I shocked. The game 
 delivers amazing visuals, including a very impressively programmed bullet-time combat effect similar 
 to those in the movies. Monthly cinematic cutscenes advance the impressive storyline, the author 
 of which was handpicked by the Wachowski brothers (creators/directors of the films) . A revolutionary 
 character customization setup is what really puts this game over the top.
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  
  Story basics: The game takes place after the end of the third movie. 
 A brilliant move, in my opinion, that establishes three different factions which you can choose 
 to ally yourself with: Zion (Humans) , The Machines, or the Merovingian (Autonomous programs that 
 want to make sure the human and machines stay at each other's throats so that the Matrix (their 
 home) will never be destroyed.
  
  Character Creation: Brilliant. Gets you into the Matrix feel right off the bat. Tons of options, 
 from male/female, a myriad of faces, hair styles/colours, face paint and/or makeup if you want, 
 body size/shape (anemic, normal, tank/stacked) , and several basic choices of starting garments. 
 (After all, sexy and stylish clothing characterized the movies)
  
  Character advancement: Here is where the Matrix Online really shines. There is no such thing as 
 character class-regret in The Matrix. Started off playing a tank, but hit 20th level and suddenly 
 wish you had chosen a buffer/healer? Or maybe a summoner? A crafter? Focused on guns but would like 
 to switch to martial arts? No problem!! Just purchase the skill set and abilities you'd like to 
 have, then go jack yourself in at a hardline and switch out the different abilities!! Voila! Instant 
 class change, anyone can do it!
  
  Combat: Another innovation for MMO's, The Matrix Online's (MxO) combat systems are really quite 
 cool. That's right, I said system (S) . There are three basic systems of combat. At the heart is 
 "Interlock" - Once in range, you can choose (or sometimes not have much choice) to enter into "locked" 
 melee combat with your opponent. From here you select from 4 styles of attack, doing your best 
 to anticipate what your opponent will next likely be unable to defend against. Within interlock, 
 you can choose to go hand-to-hand - eventually able to choose from three martial arts styles, each 
 with their own extremely cool animations. Or you can use guns, making for some pretty spectacular 
 close-range gunfights. "Free Fire" allows you to attack your enemies from a distance with either 
 guns or "spells" - viral hacking attacks against the enemy's program. In team combat, this allows 
 the casters to attack the opponent while the tanks lock them up in hand-to-hand Interlock.
  
  Missions/Quests: Tired of MMO's that have a meager handful of meaningless quests, barely offering 
 much reward in the process, forcing you into the endless grind of mob-slaying? Missions in MxO 
 are split into two kinds. Critical missions that serve to advance your involvement in the storyline. 
 Or Standard missions, that come in roughly 6 or 7 styles, which you can also choose to repeat. 
 The addition of these standard missions (everything from assassination to escorting npc's to retrieving 
 documents and data) , is a brilliant move, especially since each mission is designed to reward you 
 with xp and cash appropriate for your level. Searchable containers throughout every mission allow 
 for random treasure looting as well. Repeatable missions are set up so that they never send you 
 back to the same place very often (if at all) , and are varied enough to keep them feeling fun and 
 not going stale or boring.
  
  What really got me excited was the fact that Critical Missions can sometimes be time-based. Choose 
 to do it now, or lose it - meaning that some characters may never experience certain missions. 
 This makes for an excellent uniqueness to your in-game experience.
  
  Player vs. Player: Currently, their are two "Hostile" servers, where after 15th level, factions 
 may engage in open PvP against each other. i. e. Zionists may attack Machinists or Merovingians, 
 and vice versa. There are also special constructs available to higher level characters that serve 
 as a kind of arena for PvP conflict. On all other servers, PvP is limited to those construct areas, 
 or by way of harmless duelling. The penalty of dying in MxO is two-fold (but only after you hit 
 8th level) : Firstly, all of your worn items have a chance of deteriorating. Secondly, upon resurrection, 
 you will suffer a "death effect", making you a little bit weaker and more vulnerable to attack 
 and damage until it wears off.
  
  Grinding: Grinding is also handled quite excellently in MxO. Mobs take the form of various street 
 gangs appropriate for grinding at each level. The various neighbourhoods eventually become restricted 
 zones as you get higher in level. Without first grinding a mob that drops an access key to that 
 specific neighbourhood, you risk bringing down the attention of a high level Agent on your behind 
 should you stay in the restricted zone for too long.
  
  Clans/Grouping: Clans take the form of Hovercraft Crews (8 players max per Crew) . Crews may ally 
 themselves with other Crews to form Alliances. Alliances must be Faction-specific. i. e. Zion crews 
 cannot be allied to Machine crews, etc. Grouping in MxO is actually quite rewarding, xp-wise, unlike 
 most other MMO's.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  A few bugs still linger after launch, but the Development team does a near-daily maintenance patch 
 to constantly correct various mission or gameplay bugs.
  
  A few minor things in combat still irk me. For example, having a gun equipped will automatically 
 pop it into your hands at the beginning of interlock combat, whether you want it to or not. Or 
 the strange coincidence where if a fight is going too easy for you, the on-death's-door enemy will 
 suddenly start landing hits in rapid succession while you keep missing.
  
  On a personal note, I really would like to see the colour Blue brought into the game. Now, in true 
 green-washed Matrix fashion, the only instances of blue are currently teal and aquamarine. But 
 I would still like to see some nice vibrant, electric blue hair and clothing damn it!!
  
  Graphics Positives:
  
  Unbelievable graphics. Unlike almost every other MMO, the variety of 
 faces and makeup and hairstyles during character generation is such that no two characters will 
 look alike. Combat animations are brilliant, and they've included tons of emotes. Enemies react 
 to being struck in extremely realistic fashion. Punch them in the head, and their head snaps back, 
 kick them in the groind and they go down cross-legged clutching the jewels. Superbly done.
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  
  Other than the need for a high-end graphics card (what game doesn't 
 these days?) , there are no negatives here.
  
  Sound Positives:
  
  Very Matrixy. Having several of the main actors from the movies providing voice-overs was a good 
 start.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  
  No real score involved, just the occasional hint of mood music (see my tilt below for my solution) . 
 Voice-overs could have been much more in-depth, especially when compared to the likes of EQ2. In 
 several cases, voice actors will only speak the first sentence or two of what appears in the dialogue 
 boxes on screen. Very half-assed to the point of quarter-assed.
  
  Value Positives:
  
  For me, it was long past time to shrug off the fantasy feel of MMO's. Sure there are things like 
 Earth & Beyond, or Anarchy Online, but with The Matrix Online you're getting all of the rich detail 
 and story of the movies, plus chicks in latex and cool bullet-time effects.
  
  Value Negatives:
  
  None. This game will only get better with expansions and patches.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  
  What really kicked this game up several notches, in my eyes, was the work done by the people at 
 Radio Free Zion (www. radiofreezion. com) . This is web-broadcast music station, that only plays Matrix-compatible 
 music (mostly rock, metal and trance) , and where the on-air DJ's roleplay as if they are characters 
 in-game, offering in-game reports on breaking news and things of that nature. Having RFZ going 
 in the background while playing is an absolute must if you want to really elevate your gameplay 
 into a higher plane. Those players who are unaware of RFZ are really missing out, but MxO is already 
 working on an in-game feature that allows a streaming radio feed to be implemented directly in 
 game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larz63
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  The theory behind the game rules! A few bugs need to be fixed, but thats ok. The set up is the 
 same as City of Heros. Same building ideas and type of layout. COH was a bit more stable when it 
 first launched however. The way you upgrade your player is unique. You level up just like in COH, 
 but you can level up certain abilities with the points you earn by killing and searching players. 
 You have the ability to write your own code if need be which is kinda of cool. If you cant find 
 an ability around, or you dont have the $ to do it, you can make it yourself. You can choose to 
 do missions for differnent factions, and different organizations. If you have the computer to do 
 it, the graphics are incredible. You can even selcect a "green-tint" option that does just what 
 its name says. After an hour or two of playing though, you start to really think that you are in 
 the Matrix. From what i gather, Neo and Morpheus do appear through out the game sometimes as well. 
 I haven't seen them yet. Overall its a good game. Once the bugs are totally out, I think it will 
 be at the top of its class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raveous77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I am so tired of sword swinging - point and click mindless MMOs. Endless running around killing 
 stupid rats, wolves, bears, spiders who only grow in level and change color its getting retarded 
 and boring. I dont even know why they call them RPGs they are not. Matrix is different. Here are 
 things I like about it. You can run around and hack and slash your way to higher levels or you 
 can do missions which give you great exp and $ and also very interesting. You can fight in close 
 combat or use guns. After making one character you dont have to remake to try other classes you 
 can simply buy all the skills and abilities, unload the ones you dont wish and load up new ones 
 completely changing your class! Its great to avoid creating a crappy build. Also, the Development 
 team is using main characters like Morpheus, Seraph, Oracle even the Agents and Merovigian to role 
 play and create special missions for players. So basically the ONLY people who would know what 
 really happened after the end of the Trilogy are the ones playing this game! :P And by the way 
 the whole advancement of story line is monitored by the Washovski brothers, who hired hand picked 
 writers to advance the story. Combat is great too with bullet time and famous matrix moves its 
 a huge change from just point clicking on the enemies. There are things like throws, blocks, power 
 attacks, swift attacks and special moves and depending on what your foe selects the game calculates 
 the outcome. You actually have to guess and think what your opponent will do next and try to counter 
 them, very interesting setup. Oh and another thing .... Hyper Jump YOU can soar over the skyscrapers! 
 Do I need to say more?  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta8888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I must say that I was very skeptical about a "Matrix Online" game, I guess I just thought 
 it would be horrid and just not well executed.... Man was I wrong!! This MMORPG is by far the best 
 yet, ive played other MMOs like: FFXI, WoW, SWG.. and none of them even compare to this. This game 
 truly makes you feel like you are in the Matrix.
  
  Graphics- 9.0 - You don't need a super computer to run this game but if you want to admire the 
 awesome character models and huge skyscrapers on their best settings, it would help. Character 
 models are very well animated, the combat/gun-play is very cool to see/do. The environments are 
 mostly huge cities consisting of parks/plazas and huge buildings, wich also look great. Only downside 
 to the really awesome graphics is the amount of RAM the game uses, also if you don't have a high 
 speed DSL/Cable connection it will be hard for you to enjoy MxO.
  
  Gameplay- 9.0 - The combat in MxO is very easy to use but at the same time really involved, you 
 dont just select an attack and watch your character pummel the opponent like in other MMORPGs. 
 Combat in MxO is like dice rolling, when you attack you basically roll a generated number wich 
 is combined to your abilities etc., then is compared to your opponent's, the person who has the 
 highest number attacks. This can be very one sided sometimes, especially when an opponent is significantly 
 stronger than you. The missions you can do in this game are really cool, they range from easy - 
 hard, yes you can select a difficulty. Once you get a hang of leveling up, and upgrading your character, 
 you can party with other players and either do missions together or just kill. It is also possible 
 to duel other players (PvP) which is also very fun. If you ever happen to get bored with doing missions 
 or killing, you can go to one of the dance clubs and hang out with other players, or get married... 
 or you can just wander around the city.. careful though, its crawling with enemies. There is also 
 a really deep storyline, which the developers actually take part in-game. Some bugs here and there 
 but the devs are really working their butts off ironing them out.
  
  Sound - 9.0 - Just like the movies!
  
  Value - 10.0 - Definitely worth every penny!
  
  
 So far MxO is shaping up to be one of the best MMORPGs of all time, and if things keep going the 
 way they are it will be there soon! I suggest this game to anyone who enjoys RPGs or the Matrix 
 series for that matter. If you have any questions regarding the game please e-mail me; vegeta9866@yahoo. com. 
 Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake, the target audience of The Matrix Online (MxO) is fans of The Matrix trilogy. 
 If you're an MMO player who simply is looking to check out the "latest and greatest", this game 
 may not be for you. However, if you're a Matrix fan who also enjoys MMOs, and you're willing to 
 shed some traditional MMORPG concepts, there's a good chance you'll find a lot to like.
  
  COMBAT:
  This fundamental area of the game is probably going to be a make or break issue for 
 most players. It feels very different from traditional MMORPG combat because of what they call 
 "Interlock". Interlock is the game's close-combat system which is much more turned-based than combat 
 in other games. Opponents queue-up their next attack and a random roll is done to see who wins. 
 Whichever combatant rolls the higher number is the one who successfully completes their attack 
 and is the only one who deals damage.
  
  While Interlock is in place, players cannot move their characters. They are literally "locked" 
 in combat until someone wins or someone successfully completes a Withdraw maneuver and escapes. 
 This leads some players to feel that the combat is too "hands-off" and that they're simply pressing 
 a button and watching the outcome. However, for those that take the time to stick with it, they'll 
 find that the system simply focuses more on tactical decision making as opposed to quick reflexes. 
 In fact, when you really get down to it, in many ways it's not THAT different from traditional 
 MMORPG combat (i. e., you enter combat and select special moves until someone dies or runs away; 
 the big difference here is the timing aspect and the fact that you CAN'T easily run away) .
  
  But there's another reason to Interlock beyond just the desire to make the combat more tactical: 
 it's the graphical payoff! By locking the players into combat, the game can have full control over 
 the animations of both combatants. What this means is that when a Karate Master successfully executes 
 a swinging kick to the head, it REALLY looks like a swinging kick to the head, complete with painful 
 physical reactions by the unlucky recipient of the kick. And some of the animations will play out 
 in slow-motion Bullet Time. It's quite a feeling the first time you see yourself land a killing 
 martial arts blow, Matrix-style.
  
  The Interlock system lets you select between four primary attacks. These different attacks focus 
 on either damage, accuracy, unbalancing your opponent, or pure defense. The first three can sometimes 
 place your opponent in a detrimental state which can debuff some of their abilities and stats. 
 In addition to the primary attacks, you also will have a varying number of special attacks depending 
 on your level and discipline focus (e. g., Karate, Handguns, Stealth, etc.) . New players often make 
 the mistake of thinking that the primary attacks are a Rock/Paper/Scissors game. That, perhaps, 
 the damage-based attack will beat the opponents accuracy-based attack. But this is not the case. 
 Who wins the roll is completely determined by the random roll which is directly affected by the 
 individual skills of the player along with any modifiers (which can be from buffs or even the choice 
 of attack) . So it's best to think of the primary attacks as a multi-option version of AutoAttack 
 in other games. Just like in other MMOs, you'll still have a number of special attacks to add to 
 the mix.
  
  It should also be pointed out that Interlock is not just for melee-based players. Those that want 
 to specialize in guns will also use Interlock. The game has developed an entire library of animations 
 to execute for all of the various combinations of combatants and attacks. So a player focusing 
 on Sub-Machine Guns will have dedicated animations for their attacks against a melee vs. a gun-toting 
 opponent.
  
  Interlock is not the only method of combat, however. For gun-users, the Free Fire method is also 
 available. This is similar to a ranged-based auto-attack in other MMOs. It's simply firing your 
 weapon automatically at your opponent over and over. If your opponent also chooses to engage in 
 Free Fire, then the battle could entirely play out like that. The difference here is that you have 
 full control of your character and can more easily run away if need be. However, it's usually likely 
 that your opponent will approach you and force you into Interlock.
  
  In addition, one particular discipline line focuses on the execution of computer viruses against 
 your enemy (i. e., "spell casting") . This can be done both in and out of Interlock. So if you're 
 in a group and are not the one who has the Interlock focus of the target, then you could easily 
 stand back and execute the viruses (which could include direct damage, damage over time, de-buffs, 
 etc.) .
  
  And of course, there's also a discipline branch that focuses on buffing and healing players. So 
 they too would stay out of Interlock combat (hopefully) and concentrate on keeping the group members 
 alive. However, for the solo player who likes to specialize in Virus Execution or wants to focus 
 on the Healing/Buffing abilities, they'll still have access to most of them during Interlock (although 
 some are designated for use outside of combat) . In addition, with the right skill-tree selections, 
 Proxies (i. e., "pets") can be created to help the soloist.
  
  ABILITIES:
  Another unique aspect of MxO is the Ability Tree system. Every Ability fits somewhere within a 
 very large Ability Tree. And as with most skill tree systems, you'll need to acquire pre-requisite 
 Abilities before you can load-up newer ones further "up" the tree (i. e., further down the branches) . 
 Since many of the Abilities are levelable (i. e., you can increase their power as you level) , there 
 are some newer Abilities that require you to have the pre-requisites at a particular level as well 
 (in addition to just having it loaded) .
  
  What makes the system unique, however, is the fact that every player can obtain every single Ability 
 in the entire tree if they wish. The only requirement is cash (known as $Info) and having the appropriate 
 pre-requisite Abilities. The catch is, you can only have a certain number of Abiltiies loaded at 
 one time. The system stores which Abilities you've purchased, but you manually select which ones 
 to load and which tree branch to focus on. And what makes it even more unique is that you can completely 
 switch your entire Ability Load-Out in an instant. All you need to do is find the nearest Hardline 
 (phonebooth) . So today you can play as a Kung Fu Master and tomorrow play as a stealth-based Assassin. 
 While it's beneficial for new players to have a specific focus in mind as they level, it's nice 
 to know that when the $Info starts flowing in, you can immediately start buying other Abilities 
 and see how the "other folks live".
  
  GAMEWORLD:
  The game world takes place in Megacity. It's very impressive in both scale and diversity. New players 
 start off in a District called the Slums which is a somewhat run-down area of the city (there ARE 
 worse areas, actually) . Each of the four Districts are sub-divided into multiple Neighborhoods. 
 While the Neighborhoods often have their own feel, the distinction between overall Districts is 
 very pronounced. For example, the International District has a very Asian feel while Downtown is 
 staggering with its tall skyscrappers and clean, corporate feel.
  
  While perhaps not as much attention to detail as World of Warcraft, there's still quite a lot of 
 "stuff" to make the world feel realistic. And with the game's Richworld effect turned on, you'll 
 also have a variety of traffic and pedestrians ("Bluepills") covering the streets and sidewalks.
 
  
  However, as in the Matrix movies, Megacity does have an overall "gloomy" feel to it. The sky's 
 are usually overcast or hazy and in many areas, you can almost feel the grime. So don't expect 
 to roleplay too many sunny picnics in the park.
  
  INTERFACE:
  The overall interface works well, although it's not revolutionary. However, character and camera 
 controls could take some adjustment for many players. The controls "feel" a little sloppy. In fact, 
 even though I normally prefer mouselook turning in MMOs, I often find myself resorting to keyboard 
 movement instead (especially indoors) . In addition, the camera controls during combat can really 
 throw people for a loop. The camera often "pops" and swings around wildly as it tries to follow 
 your character's animations. It's something that you learn to adjust to and control to some extent, 
 but it definitely isn't as player friendly as it should be. Luckily, however, reports from the 
 Test Server are that the next major patch will include various options to the combat camera; and 
 test players seem to be very happy with the changes.
  
  STABILITY/LAG:
  My play sessions have generally been trouble-free and lag-free. There's the slight slow-down when 
 textures are being loaded or entering an area with a large group of players; but outside of that, 
 the performance has been very smooth. But I should point out that that's not the case for everyone. 
 There are a fair number of players who report significant lag and performance problems. It does 
 appear that having 1GB RAM and a clean platform (i. e., no background applications or other system 
 problems that might be bogging your system) are key to having a good play experience.
  
  STUFF TO DO:
  The content in MxO includes a variety of possibilities. A fair portion of the player's 
 time will be spent accomplishing Missions (i. e., "quests") . The Missions are done fairly well and 
 are divided into two categories: Critical and Standard. Critical Missions are fully scripted and 
 are designed to be story-based. In fact, as new "official" Matrix storyline is developed, one method 
 of providing that content will be through Critical Missions presented to the player. Once a player 
 has achieved a certain rating with one of the three possible Organizations (Zion, Machines, or 
 Merovingian) , they'll be able to start choosing Standard Missions. These are similar to the Anarchy 
 Online randomly-generated missions. A player can choose from a "type" of mission along with a Time 
 and Difficulty setting. While the Critical Missions will run-out (sometimes only temporarily until 
 a certain level is reached) , the Standard Missions can be done as often as desired.
  
  To further add to the mix, a player doesn't have to accomplish the missions from just their Organization. 
 Throughout the Neighborhoods are "Contacts" who will also have a set of scripted Critical Missions 
 to offer. These are nice when you want to stay in a certain area of the city (such as when your 
 Organizational missions are sending you to difficult areas) .
  
  At first glance, it might seem like the number of "Quests" are small compared to the bevy of quests 
 being offered by recent releases like WoW and EQ2. However, when you realize that the Mission providers 
 hand them to you sequentially (as opposed to you going to various NPCs) , you can see that the overall 
 number is quite good.
  
  Beyond Missions, there's also other combat-oriented options. Throughout the Neighborhoods are local 
 gangs. These gangs serve as the local "spawn camps" which players can choose to level-up with. 
 They're generally plentiful and each Neighborhood has its own level-range of gangs. So it's not 
 too hard to find enemies to test your skills against. To make the gang battles a bit more focused, 
 there are NPC Collectors throughout the cities who will trade buffed clothing items in exchange 
 for the trinkets dropped by the gangmembers.
  
  If you want a change of scenery and are comfortable with a PvP atmosphere. You can also visit the 
 Archives. The Archives hold various level-based "Constructs" which are virtual worlds separate 
 from The Matrix. They offer more NPCs to fight against in drastically different environments (e. g., 
 snowy landscapes with Asian structures) . The Constructs are also all open-PvP where players of 
 opposing Organizations can attack eachother.
  
  There are also MxO versions of "dungeons" called Exile Hideouts. These are sub-basement level type 
 areas with progressively harder opponents as you work your way lower. Eventually you'll reach a 
 Boss who carries unique loot. In some ways, these Hideouts are more reminiscent of the old EQ dungeons 
 since they're not instanced and the Bosses can often be camped by other groups also wanting a shot. 
 However, the spawn times are significantly faster (e. g., 20 min) and as the player base spreads 
 out in levels over the coming weeks, it shouldn't be as much of a problem.
  
  For non-combat options, players can engage in Crafting to make (or "code") their own equipment. 
 A built-in Marketplace allows for fixed-price trading between players (fixed-price meaning it's 
 not an Auction; the seller sets a price) .
  
  On the Social Scene, the game offers quite a number of Clubs throughout Megacity. Each has its 
 own distinct feel and genre (Punk, Industrial, Goth, etc.) . From what I've seen, MxO has a lot 
 of potential for having a very strong community feel. The Clubs make it easy for players to arrange 
 gatherings; and during Beta, it was quite common for there to be player-hosted events. In addition, 
 an upcoming patch will include a built-in Radio player which will allow for streaming media from 
 fan sites such as Radio Free Zion (http://www. radiofreezion. com) which is a radio station devoted 
 solely to MxO.
  
  OVERALL:
  The Matrix Online provides a phenomenal environment for fans of the Matrix to come together in 
 a Matrix-type world. The combat is very unique and engaging to watch. The skill system allows for 
 players to try out all of the playstyles without having to start from scratch. The content, while 
 mainly focused on Missions and gang camping, seems to provide enough variety to keep the casual 
 to average-time player happy. And the city is the most realistic seen in an MMO and easily supports 
 player-driven community events.
  
  Bottom line: if you're a big Matrix fan who likes community-based MMOs (and is willing to try something 
 different combat-wise) , you should definitely check it out. However, if your main interest in MMOs 
 is power-gaming or you're not terribly interested in the Matrix's continuing storyline, you should 
 probably wait until the inevitable free-trials start in a few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm another one of the lucky chaps that got to beta test the matrix online for quite a lengthy 
 period of time, and like another reviewer on here I was very shocked at just how much the development 
 team listened to the beta testers. While there were still quite a few bugs a month back, it seems 
 all the bugs that interfered with gameplay to an annoying degree are no longer present.
  
  Another thing I was really shocked about was the live-team presentation of the storytelling features. 
 You've probably heard a lot by now about Morpheus and Niobe and Seraph and Merv ;) walking around 
 and interacting with players during the live events. Its an experience like none other so far. 
 I find the live team for this and WoW to be very close in comparison, and that is a very welcome 
 treat.
  
  Graphics are rather good, but perhaps not quite as good as say, WoW or EQ2, and to me thats ok. 
 I've never been one for a bunch of eye-candy. It looks fantastic for what it needs to do, it does 
 it well, and you don't quite need the beefy system you need for EQ2. It runs much better. There 
 are a ton of different clothes and items that will give you a more unique look as you go along, 
 which is great. 
  
  Sound is top-notch. The team took a lot of time getting real to life sounds for guns, and the martial 
 arts hits definitely sound painful enough. The music is great and sticks with the feel of the music 
 in the movies. Kudos here.
  
  Gameplay lends something different. The fighting mechanics are new in the fact that combat is much 
 more interactive. It makes that aspect of an MMO much more fun to do over a long period of time. 
 The missions are great fun, immersive, and really give you a good feel of progress as you go along 
 too. While much of it may seem nothing new, whats there is done well and well thought out. 
  
  Value in these games are always dependent upon the player. If you're new to the MMO genre, 
 and a fan of the movies, I could safely say you'll probably really enjoy this. If you're not new 
 to the genre, but are looking for something a little different, why not give this a try? Its a 
 solid MMO that, providing the dev team sticks to its beta principles, is only going to get better 
 with time.
  
  To conclude, MxO is a solid edition to the MMO genre, with a really talented live team to boot. 
 The design ethics of this team show a very promising future in a very competitive and difficult 
 genre to stand the test of time. If you're looking for something different, give MxO a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TzPsyco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes thats right its a pretty bold statement but i honestly feel its true.
  First off let me tell you my background to review this game.
  I have had two lvl 50s in the beta 
 one of which was the first after a wipe.
  I have had plenty of time to explore the majority of content in this game.
  First off let me 
 say this game didnt start out great it became great .
  It became great because of the people who worked on it they listened to the beta community to release 
 a fun and fair game.
  I have played and beta tested alot of MMOs anyone else who has will know that developers rarely 
 listen to the player base like they did in mxo.
  Whats this have to do with anything?
  I have faith that they will take this game in the right direction.
  They did it in beta and they 
 are going to do it in release.
  The astounding rate at which they release non buggy new content is pretty shocking.
  This game 
 last September was was an absolute shell after watching it evolve to what it is today i still wonder 
 how they could do all that in such a short time .
  Another strongpoint for mxo is the community staff.
  In my personal experiance most community 
 staff have been harrasing inmature and unwilling to help on even the smallest of issues.
  I have experianced the exact oppisite from MxOs community staff.
  For example back in the beta 
 i was targeted by groups that were trying to impersonate mods and get people to give out credit 
 card info or in my case delete my charecter due to its hig hlvl.
  I had two mods spawn in on me and breif me on the whole situation than send out a annoucement to 
 the whole server to warn people.
  You just dont get that from an MMO usally ESPECIALY in a beta.
  Now that were paying what can 
 we expect if we were treated so well during beta.
  Now on to the actual gameplay.
  Mxos gameplay is revolutionary to the mmo system.
  The best way to describe it is as a mix of 
 all the things that have worked in mmos while replacing the static stand there and click a button 
 combat.
  Interlock is amazing.
  If you would like to see some example of what can be done in interlock download the free anti heroes 
 video on radiofreezion. com i think you will see what im talking about.
  That was all gameplay footage that a good freind of mine filmed and gives a good overview of how 
 fun and engageing interlock can really be.
  As far as exploits go i have never seen a game that released with so little.
  Storyline for the 
 first time i have seen actual movie chars walking around in game talking to people.
  They are controlled by a skilled events team and it makes the game feel ALOT more alive.
  At 
 times some people have been lucky enough to be contacted by morpheus niobe or seraph themselves 
 in our case the merovingian,
  The events team did a very good job at this i cant wait to see what else is in store.
  All in 
 all i feel this game is going to revolutionize the genre.
  It has its bugs but honestly at the rate that staff has been commited to fix them i would not worry 
 about it.
  If worse comes to worse you have the free period to try this game im sure after doing so you will 
 be hooked like i was.
  
  
  Psycidelicos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scumbag69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  I will firstly say that i love the matrix plot, but matrix online somehow leaves you with a cold, 
 distorted feeling, preventing you to comeback to the game knowing that you are getting your monies 
 worth.
  
  Firstly the graphics are very good, from the guns to the character models its great, the only problem 
 that i encountered was the scenery. In games such as world of warcraft and everquest 2 they dont 
 take there environments forgranted and construct beautiful scenes but matrix online's suburban 
 feel doesnt give me any thrills.
  
  The gameplay in the matrix is fun... to an extent, but even though it is hard to depict the gameplay 
 in a mmorpg i just didnt feel that i was using the abilities that the matrix movies endorsed.
 
  
  The Sound is beautiful, the gun sounds to the fist punches. I will just say that Monolith has not 
 "bombed out" on this section.
  
  Value... i will let you the reader decide this as many different people have mixed feelings on 
 subscriptions to games.
  
  Matrix online has its faults but for the most part it is really a great game, worth trying if your 
 a fan to the matrix series. If your a fan of the fantasy genre then your safer to stick with something 
 such as W. o. W or EQ2.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
