-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Theme Hospital
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/themehospital/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,550 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Bullfrog Prod.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Theme Hospital is at heart a god-game in the vein of SimCity or Populous. 

 It hasn't been a very good year for Bullfrog. The British development team first filed Gene Wars 
 (a very disappointing game) , followed it up with Syndicate Wars (a lifeless sequel to one of the 
 company's big popular titles of yesteryear) , and managed to not release its most eagerly-awaited 
 game, Dungeon Keeper, at all. Now they've released Theme Hospital. Despite pleasing graphics and 
 a heavy dose of imagination, Theme Hospital never manages to deliver the goods on any of its gameplay 
 promises, proving instead to be a minefield of frustration and angst waiting to spring on an unsuspecting 
 audience.  

 The follow-up to Theme Park, Theme Hospital is at heart a god-game in the vein of SimCity or Populous. 
 Using a pleasingly simple interface, players are asked to create a hospital that can stand up to 
 a constant stream of patients inflicted with bizarre ailments. Good hospitals will include: the 
 latest diagnostic tools, from the basic Cardiogram to more advanced choices like the X-ray and 
 Scanner; the most advanced treatment facilities, including pharmacies and operating theaters; the 
 latest specialized equipment - Inflater units for patients with Bloaty Heads, Fracture Clinics 
 for those with Bandages, and so on; and, of course, a staff to run, organize, and maintain all 
 of this equipment. Bad Hospitals won't manage to live up to the challenge, and will be shut down 
 after killing off too many people. After healing enough people and earning enough money, you - 
 and your hospital administration skills - will be praised by the Health Board, and you'll be invited 
 to take over a new hospital with a greater set of challenges and rewards. The idea is simple, the 
 gameplay is simple, and all of it turns out to be addictive and entertaining... for a while.  

 
 Once you've mastered the basics, your day-to-day life within the Theme Hospital universe will revolve 
 around keeping your staff happy (by keeping them warm and giving them raises) , making sure your 
 patients are happy (by keeping them warm and making sure they don't have to wait to long for a 
 doctor) , making sure your hospital looks nice (by hiring loads of maintenance men to water the 
 plants and clean up trash) , and fighting off emergencies (in the form of visiting dignitaries and 
 epidemics) . Most of these tasks are easy to the point of not really mattering - when someone asks 
 for raise you say "Yes," and when you have too many patients you build more rooms. But the tasks 
 that aren't simple are aggravating in the extreme - to the point of making the game unbearable. 
 The game's flawed AI routines seem designed to make sure your staff is never where it should be. 
 Handymen wander the empty halls of your medical facilities while patients stand up to their waists 
 in trash in waiting room. Specialists (surgeons and psychiatrists) always seem to be unable to 
 perform their specific duties because they have volunteered to do the work of the general practitioners, 
 while the general practitioners wander aimlessly through the halls. When a set of emergency cases 
 (which must be cured before a time limit runs out) arrive, there's often no one to meet them at 
 all, even if you have corridors full of qualified personnel. While there are sliders and bars to 
 adjust, which are supposed to affect the priorities and policies that your staff follows, they 
 seem to have little to no outcome on the recurring problems that haunt the game.  

 In the end, there are a few great things about this game - it boasts fantastic graphics, realistic 
 (if often annoying) voice acting, and a lot of (also frequently annoying) humor. But like many 
 of Bullfrog's other recent releases, the game just doesn't fly. If you think a little hospital 
 managing sounds entertaining, download the demo and pretend that there's no more to the game. This 
 may sound silly, but in the end, it's free, and it's guaranteed to be a lot less disappointing 
 than coming face-to-face with the real thing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Barhooom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  Manager game genre is easily the most diverse. You can be god, mayor, school principle, king of 
 pirates even a prison warden. In this game you are a hospital manager. Whats a better cause!
  
  This game still rocks (created in 1997) , I am playing it on my PS3 (I just got) and its actually 
 stealing time away from KillZone2. 
  
  The Good:
  - Very Funny in obvious and subtle ways. Bloaty Head treatment is done by blowing up the patient 
 head and re-infalting it to the normal size. Disease causes are funny. One time I did not have 
 surgeons and a patient was waiting, the announcer actually called for "Doctor Joe to the Operating 
 Theater".
  - The game's pace is just right. Levels do not take too long and you will find a new thing to explore 
 in the right time. 
  - The challange in the game is to get things just right. 
  - Diversity of problems (staff, equipment, research and patients) that will keep you busy. Its 
 not until 5 minutes before you reach the level's goal (usually reputation, hospital value, money 
 in account) that you actually get relaxed.
  
  The Bad:
  - Bad staff AI leads to annoying type of micromanagement. (you need to always check around the 
 staff room for wandering doctors) .
  - The announcer is very helpful but, due to the bad staff AI, you will feel its ringing in your 
 head.
  - Its very difficult to lose once you gasp the basics. But a few wrong decisions will lead to spending 
 an extended time to complete a level. I mean really extended. 
  - A few glitches and design anomalies make the game inconsistent in difficulty. (Temperature is 
 nearly impossible to get right, and if things get too crowded, save, load and your hospital will 
 be emptied for you) .
  
  
  I can't describe how much I enjoy this game. Its strange that its formula was never re-done (Hospital 
 Tycoon sucks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Like many games of its genre, Hospital Tycoon will have you running a hospital without losing your 
 money. In order for your business to survive, you will have to build rooms, take in employees and 
 be paid by your customers.
  
  The game's simple interface will help you get started, while the good options of management you 
 have will have you playing for hours. The rules are simple: heal as many people as possible, earn 
 enough money, and you may go to another hospital which tougher to control and suceed.
  
  However, after suceeding in building your hospital, nothing really matters, except your stuff's 
 and patients' morale. The game becomes a little boring, as the thrill of the first minutes is gone. 
 And the worst point of the game is the AI, which doesn't seem working good oftenly.
  
  But what is really good is the visual situation, which is not stuck in certain disabilities, like 
 other games appeared these times. And the sound is very good (though in newer systems there is no 
 sound at all) .
  
  Theme Hospital is a game you may find entertaing and funny, but only to a certain extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle3g
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  this game is a classic.. even now days I play it often... this is a great game!!!
  please.. give this game a second thought after reading gamespot's review cus I have played this 
 game and I really... REALLY disagree with the review gamespot gave it.. I think it deserves at least 
 a 7.0!!
  this is a very addictive classic game and I really hope that you decide to buy it (specially now 
 that it's probably extremely cheap) this game requires a lot of strategy of organising your hospital 
 and managing your money.. this is a challanging game that i'm sure you will like if u like games 
 like simcity for example.. this game is great.. in my opinion you should go read some more reviews 
 before deciding cus I really disagree with gamespot this time.
  I usualy would have told you to rent this game cus of the fact that my opinion is very diffrent 
 from gamespot's opinion but this is a very old game and buying it will probably cost you less then 
 renting most of now-days games so I think that you should just buy this game or read some more 
 reviews and play the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raejie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Yeah many thinks this game suck! how about the opinion of the other gamers who loves to play game?... hmmmmmm 
 anyway, for me this game is fair enough, i mean like 5 out of 10.. but this game for others like 
 "medically" minded people they will rate it higher than us.. and people who are just hating this 
 kind of game will rate lower.. but if are computer maniac.. this game will probobly fair rating.. 
 it is also an old game but when the time this game was released it was fun for others.. yeah many 
 people love this game... a simple strategic game, ( most likely to medical minded people) .. but 
 many others even if their not more on medical but they love this game... if you love this game 
 or hate it... just be yourself.. for me it's kinda fun game..
  
  
  
  
  well, the bottom line is.. it's your opinion..;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axearmor426
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I first played Theme Hospital on my PlayStation, all those many years ago, and I really enjoyed 
 it then. I have recently obtained a version for PC and needless to say, I still enjoy the game 
 for many reasons.
  
  As the title suggests, the game is set around a hospital, with you in the position of a Hospital 
 Administrator of sorts. It's up to you to place the different rooms of the hospital, hire staff, 
 and keep everyone happy.
  
  Theme Hospital starts rather slowly. You build your first hospital out of a few rooms, hire your 
 first staff and then simply sit back and wait until your level goals are complete, so you can move 
 onto more challenging assignments. This isn't strictly a bad thing, as later in the game, it gets 
 quite difficult. 
  
  If you've ever watched an episode of House M. D., you will have seen some wacky problems with the 
 human body. You will have seen nothing in comparison to the symptoms the Theme Hospital patients 
 display. For example, there is a condition called 'Bloaty Head', which is exactly how it sounds. 
 Bloaty Head sufferers have large, inflated heads, to which the cure is to pop the head with a pin, 
 and then re-pressurize with air, so it's the correct size. Other ailments include Slack Tongue, 
 uncommon Cold, Invisibility and King Complex, where a patient believes he is Elvis Presley.
  
  In short, if you're looking for an addictive game to keep you occupied, and one that will make 
 you laugh, then Theme Hospital is definitely worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_wh0re
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Fun game but gets a bit repetative. For instance, you have to install radiators and have them on 
 a quite high heat setting so the patients dont get cold, i had radiators allover the bloody place 
 on the highest setting and they STILL got cold! ..... (they may have pneumonia.... bollox)
  anyway.. its really fun for the first few levels. you get to see patients with 'bloaty head' get 
 their heads popped with a pin and blown up again.. very realistic!
  but like i said, it can get boring quite fast. you have to do the same thing on every level just 
 with a different shaped hospital and maybe a couple more rooms to build. Sometimes the patients 
 die and you have no idea how it happened. the staff are always bloody whinging and threaten to quit 
 quite alot. if you have alot of patience (ha ha geddit?) then you will probably find this game somewhat 
 entertaining.
  
  
  TIP: dont bother with cleaning everyones rubbish up, place an item on it and then move it back and 
 it will have disapeared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Building up a hospital was never going to be a hit genre for a game. It would be seriously repetitive, 
 it would be very boring and it would either be really hard or really easy. So it was no surprise 
 to me when I saw Theme Hospital sitting on the shelf at HMV untouched by anybody stupid enough 
 to buy it and it was only &pound;4.99. I was foolish enough to cast my mind back about three years 
 earlier when my frien had had it and I'd played on it once or twice. So I bought it. I didn't expect 
 to play on it for any serious amount of time, but I still bought it. And after playing on it for 
 a while, I realised that I actually didn't mind all that much watching people getting their heads 
 popped open or people puking all over a hospital floor. I played on the first seven levels or something 
 before discovering the incredible difficulty in the latter parts of the game. It was frustrating, 
 but I just kept playing the earlier levels and just had some fun playing on it. It took me a full 
 two weeks before I gave up, but I still play on it for the fun factor that I will never be able 
 to explain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  my computer totally crashes.
  
  I never understand the fact that I never really could go to the second level, without the game 
 crashing and it shut itself down.
  If it's the computer's fault of the game's glitch, I never know, but it was funny it only happened 
 to that game.
  
  The first level I could play was alot of fun, I must admit. You have to place equipment and hire 
 doctors/nurses in your ready-to-go hospital. And fast, because you haven't just started or people 
 will bash right in with their sick big Power Puff-heads, expecting that they will be healing why 
 you haven't placed anything else but a plant in a pot.
  
  It's a enjoyable game, even though there was always something wrong with the bottom of the screen 
 at my pc, which was annoying and makes you wonder if the people who programmed this actually had 
 eyes and hands..
  
  It's good, but that's hard to say for I never got further than the first level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ric96
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Its a great game a bit old now but still very good game needs work on the graphics and could do 
 with better sound i hope they make a sequal but i think that isent likely since it was realeased 
 adges ago but still there could be a chance. The first time i played it the menue screen was as 
 this teacher guy pulling down a projection screen which shows the human body each part of the body 
 is either New game. Load game. Options, And quit so i clicked on the head which was new game. (with 
 a loading screen of a guy with a chainsaw) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun! I've played it through 3 or 4 times, now. My only wish is that it 
 had a random map feature for replayability. You basically are given an empty building (1-story) 
 and you fill it with the various diagnostic and treatment rooms. Once you run out of room, you 
 can buy adjacent buildings. You have control over staff and equipment, the running of the hospital, 
 and to some extent, the treatment of patients. Illnesses are quirky such as Bloaty Head , which 
 requires popping and re-inflating. British humor throughout makes it pretty funny. I have BIG hopes 
 that they will make a new version of this. It looks like the upcoming Hospital Tycoon has a chance 
 at achieving this.
  
  This game proves again to me that a good game beats the pants off of a new game. The graphics are 
 dated, but still decent enough that they don't detract from the gameplay. This is a Classic in 
 my mind, and up in my top games of all time. If you like Civilization, Capitalism, and the like, 
 you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaijick
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, don't get me wrong, but it could be much better.
  
  The gameplay is great, the sounds are funny (minus the annoying loudspeaker, it gets wild sometimes) 
 and I get a kick out of everything that goes on. I'm happy with the animations, the graphics are 
 great for its generation, the illnesses (I lost it when I got my first case of the squits . I couldn't 
 stop laughing) , the cures.
  
  The beginning levels give a good tutorial for new players, and the game doesn't romp up the difficulty 
 too fast. It goes at a pace where you get a challenge each level, but your not thrown into a gauntlet 
 with no hope (or clue) . The later levels are definantly challenging, with lots of space to build 
 and make your hospital great, but again, be prepared for your staff to constantly complain and 
 demand raises. Micromanaging staff seems to become the center of the game in the last 2 levels.
 
  
  Overall, I do reccomend the game, but don't expect it to be something like themepark. The closest 
 thing you get to a freeplay here is continuing after you win the level. Would be much better if 
 you had a big area with the ability to do what you wanted, instead of having to do the level itself 
 and then being able to just not leave it, using that as your freeplay.
  
  It's all fun, but I dock it for not having a free play, the lady on the speaker gets real annoying, 
 I got yelled at by my girlfriend for the constant puking sounds the patients make, and because 
 the employees get way to fussy later in levels, that just makes it more work than play.
  
  For $10, its a great game though, and again, I'd say give up that mcdonalds combo 4 meal, and go 
 get it =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackholesun12
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Seen as the sequel to Theme Park the game offers players the role to run the going ons of a hospital. 
 As a management game it can now be seen as simple and a game that now doesn't manage to stand up 
 against the later titles. However to play its alot of fun and brings together alot of imagination. 
 The gameplay is simple an easy to get to grips with and at times very entertaining. Just like Theme 
 Park it becomes very addictive, however unlike theme park it starts to run thin and interest is 
 soon lost. The graphics aren't to bad and at times offer some impressive little touches that will 
 give you a laugh at times. When I first bought the game I was expecting more from it. However the 
 game is too simple and basic and compared to Theme Park doesn't really offer anything new to the 
 formula except for a new environment to play with.
  
  Overall I give it a 6.2 out of 10 as the game does offer some neat touches inits graphics and humour. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Theme Hospital was my first strategy game, and in addition I have to say that It was the funniest 
 I ever played. Maybe I think it's a very good game because I had no other games to compare. But 
 ten years later, I look back and I still see a great game.
  - Gameplay: higly addictive. Easy to manage. Funny to play. I really love how this game offers 
 you hundreds of possibilities with a simply and effective gameplay.
  - Graphics: well, even in 1997 they are not the best. But they are cool, I mean the graphics are 
 very appropriate for the game. I can still remember how look all this strange people with funny 
 diseases. - Sound: not the best, but still do his function. Besides, I remember how good was the 
 spanish dubbing. Doctor, acuda a inflatoterapia . (I'm spanish, you know) .
  - Value: lot of hours. It's that simple, Theme Hospital offers you a lot of funny hours. However, 
 I think it has little replaying factor. But well... it's not a perfect game.
  - Tilt: what can I say. Do you know another hospital management game? Aha, that was I was thinking. 
 And do you wanna know something, I loved to rule my Hospital. - Conclusion: a MUST PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  As with alot of old school games, Them Hospital fits into that love it or hate it catagorey. Me? 
 I love it. I love the little exploding heads, the shotgunning mice the cure patient, kill patient 
 thing, I love it.
  
  The way theme hospital manages to be fun is by NOT basing itself on a real hospital. And the latest 
 hospital tycoon, proves this with stylish dancing levels of crap which before man had never seen. 
 Instead you get some way of real Hospitals like surgerys and GPs and pharmacys, but then comes 
 inflation chambers, where you head is deflated, slack tounge clinic, where tounges that come down 
 to your waist get sliced off and baldenning rooms, where those of us dieing of baldness get elvis 
 hair (WOOHOO) , where we will later return to the hospital to be cured for king syndrome (WOOHOO) . 
 No I'm not joking.
  
  This game, with it's some what proffesional look has an informal play to it. It has little patient 
 jokes, little anouncements and little visual puns that will keep you happy for hours. One thing 
 though. This game was made in Britain, where we have free hospitals as they are goverment run. 
 I could literaly fall over and brake my leg now and know i could see a doctor today or tomorow, 
 depending on how many people are smoking and eating burgers at the time of injury and thus are 
 holding up our ques (maybe this game should cure fatness and smoking addiction?) and not have to 
 pay a penny. Why therefore do the patients have to hand out the best part of 1 grand so a man can 
 sit in a couch of relative comfort and go, Mate you look like a prat, get a haircut and a change 
 of clothes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John1059
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has definitely been underrated by gamespot, I used to play this on the PC around the 
 time it came out... and I remembering it being FUN AS HELL, yeh sure there are errors you could 
 pick out with it, the graphics aren't great, the music is a little irritating, but its damn fun 
 to play as well as being addictive and rather funny with some of the odd illnesses that come in 
 to your hospital. I loved this game, I think gamespot have seen the name... seen the style... seen 
 the type.... and been rather stuck up about it. It might not be to everybodys taste but if you like 
 sim games and a bit of plain old fun with some amusing rat killing games and odd illnesses, you 
 should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac81
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where the 5.5 comes from! This is one of my favourite games of all time, and i have 
 been waiting for another installment of the THEME series from Bullfrog ever since. I have played 
 it through to the end 4 or 5 times in the past 9 years. The blend of funny illnesses, quirky humour 
 and freedom of the simulation are fantastic. You can control everythig from staff salary, research, 
 staff training to the hospital temperature. The game is not all that dificult once you get the 
 hang of it. I reccomend it to all, and at least play a few levels before passing any judgement. 
 If Bullfrog released another game from this series i would buy it without hesitation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_b1ues
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  i dont how gamespot can give this game such a low score its just so amzing one of the first games 
 i got hooked on, on the pc. Im still playing after like 10 yrs its just a classic yeh the graphics 
 arnt the best but its jjst so good. It even funny with some of the illness the people get. And 
 the bonus rat game is just amazin/
  
  i dont how gamespot can give this game such a low score its just so amzing one of the first games 
 i got hooked on, on the pc. Im still playing after like 10 yrs its just a classic yeh the graphics 
 arnt the best but its jjst so good. It even funny with some of the illness the people get. And 
 the bonus rat game is just amazin/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonschadelaid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Great Game I am still playing it after 9 years!!! and it still works on XP! The graphics could 
 do with an upgrade though! This is one game that needs to be re invented in the future. The game 
 play is still fun. Great Game I am still playing it after 9 years!!! and it still works on XP! 
 The graphics could do with an upgrade though! This is one game that needs to be re invented in 
 the future. The game play is still fun. Great Game I am still playing it after 9 years!!! and it 
 still works on XP! The graphics could do with an upgrade though! This is one game that needs to 
 be re invented in the future. The game play is still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Docter, Docter I'm Looking for a classic PC Game?
  Ok try Theme Hospital. Its one class game if you didn't like Populaus or The Sims you'll enjoy 
 playing this and helping other and keeping the hospital in buisness.
  You are the head of the Hospital every level there is always a different building but empty so 
 you have put lots of things in your hospital like X-Ray room, Pharmacy room, a drink machine for 
 anyone whos thristy or Surgery room. You can also hire nurses, repectionest, doctors and repairers 
 every day in the game you have alot of people coming in and out for there problems so you have 
 to make th hospital busy and lots of space.
  This game is really Cheap to get on PC for under 5 or less its worth playing and will keep you 
 busy for sometime.
  Cheap as Chips!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_King
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have ever had a honour to play, the game is about you running hospitals 
 (duh!) you start off in a small hospital, with only a few rooms/facilities available, then, as 
 you progress, new rooms/treatments/facilities become available. the graphics, for it's time, are 
 great, the dialogue in the game is funny, and you can easily get addicted to this game. Emergencies, 
 Epidemics, earthquakes and VIP visits occur frequently. You must deal with VIP visits and emergencies 
 if you accept them, otherwise you will not get a bonus and your reputation will decrease. Soon 
 after a VIP visit or emergency, you wil receive a fax telling you whether the VIP was pleased or 
 not, or how well you coped with the emergency. Soon after meeting the level criteria, you will 
 receive a letter asking if you would like to work in a bigger hospital. However, if you run your 
 hospital poorly, you may lose the game as you appear in some embarrassing situation in a newspaper. 
 Overall, I think this game is excellent, and the gameplay quality is way ahead of it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffTheDragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Theme Hospital, by Bullfrog, was one of the first games that I was ever addicted to. Before the 
 Nintendo 64 took up permanent residence in my heart, I played a few choice games on PC (SimCity, 
 Theme Park, assorted other simulation games) , until a friend suggested I try Theme Hospital. I 
 found out later he'd bought it, hated it, and wanted to trade SimCity for it without me knowing. 
 Contrary to what he thought, I was only too happy to accept. Theme Hospital is a little bit intimidating 
 at the start, but like most Simulation/Build 'em up games, you will quickly pick up the controls, 
 and learn how to run your mini hospital.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  At the time, I barely noticed them. I only cared about the gameplay, really. Although, looking 
 back, they were mediocre for the time, yet they convey everything needed for the game to function 
 well. I like the cutscenes, the different menu bars, but the tiny resolution irks me, as does the 
 occasionally simple sprite.
  
  Audio: 4/10
  Music: 9/10
  
  The audio, while reasonably true to a hospital, remains hindered by one thing: the horrific announcer. 
 This nasal woman will work as the P. A. system over your hospital, giving you helpful tips on what 
 is needing repair or staff, but she is obnoxiously loud and has one of the most annoying voices 
 in any game I've ever played. And she pops up a hell of a lot. The music, on the other hand, is 
 addictive in its simplicity. Around 10 audio tracks that play on a loop, each is a different style 
 that rarely gets repetitive.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The meat and potatoes of every game. The gameplay is simplistic: build a hospital, compete with 
 three other hospitals in your region, try not to kill any people and clean up the vomit on the 
 floor. However, quirks are added in each level, from contagious virus outbreaks to emergency situations 
 (which are sent in by helicopter) to hilarious illnesses such as "Baldness" and "Invisibility". 
 While the game does hide behind a layer of humour, difficulty sets in around the fifth level, when 
 the earthquakes start destroying expensive medical equipment, and your doctors are all ridiculously 
 underqualified. You have to manage well your funds and your staff happiness, or else you'll be 
 restarting a level in frustration.
  
  Extras (Honorable Mentions) :
  
  Multiplayer: 6/10
  
  Don't let the score fool you, the multiplayer is fantastic. However, getting 
 it to run on systems in this day and age is nigh-impossible.
  
  Humour: 9/10
  
  The game is just funny. From small things like naming the opponents "Deep Thought" and "HAL" to 
 almost every illness, as well as the occasional funny comment from the nasal P. A. woman (Patients 
 are reminded to have their checkbooks ready."
  
  Total: 8.9
  
  Definitely buy it. Although it may not be anywhere but the bargain bin, it is worth any amount 
 you'd need to pay for it. Especially if you can get multiplayer working. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Gamespot is way wrong in giving this game a 5.5... but it wouldn't be the 1st time they've been 
 totally off on a review. Sometimes I think they recommend games when it's in their best interests.
 
  
  Theme Hospital is a classic. Coming out back in '97 when the whole "tycoon" style game genre was 
 just getting started on pcs. This game gave me hours upon hours of quality gameplay as well as 
 laughs.
  
  In Theme Hospital you take control of putting together a decent hospital while trying to handle 
 the constant pitfall of events, emergencies, & scenarios. Constructing your own hospital is fun 
 to say the least as is hiring/firing staff. I have never played a game with a sense of humor like 
 this. Staff bios read "enjoys teasing small animals. smells like cabbage" etc. Illnesses range 
 from reallife to completely absurd. You'll see people come in your hospital thinking they're Elivs 
 ("the king complex") , while others come in with abnormally large heads ("bloaty head syndrome") .
 
  
  Perhaps my favorite thing about the game is the amount of detail they put in every nook & crannie. 
 From people wetting themselves & or vomiting (which often sets off a chain reaction of other people 
 ralphing) to the lady announcer who says the funniest random things that always catch you off guard.
 
  
  I can honestly say this game is great for anyone. Fans of the genre or not. It's been almost 10 
 years now & I can still come back to this game with an ear to ear grin. Anyone who hasn't played 
 is really missing out on a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCygnus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is simple, yet fun. You have to create a hospital, all its buildings, contract the 
 personnel (doctors, beadles, etc.) , and make it run. You have to make the people feel comfortable 
 allowing them to have their seat, buying vending machines, radiators, etc.
  
  The diseases are hilarious, you can find big heads, long tongues, invisible people, so there's 
 a humor touch everywhere in the game. Each stage has its objectives, and everytime you complete 
 them you go to another stage. Every new stage has new buildings, new diseases to cure, and it gets 
 harder of course.
  
  Graphics in this game are cute, very good for their time, and all the animations are also very 
 fluid. The soundtrack isn't anything special, but there is some voice acting (from the recepcionist) 
 that adds into the atmosphere.
  
  There are a lot of stages, and it gets quite hard into the end. If you want to complete it, you 
 will have to take it seriously! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotsabacon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Theme Hospital is a great game. I couldn't believe It got 5.5! Anyways this game brings a ton of 
 fun to any person who likes tycoon games. 
  
  In this game you run a hospital. duh. And you have to discover new cures for new and wild sicknesses. 
 For example men come into your hospital with a massive head. He is sent to a doctor and eventually 
 after a long process he need to get his head popped. He goes into a room and gets his head popped 
 by a doctor and then there is just a slab of skin on his shoulder. Then the doctor gets out the 
 vacuum and puts it in reverse. he blows his head to the normal size and then the guy walks out. 
 I don't know why but I have never seen a women have this problem. Only men with big bloated heads. 
 
  
  Sometimes there are emergencies. These are really fun. Lets say you get a fax saying there are 
 5 people with bloated heads. You can accept it or decline it. You have a time limit and If you 
 dont cure the people they will die if the time limit expires. 
  
  In the game you are competing with 3 other hospitals. There are goals in each level and if you 
 dont complete the goals before any other hospital completes them you will lose. That can get extremely 
 annoying. Sometimes if you saved right before another hospital beats you then you would have to 
 start over. That has happened to me a few times and it really sucks. So I advise you to save more 
 then one file.
  
  Other than that it is an amazing game for being 9 years old. As I have said before it deserves 
 more than 5.5. Way to go bullfrog (not take-two) , you made a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Theme Hospital I remember getting given to me by someone as a gift probably in the late 90s. This 
 was the first decent game I played for hours on my Windows 98 computer.
  
  When in the main game you start off in a really big hospital. The bigger the hospital then the 
 more easier it is for you to place in objects and rooms. Doing this will make people feel more 
 comfortable. Having tight spaces between rooms can often lead to people getting stuck (probably 
 a bug) and feeling sick. You don't want this to happen because after one person has felt sick it 
 usually spreads throughout the hospital. The amount of time that this has happened to me is unbelievable. 
 I remember having to shut down the whole hospital just so my janitors could clean up the mess. 
 Literally, every floor tile outside the rooms was covered with sick. At least it wasn't possible 
 for them to feel sick in a room. Having an untidy hospital means you will get infested with rats. 
 This isn't particularly good news when you get a VIP visiting your hospital.
  
  Once you progress past a few levels you'll need to cope with emergencies (that's when you get several 
 patients wanting the same treatment at once) , staff shortages (some levels make it really hard 
 to hire enough doctors and nurses) , new diseases and more and more patients. In fact, sometimes 
 you'll have to place down more seating to cope with the amount of people coming into the hospital 
 and placing down more drinks machines. The game does become increasingly difficult and if you don't 
 react quickly and do things right your reputation will go down. Other things you'll need to keep 
 an eye on is the heat (if it is too low or too high your patients will become unhappy and may possibly 
 leave) and of course your finances.
  
  For 1997, the graphics weren't too bad. I don't think they were the best but neither the worst 
 either. The main hospital looked good and probably the only downfall about them was some of the 
 people. Seeing as you only get a few models of each patient (many look the same) they could of 
 at least worked hard on that.
  
  You'll probably find yourself turning off the music in the background (especially when the tracks 
 start to repeat) a lot. The music can be very lively and it is the sort of soundtrack which gets 
 rather annoying once you've heard it about three or four times. Even more annoying than that is 
 the receptionist. Her voice gave me a serious migraine! Thank goodness there was an option to turn 
 her off.
  
  If you are looking to become a doctor or nurse sometime in the future don't expect this game to 
 improve your skills. It is there purely for fun. There is nothing too advanced about it. You'll 
 get invisible people with walking sticks and people with bloaty heads. Now, I don't think you will 
 be curing people who are invisible when you become a doctor. Well, I don't think so anyway - at 
 least not now. This is a god game and is worth it if you want to enjoy hours of managing a fantasy 
 hospital. You'll need to manage your staff, expand and build new parts of the hospital. It's great 
 to reorganise your hospital and although some may say it is boring, I don't think it is.
  
  If you are wanting to purchase this game I recommend it on the PC since it's a lot of clicking 
 and dragging. The process of doing this on the PlayStation version takes much more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsawinin
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  This game is great! This is the greatest cheap game ever. Yet, I know the cheap games suck. Its 
 a challenging game. Graphics arent good, but you forget all about that, once you play it, like 
 rollercoaster tycoon 1 and 2. Sound is good. After a while you get some funny people. The machines 
 get good too, and there are lots of objects. Tip: If you put a cheat in, the receptionist says 
 annoying things! If you don't care about how it compares to other games and just won't fun, I would 
 recommend it. If you're looking for the best tycoon game out there, I don't recommend it. You may 
 get stressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandymarsh
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  I remember this game from 6 years ago. The Splendid levels and the um... 'good-at-that-time' graphics 
 kept me glued to the game.
  As a fan of Simulation Gaming, I particularly loved Theme Hospital. I mean, where else can there 
 be a game where you get to boss people around, build complicated stuff and still enjoy a bit of 
 Toilet Humour?
  Tutorial included, you'll get started in no time at all.
  Like all games, it will get harder and harder. What fun! False Diseases like Bloaty Head, Transparency 
 and Slack Tongue are fun to watch get diagnosed and cured! The feel of customer satisfaction is 
 there. Helipad Emergencies, earthquakes and the VIPs you have to impress, all part of the game.
 
  Finally, there's the Fax Machine cheats and Rat Shooting Bonus Levels which are a great complement 
 to the game.
  Frustrating though they may be, the Game's minor glitches (missing door, sudden loss of music) 
 are easily avoidable, making this game a smooth ride.
  
  Bullfrog was really creative in this game, just ask anyone who has played this game. It's great 
 Fundertainment
  "Doctor Required in the GP's Office!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The pure gold comedy in Theme Hospital is the kind of stuff that should be in a lot more comedy 
 games. Who would have known that drinking beer and sniffing cheese all day would lead to a bloated 
 head?
  The rat shooting stage.
  The mechanics of this game are truly solid. There's so much to do, not only for your hospital, 
 but for your employees and patients as well. If you don't pay attention, you'll have a patient 
 kill over dead after taking a poo. Not good.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The lack of multiplayer (before the patch) was sad for me and a few friends. But we got over it 
 fast.
  Having your janitor's not cleaning turds but instead killing time in the breakroom. Now, people 
 are dying.. and that makes my smile turn upside down.
  The hiring process is hard. Regardless of how skilled a doctor/janitor/receptionist is, you'll 
 end up with something wrong wtih your new employee.
  
  :Overall:
  Regardless of how little GameSpot paid tribute to a great game like Theme Hospital (by Bullfrog 
 Games... not Take-Two) , this is a great game and for the price it's at today, well worth the bucks. 
 You won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigard_manx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Theme hospital, is a extremely funny game. Really unknown and often quite underrated. Though quite 
 old now, you can pick up a copy for 5.00 in the UK with Soldout Software. It is quite hard but 
 it is a good challenge. Though by it's 1997 graphics it does not look that exciting, its not that 
 bad. With hilarious treatments, such as Bloated head Syndrome. And extremely hilarious lines like 
 Please dont Feed the Vermin. Also with a challenging scenario, it is a challenging fun game.
 
  I think you should defiantly have a look at this game especially looking at the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Weve all been there, stuck in a hospital waiting area, one hour goes past, then two, then three, 
 then finally four hours later you see the doctor for all of five minutes who tells you that there 
 is nothing wrong with you. Well nows the chance to prove to everyone just how well you would run 
 a hospital. 
  
  Theme Hospital from Bullfrog dates back many years now and I have to say I do have some affection 
 towards the game. It was one of the first games I bought for the PC back when all I owned was my 
 mere Pentium 133 MHz with 8 GB hard drive. The idea behind the game is simple, you get given a 
 large wad of cash and using that cash you then have to build and maintain a hospital. Upon meeting 
 the health boards specifications, rating, cure count, bank balance and hospital value you can then 
 progress to the next level and onto an even bigger hospital.
  
  Once youve began your level you can then begin building the hospital of your dreams, you decide 
 which location and how big the staff room is. Or perhaps youre like me and like to create a masterpiece 
 of a reception area, something of which even a great artist would appreciate.
  
  Dont expect patients with any of your everyday hospital injuries, as you will soon be greeted 
 by a weird array of strange, bizarre and in some cases dam right scary illnesses. Youll never 
 forget the first time you see a patient with Bloaty Head, Slack Tongue or even someone with Hairyitis, 
 a disease that causes the sufferer to house more hair than a Chewbacca family reunion. All of these 
 problems and lots more can be cured by even more peculiar methods. Those suffering from Bloaty 
 Head feel just a small prick when their heads are popped only to then be re-inflated to a more 
 regular normal size. 
  
  If handling a wide variety of weird problems wasnt enough, youll also get challenged with earthquakes 
 which damage your machinery, emergencies which flood you with critical patients, and the dreaded 
 epidemic, which grants you a small amount of time to cure all infected patients as possible, if 
 you dont, expect to pay the consequences with a visit from the ministry of health and a hefty 
 fine.
  
  Youll need staff to work in the hospital and there will be plenty of doctors, nurses, receptionists 
 and everyones favourite, the handyman to employ. Just watch out for the ones that hollow out vegetables 
 and use them as soap holders, they are bad for business I tell you!
  
  You will notice the odd jaggy, but then youll be kept busy enough to miss the rest of the not 
 so smooth bits of graphics. The graphics are decent though, despite their age. But due to their 
 cartoon style appearance its something that doesnt affect the game greatly.
  
  Rest assured you will mute your speakers after playing through a level of this game and while there 
 are a number of musical tracks they become so repetitive you just end up wanting to rip your nose 
 hair out with a salad fork. Then theres the receptionist from hell whose voice could draw a river 
 of blood from Stonehenge. The audio isnt that bad, but only in small portions. There will be times 
 when you find yourself jiggling to the music and there will be times when you are reaching for 
 that mute button.
  
  Sadly there isnt much replay value within the game and once you have finished it, youll be wanting 
 to wait a while before playing through it again. Having said that there is a multiplayer option 
 which lasts nearly all of ten minutes which is fun in small doses but just doesnt have enough 
 going for it. These days it cant compete with other sim games such as Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 and Zoo Tycoon but if you want a bit of a giggle and dont mind parting with a small amount of 
 cash then you may find yourself wanting to get the game for those Sunday afternoons for the quiet 
 time before your raid to Zul Gurub and your dust_2 session. You can find the game on a large selection 
 of budget ranges so you wont have to part with much money for the pleasure. Due to the reason 
 it is on the budget ranges I would recommend everyone to at least give it a play, even just for 
 a laugh and giggle. But dont expect to be playing it religiously two weeks later.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to build the different rooms in a hospital and hire the staff in the ability 
 to heal people from some off the wall diseases. Some of the diseases the people have are really 
 funny like Bloaty head and Slack tongue. The game is worth a try but also has a few drawbacks. 
 Most of the patients you cannot tell what is wrong with them, the resolution settings on low is 
 horrible, the music can get old fast, and there is few really visually fun diseases. Even with 
 all the negativity the game is fun and worth a try at a bargain bin price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It had hilarious illnesses such as bloaty head, slack tongue and invisibility. 
 The first or second level gets you hooked, with an easy gameplay to start with, which gets progressively 
 harder. You hear the receptionist announce such things as 'The Hospital Administrator is Cheating!' 
 and 'Patient Message: Cheque Books Required' which crack you up. The only downside is that after 
 the 5-10th mission, it gets extremely repetitive, such as training your doctors gets a little boring.
 
  
  Overall, i think this game is extremely good value for money, as nowadays you can get this game 
 for about 4-5 in game retailers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Ah... Theme Hospital. I have no idea what Gamespot was thinking when they gave this game such a 
 poor rating because Theme Hospital remains to this day to be one of my favourite games ever.
  
  Basically start off with a small hospital with no rooms. Your job is to build those rooms, 
 hire staff, manage medical costs, research new remedies, and tend to your patients. Although the 
 doctors and patients appear somewhat generic (and the humourousness of the Elvis and bloated head 
 patients kinda wear thin) , this game will keep you busy for a while yet.
  
  After a couple of in-game years, you'll be able (providing that you're managing your hospital efficiently) 
 to move to an even bigger hospital which allows for greater expansion, and the game grows even 
 more difficult as you progress to higher levels in the game.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is simple, yet insanely addictive. You'll definately be playing for hours 
 on end.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are dated, but the isometric view and 2D graphics look really cute.
  
 
  Sound - The sound does get a little repetitive (particularly the music, which is good, but gets 
 old after a while) . And the receptionist's remarks are funny, but also wear a little thin as they're 
 repeated ad nauseum.
  
  Value - It's available in many aussie department stores for $10. Just grab it. You won't regret 
 it. There's loads of fun to be had here.
  
  Tilt - The novelty kinda wears thin after a while so you may not feel committed to completing the 
 game to the very end. But that will vary from player to player.
  
  Overall, Theme Hospital is a must have title for sim fanatics as it is one of the most original 
 games you can ever purchase for your PC or PS1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unicorn81
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  You never played it?
  Man, you realy missed out on something!
  This game was/is great in every aspect!
  Not only do I love it, because I prefere 2D graphic 
 games, but also because it's just plain adictive!
  
  You have to manage Doctors, nurses, janitors and a secretary
  You have to build, buy and research 
 rooms (e. g. Pharmacy)
  There are Emergencies coming in and while you are trying to get them treamtment ASAP your hospital 
 is filled up to the roof w/ clients how are throwing up everywhere....
  
  It's just a very awsome game and I realy DON'T understand, why there is no second version..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0mme
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  Textbook case of a diamond in the rough.
  
  This review is mostly a reaction on the GameSpot review. It spews a lot of criticism and most of 
 that is justifiable. Actually, there are a lot more negative points to mention, but that doesnt 
 really matter, because they can be overcome. 
  
  When starting this game, remember that it is a game that came out before the great Tycoon-hype 
 of recent years. This has its pros and cons. Most notably it is quite different, i. e. not based 
 on a Tycoon game template which feels quite fresh. But it also lacks certain options that makes 
 the managing task a lot easier and less stressful.
  For instance, you can click to a screen which lists all your personnel. You can easily spot who 
 is tired and who is unhappy, so you can adjust that on the spot. Unfortunately, such a screen is 
 missing for your machines. They require maintenance, but because you dont have a handy overview 
 screen you are forced to search your hospital for machines by hand. In later levels, your hospitals 
 are crowded with machines, which means you spend to most amount of time speeding through your hospital 
 to keep your machines operational. All the other important tasks get pushed to the background.
 
  Furthermore, if you build a room the game keeps going. So if you are in the process of building 
 a big and complex room, like the Research Rooms in the later levels, you cant pause the game. 
 This means that you have to leave your hospital unattended and that is a big no-no in this game.
 
  Basically, thats the one big problem with Theme Hospital. Your hospitals need your full attention 
 every second you play the game. You can not build a hospital and sit back and enjoy it or just 
 tinker a little. No, you have to monitor everything carefully and since there are not enough specific 
 management screens you have to spot the problems yourself and deal with it on the spot. Although 
 one might say it keeps the game lively, I say Theme Hospital is more hectic than ER (the TV series 
 that is) .
  
  Than why reward this game with a fairly high mark? Well, it tends to hold you by the throat and 
 does not let go until you quit the game. It is rewarding to finish off that incredibly hard level, 
 it is rewarding to have the highest cure count. But the one reason for me is the contradiction 
 in this game. You have to build a hospital to make profit, not to cure people. The cruel humour 
 when you fire a patient from the hospital when hes almost dead, because you do not want him to 
 die in YOUR hospital. Decide about the live your patients is a nice cruel layer to the game. I 
 do not know if the designers had that aspect in mind designing the game, but if they did it really 
 shows of the typical Bullfrog-humour.
  
  All in all, this game is a textbook case of diamond in the rough. It lacks certain management options 
 and it tends to get insanely hectic, but the rewarding feel and typical humour makes this game 
 a classic one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: broojo02
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 3, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  When you think of owning a hospital, if your thoughts are, "Hey, this should be easy - I'll just 
 add a ward and a GP's office, and I'll be on my way", then you are in for a surprise. Theme Hospital 
 takes all the ways of a small hospital and adds more things to it making it a truly disgusting 
 but fun game.
  
  You start out with a small hospital building, and you are given an objective to follow, then it 
 is up to you to manage its finances and treat the patients. You can build a variety of clinics 
 such as a GP's office, a Ward, a Psychiatrist's room, and many more rooms to accommodate the treatment 
 of patients. First, they have an appointment with the GP before they receive their diagnosis in 
 the diagnosis room. If they need rest, they go to the ward, they receive treatment in the appropriate 
 room. There are many wacky treatment rooms like the bloaty head popper, and the slack tongue clinic 
 that uses a machine to stretch the patient's tongue.
  
  There are also toilets for your patients, and a staff room for your employees when they are tired. 
 If you overwork your employees they go mad and run to the staff room where they stay for a long 
 period of time. There is a wide selection of people to hire for your hospital, and they all vary 
 in alertness, knowledge and dedication to the job. In certain levels you start off with only a 
 few very good doctors and surgeons, and it is the job of these preferable doctors and surgeons 
 to train other employees in the new lecture room, to help them become more professional.
  
  At the height of your success you will be given a letter from a fax, telling you that you now have 
 access to a bigger and better hospital. If you accept, then you will get given a new level that 
 has new rooms and challenges.
  
  However, if you let your hospital's reputation deteriorate, then less desirable things may occur, 
 such as patients suffering from bouts of projectile vomiting, and urinating on the floor because 
 of lack of toilets. If this goes on for too long, you will see a short cut-scene, where a newspaper 
 article gives evidence of the closing down of your hospital.
  
  To summarise, Theme Hospital gathers all the fun of the SimCity games, adds a hint of vulgarity, 
 and a dash of abnormality, and is 100% pure amusement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a beauty comes out. A real gem of a game which in theory sounds so rubbish that 
 most people avoid it like the plague. But this one is the funniest game mixed with a complex strategy 
 that for some reason really works for me and remians in my top ten games of all time. I love it. 
 I hope and pray they don't remake this one because I know that they would mess it up. Thank you 
 for this game bullfrog.
  
  Warnimg not playing this game can seriously effect your mental state. If you believe this game 
 is not worth playing please asmit yourself to the nearest theme hospital where your bloaty head 
 will be exploded and reinflated to theat of a normal human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2004 9:25 am PT
Review:  Theme Hospital, like all of these early Molyneux strategy efforts, gets repetitive after awhile, 
 but remains a hoot to play. A clever, twisted attitude goes a long way here, with goofy maladies 
 like Bloaty Tounge afflicting the local populous, which you must treat by setting up the correct 
 equipment in your hospital space. The size and layout of which is the only thing that really changes 
 level to level. After awhile epidemics and new diseases start coming fast and furious, so it remains 
 necessary to optimize your setup in order to process patients quickly and efficiently. In all, 
 a fun game that should be considered another PC classic from vintage Bullfrog. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
