-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Moment of Silence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/themomentofsilence/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good puzzles, with an acceptable level of difficulty.
 Compelling story with mostly believable characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Setting is superficial.
 Way too wordy.
 Very slow in spots, with too much reliance on courier quests and pixel hunting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 304 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: House of Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 1, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There is a certain superficiality to The Moment of Silence that prevents you from getting totally 
 immersed in the story. 

  Tomorrow looks a lot like today in The Moment of Silence. This verbose adventure from House of 
 Tales Entertainment may be set in a vaguely fascist America circa 2044, but you'd barely know it 
 based on a lukewarm plot that never rises to potboiler temperatures. Character development, puzzles, 
 and the look and sound of the game are all above average, although there is a certain superficiality 
 to everything that prevents you from getting totally immersed in the story.  

          In the future, there will be robots.     

  Perhaps the biggest problem is a lack of 
 buildup. The game starts abruptly, tossing you into the sneakers of despondent New York communications 
 designer Peter Wright shortly after the death of his wife and son in a plane crash. This tragedy 
 isn't the focus of the plot, though. Everything gets rolling after Peter's neighbor, a journalist 
 by the name of Graham Oswald, is mysteriously abducted by what looks to be a police SWAT team. 
 Only problem is that the cops have no record of bringing the man into custody. So you take on the 
 task of finding him, and you'll soon get wrapped up in what plays out as a futuristic  X-Files 
  episode decked out with shadow government nastiness and intimations of ETs.  

  This saga never gets beyond a Mulder and Scully rip-off, but House of Tales has put together an 
 interesting future where the entire world is wired and Big Brother is watching you. Fossil- fuel 
 consumption has been banned, so everyone gets around in satellite cabs. The Net has seemingly replaced 
 all other forms of communication, to the point where Peter's contacts with other people come primarily 
 via online chats and a super video-phone/PDA called a messenger. Big TV screens are even mounted 
 on street corners and in homes, pumping out some kind of feel-good propaganda to the citizens. 

  Unfortunately, the game scratches the surface of this believable world. It only hints at issues 
 like censorship and government control in a tech-driven society before backing off so you can save 
 the world in stereotypical adventure game fashion. Not enough attention has been paid to fine details, 
 which means that the world of 2044 looks a lot like the world of 2005. And some of the niftier 
 story aspects are ignored for odd trivia. So while you get  The Jetsons -style names for candy 
 bars and notice that the New York Knicks now exist as a computer simulation, nobody comments on 
 the bizarre JumboTron propaganda videos that consist of nature scenes and stock footage like rocket 
 ships blasting off. This is actually really disappointing, because there has to be a cool story 
 behind the powers that be that are broadcasting what looks like outtakes from  Koyaanisqatsi  to 
 the masses.  

  This makes it difficult to think of The Moment of Silence as taking place in the future, and it 
 can be jarring when something like a trip to the moon from JFK International Airport is presented 
 as a mundane excursion. Far too many settings are sterile and remote, too. Downtown New York makes 
 Dubuque, Iowa, look like a 24-hour carnival, and farther-flung locales, like the Arecibo SETI Institute 
 in Puerto Rico, are even more deserted. Most scenes boast no more than two or three slack-jawed 
 onlookers, and, even stranger for New York, no cars at all. Perhaps this is intentional, a way 
 for the developers to emphasize a future world where everybody orders in food and sends instant 
 messages all day. But since the absence of people on the streets is never mentioned, this just 
 cheapens production values and calls attention to the fact that you're playing a game.  

  Gameplay, however, is a pretty compelling blend of old-school  
 adventuring and more modern puzzle-solving in the tradition of Myst and its successors. As Peter, 
 you collect objects, quiz the locals on tasks and objects, and solve brainteasers like inputting 
 codes to power an elevator and figuring out how to point parabolic satellite dishes. Much of the 
 game is fairly easy, although too many screens turn into pixel hunts where you need to find small 
 objects like pills or cables, and too many quests are of the "sure I'll get you the framistat if 
 you give me the whatsit" variety.  

  You also need a lot of patience to get through the loads of conversation trees that need to be 
 accessed to trigger new plot developments. Most characters in the game go on and on and have to 
 be repeatedly prompted to get through all of their dialogue. And there are many moments -- most notably 
 Peter's interminably long encounter with the security robot in his office building -- where you want 
 to scream at the game to hurry the hell up. Some of these conversations are rather goofy, too, 
 and they have been clearly put in place to build the plot rather than focus on realistic characters. 
 Although, getting a geopolitical lecture from a guy running a newsstand is at least unintentionally 
 funny.  

  The look and sound of the game is impressive overall, negating some of the above quibbles. Visuals 
 are a touch on the dated side, but no more so than in any other contemporary adventure. The only 
 real irritant here is the lack of people and cars on the New York streets, as mentioned above. 
 Voice acting is competent to very good, although the game is hampered with a dozy lead who at times 
 sounds barely coherent enough to bag groceries, let alone unravel a nefarious global plot. The 
 piano- and techno-based score sets a great noir mood, too.  

          One good thing about life in New York City in 2044 -- there arent any traffic jams. Youre 
 the only one on the block in most parts of the city.     

  At times, the interface isn't quite up to the tasks at hand. The camera system often doesn't provide 
 good views, so you have to walk around to make sure that you've spotted everything in a room. Objects 
 have to be dragged onto non-player characters to move the plot and open up new conversation strands, 
 which can result in you emptying your pockets to strangers in order to be sure that you aren't 
 missing something. Many screens are so big that it takes nearly a minute to run from one side to 
 another. And some scenes are pointless wastes of time, like when you have to wait while the elevator 
 slowly moves up to Peter's 23rd-floor apartment every time he goes home, and during the card-swiping 
 animation every time he hops into a cab. All in all, the design could have benefited from a lot 
 more automation.  

  Basically, The Moment of Silence is a near miss. It has virtually everything that fans want in 
 adventures, including an interesting sci-fi story and sensible puzzles. But barren scenery, occasionally 
 wonky plot development, and clogged-up mechanics make it something of an ambitious flop.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dead888
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  The Moment of Silence Is a Point and Click Adventure game made by the german developers House of 
 Tales .They have also made some other adventure games (The Mystery Of The Druids, Overclocked) 
 but The Moment Of Silence seems to be the most well known game among the others.
  Okay... the first thing that comes directly to my mind while i am writing this review is that the 
 game doesn't really immerse you into the game at the beginning .The Story starts to get interesting 
 after you are halfway through the game .The characters aren't all that memorable either (with a 
 few exceptions maybe) .The Locations and the graphics are neat though. But one thing that makes 
 you scream sometimes in the game is the Horrible camera angle ! sometimes it realy takes some effort 
 to go to certain place that you should actually be able to go with a simple mouse click !
  The game has also a very nice Sountrack which is something that will definitely stay in your head 
 for some time ! the songs also suit the locations you visit in the game quite well .The game also 
 has some puzzles that are quite interesting .they are not too hard and not too easy .
  The Moment of Silence takes less then 10 hours to complete and is quite short and once you are 
 finished with it you really don't have any reason to replay it.
  If you are able to find The Moment Of Silence cheap somewhere then you might want to give it a 
 try. otherwise you can forget about it. you really don't miss a lot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  New York 2044 AD
  
  Peter Wright awakens from a hangover due to the commotion erupting outside his apartment door. 
 Safely peering through his peephole he is witness to a heavily armed S. W. A. T team busting down 
 his neighbors door and taking him away. It seems as though the other neighbors are oblivious to 
 what just happened since none venture out their doors except for one, Peter Wright. He knows what 
 it is like to lose a loved one. 
  Peter decides to help out his next door neighbor Debbie Oswald find her husband. He begins his 
 journey as a naive tech guy who believes in the system and its ability to protect its citizens. 
 After all he is part of the team which displays government propaganda on the telescreens around 
 the city. 
  However he will soon find out that things are not as they seem and that big brother is there watching 
 and listening. 
  As Peter gets closer to uncovering the truth behind Graham Oswalds dissapearance he is putting 
 his life and the lives of those around him in danger. Will his journey end in vain? 
  
  I found the main character to be a likeable if somewhat annoying at times. The voice acting was 
 overall competent to a degree. Some of the voice actors were used for two characters and you could 
 tell so that was somewhat distracting. 
  The dialogue trees were monotonous and you have to exhaust all possible dialogue in order to advance 
 in the game. Luckily you can advance the dialogue without skipping the whole conversation which 
 came in handy. 
  Camera angles were sometimes tricky and there is no exit shortcut. You must wait and watch the 
 character run from screen to screen.
  However all these petty annoyances can be overlooked due to the interesting story line, above par 
 graphics and cinematique cut scenes. 
  
  It is a must play for all adventure fans!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  There are very few games, adventure games or not, that have a story that actually makes sense all 
 the way through, and then still manages to surprise you. This one has though, and it's a great 
 one - could easily have been written by Tom Clancy or someone like that.
  
  And when you match a story like that with great graphics, gameplay mechanics, humor and good voice 
 acting you're in for a threat - it's as simple as that.
  
  There are a few puzzles that are mind numbingly hard/tedious towards the end, but be prepared to 
 give it 30 min and then maybe use a guide and it'll be ok. Fans of anything Sci-Fi and adventure 
 games owe it to themselves to buy this one, I can't imagine that you'd be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I am an avid adventure player and mourn the slow demise of the genre, as a result, I am always 
 pleased that developers come up with new titles. As computer entertainment is reaching broader 
 audiences, the traditional core players who savour intellectual challenge is diluted by the influx 
 of the general public who tend to favour action and immediate gratification in the form of FPS 
 and RTS. To make money, I guess, developers just have to appeal the the majority ..... I am just 
 glad that great companies such as The Adventure Company is keeping the genre alive. When I heard 
 that an adventure game with an intriguing plot and good atmosphere and graphics is around, I naturally 
 snap it up.
  
  To cut a long argument short, it DOES NOT MATTER how good a plot or puzzles a games has if it PUNISHES 
 players by subjecting them to long repetitive boring action sequences.
  
  As with all adventures, you have to travel around back and forth trying to work out solutions and 
 trying out different things. Moving from one place to another is simply PAINFUL. Sorry, there is 
 no other word for it. To illustrate my point: This is what you need to go from your office to your 
 appartment : You have to navigate your character slowly through several screens in your office 
 (8s) , then negotiate slowly through the lobby (5s) , then slowly to your cab (5s) , the watch a 
 slow repetive action sequence of you taking your PDA out of your pocket ...... unlocking your car 
 door... putting your PDA back. .. ..... door slides open ... you climb in...... everythinkg in slow 
 motion EVERY frigging time (12s) !!! You then get out of your car, walk sloooowly across the large 
 screen to your appartment entrance (8s) , the wait for the lift to move up 24 floors (yes, all 24 
 of them, every time) (5s) , navigate slowly down the corridor wit changing screens as you go (6s) , 
 eventually into your flat. What the heck .. I have wasted 2 damn minutes just to get from 1 point 
 to another. Why subject me to this every time ???????? This is IRRITATING. I couldn't care how 
 good the plot is or how good the puzzles are. By the time I have played 1/4th way along the game, 
 I just cannot bring myself to go through the above exercises in ultimate boredom any longer. I 
 had to stop. I have lost all interest.
  
  I am sure things would have been entirely different if I could just click button on a map screen 
 can quick travel from 1 place to another . I would taken this feature as standard..... it really 
 makes you appreciate simple things like these when they are conspicously absent.
  
  You have been warned. Developers take note 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best adventure games I can think of in recent history. It's great to just play 
 a clicky adventure, even a bad one, but this isn't a bad one.
  
  It isn't the best thing. The plot as a whole, isn't the best story EVER written, but there are 
 some amazing gems. The opening mystery is great. It pulls you in. As things get more complicated, 
 it continues to supply you with really great stuff. There are some really challenging dialogs about 
 freedom and repression in here that really make you think. It seems real. It seems possible.
  
  I wasn't let down for a moment until the plot starts to climax. You begin to see more unbelievable 
 moments, but they relate more to what the character does, than what is happening in the larger 
 plot. This ends with a semi-silly final boss kind of puzzle that is really rather dull. Then they 
 threw in some really cliche ghost in the machine elements, and concluded a really great game with 
 a rather lackluster ending.
  
  But all in all, it was a very entertaining adventure. I don't regret a moment spent enjoying it. 
 Play it like you would read a quick cheep thriller novel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a great adventure game. The story is very compelling and the game puts you into action 
 right away!
  Typically, other adventure games start by a lengthy intro, or by long conversations to get you 
 into the mood, or by making you read the diary of the hero, or whatever.
  The moment of silence does NOT do this. It starts by a very short video. You are looking through 
 the peephole, you see the police, well... kidnapping your neighbor and beating him on the way out, 
 you feel astonished, and that's pretty much it. The game starts here.
  
  The game has some incredibly emotional moments. Of course, I don't wanna spoil it, but it has some 
 very interesting plot twists.
  The puzzles are pretty good too. The moment of silence doesn't have wacky puzzles like, for example, 
 Day of the Tentacle. Instead, most of the puzzles are quite logical. (I need to do X, then I should 
 probably do Y now... If you remember Day of the Tentacle, it was mostly like this, doing Y looks 
 like a fun idea, let's see how it will affect the game)
  
  The game is not perfect, though. Some of the puzzles are incredibly tough, especially near the 
 end. In specific, if you are a casual gamer, the final puzzle will become impossible without a 
 walkthrough (it requires you to remember lots of incidents that happened earlier in the game, tie 
 them together, understand what really is going on, and well... solve the puzzle) . If you play the 
 game like 10 mins a day, don't expect to remember any of that! :) That's why walkthroughs are here 
 to the rescue, though.
  
  The graphics are standard pre-rednered 3D scenery with 3D characters over-imposed on the scenes. 
 The graphics are generally beautiful and really well done.
  
  The music is very atmospheric and I totally loved it.
  
  Overall, this is a great adventure 
 game. It has its flaws, but I would recommend it to anyone who likes cyber-punk kind of stories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urluckyday
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased this game trying to hold on to the old days... when adventure games ruled (Like 
 Grim Fandango***, Monkey Island, Day of The Tentacle, etc.) . I installed this game and immediately, 
 I felt like I was controlling a movie! The cutscenes were absolutely great, and they added on to 
 the already great gameplay. This game has absolutely one of the most original stories in it. 
 
  
  Now, this game doesn't have the absolute end all graphics, but they were acceptable to say the 
 least.
  
  I'd also have to say that the audio was absolutely stunning. The music, background noise and voices 
 (tons of speech in this game) especially were truly chilling and heartwarming at the same time. 
 This is what an adventure game is supposed to sound like.
  
  Well, if you don't like adventure games, this one is not for you, but if you crave these kinds 
 of games, pick it up... plus... it's most likely very inexpensive by now... I picked my new copy up 
 for under 20 dollars.
  
  Happy hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The Moment of Silence is a typical Big Brother is watching you adventure game. Set in the near 
 future of 2044, Peter Wright, a communications designer who has recently lost his wife and son, 
 gets involved in a conspiracy far greater than he could have possibly foreseen. Without knowing 
 who he can trust and who he cant, Peter is determined to find out 
  the truth. But what will that cost him?
  
  The game
  
  This game is a point & click adventure 
 game, meaning that you only need the mouse to control your character. The game is set in a 2D environment 
 with 3D characters. This has worked for several adventure games and it also works for The Moment 
 of Silence (TMoS) .
  As mentioned, the game is set in the near future in a world not unlike the book 1984, although 
 the public is quite content with that situation. In general they feel that these kinds of control 
 by the government make the world a safer place and that this control of everything is therefore 
 necessary.
  The game begins when Peter witnesses a police raid at his neighbours their apartment. The police 
 quickly enters the apartment and they apprehend Peters neighbour, leaving his neighbours wife 
 and son behind in shock. Curious after what has happened, Peter decides to help the wife and son 
 to find out what is going on. The player finds out that Peter has recently lost his own wife and 
 son and is still recovering from that loss. Also, since Peter works as a communications designer 
 whos company has just gotten a major project called the freedom of speech program, which in 
 fact prohibits all forms of communication which cannot be monitored, Peter is one of those many 
 people who are a big fan of the heavy control which the government exercises on its people.
  However, during his investigation of the arrest of his neighbour, Peter discovers that all stories 
 have to sides and that many things arent as beautiful as they appear and Peter starts to question 
 his own believes.
  
  The controls 
  
  Being a point & click adventure game, the controls are very straightforward. Objects which can 
 be manipulated will become clear when you go over them with your mouse pointer: the cursor will 
 change shape. A right mouse click will often give you a description of the object, while a left 
 mouse click lets you interact with the desired object or character, or lets you pick up an object.
 
  The inventory is shown at the bottom of the screen. Selecting an object will require a left mouse 
 click, after which you can use it on another object, whether its from your inventory or something 
 on the screen. Once again, a right mouse click will give you a description of the object. So the 
 controls are simple and very easy to use. Furthermore, a click somewhere makes Peter walk to that 
 location, a double click will let him run there.
  
  The graphics
  
  As I said before, the game consists of 3D characters walking around in a pre-rendered 2D world. 
 Although many may prefer a 3D environment altogether, a 2D environment has always worked very well 
 for 3rd person adventure games and the big advantage of a 2D environment is that it can contain 
 much more detail, while not sucking up all the memory of your computer, resulting in the game having 
 ridiculous system requirements. That said, I find the 2D backgrounds pretty good. They arent exquisite, 
 but they arent sloppy either. Theyre pretty good and help you to get into the atmosphere of the 
 game.
  The 3D characters however, I found to be somewhat less great. Granted, there are adventure games 
 which use 3D character which look worse than those in TMoS and Im not saying that the characters 
 are badly done, but you have to take into account that the game was made in 2005, which is not 
 that long ago. If you take that into consideration and you look at the characters, youll come 
 to see that they could have been better looking.
  But its not even so much the look of their faces that I found a bit disappointing, but more their 
 bodies and their movements. Often when you see a character do something, you can clearly see that 
 the movements arent human. However, this is not a too disturbing property of the game and if you 
 can see past it, there is nothing to worry about.
  A last point about the graphics is the fixed camera points that the game uses. I found this to 
 be poorly done some times, meaning that I had to walk to a certain point to get the camera to switch, 
 so that I could, for example, leave Peters apartment.
  
  The sound
  
  The game has some music in it, at certain moments and cutscenes and that music is pretty decent. 
 During the actual gameplay, there are scenes where you have some sort of music, but Im not entirely 
 sure if you should call it music. Theyre more like sound effects and although they help clearing 
 the otherwise silence in the game, I believe that the game should have had more music in it.
  The voices are good, sound quality wise. With that I mean that you dont hear any background noise 
 during the talking of characters, or any variances in volume (believe me, there are games which 
 have both) .
  However, I found many of the voices to sound really stiff and rehearsed. There were times during 
 gameplay that I actually could visualise a voice actor reading his lines from a paper in front 
 of him. Luckily, that didnt happen too often, but I found it a shame nonetheless. The main character, 
 Peter Wright, luckily doesnt have something this severe, although I often found his voice lacking 
 somewhat in emotion. Not always, but often. Maybe this has something to do with the game being 
 originally German, meaning that the original game with German voices. I dont know if this has 
 something to do with it though, but I do know that it shouldnt.
  
  Overall
  
  If you like point & click adventure games and if youre a conspiracy fan, than this game will give 
 you plenty of hours to look forward to, because the game isnt short. It will give you plenty of 
 hours of gameplay, including the obvious getting stuck at certain points. However, youll never 
 come to a point where youll actually have to reload a savegame because youve done something wrong; 
 you cant go wrong and you cant die. The graphics are decent, although the movements of the characters 
 could have been better and the fixed camera points are often poorly done. The sound is good, but 
 the game lacks in music and emotion in the voices of the characters.
  So on overall I would say about this game that it is nice and it will keep you occupied for some 
 time, but it certainly isnt great. But hey, thats just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The Moment of Silence puts together a winding and well thought out conspiracy tale that has a slick 
 feel, but starts to have problems with being monotonous and preaching to the player. 
  
  The story starts rather abruptly with you watching your neighbor being dragged from his home by 
 a squadron of police. The neighbors wife has no idea what has happened and the child seems completely 
 distraught. So in true adventure game fashion, your character decides that he should get himself 
 involved. After meeting with the wife, you work your way through the clues and puzzles that really 
 keep you guessing as to what is going on and who is pulling the strings. If The Adventure Company 
 does something well, it is putting together a good storyline to get the players sucked in.
  
  The two components that a good adventure needs are a compelling story and good puzzles. The 
 first items is easily taken care of because the story is top notch. The story would definitely 
 make a good movie and you can tell that the writer of the game put a lot of thought into how the 
 story should unfold. The puzzles on the other hand are good, but sometimes will push to the point 
 of sanity. A good example is an elevator puzzle that you run into during the game. Somehow, I was 
 supposed to know the code that was used to activate it. No hints that I found for the puzzle, just 
 had to figure it out through trial and error. 
  
  Graphics are pretty standard fare and give you a good visual representation of the city. But the 
 details are not consistent. Some levels are sparse and seem too empty, while others are choc full 
 of detail. Character models are nice without too much detail. But graphics are not what make an 
 adventure game, so you can overlook the graphical issues and simplicity.
  
  Sound is a whole different item, however. The music and ambient sound is good. I really liked some 
 of the background ambient themes. But the voiceovers will grind the last nerve in your brain. You 
 will run for the emergency exits knowing that the spoken dialogue in this game will possibly kill 
 you with its droll, dry presentation. I think about four people did all the voices. You can tell, 
 because there are three characters at the end that sound almost identical. And it is so monotonous 
 that you can never really get anything done. I fell asleep at the computer during the game because 
 it was just so even toned. The voiceovers also give the feel of not caring about how they sound 
 when presenting important points to the story.
  
  Other glitches abound in the game. One big thing is that the game would reference things that I 
 had not done yet. Finding a body, or talking to a certain person when I may not have even come 
 across the person or item in question. Pathfinding of your character will sometimes have your character 
 running in weird directions. Not a big thing, but it was noticed and sometimes was just confusing. 
 Also, a major plot point is never really explained until near the end. It is constantly referenced, 
 but you have no idea what the character is talking about until near the end of the game.
  Another glaring problem in some degree is how much of a soapbox that the game sits on. I noticed 
 themes that definitely address a lot of the issues in the US right now. Domestic spying, terrorism 
 and pre-emptive strikes are all here and the writers of the game made a conscious effort to address 
 the shortcomings of American foreign policies. When it started getting too preachy, I lost sight 
 of the fact that I was playing a game and felt more like I was playing a tool of politicians. I 
 may be looking into it too much, but it just seemed a bit weird that most of the topics that are 
 brought up in the game made me think that society could be heading towards this type of reality. 
 But it comes on a bit too strong and forced that the message is lost.
  
  So is The Moment of Silence worth your hard earned cash  Not at full price. If you find it in 
 the bargain bin, you will get a good story that will keep you guessing. Just remember that the 
 puzzles will send you near madness looking for solutions. Too bad you just cant rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Many people tend to think that the adventure genre died a long time ago. Still, developers continue 
 to churn out a title from time to time and House of Tales is taking their turn. While its not 
 going to re-define adventure gaming as we know it, Moment of Silence is still a good example of 
 a classic genre.
  
  The game starts off as our main character, Peter Wright, stares out his peephole at the elevator 
 on his floor. As we find out, this is no ordinary elevator though; its filled with an NYPD SWAT 
 team. Observing the events outside his front door, Peter watches as one of his neighbors apartments 
 is infiltrated and then sees the tenant hauled off. Your adventure starts trying to talk to the 
 wife of the tenant and ends in a climactic showdown that threatens the very existence of New York 
 City.
  
  As most adventure games do, Moment of Silence uses the standard point-and-click interface. This 
 is your primary means of getting around the world and interacting with the various characters, 
 of which there are many. An adventure title is often defined by the strength and believability 
 of its characters. At this, Silence does particularly well. As you explore the various locales 
 of the city and beyond, youll be confronted by a colorful array of people. Characters like a blind 
 guitar player, raving lunatic prophet, and a rather paunchy inner-city gangster help give Silence 
 some depth.
  
  To every positive there is a negative, a ying to yang if you will. While the game does succeed 
 in throwing a lot of dialogue and interaction with all the characters, at times it is too much. 
 With certain characters like Peters boss and an intermittent online chat partner, you just wont 
 care enough about them to engage in lengthy conversations. The major issue with that is you are 
 forced to, often times against your will. To get to the meat of the story you have to wade through 
 waist-deep subplots about family life and personal issues. Its irritating, especially since all 
 this chatter, if left uninterrupted, takes up to three minutes to conclude. Thank goodness you 
 can skip right through the dialogue with the click of a mouse.
  
  There were a few parts of the game that did have some issues. Not specifically bugs, but sometimes 
 characters will leave a scene before you are done interacting with them. To solve this, all you 
 have to do is exit and re-enter the scene. This is the only issue with the gameplay though and 
 wont distract any player from the complete and rewarding single-player experience.
  
  Besides characters, the second half of the adventure equation is the puzzles. Heres where Silence 
 again takes an unnecessary hit. The puzzles are the standard fare of object retrieval and dialogue 
 continuation. At times, youll have to combine objects to perform an objective as well. These are 
 the most frustrating as the things you need to combine arent always easily apparent and finding 
 them will give you a lesson on obscurity. 
  
  As with any adventure title, scanning each and every screen you come upon for the hotspots is a 
 must. However on some screens you wont catch everything on the first, second, or even third try. 
 Some of the hotspots are so small that if you dont know what youre looking for then you probably 
 wont find it. Another issue is that some puzzles are time-based. In one case, you have to wait 
 for night to fall before you can go forward. In these instances, adventure newcomers or novices 
 may be left frustrated. In past adventure games there were usually hints to help when you got stuck. 
 Youll find no such conveniences in Moment of Silence. Since some of the puzzles are a touch on 
 the complex side, it does act somewhat as a hindrance.
  
  As expected, all of Silences backgrounds come pre-rendered, much to its benefit. The various locales 
 are full of vibrant color and feature many different types of terrain from the backdrop of a city 
 to an ice-covered lake. The views of the city sometimes feature animated backdrops which add a 
 touch of life to an otherwise still capture view scenes.
  
  Sound-wise, Moment of Silence pulls the game off practically perfect. The voice-overs for the characters 
 all seem professionally done and add an extra touch of polish to an otherwise solid game experience. 
 The same sounds will transition between scenes if you are near an important character or event. 
 There are a few instances of characters repeating the same things once the audio loops run out 
 but this doesnt really take away from the game.
  
  It should be noted that Moment of Silence comes on DVD-ROM; for all of you with only CD-ROMs, youre 
 out of luck. This disc type is due, in part, to the high-quality pre-rendered backgrounds and excellent 
 quality cut scenes. Also, Silence gives you the option of a full and minimum install. The full 
 install will load the scenes onto your hard drive instead of retaining them on the disc. Opting 
 for the full install will cut load times dramatically and is recommended.
  
  Overall, Moment of Silence does a lot of things for an adventure title. It does most of them well, 
 with very few mistakes. For anyone looking for a solid, entertaining, modern adventure game, Moment 
 of Silence is definitely recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stroganov
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Whilst The Moment of Silence is by no means revolutionary it does manage to please those in search 
 of a solid point-and-click adventure-game. True, the translation is a bit off and the emotions 
 are not always correctly conveyed - or even out of place - but the story is solid. Most gamers 
 are initially put off by the barrier of tedium he first bumps into. However, once the main characters 
 and the setting are fleshed out, this barrier starts to crumble. The players slowly breaks through 
 into the game world and, having a better understanding of the characters and setting, this immersion 
 is much easier than would normally be the case.
  
  The power of the government is at all times present but never completely uncovered due to the fact 
 that the main character is aware of this power, but chooses not to think too hard about it as he 
 believes it is merely for his own protection. I for one was pleased by this.
  
  The graphics are pre-rendered with real-time 3D main characters, but don't let that stop you. The 
 graphics are crisp and each location has a correct feel and texture. The setting is a nifty mix 
 of present-day architecture and futuristic designs. Robots are present but not very advanced. All 
 in all the future-image provided conveys a correct sense of 'future' while not going over the top.
 
  
  The puzzles featured are all pretty much obvious safe for a few, however there is a fair bit of 
 pixel hunting and action-triggered hot-spots.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone who is up for a solid adventure-game in the vein of Syberia, 
 The Black Mirror and Ni. Bi. Ru! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelborn
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This isn't really a game is it? It's more like an audio book with pictures. You walk from one place 
 to another just to listen to poor voice acting. And the dialogues go on forever. The constant walking 
 is a pain as well, and sometimes you miss places you weren't sure you could walk to because there 
 is no indicator you could go there. I found places I could walk to by accident. It would've been 
 nice if there were arrows at the corner of the screen. Plus, there's no reason to constantly retrace 
 your steps. In NiBiRu if you had already been to a location, you just double clicked and you dissolved 
 into that location. You didn't have to wait for the character to walk back to where you wanted 
 them to go.
  How can a game be called The Moment of Silence, when the whole thing is nothing but talking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhoon89
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  I'll just go in order of what Gamespot asks.
  Gameplay. A very simple point and click game, that's about it really. Nothing extraordinarily special 
 about the gameplay, it's only upside is it's simplicity.
  Graphics, now there's something to shout about. Despite the hindeousness of Peter's face the graphics 
 are pretty darn good, even on my poor quality graphics card. The FMV and gameplay images are very 
 close graphically. 10/10
  The sound is also nothing to rave about, the voice acting can get very dull at times and sometimes 
 doesn't make sense or match the subtitles. Not much music to go by and but the sound effects are 
 oretty good.
  Value. Wasn't a very expensive purchase but the dull storyline and lack of exitement mean it was 
 slightly overpriced.
  The story follows a man whose neighbour was kidnapped by, what he thinks is, police and he follows 
 a trail of clues to find out what happens, leading to conspiracies and more twists. Only get this 
 game if you don't mind a slow pace and if you don't consider yourself intelligent or you get bored 
 easily, avoid. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
