-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Mark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/themark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The only winning move is not to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Silly plot and lame dialogue that fails as cheese.
 frustrating and repetitive gameplay.
 the graphics can cause physical discomfort.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 2.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: T7 Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Do yourself a big favor and avoid The Mark. 

  It would be so easy and tempting to describe how bad The Mark is by making some cute remark like, 
 "The Mark is way off the mark," or "The lame gameplay is a black mark against The Mark." However, 
 that takes more effort than this dreary, lackluster shooter from DreamCatcher and T7 Games deserves. 
 Sure, it's a budget shooter, but that doesn't excuse the fact that it's a very bad game.  

          As far as shooters go, The Mark can head toward the bottom of the list.     

  The Mark 
 wants to be like a Hollywood-style buddy movie -- in this case, a US Marine and a British mercenary 
 who must team up to stop London from being nuked by terrorists. It's a fairly generic but passable 
 plot device, but the game manages to get everything else wrong. The plot itself is overly contrived 
 and makes no sense. For example, before they nuke London, the terrorists need to kill the marine 
 and his sister because they're the only people who can identify the missile they plan to use. But 
 wouldn't the missile be vaporized by the nuclear explosion? There's also the fact that the bad 
 guy's father, a gazillionaire, finds out about the plot and wants to stop it. But instead of picking 
 up the phone and calling, say, the British government, he hires a mercenary to protect the marine. 
 Because as long as he's alive, the terrorists won't launch their missile because he could identify 
 it!  

  But wait, there's more. The characters are like badly drawn caricatures. There's Steve "Fletch" 
 Fletcher and Austin Hawke, a couple of manly hero names if there ever were any. They like to spout 
 inane dialogue that's terribly delivered. They also fly around in a small, one-man jet, which apparently 
 defies the laws of physics because the jet already has a separate pilot. At one point, the two 
 heroes, their pilot, and the sister are all on board. There must be a lot of sitting on laps in 
 there; how cozy.  

  The plot -- as silly as it is -- could easily have been overlooked if The Mark delivered a decent shooting 
 experience, but it doesn't. This is a game that makes the act of shooting a gun a chore. As you 
 advance through each level, you'll battle an almost endless stream of bad guys. Oftentimes the 
 game "surprises" you by having them pop out of corners and cut you down without warning, but after 
 the 20th or 30th such encounter, this gets old. So you'll die a lot, memorize the location of bad 
 guys, and then get past a choke point on the third or fourth try. Getting through the game requires 
 the frequent application of quicksave and quickload, as well as having the willpower to continue. 

  The Mark tries to mix things up by letting you choose which hero to play as throughout the game. 
 This lets you experience a slightly different route through each level, but the differences between 
 the characters are negligible. You can also play the campaign cooperatively with another player, 
 though trying to find someone to play with online is going to be very difficult -- but more on that 
 later.  

  If you're looking at the screenshots, you may think that the game looks decent. Sure, there's a 
 glossy slickness to surfaces, and some of the environments look interesting. However, the game 
 falls apart when it's in motion and can cause eye strain because of the badly selected color palette, 
 the poor frame rate, the jerky animations, and the over-the-top blur effect that you need to tone 
 down to the absolute minimum to avoid migraines. The Mark constantly recycles the same character 
 models, so each level basically has only three or four different bad guys, and you see the same 
 guys all the time. The level design also gets old fast, particularly in an aircraft carrier where 
 you have to open the door to compartment after compartment and wage a firefight in each one. Things 
 get particularly bad in the aircraft carrier because the frame rate drops to a stutter on a high-end 
 PC. The sound effects are completely generic, but they're the best part of the audio, as the voice 
 acting is third-rate, at best.  

          After seeing this screen for the 40th or 50th time, you won't care anymore that the evil 
 ones win.     

  When it comes to multiplayer, The Mark serves up the standard deathmatch mode, in addition to the 
 aforementioned cooperative mode, as well as a map-control mode. However, you'll need luck trying 
 to find other players online. This isn't a popular game, and considering the fierce competition 
 for multiplayer shooters, that probably isn't going to change in the near future.  

  The Mark isn't a humorous or fun game in any sense of the words. It's also a tedious game that 
 taxes your patience and your endurance. When you get down to it, there are simply far too many 
 other shooters that you can spend your money on, and most of those will offer a more enjoyable 
 and fun gameplay experience than The Mark.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xavierdhjane
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Trash, complete gutter trash. I guarentee you that after the 3rd level (yes, I played it that far) 
 you will uninstall. Do not buy, do not rent, do not even waste hard drive space if you're considering 
 doing the shady jake and downloading it. I have not seen such a pointless an poor exeuction of 
 gunplay in my entire gaming life. And I am a man in my twenties, and I've been playing since I 
 was 6. What is wrong with the world today when it allows such things as this to exist?
  
  
  Zero collision detection, everyone looks like Osama Bin Laden, Dolph Lundgren, Jon Lovitz, 
 or Rip Torn. The faces on the characters are priceless, in fact I would go so far as to repeatedly 
 take screenshots and place them in an animated reel and uploading them to a javascript locking 
 page. Instead of Rick Astley, how's about the muslim terrorists who just say,"daladaladala?" 
 
  
  I beg you, for your own sake - run away....
  
  
  
  This game gets a 1. For being created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtRomad
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I wish I could give a rating less than 1, a zero would be more appropriate. I have a very fast 
 system but the frame rate on this game is the worst that I have ever seen, it stays below 15 FPS 
 with all effects turned on. Most of my games run 60 fps at minimum. Considering such a low rate, 
 the game is near impossible to play. There is so much lag time that it constantly caused me to 
 get killed. I am a great player on Joint Operations, always in the top 10 for whatever clan that 
 I belong, so ability is not a factor. I can't stand being delayed from playing with meaningless 
 cutscene garbage. This game is loaded with it. Besides that, the scenes have no good purpose, it 
 seems to be idle chit chat with no substance. At least it delays one from having to jump right 
 in to playing such a miserable game.
  
  Considering the directory structure, this game must have been written using 3D Game Creator, an 
 engine that should not, and is not, a serious gaming engine. It is slow, takes forever to load, 
 and the graphics are terrible.
  
  Even though one can reassign keys, it doesn't all work. I use a Nostromo pad and program all actions 
 the same for ever game I play. I do not have to remember dozens of layouts for all of the games 
 I play. However, with this miserable piece of garbage, only some of the keys can be changes, even 
 though they are in the game menu as changeable. I will have to remember in the future to NEVER 
 purchase a game from this company. How embarassing can it be to produce such a sub standard product. 
 Obviously, they do not care about their company or image. This game is a joke and should not be 
 purchased. The company needs to go bankrupt so no one else will be ripped off. The cover of the 
 box makes it look like a fantastic game, however, first time you play it, you will uninstall it. 
 It also boast about it being a multiplayer game. What a joke, there is no one playing it, and no 
 one should. I'm going to contact the company and ask for my money back. I wouldn't even put this 
 thing on ebay for ANY amount. This would sure get you negative feedback for selling such a lousy 
 piece of crap.
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  A run-n-gun shooter with no story and lame main characters that fails to impress in any department. 
 The game is no fun and playing it is actually a chore. Apart form the game's somewhat mediocre 
 graphics quality, there is something about this game's graphics that is highly tiring to look at 
 for longer periods of time. The game AI is one of the worst I've seen in any FPS game ... maybe 
 the worst. Regarding the game difficulty -- it could be described as EASY (basically bad guys come 
 in hordes and commit suicide by throwing themselves right in front of your firing gun) , but it 
 can also be described as HARD in a sense that you eventually start fighting your own urges to quit 
 playing the endlessly repetitive scenario. Sometimes it's just plain fun to play a mindless FPS 
 without a deep involvement and immersion in a game and there are of course many mindless FPS games, 
 but very few of them manage to be less fun and more chore-like than this one. Anywho ... skip it 
 unless in your personal life you are working on increasing your willpower and persistence (both 
 of which you'll need in great quantities to go beyond the second or third mission in this game) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adarmus47
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I was with my younger brother at the local Big W checking out there already poor selection of games. 
 Saw him pick up this game of which I new nothing about. Saw that it was a combination of low budget 
 shooter and a Dreamcatcher release and warned him against it. Of course he ignored this warning 
 and bought it anyway. Poor, sad, stubborn little boy. Needless to say I must agree with the GSpot 
 review. They hit the mark (sorry, my fingers did that one all by themselves) totally. Although 
 the migraine is induced from hitting himself over the head with the box completely.
  
  Ok this wasn't exactly a review as much as an anecdote. But it does still serve as a warning to 
 STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einworb
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  hmm.....
  
  all i can really say about the game is that it would have to be the biggest rip off of the Matthew 
 Reilly book 'Scarecrow !!!! locations, characters, weaponry and especially the sequence of events 
 are virtually identicle to Reillys book, and all without the authors permission. the game is awful 
 anyway. the book is awesome and full of suspence, so if youre going to steal someone elses ideas 
 you could at least do a good job of it.
  
  if you havent already read scarecrow, do it. its well worth it, along with all of his books. see 
 if you can spot the difference! read the specifics on Jo Woods (the publisher of the game) forum:
 
  http://forum. jowood. com/showthread. php? p=1955782 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Mark was developed by the people who brought us the Gothic Series, so there is bound to be 
 glitches and bugs in this one. TM sets you up as an American Agent fighting Terrorists around the 
 world along side a British merc who you can also play as. The graphics look decent at first glance 
 with the blurry and gritty effects but they are just plain average when in action. The A. I. and 
 psyshics in TM are horrible and just plain dumb at times, i. e. running it your line of fire ON 
 PURPOSE. The sound quality also is bad but is blocked out by technical problems such as saves disappearing 
 and crashes. The Mark is a poorly made FPS that just adds to the Kill Terrorist FPS games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
