-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Matrix: Path of Neo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thematrixthepathofneo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly destructible environments.
 Lots of improbable martial arts moves that are easy to pull off.
 Great voice acting from a mostly soundalike cast.
 Plenty of memorable moments of action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Chaos of the action can be overly daunting at times.
 Graphics engine is not attractive.
 Story changes gears wildly, from overly dramatic to overly jokey.
 Some of the non-combat gameplay sequences aren't all that good.
 PC controls are overly twitchy, and gamepad support is somewhat problematic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,700 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 7, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Path of Neo is a good brawler at its core, but the PC version is seriously lacking in comparison 
 to its console counterparts. 

  Whatever you might think of the last two Matrix films,  The Animatrix , Enter the Matrix, or anything 
 else with the word Matrix in it from the last couple of years, it doesn't make The Matrix: Path 
 of Neo any less good. Path of Neo is the second Matrix game from developer Shiny, and after the 
 disappointing Enter the Matrix, you might be wondering why you should even bother this time around. 
 You should, simply because Path of Neo isn't too much like its predecessor. It clearly uses some 
 similar stylistic touches, but it's mechanically a much better game -- a game that's made even better 
 because you play as Neo, "the One," from the beginning of his adventures right down to the conclusion 
 of the last film... sort of. Path of Neo also takes liberties with the story in order to get it 
 into game shape, and serious Matrix fans might be put off by how the storyline is treated so whimsically 
 at times. You also might find yourself frustrated by how flagrantly chaotic the action can be, 
 and we're not talking about the measure of controlled chaos the game purposely creates, either. 
 However, if you're thinking about playing this game on the PC, you might want to think again, as 
 this version suffers from even more problematic controls and nastier graphics than its console 
 brethren.  

          It's another Matrix game. Whoa.     

  If you're a fan of the Matrix series, or even just someone who has seen the movies, you probably 
 don't need us to reiterate the entire plot for you since the title of the game pretty much says 
 it all. If you haven't seen the films, you probably should before you check out this game, as the 
 narrative isn't coherent enough for those who are unfamiliar with the source material. Big chunks 
 of storyline are told through cutscenes ripped right from the film. But they're edited in a decidedly 
 music-video-style fashion, jumping and skipping around quickly and providing only the bare essentials 
 that you need to get by. The in-game sections aren't really all that similar to the films, either. 
 You'll find yourself in plenty of familiar situations, like the massive battle in the park against 
 hundreds of Agent Smiths from  The Matrix: Reloaded  and the wicked martial arts training battle 
 between Neo and Morpheus from the first film. But many of these sequences have been extended, and 
 they branch off in wildly different directions from those of the films. Not to mention that the 
 third film is almost entirely glossed over, as the game skips almost straight to the final battle 
 (though perhaps that's not such a bad thing) . So this isn't just a step-by-step retelling of the 
 Matrix saga, in case you were wondering. Rather, this is a full-fledged, 10-to-12-hour adventure 
 that strictly follows Neo's trials and tribulations, both borrowed and original.  

  The one thing that's a bit disconcerting about how Path of Neo weaves its tale is its wild tonal 
 shifts. There are times when the game feels like it's going out of its way to try to retain the 
 same serious, existential themes of the movies. For instance, in between the end of the first movie 
 and the beginning of the second, you'll take on several missions where you'll be rescuing potentials 
 from agents. Here you'll meet a wise old herbalist who treats Neo like a demon who has come to 
 take him away from his life; a librarian who panics when the book she's trying to move keeps reappearing 
 on the shelf thanks to a glitch in the Matrix; and a martial artist whose sequence is bookended 
 by poetic backstory narration by Larry Fishburne. And then there are times when things will get 
 all jovial, with plenty of goofy inside jokes and gags with nudge-and-wink references to video 
 games in general, the  Matrix  films, patently obscure martial arts cinema, and plenty of other 
 weird stuff. The ending in particular is absolutely ludicrous, though almost hysterically so. We 
 won't give it away, but let's just say it's a far cry from the downer ending of the third film. 

  Enough about the plot. The whole point is that Path of Neo can be a pretty fun experience -- provided 
 you can deal with its controls. Unlike in Enter the Matrix, where you were relegated to playing 
 as supporting characters Niobe and Ghost, here you are Neo in all his glory, and as such, you'll 
 get to do almost all the badass things that he was able to do in the movies. For the most part, 
 Path of Neo is a pure brawler with a decent amount of weapon combat thrown in for good measure. 
 You might think that there's a lot more to it initially, since the game starts with a stealth sequence 
 and then transfers into an hour-long series of tutorial missions. But in the end, what you learn 
 is that Neo can punch dudes real hard, and he can shoot them too. The highly choreographed fight 
 sequences of the films are emulated in the game with a fairly simplistic control scheme. All you 
 need to deal with is a basic attack button and a stun attack button, which are mapped to the two 
 mouse buttons by default. Alternating between these sets up plenty of different combos that are 
 both effective and cool looking. The shooting works similarly, with an autotarget feature that 
 locks in on your closest opponent, though it's a lot harder to use than the one in the console 
 games. Still, it's a lot of fun to watch these moves happen. There are few things more satisfying 
 than sending a cop flying into the air and then pelting him with bullets, or grabbing an agent 
 out of midair and slamming him to the street.  

          Yes, you can actually take the blue pill at the beginning of the game, but unless you want 
 a game over screen, you probably shouldn't.     

  Neo gets other cool powers as well, many of which are unlocked over time via upgrades you can purchase 
 in between missions. There's a code vision mode that lets you see the Matrix in its pure, coded 
 form, often revealing hidden enemies, doorways, and things of that nature. Neo can also use telekinesis 
 to move objects around and to stop and redirect projectiles and bullets. Of course, all of these 
 things can be done in bullet time. If you press and hold a button, everything will slow down around 
 Neo, and he'll be able to land attacks more easily. It's not a guaranteed hit by any means, and 
 you can still be blocked by an enemy. But it definitely ups the effectiveness of your attacks, 
 as well as your dodge moves, which go from neat to damn near spectacular in bullet time.    

   

  Bullet time doesn't counteract the one key flaw that keeps Path of Neo's gameplay from being truly 
 great. For as much wonderful chaos as the gameplay engine is capable of producing, it's also hard 
 to keep track of, even in slow motion. Since there's no hand-to-hand targeting, you're basically 
 punching and kicking in all different directions. In small groups it's OK, but when you're fighting 
 off a gang of similar-looking agents or cops, and because of how easy it is to just launch into 
 elaborate, lengthy combos, it can become intensely difficult to keep track of who you're hitting 
 and where hits are coming from. Not to mention that the camera has an awful habit of going spastic 
 at the most inopportune times, frequently causing you to take more hits than you would if you could 
 actually keep your eyes on the prize. Unfortunately, these problems conspire to give the combat 
 a looser, sloppier feel.  

          For as harum-scarum as the combat can sometimes be, it looks cool.     

  Even worse 
 are the movement controls on the PC. If you're using the default keyboard and mouse setup, you'll 
 find the movement sensitivity to be really awkward. Trying to navigate Neo around is a lot less 
 fun than it is with an analog stick, since he'll jerk with each directional button press in an 
 ugly-looking fashion. It's terribly imprecise. Fortunately, if you do have an analog-based control 
 pad, the game does support them. Unfortunately, dual analog support doesn't seem to be available. 
 We tried a couple of dual analog pads and could never get the right stick to map to anything other 
 than camera zoom -- not camera movement. You'll ultimately have to map camera movement to buttons, 
 it seems.  

  It also bears mentioning that when the game tries to stray too far from pure combat sequences, 
 it isn't very good. The lone standout is the decent turret shooting sequence that emulates the 
 big helicopter rescue from the first film. Otherwise, it's just stuff like that half-baked stealth 
 episode at the beginning of the game, as well as random bits of puzzle-solving that require little 
 thought to solve but can be a bit opaque in design. There are even some combat sequences that feel 
 extraneous. For instance, there's a whole three-tiered sequence added to the scene in the Merovingian's 
 house from the second movie that combines both the puzzle-solving and the combat, and it's ultimately 
 the least enjoyable part of the entire game. However, that doesn't mean every original sequence 
 written for the game is not enjoyable -- it just means that several of them stand out as unnecessary 
 padding in an effort to make the game a little longer.  

  With the amount of particle effects, debris, and crazy action going on during Path of Neo's fight 
 sequences, it doesn't come as a major shock that the core graphics don't look very good at all. 
 The character models look especially heinous up close, with seriously low-res-looking faces that 
 appear mutated at times. Fortunately, apart from in-engine cutscenes, you're rarely looking at 
 the models that close, and from the default in-game perspective, everything looks at least decent. 
 The amount of destruction you can cause is really impressive. When you're playing that big lobby 
 shoot-out from the first film, you'll see all the pieces of scenery breaking apart as it's pierced 
 by bullets and bodies. Unfortunately, the more madness onscreen, the worse the frame rate gets. 
 It's not quite the 15-frame-per-second slowdown you'll see in the console versions, but the frame 
 rate is definitely not perfect in the PC version. And this notion is more upsetting by virtue of 
 the fact that this game looks like a really cheap console port. Everything is blurry, muddy, and 
 unpleasant looking. Cranking up the resolution or rendering effects doesn't seem to do much to 
 counteract it, either. It's not often that we'll say a console version of a game looks better than 
 the PC version, but in the case of Path of Neo, it's absolutely true.  

          Matrix fans might enjoy what Path of Neo offers -- just don't take any of it too seriously. 
     

  The audio fares quite a bit better. Although Laurence Fishburne is the only main actor to return 
 and voice new dialogue for the game, the soundalikes that Shiny picked up to play Neo, Smith, Trinity, 
 and the rest of the bunch are all more than competent. The actor who plays Neo, in particular, 
 really nails Keanu Reeves' befuddled surfer intonations, and the actor who plays Smith gets that 
 whole snarling indignation thing down pat. Of course, all the film footage has the dialogue from 
 the original actors, so it can be a touch off-putting to hear one voice for Neo and then hear a 
 different voice for him moments later. Little of the original film's music seems to have made it 
 into this game, which is a shame since the first two films in particular had amazing soundtracks 
 (both score and licensed) . But what's here is good, if a bit underwhelming for what previous Matrix 
 efforts have offered. The sound effects are done very well. Guns sound just like they did in the 
 movies, as do the sounds of bullets hitting people and the environment. Although the sound can 
 become cacophonous during particularly intense battles, it's not necessarily bad, because it just 
 adds to the intensity of it all.  

  The Matrix: Path of Neo is a good game on consoles, but not on the PC. Were the keyboard controls 
 more precise, the graphics not so blatantly unrefined, and the gamepad support better equipped, 
 the PC version of Path of Neo certainly could have been on par with its Xbox and PlayStation 2 
 counterparts. But as it is, it's an inferior port that is best skipped over in favor of the other 
 versions. If you absolutely have to play this on the PC, however, just make sure you've got a good 
 gamepad, and don't expect much in the way of visual prowess.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (132 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cephiro01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  ok i have the pleasure to have a original copy of this game and i can say it just the best brawler 
 that you can get the little bug and failures just banishes in the air when you do a combo or do 
 and especial move i have to that that even this is a movie inspired game and we all know how that 
 work this is a great game it give you the movie parts and more content specially if you are a matrix 
 trilogy fan you have the whole movie in it and you have some cool extras the only thing that bothered 
 me fo this game was the bugs the graphics are awesome but the models can be made better and the 
 animation even more fluid ass a professional of 3D i can say that this game can have a very nice 
 upgrade using the shader 4 and directx10 technology and it will rocks i wouldn't mind to play it 
 over and over again is just addictive. by the way guns in the game sucks melee weapons rocks and 
 the combos are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game gets some biased brownie-points for being related to the Matrix. This is just an undeniable 
 truth. Because of this, I found myself enjoying the game a lot more than I thought I would be.
 
  
  The path of Neo is what "Enter the Matrix" should have been. Whereas its older version was tedious 
 to the point of pointlessness, Path of Neo actually addresses these issues by being remotely fun.. actually 
 pretty fun. 
  
  There is a subjective fun being Neo. Especially because the battle system was relatively addicting, 
 I couldn't help enjoying myself. In short, this was a Dynasty Warriors moment. I knew the game 
 wasn't that good. But because of how it presented itself, I liked it.
  
  Now this is not far enough to say I LIKED this game as a whole. As a whole, this game falls short. 
 The reviews are all right. The ugly presentation and moments of slowdown and choppiness. Also, 
 its feel of lack of polish. All of it comes together to make Path of Neo a second rate game.
  
  But this is not to say it is a 'third rate' game. It is still pretty fun, benefiting from Dynasty 
 Warriors syndrome. And if you're like me and find playing as Neo somewhat of a Matrix-subjective 
 rush as you're plowing through multiple agents with your impressive kung-fu skill, this game will 
 deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gah. A brilliant movie trilogy turned into a crappy game. : (
  
  The controls are terrible on the mouse and keyboard and the game doesn't appear to offer any support 
 for gamepads. Everything feels extremely clunky, and you can't move the mouse up and down far enough, 
 like its locked in a straight line. Neo takes too long to register the keys i'm pressing, usually 
 waiting for an agent to punch him in the face and fly backwards before deciding its time to listen 
 to my orders, even though I pressed my mouse button a second before that to attack.
  
  The delays keep things from flowing smoothly, and it means that you never EVER feel like the kick 
 ass action guy that Neo becomes. How is a cop able to get 'The One' in a headlock and keep him 
 there struggling while punching him in the head?  _  And why is there no button for me to try and 
 break free from that? You just have to wait for him to finish beating you before fighting back. 
 In any other game it would be my own fault for sucking, but Neos painfully slow reaction time is 
 the problem here. And it doesn't matter how powerful you become, the problem is always there.
 
  
  The guns are pretty much useless in this game, because everyone seems to be able to take 20 bullets 
 in the head without flinching, and i'm not even exaggerating! Its near impossible to aim too, because 
 of the aforementioned mouse problems. If theres someone shooting you from above, you might as well 
 just run away, because the mouse doesn't go let you aim up far enough. Its stuck in that straight 
 horizontal line.. Because of course you're always going to be shooting people directly in front 
 of you, arent you... :-/ Even when you ARE its hard, because the camera isn't positioned very well 
 and Neo's character model will get in the way of your view.
  
  They had to lengthen and change all the fight scenes to make them suitable for a video game, and 
 thats understandable. But the changed ending is stupid.*
  
  The story is incomprehensible to anyone who's never seen the movies (okay pretty unlikely if they're 
 playing the game, but still.) and is told through clips from the movies all spliced up and joined 
 together, but its all mixed up - skipping from scene to scene, some later sequences showing before 
 you've even reached that part yet. So you can't really tell whats going on. Its like something 
 Quentin Tarantino might make if he was drugged up.
  
  After each level you're taken to a screen where you apply an upgrade to Neo's abilities. But you 
 can ALWAYS only apply one upgrade, and there is ALWAYS only one upgrade available. Meaning, the 
 game pretty much chooses it for you. Why can't it just upgrade Neo for you, instead of trying to 
 pretend the game is deeper than it really is?
  
  The game is graphically aged, but for some reason it doesn't play that well. When its playing at 
 its best, the top FPS I can achieve is 30 anyway because it appears to be locked at that (according 
 to fraps) . There arent enough graphical options (in fact there's just one) and it only seems to 
 support 2 widescreen resolutions. One of them being a 16:9 widescreen, with the only 16:10 being 
 1680x1050. The menus all appear to run in 800x600.
  
  All your hand-to-hand fighting moves are completely underpowered nomatter what enemy you're fighting, 
 again taking that "the one" feeling away from you. It makes the fight scenes all boring. You'll 
 get much more enjoyment from just watching the movies again, because you do not feel like Neo in 
 this game... At least hand-to-hand combat is more effective that using guns.
  
  Some of the controlling and graphical issues might be fixed in the latest patch. I wouldn't know, 
 because when I tried to patch the game it said "Path Of Neo could not be found on this computer." 
 But, even if you can get the patch working, and if it does fix a lot of the issues, one thing i'm 
 sure it wont fix is how this game just isn't much fun to play.
  
  Right, I've finished crucifying this game for now... Oh wait, one more thing!
  
  SPOILER:
 
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  *In the final boss fight, a video from the Wachowski Brothers pops 
 up telling you the original Matrix trilogy ending wouldn't work in a video game. They continue 
 to say that it would be "lame" in a video game setting. Now, personally, I think it would have 
 worked just fine if they'd showed the ending with a clip from the movie like they showed the rest 
 of the story thus-far. It would certainly be a lot less lame than say, fighting a giant robot Agent 
 Smith or something. Agree? Well, too bad, because thats exactly what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  what is that? number 1: ENTER THE MATRIX = LAME AND BOORING
  what is that? number 2: THE PATH OF NEO = LAME AND FUN ALSO
  
  path of neo is way better than 
 ENTER THE MATRIX, finanlly you play with THE ONE neo, you have way better moves, really cool moves 
 and way better levels!! simply awsome the game is also harder than ENTER THE MATRIX, but what is 
 the problems in the path of neo?
  
  graphics, ugly engine even enter the matrix looked better than this piece of crap, simply ugly 
 graphics, but even with the ugly graphics the game is alot of fun, you have the ability to play 
 from defrent scenes from the MATRIX movies and more...
  
  but lets start over in the game levels: 1 - 7 i think you play as a ninja thats really booring 
 first level its like a test that test your skill in the game second level is neo's dream and untail 
 7 its llaaaammmeee!!
  
  but than the first mision appears you have a match against morfios thats awsome!! you learn cool 
 moves and combat moves, than you have some levels from the first movie, second movie, and... movie 
 number 3?
  
  in episode 3 that game became really booring, there was really stupid levels like in spice against 
 giant ants whats up with that?
  the final battle is really fun untail smith turns into a cars robot... whats up with that??? that 
 level is sucks!!
  
  the good thing about the game is episode 2... i mean the greatest level of all time: The Burly 
 Brawl one neo against 10000 smiths that level rocks! you can fight lots of smith and kick them 
 in the ass no problem
  
  and now lets talk about the sounds, great sounds from the movies thats actually another great thing 
 in the game after the borly brawl
  
  anyway the path of neo is really not that bad, its even better... way better than enter the matrix, 
 but its not the bast of games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sachitharox
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Path OF neo Is gd action game with the both patches fix sme grafix issues bt nt everyting still 
 game looks crap ! i finished game within 10 hours ! last boss was too easy :D this game gd for 
 matrix fan who want play as NEO ! im big matrix fan !! i waited long time until this game release 
 ... i got chance to play this game on PS2 and its was amazing ! graphics and gameplay was superb 
 ! bt PS2 wasnt mine so i had to wait until get my hand on to pc version and i got totally disappointed 
 crap grafix and save issues ! bt i liked the game so much ! coz of neo .. so tried both patches 
 and work fine ! nt gd at all ! when u run the game with 1024x728 resolution game exit then run 
 again then u cn play with 1024x768 resolution ! after i finishing the game i made a video take 
 a look ! its AIO ! All in One ! beginning to the end ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, i gave this game a chance. i heard that it was pretty fun on the ps2 and stuff, 
 so i started playing it and i got the vibe that it sucked within the opening sneak scene. it took 
 me like 10 times just to get past that part...... then the repition began. the training simulator 
 was lame and not fun at all, and why should i give a flying crap about some stupid chinese ghost 
 running around? WELL, I DONT. the graphics are horrible, with facial animations that change all 
 the time, and horrible framewates. Boring, bad, repitive, lame. thats all that describes this game. 
 Dont play it. really, its not that good unless you love repition and bad graphics.
  the story is pretty weak, sporting some more in-depth stuff that nobody cares about. it is extremely 
 repitive, and just doesnt let up on the lameness. i really would highly recommend to not play this 
 game, and play something like manhunt, which nails the whole stealth thing down, and is actually 
 kinda fun. screw this game and all the matrix games that come after it. the movies were good, but 
 its time to give up the gaming licence of the matrix people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  The Matrix: Path of Neo has undergone two patches since its release a couple years back. It also 
 has the ability to adjust its detail setting incredibly high. The funny thing is that any time 
 you change the resolution or exit the game, the detail setting reverts back to 1 (the resolution 
 setting saves) . Therefore, each time you load up the game, go into options and crank the detail 
 as high as your computer can handle (the max is 10 and it works quite well on today's midrange 
 systems) .
  
  Perhaps the reviewers missed this, because the game has EXCELLENT graphics, even in 2008. Furthermore, 
 the controls are far from twitchy in the latest build. The game is incredibly stable and did not 
 crash on me once from beginning to end. 
  
  The enemy AI is right where you would expect it to be. Normal cops tend to be fodder, while battles 
 against even a single Agent can be maddeningly difficult. The rest of your foes are somewhere in 
 between. When you really start playing well, you will find that mixing it up between guns and Kung-Fu 
 is to your advantage.
  
  You will acquire dozens upon dozens of different fighting moves executable in a myriad of situations. 
 The sheer variety of them all can be overwhelming, but the game does a good job of slowly trickling 
 them to you. You'll run up walls, dodge bullets and attacks, counter-attack, throw enemies into 
 each other, attack different opponents in various directions as part of a single dynamic combo 
 string, wield many different melee and ranged weapons, and much, much more.
  
  During all this chaos, environments will break apart in extremely impressive ways. For instance, 
 drop-kicking an opponent at super-human strength into a heating element which then crashes into 
 a bookshelf feels incredibly satisfying. Concrete and walls break apart, structures collapse, and 
 the overall environment feels very much alive. If it looks like getting knocked into that high 
 voltage transformer at high velocity might hurt, it will.
  
  If all this sounds challenging and fun, it is. The difficulty setting is recommended based on your 
 performance in the opening dream sequence. This review was written after playing the "Master" (Normal) 
 dificulty. The dificulty can feel a bit uneven at times, but that too is to the game's credit. 
 Path of Neo will challenge you, punish you, and reward you throughout your adventure. 
  
  The only real blemish this game has (aside from the detail setting not saving) is that a couple 
 levels can drag on a bit too long if you don't know the most efficient methods to progress... Some 
 might argue that level checkpoints are a bit too sparse, but they reward you for playing well, 
 and not just getting by on luck.... and when you do scrape by, you will breathe a sigh of relief.
 
  
  It is clear a tremendous amount of work and polish went into making this game. When you add it 
 all up, the sum of its gameplay is excellent. The complaints of "blocky graphics" are also flat-out 
 wrong. The fact this game now sells for only $20 makes it an easily recommendable purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarvin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  From my point of view, overallPath of Neo" has a solid storyline back up by the actual understanding 
 players got from the matrix trilogy series but with a twist and further expanded storyline. There 
 are several
  changes in how the game goes about compared to the movie but the main essence are still preserved. 
 In terms of graphics, the ai as well as world detail can be improved even better since the ai looks 
 are still not smooth and has squareness in terms of appearance and movement. A much more detailed 
 and continuation of the matrix after Mr Smith's death is a hope to and can be a starting point 
 for a coming up release. Either way the game is good and interesting but it is sometime a little 
 bit too easy on certain levels. Hoping the new releases of these series will be vastly improved 
 and deliver better visual effects and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review for the purpose of saying more than just, "It sucks," "Meh," or "WOW THIS 
 RULES," since many of the reviews seem to vary.
  
  To begin with, the graphics are really bad, and it stands out, on even the day when it was first 
 released. I managed to get past the graphics, however, and beyond that, there's not really anything 
 there either.
  
  This game is actually broken in many ways. Many glitches exist, such as being able to escape the 
 map, grab air, or get stuck between cops and just having to mash the mouse button over and over 
 like a madman. Even if everything did work the way it was supposed to, this would be one boring 
 game that's too easy. Basically, I'm saying that the challenge exists because of the glitches in 
 this game, which is simply the way it's not supposed to be.
  
  The pacing in this game is also simply horrible. You go from a stealth mission to about an hour's 
 worth of tutorials to level up your skill before you can actually get to the combat, and when you 
 do get into the combat and actual game, there's really not much there. Honestly, it could have 
 been designed in a better, more fun, way.
  
  The only thing I can praise in this game is the sound design. It's actually great for what they 
 had to work with! The voice actors imitate the original actors well. The voice acting isn't bad 
 at all. Sounds are nicely placed for kicks, punches, weapons, and the like. The enemies say things 
 that seem appropriate. This is the only redeeming aspect of the game that I could see, but unfortunately, 
 it can't save everything else.
  
  In the end, this game isn't worth it. If you have to have a Matrix game, get Enter the Matrix. 
 Enter the Matrix isn't a great game, but it's better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekrid2003
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Picked up this game the other day for $10 so I figured it be worth it. I've been and big Matrix 
 fan and played Enter the Matrix a long time ago.
  Even with it being the older game as it is I expected better then this. Graphics and the movement 
 of characters are horrible! There is no new content with video cut scenes and are just clips from 
 the movie thrown together that make no sense and you can't even skip the garbage. Everything was 
 bad enough I prob played about 15 mins and after getting through the very, very boring part of 
 moving from cubicle to cubicle I un-installed this game and put it on the shelf where it will collect 
 dust like all my other games. Except this one did it in record time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Everyone who didn't like the movies.... will not like this game, and at first glance all those 
 who thought the movie was ok, will also jump ship, thanks to the graphics. But those hardcore matrix 
 fan's out there got a real treat.
  
  I really enjoyed this game despite the graphics, and the action piling up from time to time. Very 
 entertaining every time I stated up and grabs you from the first second. And just like Max Payne 
 proved... 3rd person plus bullet time equals a Wow! or Cool! every 5 minutes.
  
  Action sequences and fighting scenes like you won't believe well entwined within The Matrix storyline 
 provides hours of slow motion fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The producers at Atari seem to have not gotten it quite right on the second try from "Enter The 
 Matrix". Certain elements in this game are fantastic. The gameplay is actually quite decent, though 
 repetitive. It doesn't seem to "bug out" as much as "Enter The Matrix" did. The main problem is 
 just the "unpolished scent" that Atari seems to give off. Certain voice acting is kinda cheesy, 
 with different audible volume levels. The graphics in PON for late 2005 simply suck. The game's 
 engine runs nice and fast, but it just doesn't look good for it's time period.
  
  The game is very repetitive, just like Enter The Matrix. But repetitive gameplay ain't necessarily 
 bad if it encumbers other positive elements. But sadly, Atari could have put more direction and 
 effort into these tittles to make them into something really great. Instead, they give up the same 
 old boring game with a slightly enhanced look.
  
  The DVD video chopping was quite weak. It all just seemed amateurish. It seemed to only fit the 
 direction of the game. Another-words, they should have fit the game more around the movie itself.
 
  
  I was unable to finish the game due to various bug issues, like with all Atari games.
  
  Path of Neo is just like any other Atari Matrix game- Unpolished, Repetitive, and just poorly 
 scripted. it had the potential to be another Max Payne, but there wasn't enough time and scripting 
 put into it to make it something nice.
  
  Need I must say, after completing the game with the PS2, the experience was much better. But again, 
 more of the same as I said above. Stick to the consoles on this one guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I really loved playing as Neo and enjoyed the special moves and flowing combat. The game does a 
 good job of building your skills given the complexity of the many maneuvers you can learn and execute.
 
  
  I didn't enjoy the older graphics as well as the fact that the saved games system is clunky and 
 made me rechoose what special ability I picked for the next round of story line.
  
  The game starts with you in a room fighting several waves of the enemy. Once you realize that this 
 is just a test to determine what level of difficulty to set the game at, it makes more sense.
 
  
  Overall, the least enjoyable part was escaping the building when the agents come for you (as in 
 the movie but you get a chance to really get away) . The controls and the camera were just a bit 
 too clunky again. plus there are some cops you can fight and some that will just slap cuffs on 
 you with no ability to resist.
  
  Anyway, an enjoyable game since I love the Matrix story line and this gives you a chance to play 
 some of the scenes in the movie plus a host of others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyntakaiwa
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  When I wanted to try Path of Neo, it was two years after its release on the market. I played Enter 
 the Matrix, found it compelling, but not very attractive ,it was just the moment to play it... 
 The third movie was about to be released on theather, we waited it for a long time and the game 
 was here to contempt us with some Matrix actions, never seen in some video game (until then... 
 but now, Kingdom Hearts or Max Payne are THE reference of the genre) . So two years after all of 
 that, I get the Matrix Ultimate Collector dvd box, I'm seeing it and remember that one of my friends 
 possessed the Path of Neo games. He liked it, I don't.
  
  The games is itchy... Graphics are horrible, it's impossible to handle correctly your character. 
 The sound is crappy, the pc version is crippled with bugs. I hated this game from the beginning 
 to the middle where I send it back to my friends...
  
  The only thing worth playing in that crap, is the part where you'll have to retrieve some Exile 
 (and particularly the scene where Fishburne offer us some poetry on a very good fight....) .
  
  But clearly one or two scenes aren't worth it. It's an heresy, and it's Atari's Work (Activision...) .
 
  
  Never going to buy any of their games. I love the movies, the games are deleted in my memory from 
 now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 22, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Yet another bad game from a good source is brought to us by Atari. Very dissapointing I would say 
 because it has numerous glitches especially with the sound as if sometimes it's repeating the same 
 line over and over again. I am a Matrix fan but I can definitly say that I was very dissapointed 
 with this game.... if it's a Matrix game then it should have better graphics, sound and story. 
 I personally think the only good game from Atari is Fahrenheit (or Indigo Prophecy as some will 
 call it) . So this is yet another stupid game from a stupendous source : ( it's a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 10, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Matrix: Path of Neo is a game wich is simply a action game wich captures the atmosphere of 
 the movies it`s named after. The game starts out pretty simpel. You don`t have all your powers 
 and you`ll get stronger as the game progresses. I think the game captures the atmosphere of the 
 game very well. it`s a game in, after you`ve figured out the right way to fight foes, you will 
 be a nearly indistructible figure on the battlefield.
  
  You will particepate in nearly all action-sequances of the game, but that`s all. Of course for 
 fans it`s enouph to play it over and over again, but for ''outsiders'' it`s too ''the same'' to 
 be intressting. I liked it, but others probebly will not. it really looks and feels like the matrix 
 thanks to slow-motion, a power called code-sight and the typical foes from the movies.
  
  I did not really expirieced any bugs (exept that sometimes the figures become black as if they 
 are in complete shadow) but others did... read theyre reviews for that.
  
  The game`s fights can however be very addictive, and i found myself playing some missions (like 
 the burly brawl or a fight in the chatue, but you will have to see the movie for that) over and 
 over again. Some people will surely do the same, and maybe some of them will not have seen the 
 movie, but you probaly won`t buy this game if you haven`t seen the movie.
  
  In the end the game captures the movie very well, and there are a lot of cool features in the game, 
 like the focus power (far leaps, super powers ect.) and the fact that you are the one! However 
 if you have not seen the movie, this is just a good beat-em-up game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screamingknife
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 7, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I know that I'm kind of late in writing a review, and I've had this game for a while, but I never 
 really got around to writing any reviews.
  
  First, the gameplay. At first, it's pretty good. Once you progress in the game, it begins to bore 
 you. The level design is pretty.... lacking in its design. This game, I'm sorry to say, has really 
 taken the fighting from The Matrix and ruined it, unless you go to melee combat, which is when 
 it gets somewhat interesting. But you'll mostly be using the same moves over and over again, and 
 you'll get bored fast. The Brothers really need to come up with better material.
  
  The graphics. I couldn't stand them, especially with this being a 2005 release. Even after I had 
 patched it, there were even cutscenes where entire character models were nothing but a black void.
 
  
  The sound was decent. The gunfire, to me, was not very realistic at all. The music set the mood 
 in a decent way, but could have been improved.
  
  Conclusion: I was a big fan of The Matrix (movies) , but their games have really been a disappointment. 
 They had potential, but never lived up to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4lan
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  At first, i hated it. But being a hardcore matrix fan myself, everything that includes green code 
 and matrix shades brings me back to it like a magnet. And i'm glad i took a time and tried the 
 game once more before giving it pity score of 5.2 The first thing you might notice is poor graphics. 
 I won't blame you for that, they really are. But believe me, it's in first sight. The main characters 
 looks nice (except for Agent Smith who has a pink face and yellow teeth *ewww*) . Weapon models 
 are good too. Bullet time is sort of fun, if you only use it for fighting and shooting bullets. 
 Bullet trail is better compared to previous title, ETM, but still at first sight it seems like 
 a circle metal disk following bullet that show lack of reality from authors. As for other things 
 like explosions, you won't be impressed by that like you might had been with F. E. A. R that came 
 out same year (and did far better job my friends) . However, other characters like police, soldiers 
 and bad ass tough boys have the same faces. It is especially noticeable in soldiers, since you 
 meet them the most. I bet my money on that Swat members don't look different at all too, but you 
 won't really have time to check their graphic detail since they are a tough opponent and charge 
 with you with freaking bulletproof shields nonstop. The cut scenes are really turn down, and they 
 gets just worse as you play the game. As for Gameplay: it almost fixed all bugs caused by ETM. 
 The character movement and camera feels just like in popular title like GTA or Max Payne. The fighting 
 is fun but i find it hard somethimes to pull of certain moves since either Neo cancels the whole 
 action by himself or he charges at wrong direction just like he loves to do it in of wall strike 
 combo (I only try to use various combination against tough opponents like agents, so this referring 
 might not be correct if you facing to regular cops or soldiers...) . Unfortunately, there is more 
 of a bad side rather than good. The camera sometimes get frustrating, but on positive side it's 
 only like on 2-3 missions, thats all. Speaking of missions, the game does add some good levels 
 like fun and enjoyable training levels or rescuing red pills, but also game did some changes to 
 main missions that were shown in Matrix trilogy such as Burly brawl. Burly brawl is rather very 
 short, and it includes more cutscenes then action itself. You only can fight up to 8 smiths and 
 other just running around looking for sexytime . And you can only fight them for limited time, 
 since the story dramatically change and buidings start to collapse, crushing all the enemies along 
 with your fun expectations. And there is no option to allow you fight them till the last ine die 
 which just shows that authors didn't want to spend their time on improving game. You also cannot 
 use all abilities once you beat the game which is bad. I think a player should deserve to have 
 all unlocked abilities just for him enjoyment, once he beat the whole game and wants to do re-run 
 with bulletdodge for ex. before the rooftop scene. Cheats are only unlockable once you beat the 
 game, but none of them give the whole power as it is described about them (for example, unlock 
 all guns only give you certain weapons depends on mission. So if you want to kill agents from rocket 
 luncher - forget it) . Agents are improved compared to previous game, but they still dodge everything 
 you shoot/throw at them which is actually cannot be correct if you look at their dodging cinematic, 
 where they won't even dodge the half of what you fire at them. Also some new levels really give 
 game bad grade, like ending or going through all the maze they give you after chateau level (fighting 
 witch, or ants but actually ants are prety fun to fight. Not speaking of finding the right door 
 tho : ( ) Sound includes good ammount of new songs which you will enjoy. The fighting punches and 
 voice actors are ok. Even-tho some weapon sounds are bad, i still give this category a 10. Replay 
 Value is 8. Game allows you to go back at any mission you want, but as i mentioned before it does 
 not give you all abilities you achieved during your first time beating the game if you consider 
 using them starting from first mission all over again. My tilt is 8, since the game has many good 
 parts like bonus levels and decent amount of extras ,but also few unwanted bugs.
  _____________
  As for the end, after you beat the game i give you my advice to do little sneaking 
 and download saved games off the internet. Some of them will include all cheats that you might 
 not unlocked during first run. It's much better to play with cheats. I know that i give you expression 
 of me as a coward or TeH n0ob, but having unlimited ammo really improves the gameplay in my opinion 
 and it does make you feel like DA 0NE, not forcing you to only count on your skill of button smashing 
 speed and manuver. Oh, and use ctrl for better fighting experience *hint* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  THE MATRIX: PATH OF NEO will follow the story of the blockbuster motion
  picture trilogy THE MATRIX, THE MATRIX RELOADED and THE MATRIX REVOLUTIONS
  and for the first 
 time allow gamers to play as Neo and become The One. 
  A game of blockbuster caliber, Shiny also worked closely with the Award
  winning talent behind 
 the Matrix trilogy to ensure that every aspect in
  design, sound and special effects would be authentic to the original
  experience.
  
  Gamers 
 will play as Neo, but from the moment the game begins, how the
  situations play out, how they handle them, how they deal with the events,
  where they go, how 
 people react to them -- it's all up to the gamer.
  They may win where Neo failed or find another way to solve the problem
  -- the path is now theirs 
 to follow.
  
  As Neo , the choices the player makes to resolve each scenario and the
  resulting consequences may have a different result than the original films.
  Alternative scenarios 
 filled with new characters, content and storylines
  have all been written and planned by the Wachowski Brothers to expand the
  Matrix universe and 
 overall gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix franchise has released 3 games so far, each of them had a tough time convincing the 
 audiences. The last of them, Path of Neo, made a few heads turn due to the fact you finally get 
 to play as The One. So how did this last outing in the franchise turn out?
  
  First off, if you're not a fan of The Matrix or don't like brawl-type games in general you shouldn't 
 bother with this game. It's not for you. On the other hand Path of Neo is likely to convince some 
 casual gamers who are looking for some good fun for a short time. The stunts you can pull-off, 
 without much effort I might add, are very appealing. The game has tons of crazy combos that really 
 let you kick some @ss. It also features some lite stealth features that, again, will be pretty 
 entertaining for casual gamers. You get to play through many of the trilogy's famous moments: the 
 "save Morpheus" mission from the first movie as well as the burly brawl or the final epic battle 
 from the two sequels (although not as you expect it) . Be warned, if you're looking for depth here, 
 you'll not find it, the game is all about action. Still, it's sad that a trilogy like The Matrix 
 never gave birth to a game that explores the lore and philosophies of its universe and from this 
 point of view, Path of Neo is a disappointment. But if it's action you want, it's action you'll 
 get.
  
  Things get ugly once you approach the tech side though: I don't know what engine Shiny used to 
 develop this game but one thing is for sure: it doesn't look that good. The engine's bad looks 
 are accompanied by some massive frame-rate drops in certain scenes... but most of the time you'll 
 get decent performances even on older hardware. In opposition to the graphics is the sound: Path 
 of Neo features some good voice-acting and really realistic sounds from weapons and such. The physics 
 engine is also good, you can destroy almost every object in the environment... though it needs 
 some tweaks because certain objects just fall apart by simply bumping into them.
  
  It wouldn't be fair to call Path of Neo a failure, it's more like a bit of both sides. The graphics, 
 the performance, the lack of depth and the end will disappoint you but the awesome kung-fu scenes 
 will really keep you jacked in. I actually recommend the PS2 version which performs a bit better 
 frame-rate wise, but you can also stick to the PC version. So if you're out of games to play you 
 could try this, it's entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I first saw this game at a PS2. It looks good on a tv and Neo's moves have an almost limitless 
 combinations possible. However, on a PC the game isn't that great at all.
  
  First of all the graphics, this is after all the first thing you'll notice at a game. When you're 
 system is capable, every gamer puts the options to the max. So did I, only to discover that in 
 the highest rendering level, all characters get an plastic-like texture. They all look, like they've 
 been wrapped in that kitchen plastic. You can shut this off, by putting the rendering level down, 
 but off course (apart of the plastic) the rest won't look that good. Second, the controls. Since 
 this game was a clear copy of the PS2 version, the capabilities, control like, are the same. Only 
 now, you'll mainly use the mouse. The problem with most mouses, is that they don't have the same 
 amount of buttons as a PS2 controller has. Hence, you'll almost brake your finger at the amount 
 of times you must click it to combine all the moves. But, once you've mastered the moves, they're 
 absolutely amazing. You can do almost ANYTHING you can think of with Neo, which is very cool. For 
 optimal control though, I can advise a gamepad like the Logitech Rumblepad 2 (The one that looks 
 like a PS2 controller) .
  
  Having said this, the game is a lot of fun (without mentioning the frustrating controls) especially 
 the martial arts levels. If you're interested in this game, don't expect the best graphics, buy 
 a decent controller or gamepad and it will keep you occupied for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramp_rampy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  an excellent brawl game . action stunts worthy of the trilogy. but end is a big lame or how wachowski 
 describes lame. starts with a bang , carries on but ends like a puff. still enjoyable and worth 
 its time. megasmith was a bigcrap .
  should have used the martyr part only and hey where is the revolutions stuff train man, machine 
 city and all reallly you should not have taken short cuts .it ruined a superb game .dont get disheartened 
 by the dud ending stuff the game is great enjot all the first two movies . graphics are great . 
 the game itself is not tough . learning curve is of 30 minutes or even less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LV_KING999
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I got this game long ago, but I decided to play it just now. As I played it on PC graphics were 
 kind of shabby, but I could get through with it because the game was really interesting. Storyline 
 of course was great. At first I was afraid to see another letdown like Enter the Matrix but luckily 
 it didnt happen. Very interesting was a way how to select a difficulty, like people say, the best 
 way to learn is to do. Here it worked for all 100%, to choose difficulty you have to fight with 
 all types of opponents. Sound was pretty cool, voices were just fine adn special effects was just 
 like in all games. Authors promised to really true physics, well I dint see anything like that, 
 of course some things broke just fine, but still, after half-life 2 I am expecting just best. :)
 
  The game is great choice for people who wants to have fun in old school style beat'em up. Specially 
 in Burly Brawl level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Well when i brought this game home i didnt exept very good game , but sometimes game is lame by 
 its graphics , gameplay and ather stuff , but its fun to play , you cant stop playing it and this 
 game was one of those .
  I finished it in 2 days its short ,but it is very mixed up , it would be hard to understand movie 
 storyline. But I sow movie so I understanded most of it.
  Gameplay: Its better to fight then to shoot-em up
  Graphics: It didnt make much difference to 
 me
  Sound: Good , nice
  Storyline: its hard to understand it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamikazeee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty amazing for the Matrix fans. this version is better then the previous. the graphic 
 is better. and now we got the chance to play as the one, Neo. I think most of us waited for it. 
 We got a lot of moves we can us. the kung-fu is fantastic, like in the movie, even more, very fascinating. 
 for those who liked the movie and like to play real fantastic fighting game with a great storyline, 
 you must at least try it for once.
  we got even more then we could think. upgrade your skills with points you get from every level. 
 you get the chance to change the ending. you can win where Neo has lost (I think that's pretty 
 cool) . Its hard to tell how I liked it, you must try it for yourself. Its worth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  When I originally bought the game when it came out, I couldn't wait for it to install. I watched 
 (what I now know was the console version) a video of the game play and couldn't take my eyes off 
 the screen. I've been studying Kung-Fu for 7 years and the likeness was incredible.
  
  As soon as the first scene popped up I was in shock. Was it because of the martial arts? Nope. 
 At the horrific graphics that this very bad port from PS2 offered us PC players.
  
  For once we all got to play Neo. We got to do his signature martial moves, use his guns, be the 
 ONE. This game has huge potential, but tanked totally due to bad graphics, textures, and voice-over 
 attempts with Neo and Trinity (among other key figures) .
  
  Here we are, almost a year later to the day of release, and I thought the new Updates 1 and 2 would 
 finally polish the game. I was wrong. The face textures still have the large and unprofessional 
 seams on the side of the head showing where the artists must have been drinking something other 
 than coffee when they put them together.
  
  The LOD system pushes itself into play right in the middle of a cut scene, where an agents neck 
 pops itself from low to high polygon right in the middle, in full view. That alone makes the game 
 look ridiculous.
  
  If not for the killer fighting moves, I wouldn't even had played it to the end. And the second 
 time around, I couldn't find myself dealing with the graphics for another wet run through it.
 
  
  Shiny should give the animation sequences to a company that could actually pull this game off graphically 
 AND mechanically; otherwise leave it on the shelf and hopefully develop one for the PC and stop 
 with the terrible console ports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Yeah, the big + of this game is that, that its not a game with side characters, with no normal 
 story line, no this game is about the Matrix trilogy, and the person you will controll is NEO. 
 This game is great, looks and plays also great. The storyline is 100 %ly the movie  Matrix 1, 
 2 , 3 Its funny, but you can finish the game in the first few minutes, when Morpheus wants from 
 you to choose between the red and blue capsules, and if you choose wrong, Neo  you will wake 
 up at home and its game over&amp;#61514; But if you choose the right capsule, you will start your 
 story in the Matrix. You start with the training missions, from Matrix 1, and level to level you 
 will can get to the final fight with Agent Smith from Matrix 3. And you can get new abilities for 
 Neo  for example you can get the famous bullet time move frome Matrix 1, or you can turn on the 
 Matrix sight, and you can see everything just like Neo saw at the finish in Matrix 1. What should 
 I say, its a great game, and if you are a Matrix fan, than buy it quick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handelo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying I don't know what the f*** everyone is talking about when they 
 say shitty graphics, quirky controls and chaotic/impossible fighting , especially on the PC version. 
 Try running it on a high-end system, not on min. specs, and see what you get then.
  Now that that's off my chest, I can get on with the review.
  
  Gameplay - When it comes to 
 Path of Neo, there isn't much you have to do except fight, fight, fight. I suppose that's pretty 
 much The One's job, but it would have been a bit better if there were actually any tough puzzles 
 to solve. Oh well. Concentrating on fighting, the game has it all - Lots of different melee weapons, 
 some guns, and a lot of fist-fight-fun. Not to mention that pretty much any move you would see 
 in any of the 3 movies in the Matrix Trilogy, you can preform in the game as well, which is awesome 
 in my opinion. I didn't get to try all the special combos yet, which I'm looking forward to seeing 
 once I can actually remember the control sequence.
  I did not find the controls too hard to master (and they weren't quirky either!) , nor the fights 
 too tough to handle, even when fighting 12 Smiths or 6 Henchmen at once.
  Unfortunately, no flying around in this game, apart for the final stages, when you face off against 
 Smith. But I suppose it just makes it a bit more authentic, seeing as Neo doesn't constantly float 
 within the Matrix :D
  I did enjoy the way in which you can choose your game difficulty - you are given an endurance challenge 
 at the beginning - the more policemen you kill before dying yourself, the higher your level of 
 play - Novice (Easy) , Master (Normal) or The One (Hard) .
  
  Gameplay - 9.
  
  Graphics - Yes, it's true, the graphics are not that great in comparison with other games of the 
 genre in the year 2005, but I havn't encountered any of the really BAD graphic bugs which many 
 other players seem to have. I agree, the scenes aren't much to look at, but that does not mean 
 it's not detailed. In fact, almost anything in the game is destructible - tables and other furniture, 
 pictures, windows, lamp posts and various poles, fences, and heck, even floors, ceilings and walls! 
 In my opinion, all that makes up for the rather poor long-distance view quality. As for characters, 
 the details are pretty good, and they mostly look like the actors from the movie trilogy.
  (Note: Too bad that when you stop bullets in their flight, you don't get to see the bullets floating 
 in mid-air. I was rather hoping you could...)
  
  Graphics - 8.
  
  Sound - In this area, I was actually a bit disappointed. The fighting and gunshots sound EXACTLY 
 as they do in the trilogy, however the more important section of this was the music. I was extremely 
 disappointed to see that the game had little to no use of the trilogy's original soundtrack, which 
 is a real shame, since it rocked :D
  
  Sound - 8.
  
  Value - The storyline of PoN concentrates on, you guessed it, Neo, as he makes his way from your 
 ordinary everyday hacker, to a world-saving machine, spanning the 3 movies, and even Enter the 
 Matrix. However the game has made changes and additions to the storyline, which vary from pretty-cool 
 to Give me a big Doubleu-Tee-Ef! . I'd rate stuff like Seraph's Test and collapsing buildings on 
 top of the hundreds of Smiths as not too bad. As for the ridiculous part, well, there are the guy 
 in the movie theatre, the giant ants (?) in the Merovingian's Chateau, and, let's not forget, the 
 Smithzilla! I mean, additions are always welcome, but turning the storyline into a complete joke 
 really ruins most of the game experience.
  
  Value - 7.
  
  Overall - A must-have for a Matrix fan - If you've ever wanted to grab a weapon from the wall of 
 the Great Hall in the Chateau, you got it here. If you ever wanted to beat a dozen Smiths with 
 a pole at once, you got it here. And if you ever wanted to explore new fighting styles and discover 
 new combos for weeks, this game is for you. It's a fair sparring game for most of the genre-lovers 
 out there as well, and I'd recommend it to non-matrix fans, since the stupidity shown in the storyline 
 will affect them less :) .
  
  Overall - 8.5.
  
  Note - when finishing the game, don't forget to look in the Extras section for the in-game cutscene 
 bloopers. Those bugs cracked me up :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_zy05
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I can't even describe how bad this game was to me. I like the Matrix as a movie trilogy and I thought 
 that 'Enter the Matrix' (XBOX version) was a great game. This one, Path of Neo, you play as Neo, 
 'The One', and get to play different outcomes of the things that have occured in the Matrix. But, 
 just fails at every corner. First off, the graphics are horrible and don't live up to current-gen 
 advancement. They are poorly optimized on a mid-range laptop like mine and make the game almost 
 unplayable. The sound is alright, but I don't know how good it sounds on 5.1 or whatever. The controls 
 are a nightmare; I don't think a game is built for the keyboard and mouse when you have to mash 
 buttons to perform moves. This game makes me want to only watch Matrix movies and never play a 
 game off of them again. Atari, WBIE, and Shiny ought to be ashamed of themselves to have made something 
 that's not a bad game on PS2, XBOX, but so bad on the PC, I feel scarred. WHY, WHY, WHYYYYYYYYYY?! 
 can't they make a really great matrix game and why does it seem that the more that come out, the 
 worse they get? So, if you plan to buy, please only get PS2 or XBOX versions, no PC version. Bottom 
 line, total disaster that rides on the story of Neo and totally technically bombs it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  After Enter The Matrix I was hoping to play Neo in the new game and yes, my dream came true. The 
 Matrix: Path of Neo is really great game. I think Neo is very cool. The stroryline has been taking 
 from The Matrix trilogy so if you like the trilogy than you will surely like the story from this 
 game. Of course the game offers some new missions which we never saw before. Variety of missions 
 and variety of guns. From pistols, machine-guns, shotguns to granades and much more. The enemy 
 A. I. is good especially the agents A. I. They are chasing Neo just like in the movie and in some 
 parts of the game we have to fight with them. What I like is the fighting styles of Neo. He uses 
 swords and other stuff, he can do really fantastic moves from Kung-Fu, he can jump on the walls. 
 We learn those moves on the training. We have over 600 techniques so it is a lot. Before each mission 
 we can upgrade one of our ability. Focus is also available and you will often use it if you want 
 to stay alive.
  
  The graphics are very good on the xbox and Ps2 but Pc hasn't got as good graphics as these consoles 
 have. I have to say that visual effects on consoles are good but not impressive. A lot of textures 
 have many pixels just like some characters. Neo is done well, he's detailed but he's ears are looking 
 like square. Characters animation is perfect. Their moves are very natural and realistic. The Matrix: 
 Path of Neo looks the worst on Pc. The best graphics this game has on the xbox.
  
  Sound is very good. Voice acting are good. It's cool that original actors gave their voices to 
 the game so Keano Rives gave his voice to Neo and etc. The soundtracks are really fantastic, some 
 techno music and hard rock (Rage Against The Machine) . I like the music from the Lobby where Neo 
 and Trinity tryed to rescue Morpheus. Weapons noises are superb.
  
  Overall The Matrix: Path of Neo is a very good game. Neo is great and you really should start playing 
 it. Of course if you don't like The Matrix trilogy than you will not like this game but if you 
 are a fan than go on and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix - Path Of Neo (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Now I know what you are thinking, yes it is another matrix game. But don't feel down and say this 
 game is sure to suck because it isn't entirely bad. When Atari brought out Enter the Matrix fans 
 were thrilled but it had a lot of bugs in it, and it had gameplay that got linear after a few hours. 
 
  
  Atari never gave up though so they then brought out The Matrix Online. Now this seemed like a great 
 idea but the game was average and it had so much other great MMORPGs out there so many didn't purchase 
 this title.
  
  Finally the third Matrix game has been released and it is a huge hit. In the Matrix Path Of Neo 
 you get to play as Neo (obviously) and follow the path that he chose. Making crucial decisions 
 that affected him and the human race as well.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well let me get to the plot for those who may have never seen any of the Matrix movies (probably 
 no one) . You take over from the first movie where Neo goes through his training and when he is 
 in the stages of now learning about his powers. This is really well done and goes into more detail 
 than the movies themselves. 
  
  But besides a deep follow up of the movies this game features many fighting scenes and non-stop 
 action. This is really good and adds a lot replay time to this title. The fighting is awesome and 
 so easy to get into. There are so many combos you can pull off and they look really cool as well, 
 especially when you get that sword and staff moves and time slows down just before you hit them. 
 
  
  But don't get too excited these combos are hard to achieve. You have to combine your normal fighting 
 moves with focus (a. k. a. bullet time) and it also requires A LOT of timing. Mastering this really 
 helps you in the game though and it is worth the hardships because when you fight like The One 
 those Agents won't be able to even touch you.
  
  Talking about powers of The One, Neo has it all. From wall running to stopping bullets in mid-air 
 there is nothing he can't do. You get all his powers and some that you may not have even seen in 
 the movies. They have also put in this upgrade system where you can chose what powers you want 
 Neo to have. Even though at the end of the game you are more likely to have all the upgrades it 
 still gives you the choice of moves you want Neo to have.
  
  One thing however The Path of Neo suffers from is the weak weapon system. When you fire a gun it 
 seems useless and you will find yourself using your kung fu instead of it. Even though the Matrix 
 is mainly about the kung fu, I was more looking for some great weapon action as well. 
  
  But not to worry even though the guns suck the melee weapons rule. This game is all about the fighting 
 sequences. And the melee weapons add so much to the gameplay and the fun factor of this game. I 
 have finished this game weeks ago and up to today I still play over many of the levels just for 
 the action and the thrill of pulling off major combos.
  
  Another problem that bothered me was the final stage of the game. It was a little disappointing, 
 I don't want to say exactly what happened but it was a bit weird and it had nothing to do with 
 the last scene in The Matrix Revolutions. They were supposed to follow the actual story line of 
 the movie and they didn't. This got me mad seeing that I am a huge Matrix fan and all.
  
  Sound
  
  Well there isn't much licensed music in here and the sound effects seem to just be 
 slapped into the game. The voice acting is alright considering that only Lawrence Fishburn lent 
 his voice. The actors who play the role, as Neo and Agent Smith actually sound a bit like them 
 but it is noticeable that they are not the originals. The game is still really good and even though 
 you maybe a little irritated by the music it wouldn't bring down the value of the game.
  Visuals
  
  The graphics in this game isn't mind blowing it looks good when the rendering detail 
 is juiced up to 8. When pushed up to 9 or 10 however I noticed many glitches in the game (it could 
 be my graphics card though) . Now even though this is so the game still requires high quality cards 
 to run it. So before you pick this one up make sure that you graphics card is compatible to play 
 Path Of Neo.
  Controls
  
  I will be honest with you, the controls for the PC sucks. It is really very difficult to control 
 Neo or to do anything at all on a keyboard and mouse. Luckily I had a spare gamepad, which made 
 the game feel exactly like the console version. Make sure to pick up one before you buy this game 
 or all you will get is frustration.
  
  Overall
  
  Wow, I know a Matrix game that isn't entirely bad. Besides the controls and voice acting that isn't 
 the best this game is awesome. For fans and even hardcore gamers be sure to pick this one up immediately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadp1xel
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I have three words for you DON'T-BUY-THIS.. (I Know, four words) . Anyway, the graphics not only do 
 they look awfully ugly but textures come and go now and then on models. The gameplay would of been 
 alright if they were not that many bugs. The controls are definitely not made for the mousekeyboard, 
 you need a pad for this one. My hopes were pretty high for this one. I was so disapointed i did not 
 finish the game and usualy i finish them all.
  Bottom line if you crave a Matrix game on PC, go for "enter the matrix": graphics are better, less 
 bugs. You don't get to play as neo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jddf
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  First of all, I really enjoyed playing Enter the Matrix despite the subpar graphics and occasional 
 glitch. Path of Neo has arguably worse graphics (certainly relative to contemporary games) and 
 far less interesting missions. It quickly degenerates into indiscriminate button mashing since 
 the Focus feature is more for power/abilities rather than bullet-time - though that wasn't a problem 
 in Enter the Matrix, it certainly is here. The controls are terrible, the graphics suck, and the 
 camera is even worse. Two other points - aiming guns is even more difficult than it was in Enter 
 the Matrix (and I can't think of anything I've played worse than that, off the top of my head) , 
 and even on Normal difficulty the enemies take ridiculous amounts of damage, something around 20 
 bullets (and since ammo is limited that becomes a problem) or even in melee combat can require 
 2 or 3 Focus-enhanced special attacks before they go down. Finally, the agents are only a minor 
 nuisance even before Neo becomes 'The One' at the end of the first movie/chapter, which is more 
 than a bit ridiculous. Absolutely no redeeming qualities - the movie sequences just aren't worth 
 it, even for a fan like myself, and not being able to cancel out of a 2-min movie cutscene where 
 the audio doesn't synch with the visuals and that you're seeing for the xth time gets old very 
 very fast. DO NOT BUY (or rent) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Usually, the mentiion of a Marix game brings on past horrors of Enter the Matrix and the Online 
 cousin. Well, this one isn't at the top of the heap, but it comes very, very close.
  
  The graphics, usually I would like to mention gameplay first, but I will take a pass to the most 
 noticible feature. The character models are horrible, They shine as if they were dipped in clear 
 pastic. Neo in the cut scenes, when you see his face you wold see why.
  
  The character models also seem jerky with the hit detection. A guy goes flying at you in mid air, 
 and you tag him. Instead of his body taking in the location of the hit. The character will sometimes 
 shift so you can get him into a massive combo. 
  
  The graphics settings themselves are attrocious, to set up the the best settings available for 
 your video card, and system you have to go into a ini file. My PC can play this game at max, but 
 to set it at max requires me change in the ini file the Pixel Shader version to 3.0, on top of 
 that in this ini file ismore precise settings to go far beyond than what is available in game. 
 Unfortunately it doesn't take away the character "shine".
  
  The environments are a little better, due to some of the areas are destructable. Meaning weapons, 
 and flying bodies will knock out columns, and some walls.
  
  Level design could use imnprovement. It is all mostly bland, and could use something other than 
 dreary areas, in enclosed areas.
  
  Gameplay is pretty good, you can play sometimes in a stealth role, or just go all out. But this 
 game is most of the way linear in the way missions are completed. The coolest portion of the game 
 is during the "burly brawl", where you fight a bunch of Smiths in a courtyard. Unfortunately, that 
 is probably the only highlight.
  
  I suggest waiting till this drops in price and lands the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  While this game is a huge improvement from the previous Matrix game (which was just terrible) , 
 it still has plenty flaws that might make you think twice before purchasing it.
  
  'Value' ia a word that I think is important when it comes to reviewing a game. Personally, after 
 working for my money I really don't want to waste it by spending it on a heap of crap. So does 
 this game represent value?
  
  I guess it depends on what you paid fro it. I picked this game up for 15, and is turned out to 
 be worth it. However if I had paif the 45 when it was first out I'd be extremely disappointed.
 
  
  The graphics are quiet poor, even at thier max setting. While quite a lot of the scenes can be 
 destryed i. e. boxes, tables, pillars, it in no way makes up for the look of the gameplay. The character 
 models are quite good, but the scenes surrounding them pay the price.
  
  The story is linear. You don't decide the path of Neo, you just follow it. While the story is slightly 
 tweaked at times during the game, it still follows the movies very closely (apart from the very 
 ending) .
  
  Controling Neo isn't very difficult. The mouse moves neo's view and the camera at the same time. 
 The controls are pretty much as you'd expect, i. e. space to jump, mouse1 to fire/kick, mouse2 to 
 access moves. Combo's can be learnt, and can be essential to defeating the more difficult opposition. 
 But alotof the time it's just about clicking mouse1 repeatabily and then when your oppent is dazed 
 you use mouse2 to access oneof Neo's cooler moves. The game is very good at teaching the different 
 aspects to control Neo. But the repetative fighting can soon become quite boring.
  
  There are 3 levels of difficulty, easy, medium and hard. Finishing the game on each difficulty 
 will unlock cheats. You shouldn't have much trouble on easy, infact I was able to start and finish 
 on easy in just 2 days.
  
  If you can pick it up for the same price as I did, then it's worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Atari has held The Matrix license for several years now and has tried on three attempts to cash 
 in on the huge popularity of the series. The well has come up with nothing but failure until The 
 Matrix: Path of Neo was released. Path of Neo, gives you control of Neo, the main protagonist, 
 and takes you through most of the main points of the three movies.
  
  You start with a choice; take the blue pill or the red pill. Take the blue pill and the game is 
 over, while taking the red pill brings you into the world of The Matrix. From this point, you are 
 initiated with several training levels on the world of the Matrix, the computer generated world 
 that holds us in a dream state until we are harvested for energy. The training levels build up 
 your skills to face the real world. This is where the game shines, the kung fu.
  
  The hand to hand combat will have you entertained throughout the game. There are so many moves 
 that can be put together to form combos that cause massive amounts of damage. In the training sessions, 
 you also gain control of focus which allows you to string together gravity defying jump kicks and 
 aerial acrobatics that end with a flurry of punches. It is truly a sight to behold when you see 
 how fluid the moves come together.
  
  Hand to hand combat only gives us half the equation to the ways to lay out the pain in Path of 
 Neo. There are guns. Lots and lots of guns strewn about for you to devastate the enemies. Grenade 
 launchers, M-16s and simple 9mm handguns are just some of the weapons that you gain access to throughout 
 the game. When mixed with your focus power, you can really cause a lot of destruction. One of the 
 tricks used is to run across a wall while shooting at enemies lined up in a hallway or jump kick 
 someone in the air and then pull out a weapon and shoot them while the are falling to the ground. 
 There are so many different ways to pull off these shooting maneuvers, that you will never see 
 all the possible combinations.
  
  The story tends to focus on the first movie in the series. You take over Neo at critical junctures 
 in the story and play through them as missions. Some of the highlights include trying to escape 
 your place of employment before being captured or sparing with Morpheus in the training dojo. There 
 are added sequences to fill the void between the two movies and they add to some of the characters 
 we met in the movies briefly, or have just found glitches in the Matrix an need to be saved before 
 they are terminated. The last two movies do not get as much attention and are just speed bumps 
 on the way to the ending. Interspersed throughout the game are video sequences from the movie that 
 explain parts of the plot. However, they are cut in a way that explains what is happening in the 
 game and not necessarily what happened in the movie. Creative license for the game developers, 
 but this may irritate some of those that are devout followers of the movies.
  
  After each mission is completed, you will be granted a skill point to use on a specific skill. 
 This starts off as a good idea where you can beef up aerial jump attacks or multiple enemy attacks. 
 But you end up with almost all the skills at the halfway point of the game. It could be explained 
 that once Neo becomes The One at the end of the first movie, you would have all these powers, 
 but the whole point is to build a characters skills with a skill system. The system here seems 
 flawed and you have no reason to even think about what powers you should choose, because you will 
 have them all soon enough.
  
  Graphically, your game experience will be dependent on the power of your PC. With a lower end rig, 
 you will get muddy textures and slow as molasses response times that will frustrate people to no 
 end. The minimum specifications for the game are a joke and even with a maxed out rig and plenty 
 of hardware to spare, you will still get stutters occasionally. Running at 1920x1200, the character 
 models looked very detailed. Facial details included minor things like acne marks or stubble. At 
 first, you think this detail will only be in the cut scenes until you play the game and realize 
 the same beauty is present. The same cannot be said for the environments. Most of the environments 
 are drab and generic. Textures are reused again and again throughout several levels. While the 
 world of the Matrix is suppose to be dull and monotonous, you feel the game could of represented 
 this without looking like backgrounds from a game five years ago. Nothing gets you out of a game 
 more than seeing the same wall every five feet due to the laziness of a developer to put more into 
 a game.
  
  The control scheme allows for either a gamepad or a mouse/keyboard for the action. Both work well, 
 but the keyboard/mouse combo seemed to be far more accurate and pull of combos easier. It was a 
 great touch, because when a game is ported, it tends to have a control scheme that is forced and 
 without a logical layout. Here, the mouse is used for attacks and throws, while holding different 
 directions of the movement keys choose your moves. It is quite easy to pick up after five or ten 
 minutes of practice.
  
  Sound is solid, but not spectacular. The voiceovers are pretty good, but they lack energy from 
 the main cast. The voice of Neo is always rather flat no matter what the danger or the situation. 
 All jokes about Keanu Reeves aside, the performance was wooden and lacked any emotional depth. 
 For a game with this kind of production value, you want characters that are interesting and give 
 off emotion. The minor characters are far more into their role which makes up for the main characters. 
 When you save someone, you sense the gratification in their voice. Background music is from the 
 movies and sounds great. It fits into the combat sequences and never gets in the way of dialogue 
 or action. The weapons and other ambient sounds are great. The blast of a shotgun or a grenade 
 launcher packs a punch that you hear to full effect. It might even bring a smile to your face as 
 you hear the boom, knowing your enemies have been scattered to pieces.
  
  One thing that really deserves mention is that anyone that has watch the last movie, you know how 
 the movie ends. This would not work well in a game that is supposed to have you, as the protagonist, 
 win. So the way that the game goes about setting up a new ending is genius and will have you laughing 
 in your seat. Pure genius and other games should pick up on this bit of levity when you have to 
 change your ending from the licensed propertys ending.
  
  Stability issues are the thing that keeps this game from hitting a home run. You will routinely 
 crash out of the game. At the end of a level, or during a level and sometimes even just loading 
 the game the game will just bring you back to the desktop. This continued even after applying two 
 patches that were suppose to help with game stability. You could try to overlook this if you could 
 save anywhere, but you cannot. The game only saves at the beginning of the level or at checkpoints. 
 The problem is that when the game crashes, it does not recognize that you reached the checkpoints 
 and you must start from the beginning of the level. You will end up playing through several levels 
 over and over due to the game crashing to the desktop. Also, media is not always recognized due 
 to the copy protection scheme, which requires you to reboot your PC to get the game to realize 
 the game is in the drive. There are minor clipping issues and sound glitches, but they are minor 
 in comparison the games lack of stability.
  
  The Matrix: Path of Neo gives you the powers of Neo and allows you to walk him through the story. 
 The graphics put you in the game with a heightened sense of realism and combat moves that will 
 make you feel like a kung fu master. You will get a load of entertainment out of the game and a 
 satisfying combat experience. Of course that is if the game does not crash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 27, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  The trailers said the game is gonna be good..... not. the developer interview said the game is gonna 
 be good.... not. It's really just another simple game, plain and simple. Most of the guns and "skills" 
 are just plain useless in the actual showdown, take the bullet stopping skill for example, you 
 can just run toward them, take the bullet hits and punch the living pis out of them, stopping the 
 bullet is just a waste, usually on levels that they expect u to use guns, I just dump the guns 
 and go kick them, that worked even better then the guns, the most disappointing bit is, the tactic 
 you use to fight Smith in the final battle is just exacly the same as fighting as enemies, keep 
 on drifting around them and punch them when u get the chance, that's all! and I'm not even mentioning 
 about the poor graphics
  this game is just enough to fit for a below standard game, not a good game at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  It's an okay game. The combat system is pretty fun most of the time. Gun combat could be a lot 
 better. 5 times better than Enter the Matrix. The ending is very disappointing to me, but others 
 think it's funny. The ending has different reactions for everyone, I guess.
  
  The graphics are really really bad. They put some sort of film over it that makes it blurry, for 
 no reason, and it also drags down the framerate. This is only in the PC version. I hear that the 
 Xbox version has the best graphics.
  
  It has a few problems that Atari/Shiny is too lazy to fix. It's sort of dented my image of Atari 
 and Shiny. It's been crashing a lot for me.
  
  The storyline is just like the movies except for some "jokes" that in my opinion ruined what immersion 
 it had. It was like the Wachowskis taking a dump on their trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manooh
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 18, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  I had tons of fun playing this game. Fighting as Neo is fantastic and the different combos you 
 can trigger are awesome. 
  However, there are a few problems here and there that can be irritating... First, the graphics 
 are far from up-to-date (the first mission looks absolutely terrible, go through it as quick as 
 possible...) . Second the controls are impossible to deal with if you do not own a joystick, and 
 if you have one, you can't even configure it... I'm still looking for the "dodge" button ! Actually, 
 I had to use the key for that which is far from being handy when you fight 200 agents at the same 
 time ! Finally, the camera is really weird at times. It makes fighting nightmarish when you are 
 in small rooms...
  Apart from that, it's a good and fun game overall, if you can overcome a couple of problems and 
 some dated graphics...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 9, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, I bought the PC DVD version
  To be honest, 
  
  I played the game with gamepad (similar design to the PS2 gamepad) and mouse and keyboard. The 
 gamepad offer better control in fighting since you don't have the memorize so many buttons on the 
 keyboard. However, the gamepad does not offer good camera angle which more or often you will strike 
 in wrong direction. 
  
  The keyborad/mouse offers better control because you can adjust the camera angle but it will be 
 hard to perfom combo attack by rapidly pressing 3~4 buttons at a time. 
  
  The graphic is not great lots of blurry with lots of edgey marks and gaps and between the face 
 and the neck. 
  The character is somewhat resemble the characters in the movie but not in great accuracy. You can 
 compare this game with Constantine. 
  
  The martial Art fighting is excellent as it captures the true essence of Asian Martial art fighting 
 style. Meanwhile, the game also make referrence from popular action movie like "Hard boil". However, 
 the terrible control takes you away from the fun you could have.
  
  The in game movie use various mix of clips from the film. But they mixed the movie in chaotic order 
 which if you haven't seem the movie. or you already did.... you will find it hard to follow the 
 plots. 
  
  This game is worth to rent it and play, but not really worthy to buy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  First impression: I wasn't very impressed with how the game started, as they only give you...1...2... six 
 buttons to play with at first. That includes the movement buttons. The story is very much similar 
 to the movies, but flails off in a completely new direction at some levels, something i haven't 
 seen before, which was a good thing, because playing a game when you know what's next, isnt really 
 fun. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look outdated 1999-2000. That is i'm talking about games like unreal tournament, 
 half life 1, those types of graphics. On some levels the presentation is quite good, but usually 
 it looks blocky and with few textures. I run a powerful computer and i found myself facing lots 
 of moments of choppiness. I'm a gamer and i play games that are all about graphics, gameplay and 
 sound. This game only meets my standart for gameplay and sound, but still graphics plays such a 
 huge role.
  
  Gameplay: Very well done, many martial arts moves to experiment with, never gets boring. I found 
 myself running through the same levels, showing my friends just because of the martial arts, and 
 the weaponry animations, look great. No save feature, autosave simply sucks. Other than that nothing 
 else to say, good job.
  
  Sound: There was some problems with the sound, but overall i was very impressed. The hitting sounds 
 were very well... put together and even in bullet time they worked pretty well. 
  
  I have no idea how to review Tilt and Value for this game, but i am giving them a score. Instead 
 i will put most of what i would put in those sections, into The bottom line.
  
  The bottom line: The game kept me wanting to play it even after i finished some levels. The training 
 was very well done, it taught you everything you needed to know. The objectives are easy to focus 
 on and are very clear, though sometimes they don't work because of the many glitches. That is another 
 Horrible thing about this game- the glitches. There are very many moments that you face something 
 you shouldnt. 
  
  For example, and for the best example: when neo throws up an enemy into the air, and hits the ceiling, 
 the camera doesnt make the people dissapear during those animations, so you end up seeing inside 
 of the enemies' heads. You can see their eyeballs and teeth, which is very unpleasant, since i 
 use that move so much. Many objective glitches, when you complete your objectives and you want 
 to progress onto the next level, sometimes it doesnt work and you're just... stuck... in one place. 
 
  
  The most memorable moments in this game are fighting and the cut-scenes. The movies cut- scenes 
 are simply hilarious. They take moments from the movies and put them together. I think they meant 
 them to be this funny, because i simply laughed my ass off.
  
  Overall i give this game a 7.5. I didn't put this in my classification, but RENT IT FIRST. You 
 probably will like it, so if you do rent it, try to play it as much as you can, It's not THAT long, 
 took me two days playing 4 hours a day. But then again no game is too long for me, but the RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_likes_you
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  A total disappointment. Everyone would agree that Matrix the Movie has thousand times better graphics 
 and better sounds than this pile of whatever. From the first "enter the matrix", it has an awkward 
 character formation, such as the way they move, the way they sprint, the way they talk and the 
 way they shoot. These are the elements of the game and they did a bad job on that. Come to the 
 second one you would mostly expect it to be better or improved as I would prefer to say.
  Firstly, the graphics. I have set the game to maximum resolution and the best performance to expect 
 what I set the game to be. Shamefully, the characters were not much different than 800x600. i can 
 even see the polygon that made them possible.
  Yes, we all love Matrix because of the slow moment and the perfect gunfire. In this game, I could 
 not hit a single person regardless to what weapon I hold. I tried a pistol, the bullets either 
 dripped to the floor or rocketed up to the ceiling waving goodbye to the AI.
  I know it's a video game and I supposed that nothing should be perfect. However, did you say the 
 patch will fix most of the bugs? Hell, you screwed me over man. Now my Morpheus is completely black, 
 even his clothes. The patch removed the texture for the model. You call that a patch? You are not 
 even trying anymore are you?
  So Atari created a bastard of a game, plug in the slow motion codes, plug in some models that somehow 
 resembles them people in matrix, slammed a logo on it and expect the Matrix lovers to smash their 
 heads into the screen, then they can enjoy the cash they've earned in a swimming pool? That's not 
 even French.
  I rate everything as a level of complete bullcrap.
  And After EA, Atari is nothing but a money ripping bunch of arses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponas_neo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Once I saw this game in store I bought it .The grapchics isn't very good , but at least you can 
 see what's happening on the screen .
  Character's voices is somehow strange .
  
  Example : Agent Smith says ,Mr. Anderson , and voice is Hugo Weaving's ,and some secs later you 
 hear voice that other voice-actor says
  
  I just love duels and hand-to-hand battles , so I enjoyed The Dojo Training lvl (as I said I didn't 
 completed this game yet ) .
  I didn't like that you can't kill agents with your own hands (II didn't completed this game (you 
 should remember that ) ) . You can just throw them somewhere to get them killed by a train or throw 
 them off the building .
  
  I completed this game untill Stuck in the Loop , because I haven't figure out how I need to complete 
 that place where second unit comes out .
  And I can't wait to play The burly Brawl  I rally liked that scene in the movie .
  
  So again 
 it's areally good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  I have just recently finished the game, and it wasn't too bad. The graphics were okay, although 
 the engine could have been tweaked a little better for the pc. The gun fights showed the most flaws 
 in the gameplay. Maybe it is a sign of the origons of the game, on playstation. The meatiness of 
 other titles just wasn't there. the melee combat was great though, I thought. The combos, especially 
 later in the game, are really quite cool and easy to master. The controls of the keyboard and mouse 
 do work well, although the gamepad option is probably better in this game. The sound was passable 
 if not good and the general atmosphire is good too. The game is quite action heavy and this moves 
 it along quickly. This is okay because you alreeady know the story from the movies. Overall, i 
 thought that this title was very good at some little things, but as a whole pakage, it let it self 
 down. I hope there is another atempt at a matrix game, similar to this one. They just need to polish 
 it up a bit more. Make the graphics gel withthe action and let the player set the pace at which 
 they want to play. The ending is pretty good though, original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the previous big fan.. N this one just came outta no where N strucked ma 
 mind.. PHeww!!!.. One of the best action games ever created...
  the first thing that might catch ur attention is the GRAPHICS of the game.. man that simply rocks.. i 
 turned on everything with a higher resolution n it ran smooth on my pc.. so this game is made fo 
 everybody..
  The sound.. excellent surround experience.. the punches the kicks.. they all sound so incredible 
 that u feel the intensity of the game..
  n finally comes the gameplay.. There'z sooo much variety u could eva imagine within a single game.. 
 Either fight with ur hands with ur martial art attributes or switch to the gun mode n recall the 
 fun u had in MAX PAYNE.. with that focus thingy.. though i played the entire game with the hand 
 fighting with excellent combos n disastrous punches n kicks.. n that was the best part of the game.. 
 The game play i. e..
  though the game progress is very slow initially.. when u dont have enough powers for NEO . but 
 as you move on .. n get the powers.. then u'll find the realy fury .. the real fun in this game.. SO 
 dont just leave the game coz its slow initially.. but play it fo the never ending fun n excitement 
 that comes later on in the game with the non stop action pack fighting sequences..
  Cheers guyz.. The game rocks!!!!! :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouns__avi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a really good game and they were wrong . because it is cool and you can easy o 
 grab someone .this game also cool on x box i have it . but who cares the PC is the best . at least 
 i liket do you agree ?
  if you do then it will be as helpful as well if you don't please do not click not agree thankyou 
 . 
  and also this game is really similar to the game half life2 isn't it i also have a review text 
 on the game half life 2 that game is wroth is than this game doesn't it . 
  bouns__avi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skids5
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Also I found the mixed video clips to be annoying. All though on the other hand it was fun and 
 the action was great. It is an awesome shooter as well. At first I really wanted the game but not 
 for 50$!!!!!!!!!!!! So I was looking for games and happened to see it marked down to 12.48$. I 
 figured what the h#ll and purchased it. To be honest I was very pleased with what I got. The game 
 was really a breeze, but I did find the level fighting the giant smith to be too long and annoying. 
 The levels fighting billions of smiths were annoying as well. I found it cool playing as Neo though. 
 All in all I found this game good but wouldn't spend over 20.00$ on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  In esence the breath was cut short. Comming from a huge matrix fan actually playing the game was 
 very very dissapointing. THe story line that it follows is exellent, so if anybody who is a huge 
 fan of the trilogy story... definatlly get this game. But if you never watched or cared much for 
 the matrix then this game will let you down in every area. The graphics are a new kind of bland 
 graphics that you would expect in final fantasy 7... not in a combat game. The skill tree is very 
 confusing at first and there is no explnation to it. THe game is far below average for an arcade 
 beat em up style game. A lot of graphic bugs and sound bugs.. game is incredablly buggy. Its an experiance.. but 
 If i could go back in time I would stop myself from buying this game. ... maybe next time... maybe 
 they'll get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I never then to like games where you are some kind of super human with (it seems) infinite life 
 but i found this game quite different from most of those kind of games.
  
  The controls tool me a while to get used to, if you don't like having to press several buttons 
 at once, you will probably clash with this game quite harshly. You are required to remember the 
 sequences of which to press buttons to get a certain special move. This may be quite off putting 
 but i found out that once i found my favourite moves, i used them so much, the sequence became 
 as easy as clicking the left mouse button to your heart's content. Obviously you can just click 
 away, in fact in order to get to some moves you are required to but the specials (which you unlock 
 along the way) take off more damage, look better and when you see neo doing the moves you get a 
 small satisfaction from it.
  
  My favourite part has to be focus which basically puts everything into slow motion. focus is built 
 up by simply hurting your opponents and it is used for specials, running up walls, dodging bullets 
 and even stopping bullets. 
  
  the strange thing i thought was when you fought the agents on their own, they seemed to have more 
 life than the part where neo takes on hundreds of them at once in a huge brawl.
  
  apart from that, the game seemed pretty repetitive and the graphics weren't that brilliant compared 
 to other games on the market. 
  
  Overall i thought it was ok... but there is too many things to remember and after you've kicked 
 the living daylights out of everyone, you almost get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Confusing header, I know. The Matrix: Path of Neo is one of Atari's most recent gaming attempts, 
 and it shows that Atari is really holding true to its classical roots of abandoning great graphics 
 for great gameplay. If you only spend a few minutes with this game, you'll think it's a total piece 
 of garbage, and want to stab a rusty nail through both your eyes and put an airhorn to each ear, 
 just to minimize the senses that are offended by this abomination. But, if you have a little patience, 
 and keep playing, eventually you'll come across some great gameplay!
  
  One of the aforementioned senses, sight, gets a real heavy blow in PoN. It quickly becomes very 
 obvious that Atari didn't spend a whole lot of time making this game look nice, but rather wanted 
 to make it look like if you squinted your eyes just right, as if looking at one of those optical 
 illusion pictures, that the game would have great graphics. But seriously, I've seen much better 
 graphics on Dreamcast. And one of the worst parts is that the graphics are so poorly managed that 
 the load times are really bothersome (but long load times has become an Atari trademark, as of 
 late) . Loading screens really pop up at bad times, often damaging the cinematic feel of the game, 
 and they always seem to take too long (why couldn't they throw in Pong, like they did with the 
 load screens on that crappy driving game from a couple years back?) . 
  
  I suppose there are a couple good graphical points of the game: the ones they stole from the movie 
 trilogy. You see bits from the three movies at a few points during the game, to help that one guy 
 out there who's playing but never saw the movies understand just what's going on. But who could 
 really understand the Matrix just from watching a few minute long clips. Also, the clips were so 
 incredibly badly edited, it's hard to tell what the hell they're trying to explain with them!
 
  
  Abortion #2: AUDIO EXPLOSION! or implosion, as the case may be here. Quick! Hit the Mute button! 
 Atari Neo is talking! Seriously, it's actually a little funny to be watching the video clips with 
 the high paid actors talking, then go to a cg Atari-made clip and hear very low priced Atari-brand 
 voice actors dubbing the characters' lines. I mean, most of them don't sound like the original 
 actors, and not one of them has an ounce of voice acting talent in their entire bodies! They're 
 just so incredibly bad, it really makes you want to mute the game when they start talking.
  
  Whew, ok, break time, I've covered all the bad things up front, something I rarely do. But 
 they were so prevalent here I just had to. Now, on to the good:
  
  The controls, although somewhat complicated, can quickly become second nature, and you'll definitely 
 appreciate the massive ergonic scale of the battle engine. The ability to quickly switch between 
 super sweet melee combos (which were actually designed very well with real world martial arts, 
 I'm quite impressed) and weapons, from melee weapons (like assorted swords and bo-staffs! sweet!) 
 to projectiles (a nice selection of guns, a few knives, and you can throw any of your melee weapons 
 at any time) . The battling is just so much fun once you get into it, and the fact that you can 
 switch to bullet time at any point, and even use your crazy One powers (like the bullet stopping 
 mental wall and telekinesis) absolutely rules.
  
  As a big time advocate for longer game length, I was pleased at the length of time it took me to 
 get through PoN. Although there is no in game timer, I'd guess the time was around 15+ hours. Your 
 time may very, especially if you choose one of the game's 3 difficulty settings. The difficulty 
 settings are very well triggered, as you start a battle with many of the abilities acquired late 
 in the game, right in the beginning, you fight until you die (but you don't find out until after 
 that it's a test) , and however long you make it suggests what difficulty you should play on. I 
 recommend medium difficulty, though, since unless you can totally master the controls, the game 
 can get very difficult towards the end (those swarms of Smith's are savage!) . You may get slightly 
 bored, eventually, at having to fight nearly the same opponents over and over again (you'll end 
 up with a body count up in the hundreds) , but the very cool puzzles, and intuitive gameplay should 
 help carry you through.
  
  (small spoiler in this paragraph) I certainly appreciate how well the game follow the Matrix trilogy. 
 It was very loyal to the story, as well as threw in some new stuff and even filled in a couple 
 gaps in the story telling. It's definitely a nice Matrix experience. And after you've been playing 
 for about 15 hours, the Watchowski brothers pop in and give you a very cool/funny surprise that 
 really turns a boring ending into a monstrously kickass one!
  
  Every big Matrix fan should have this game. It might not be worth $50, but just give it a couple 
 months and the price should drop real nice. Also, used copies should be ok priced, and renting 
 isn't too bad an option. So, with my new reviewing style, here's how I end this:
  
  The Good: Kickass controls, good gamelength/variety of gameplay, very loyal to the original story
 
  The Bad: Loading times are a hassle and could've been avoided
  The Ugly: Really bad graphics and even worse dialog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I have expected. It gets really boring after some time. But the thing I like 
 most in the game is the combat.
  
  Gameplay /-\
  The gameplay is good, but still not good enough. There aren't many fighting possibilities, and 
 some effects are justdisturbing.
  
  Graphics /-\
  The graphics are not as good as i thought, when I first saw the game. The number of colours is 
 slightly poor, and could use a change.
  
  Sound /-\
  The sounds are nicely created. I don't have any problem with this category. They are good.
  
 
  I don't know about you, but I would think twice before buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaSsDoWn22
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  it's really bad .. the story make me feel like i'm playing Mortal Kombat not the Matrix . and the 
 story make me sick.
  
  in fact i don't like it at all .. but i think , the graphics was great. 
  
  in this Game u 
 will play with neo in a new version of Mortal Kombat :)
  
  u will begin the game like the 1st movie of Matrix .. that was great .. then , everything changed 
 . u will enter the portal to begin KOMBAT :)
  
  another something in using weapons , it's boring. it's very hard to kill some one with a weapon 
 , u will go to him and kick his ...... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossi-2k6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game but the ps2 version is not as good graphics as the pc. The pc is much 
 easier to control and look around, this game is not like many other games it just keeps getting 
 better as you carry on playing . The way the programmers put the three films together i thought 
 was excellent.
  The basic storyline was just one of the best games i have played.
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes basicallly beatin people down . This is the kinda 
 game that you dont want to end. Occasionally you would probably get stuck but thats part of the 
 fun
  
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAIDER4X-BOX
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  from the first touch in the game i felt that this game is not good .... not that bad but there is 
 some thing that make the game bad... the first thing is the look , the graphics made me sick... 
 from the early beginning i felt about that but i asked my self not to leave the game to watch it 
 in full eye .....
  yea and then i entered to the game after the choice in the beginning.. the sound look good add 
 to that the effect in it and somethings that make me love this game gradually ....
  the control::: lake i said it make me sick because of the hard control and its responding ,,,...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The Matrix: Path of Neo tries to be something it's not. It wants to be an involved shooter/action/adventure 
 game and falls short on every point. You basically take on the role of Neo (like the title suggests) 
 and plunges you in to the matrix (well if you take the right pill) . The games graphics and sound 
 are some of the worst I have ever seen on PC and it was like taking a step back in time to the 
 old ZX spectrum days, I've played better looking 20 year old space invader games than this. I couldn't 
 change the resolution because of a bug, which after visiting the Atari website I found a cure. 
 I had do some "programing", which involved me searching for the configuaration file on the hard 
 drive and changing the code. I couldn't find a patch for the UK version, so I had to put up with 
 it but the UK patch has now been released. All too late for me as I took my copy outside, shot 
 it and then set it alight. There isn't one thing I could recommened this game for, not even being 
 able to play as Neo and fight all the great battles. I will be honest with you and say that I didn't 
 play this much, as I couldn't get my eyes and ears to stop bleeding long enough. This is really 
 a bad bad game and should be avoided at all costs, you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The path of neo is the long awaited game that finally puts you in control of The One himself. After 
 the big failure Enter The Matrix, Shiney tries it again. I'dd like to say that this game is more 
 fun than Enter the Matrix was, just playing the One and using all his special abilities made it 
 cool.
  The first missions you're playing as the regulair Mr. Anderson. Who has to escape a few time from 
 agents (including Smith) . But when you take the red pill the game becomes more and more fun, learning 
 to dodge bullets and even redirect them at your enemies. Especially the battle royal with all those 
 Smiths and the battle in the French man's hall (Reloaded) are the ones I played again and again.
 
  A lot of the original story has been changed to fill up more than 7 hours of gameplay, cause the 
 movies are too short to only use as the story (Neo isn't enought in the movies to fill up a complete 
 game. The Graphical engine is an upgraded version of ETM engine and looks very good, only close 
 ups of characters are just ugly.
  The controls are very good for a game like this, most of the ports from a console made you wish 
 you had an console controller with it. As you progress the game really makes you the one, and that's 
 also the problem: You are just too strong, and that makes the game too easy! Some protection/timed 
 levels give you some challange but not enough to make you sweat.
  The path of neo is a nice addition to the Matrix trilogy and gives some extra stroy to the story, 
 but it just isn't the game all the fans have been waiting for.
  it just seems the matrix movies aren't made to be ported to a videogame. (Look at ETM, Matrix Online 
 and this one...)
  Matrix fans should definatly check this game out, but if you're looking for a real challanging 
 action game, this ain't it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  I liked its cool but there are some things that they should have done or dont
  The first thing is that when "Morpheus" asks you if you want the blue or the red pill its isnt 
 the place where it should be if you didnt get what i ment read this when first start a new game 
 "Morpheus" asks you about the blue or red pill and then the story starts like the movie "when neo 
 at company takees a call and all thatwell after neo runs out thats wher "Morpheus" should come 
 
  
  But still its and much better than "Enter the matrix" at least at this game "path of neo" you play 
 with the chosen one 
  
  Graphics: they are great but if they jest gave more detail 
  
  The fighting mode: its good and very cool i mean you can make alot of move
  ex: you can hit him 
 with a normal hit then use the focus to hit him much harder with finishing the same hit Nice very 
 nice
  The only thing i didnt like much is gun fights the aiming is hard And in the focus mode believe 
 me that you wont know if the bullet got the bad gay or not
  I liked the level when you fight hundreds of smith agents but the only thing i didnt like in it 
 is how the level ends but i am not telling you that its a bad game no i really had fun with its 
 cool i really enjoyed it
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joneswe01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  I have heard a lot about this game from my mates and it sounds absolutely fantastic! Every single 
 time that I use the net it's path of neo this and path of neo that. The graphics look brilliant 
 and the game play looks superb!
  This game looks far better than the enter the matrix, and best of all you can play as the all powerful 
 neo! Talk about great! The PC version may not be as good as its console counterparts but I think 
 it's definatley worth getting it.
  If your looking for a good game with a great storyline path of neo is
  "The One" for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeelahi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  After the diappointing Enter the Matrix, Shiny has returned Matrix again. But this time you'll 
 be The One.
  Yes reader, as it's name Path of Neo you'll walk through the path of the ONE, Neo. And this time 
 Trinity and Morphius will also fight with you.
  The game features more improved matrix style fighting, stunning graphics, less bugs and gliches, 
 immersive gun blazing action. It's graphics is as I said Stunning. But you'll need a high system 
 to enjoy it's full graphics.
  This time the fighting system is more developed. There're 600+ moves as I heard. Bullet Time, Bullet 
 stop, Wall run .................. Gun fights are extraordinary.
  But without it's graphics and fighting system, all other things are simply dull. It has some highly 
 unrealistic levels and enemies which are completely irrelavant to the movie. 
  But after all it's not so bad. If u r a matrix fan, it's a must have game for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarpenguin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The one thing that's a bit disconcerting about how Path of Neo weaves its tale is its wild tonal 
 shifts. There are times when the game feels like it's going out of its way to try to retain the 
 same serious, existential themes of the movies. For instance, in between the end of the first movie 
 and the beginning of the second, you'll take on several missions where you'll be rescuing potentials 
 from agents. Here you'll meet a wise old herbalist who treats Neo like a demon who has come to 
 take him away from his life; a librarian who panics when the book she's trying to move keeps reappearing 
 on the shelf thanks to a glitch in the Matrix; and a martial artist whose sequence is bookended 
 by poetic backstory narration by Larry Fishburne. And then there are times when things will get 
 all jovial, with plenty of goofy inside jokes and gags with nudge-and-wink references to video 
 games in general, the Matrix films, patently obscure martial arts cinema, and plenty of other weird 
 stuff. The ending in particular is absolutely ludicrous, though almost hysterically so. We won't 
 give it away, but let's just say it's a far cry from the downer ending of the third film. 
  
  Enough about the plot. The whole point is that Path of Neo can be a pretty fun experience -- provided 
 you can deal with its controls. Unlike in Enter the Matrix, where you were relegated to playing 
 as supporting characters Niobe and Ghost, here you are Neo in all his glory, and as such, you'll 
 get to do almost all the badass things that he was able to do in the movies. For the most part, 
 Path of Neo is a pure brawler with a decent amount of weapon combat thrown in for good measure. 
 You might think that there's a lot more to it initially, since the game starts with a stealth sequence 
 and then transfers into an hour-long series of tutorial missions. But in the end, what you learn 
 is that Neo can punch dudes real hard, and he can shoot them too. The highly choreographed fight 
 sequences of the films are emulated in the game with a fairly simplistic control scheme. All you 
 need to deal with is a basic attack button and a stun attack button, which are mapped to the two 
 mouse buttons by default. Alternating between these sets up plenty of different combos that are 
 both effective and cool looking. The shooting works similarly, with an autotarget feature that 
 locks in on your closest opponent, though it's a lot harder to use than the one in the console 
 games. Still, it's a lot of fun to watch these moves happen. There are few things more satisfying 
 than sending a cop flying into the air and then pelting him with bullets, or grabbing an agent 
 out of midair and slamming him to the street. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtxcr2000
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Sorry Atari, but you shoulda never thought that PC gamers could settle for a terrible looking (graphically) 
 Port over. This game represents the perfect reason why PC Games are superior to anything else out 
 there. Games that are ported over never come close to the high standards of PC games and thus PC 
 Gamers we again feel ripped off when playing this game
  
  Whats with the sound, I mean comeon! I sure wish that gaming publishers had to conform to a universal 
 Quality control program. THX?? I think that they better tke that off of the box. 
  
  Unfortunatly as a slave to the Matrix Licence you still got my business. 
  
  Never again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I have just played that games and seriously, it is a shame to have such games now days; especially 
 with other games in the same genre that have been released recently... prince of percia, Max payne 
 , gun and others... I mean.. comon!! that's very redicilous. first the graphics; very uninteresting 
 and ugly ... the gameplay is totally missed and stupid ! believe it or not, I thought I was playing 
 on Nintendo 64 for a while!!! the sounds are not noticable at all !!! they're simply absent... the 
 only thing that could make me play this game is the exploitation of videos from the movie and the 
 story which is quite interesting. I did buy this game and I did regret it indeed. anyway, the game 
 can be played anyway and you can have a little fun with the story and the pleasure of the movie 
 if you are a Matrix-fan, otherwise, it's a crappy game that should be over-looked .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who were dissapointed by ETM & were thinking that PON would restore honor to The Matrix 
 name your prayers have been answered to some extent. PON is a better game that ETM ever was but 
 it's still lacking in the technical departments.
  
  This is basically a brawler as GS described, you'll get some fire arms throughout the course of 
 the game you'll never really need it especially once your pass the quarter of the game as Neo's 
 martial art techniques can be enough to kill anyone or anything that stands in your way. The best 
 thing about this game as it really makes you feel like Neo, you can perform almost every move & 
 more that Neo has pulled off in the movies. All these moves are simple to pull off yet are so satisfying 
 to watch. It's due to these cool attacks & moves that you really don't want to use guns unless you 
 are really low on health (which rarely happened to me) or you just like being a gunslinger.
  
  PON uses the footage from the movie but it's been horribly used, it seems like your watching 
 a trailer of a movie with clips from all over the movie. This game isn't impressive in graphics 
 or sound, this is the real reason for it to get an average score. But this game is highly recommended 
 to THE MATRIX fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  When i got PON i thought i was in for a thrilling ride to be in Neo's shoes.
  The installation took an eternity to end.
  Excitement was running high as i started the game.
 
  The cutscene began and was similar to the movie.
  Gameplay begins....
  Oh ****
  What crappy graphics?
  this is not what i expected. Nevertheless the game begins and i m NEO.
 
  The Fights are as good as the movie but what shitty graphics.
  The Sound is decent enough but graphics are awful.
  The voice acting is badly done and so are 
 the graphics.
  The controls are a bit difficult to handle.
  the game has freeform fighting system which makes you perform many extraordinary moves.
  The 
 game does gives you a feel of being NEO but crappy graphics just ruins the whole game.
  Almost every fight of NEO in the movie is present in the game.
  even with so many flaws the game 
 does manages to deliver some exciting gameplay and is fun.
  
  The game is very short. And the end is not the same as the movie.
  Path of Neo is a game which 
 did not fulfill my expectations.
  It did not did perfect justice to the classic movies
  But i should say that if the graphics were better this game would have been one of the best Action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niceguy6423
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  a Combination of my favorite console games... but not too good for a PC game... i love the martial 
 arts... but graphics needs patches.. high requirements but not that great graphics...
  the martials arts sequence is soo cool man.... a Combination of my favorite console games... but 
 not too good for a PC game... i love the martial arts... bu graphics needs patches.. high requirements 
 but not that great graphics...
  martials arts sequence is soo damn cool man.... a Combination of my favorite console games... but 
 not too good for a PC game... i love the martial arts... bu graphics needs patches.. high requirements 
 but not that great graphics... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antworx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why this game has to suffer the bad reviews just for the graphics alone, ok 
 they are lousy but common this is plain fun with all the moves imaginable. I love they way they 
 kept the controls simple and easy the use. When i started to play the game i was a bit pesty at 
 first but after a while i just saw the fun in it ... this is meant to be an a$$kicking 100 men 
 at the same time acrobatic kung fu fighting game and i love it ... it IS worh the money if you 
 like the movies and you want to fight neo STYLE this is the game do to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Pues si, despues de ver juegos como el F. E. A. R o el Call Of Duty 2 o simplemente el viejo Max Payne 
 2, debo decir que este juego sinceramente da pena graficamente.
  
  No voy a negar que la historia si es bastante entretenida y que ofrece ciertas cosas nuevas que 
 no estan en las peliculas, ademas que hizo lo que todos los fans de Matrix queriamos: poder jugar 
 con Neo.
  
  La jugabilidad tambien es bastante floja, los movimientos de Neo son bastante acartonados y por 
 momentos no hace lo que uno quiere que haga.
  
  En definitiva, fue bastante decepcionante jugarlo, esperaba mucho mas de un juego que salio mucho 
 despues que otros que son mejores en el concepto grafico y de juego en si. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Some people says that the Path of Neo its a game that will be inmensely enjoyed by those who are 
 fans of the movies, however, i think that the fact that you are a fan of the trilogy makes the 
 game more disappointing.
  
  I dont know how the game work in consoles, but in the PC the controls are a total mess, they just 
 dont answer right to the speed the game. The gun fighting its horrible, and becomes useless once 
 Neo becomes the Chosen One.
  
  The graphics aren so awesome, sometime si think that Enter the Matrix was more revolucionary in 
 this aspect. They are just fine, with some interesting details like the virus in the training program, 
 but overall its nothing new.
  
  The sound its just fine, the music however makes some sense in some cases, in others it cuts in 
 middle of a fight and makes it a little weird.
  
  Overall, its a game with some genial twists to the real story of the movies, but its nothing innovating, 
 its just trhown away a great chance of play with the One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  the Matrix: Path of Neo was one hell of a ride. The fighting and gameplay is amazingly fun but 
 takes some time to get used to. The graphics, nothign amazing, but it does what it needs to do. 
 
  
  Soudn effects, music and voice acting from the movie are ALL present. The most addicting part of 
 the game is just some good old ass kicking. Its the only game where i feel like i have the power 
 to kick some ass and actually strike fear into my enemies. 
  
  The plot seemed a bit rushed, strangers to the movie would be completely lost, some scenes from 
 the movie are meshed together and leave even people who watched the movies a bit confused with 
 all the new scenes added.
  
  The alternate ending, was terrible, it didnt make sense, and it was ulimately a bad idea. For spoiler 
 purposes i refuse to actually state what the alternate ending is, but dont allow the alternate 
 ending stop you from buying this game.
  
  I really do advise against buying any version but the PC version. The PC version has patches that 
 fix stupid bugs found in the ps2 version. These bugs include, agents or other lackings getting 
 stuck in walls or floors and not being able to do anything but wiggle around, graphical errors 
 ect. Another thing the PC version has over the others is that you have more control, the keyboard 
 makes it easy to fight and well, be neo. The mouse makes aiming EASY and more realistic.
  
  Matrix Path of Neo is a great game that is underappreciated by many, if possible however, get the 
 PC version, but if you just cant stand using the keyboard and mouse, either get a gamepad for it, 
 or just buy the ps2 version if your not willing to spend an additional 20-40 bucks for a gamepad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanjon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  First of all let me say that i am a huge fan of the movies, see all of them & loved them. I have 
 played Enter the Matrixs & totaly diged it but i was hoping to be able to play as Neo, that was 
 the only let down in the game not being able to play as the One.
  
  So when i heared of Path of Neo i almost died of exsitment finaly i cound be the One, i had been 
 waiting for this since the secound movie came out.
  
  I finaly got the game this mouth & stared to play it. i admit that it was not quit what i was hoping 
 but still very good. The first stage is a bit difficalet because u have not realy told how to play 
 the game but u dont have to worry about dieing because it is only a bifficalty acsesing stage, 
 u figth a few wazes of enermys all of increasing diffecty till u final come to an agent if u can 
 actrul kill him u unlock all of the diffecty setting. The game follows the movies ferly wel but 
 it dose have alot of exter stages that are not in the movies, this dose increase the lenth of the 
 game & are lots of fun to do.
  
  If u enryed the movies & wonted tp be Noe then this game is for u. Go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifcan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  I just had the game like three weeks ago and i don't think it's too early to tell ,
  You gonna get hocked up to this game i'm telling you . it's realy cool , very high graphics and 
 effects , it's really even better than the movies believe it or not . and you choose your own path 
 , the game is full of action and going with the story line of the movie , if you liked max payne 
 , dead to rights, etc then this one really will be your favorite . you can play it more than one 
 time just for the cool graphics and the arts of fighting compares to other games i never seen a 
 game that high graphics untill now , but make sure your computer will do it before you buy it , 
 overall it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorickrieken
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Well ,
  
  I thought this game was pretty cool and stuff.
  
  But it's really disappointing.
  
  Graphics are not that good , i got it for PS2 and PC.
  
 
  for ps2 is it really cool , also good graphics and stuff.
  
  But for PC the graphics are bad and the gameplay is alo not that good.
  
  Also the sounds are 
 really strange , not realistic.
  
  I give it a 4.4 , it's a poor disappointing game for the pc.
  
  So those who want to buy this 
 game.. buy it for the PS2 or something but not for the pc cause it will really disappoint you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  This "game" is not a game at all, it is an utterly worthless product that never should have been 
 made. I went from playing F. E. A. R. last night and somehow stepped back in time when I installed 
 the Path Of Neo; I could not belive my eyes, the same grpahics as Half-Life had a few years ago, 
 chunky sound and effects, I could not change the resolution to some bug and could not even update 
 the "game" since there is only a US patch and I live in Europe... Thank you Shiny Entertainment 
 for another game that I will never play...
  
  The Matrix enterprise has only had one thumbs up, and that is Monoliths online game, but not even 
 that game is satisfying... So, Matrix fans better watch the movies one time again instead of buying 
 the mediocre games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Matrix series, or even just someone who has seen the movies, you probably 
 know the plot of the game since the title of the game pretty much says it all. 
  
  Path of Neo can be a pretty fun experience if you manage to deal with the controls. Unlike in Enter 
 the Matrix, where you could play only with Niobe and Ghost, here you are Neo in all his glory and...... so 
 on.
  
  The Matrix: Path of Neo is a good game on consoles, but not on the PC. The keyboard controls are 
 more precise, the graphics  looking but the best 
 thing about this game in my opinion is the sound.
  If you really want to play this on the PC.................. make sure you've got a good gamepad 
 and a lot of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PashernatePoet
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  The good things:
  
  The novelty of playing as The One survives two runs around the game
  
  The fighting system is quite impressive and fun to watch - though you find yourself doing the 
 same moves over again often
  
  The bad things:
  
  The graphics hardly survive the transition from platform to PC - for a series of complaints about 
 resolution and the such - check either the American or European Atari community boards
  
  The voice acting falters at times, which, for characters with very distinct voices can ruin the 
 affect of the game
  
  In true Japanimation style, whenever you kick or punch an enemy - there's a small burst of white 
 light, which is out of place to say the least
  
  The story isn't held very well together. Rather than playing 'the path of Neo', you find youself 
 playing a series of scenarios that Neo featured in. this is mainly down to the disjointed cutscenes 
 as well as the omission of any 'real world' levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  If someone asks me to take a blue pill or a red pill, I usually just smack the poor fellow across 
 the head. On the other hand, if Laurence Fishburne asks me, wellI have no choice. What seems like 
 years ago, Mr. Fishburne offered me the blue pill, a chance to avoid the hours of migraines and 
 carpal tunnel adventures that would inevitably lie ahead. Unfortunately, I took the red pill and 
 ventured along the path less traveled, the path that was meant not to be traveled, the path that 
 leads to The Matrix: Path of Neo (PC) . When I reached the end of the foul path that had taken years 
 away from my life, I found a small boy with short, blonde hair standing quietly in front of me. 
 His innocence pierced my now wounded heart. Perhaps he was a vision trying to convince me that 
 the path I had taken was meant to be for the best, that I should revel in the little joy that I 
 had found. I dove into my pockets looking for something to give him and found the red and blue 
 pills. I offered them to him in hopes of returning joy to my wounded soul. He stared at the pills 
 and asked me, Are you happy? Befuddled with my head down, I responded, Why, yes. I had lied 
 and he could plainly tell. Before I could look him in the eye, he had vanished into thin air. I 
 looked down at my hands, and in that small pocket of time, I came to realize my mistake in judging 
 the red pill. Behind an offer that you have never seen is a world of chance. Behind an offer you 
 have grown to mistrust, there is only one answer, one doomed path. The boy had taken the blue pill.
 
  
  When Shiny and Atari join forces to make a game based on The Matrix, you know they mean business. 
 Mainly the business of making games that make your brain hurt while you are simultaneously trying 
 to be a loyal fan. Enter the Matrix, the dynamic duos first title, blended a bland storyline based 
 on background characters with decent kung fu gameplay that lacked in execution. In hopes of gaining 
 back the trust of the The Matrix fans, Shiny and Atari decided it was time to let the fans have 
 what they want: the ability to play as the hero of the story, Thomas Neo Anderson. The Matrix: 
 Path of Neo comes fully equipped with the opportunity to dodge bullets, fight Agent Smith in a 
 Dragon Ball Z air battle, watch scenes from all 3 films in ridiculously confusing montages and, 
 most importantly, you can finally and truthfully say to your friends, I know kung fu. What are 
 you waiting for? Jack in!
  
  Or read whats beneath the surface for a few more minutes. Though Path of Neo features a character 
 that is certainly more well known than Ghost or Niobe from Enter the Matrix, it makes retelling 
 the entire trilogy in a 10 to 12 hour game that much more difficult. The most apparent problem 
 with Path of Neos attempt at storytelling is a lack of a steady flow. The game starts off with 
 a rather time consuming Mortal Kombat themed tutorial and then makes a drastic transition into 
 the epic feel of the first film. It follows the first film almost as if it was the official game 
 of the movie. Every following level is either a side story that serves no purpose, or a great leap 
 in time to reach scenes involving massive waves of disgruntled agents. Theres rarely a solid tone 
 conveyed in the story because of repeated drastic changes between the levels. Some levels are recreations 
 of scenes from the films and others involve either arcade-inspired waves of soldiers or comical 
 situations that relate nothing to the films. Did they mean to make an arcade game or a serious 
 game? To add to the unsteadiness, between each level the game flashes confusing montages that blend 
 footage from all three films. Even with prior knowledge of how the trilogy develops, the path taken 
 in telling Neos story is as confusing as Keanu Reeves and Sylvester Stalone in a debate on flat 
 tax. Thankfully, Shiny knows how to keep your mind consistently in this state of wildly developing 
 confusion.
  
  I never thought that video games could be harmful to your health until after playing Path of Neo. 
 I wanted to vomit, tear my brain out, vomit on my brain and then let Vin Diesel eat it. Controlling 
 a high-flying, pole-swinging, Jesus-symbolizing hero such as Neo in a dizzying third-person view 
 is like boxing a bear while intoxicated. The keyboard is used for movement and the mouse for clicking 
 spree attacks while moving the nauseating camera. Relying on the camera to keep track of the action 
 is like relying on a video game to live up to its film counterpart. Aiming Neos punches and kicks 
 with the camera is far more difficult than it needs to be and can cause much irritation during 
 large fights. Guns are just as impractical as they were in Enter the Matrix due to terrible aiming 
 control and the desire to use kung fu over any other form of combat. The PC version has very few 
 compatible gamepads, each of which still provide little support in controlling the camera. Without 
 a gamepad, any move requiring double analog sticks cannot be performed (unless you specialize at 
 lightning speed 360 movements with arrow keys) . Without the ease of performing the console moves, 
 the primary strategy is what I like to call button smash fu. The only way to block is to attack, 
 which means more smashing! The weak excuse for a block button, known as the evade button, is 
 only used to dodge certain special attacks, and it requires great perception during overwhelming 
 action. With better control of Neos surroundings, the mind numbing pain would still exist all 
 in thanks to its visual presentation.
  
  Adding to the dazed and confused feel of Path of Neo is a graphics engine that also highly supports 
 this theme of irritation. To create an artistic The Matrix-like feel, every level has a glowing 
 haze similar to the cinematography of the films. Consequently, it also makes each environment look 
 like life through the eyes of a drunkard. Each uncomfortable turn of the camera only adds to the 
 blurry haze that, while artistic and stylish to some, makes Pongs environment look far more enthralling. 
 The characters in the game obviously received little attention when being pampered in their trailers. 
 Each character, except for our gracious hero, looks like a 3D model wearing a scanned facial image 
 as a mask. The game tries to make up for it with destructible environments and dozens of Agent 
 Smith clones on the screen at a time. Sadly, the sacrifice of low quality models is, although humorous, 
 far too insulting for a $50 game. Many of Neos arcade-like combo moves are animated well, but 
 aside from his Chuck Norris aint got nothin on me kung fu arsenal, Path of Neo lacks any believable 
 animations. Thankfully, watching Neo save Zion one exaggerated kung fu animation at a time is the 
 most prevalent image seen through the haze of radiant confusion.
  
  The main purpose of Path of Neo is obviously to let players become The One. Who wouldnt want 
 to recreate the scene where Neo takes on hundreds of Agent Smithi (note the ingenious plural incorporation) 
 or the first time that Neo dodges a bullet? Unfortunately, these sequences are best left on the 
 big screen, as far away from Shiny and Atari as possible. Trying to connect your moves with the 
 dozens of Agent Smithi can be difficult, considering the inaccurate aim of the easy-to-perform 
 yet hard-to-connect kung fu attacks. Dodging a bullet is rarely ever possible due to the fast paced 
 action that promotes kamikaze-style kung fu. The list describing scenes from the films that are 
 better left in CGI goes on for pages. All of the fans across the world will try to make the game 
 feel like The Matrix by using the bullet-time effect or Neos unknown ability to throw objects 
 like Jedi Master Yoda. One day, however, their stubborn minds will eventually show them the repetitive 
 nonsense that makes up Path of Neos inferior gameplay. Nevertheless, as an old sage once said, 
 Miracles happen everywhere; McDonalds, the mall, The Matrix: Path of Neo When everything somehow 
 magically comes together, the 30 punches to Agent Smith finally connect and the gameplay has its 
 shining Hallelujah, it really is The Matrix! moments, enjoyable doesnt begin to describe the 
 emotion felt. In the end, however, these moments are few and far between and are greatly overshadowed 
 by the repetitive, control-hassling kung fu. Path of Neo is ungrateful to those who just want to 
 beat a guy up.
  
  Joining Laurence Fishburne in Path of Neos voice acting cast iswell, he was the only one available. 
 Trinity, Agent Smith, Random Security Officer #33 and even Neo himself are all played by surprisingly 
 decent no-name voice actors. Accompanying this deceit is the fact that very little of the music 
 from the trilogy appears in the soundtrack of the game. In fact, the final battle against Agent 
 Smith (not spoiling the real ending, wink wink) has sequences that lack any music at all! Replacing 
 a good majority of the usual horn-screeching sounds of The Matrix is a mix of sub-woofer-friendly 
 techno tunes and convincingly similar remakes of the trilogy music by composer Tobias Enhus (Full 
 Spectrum Warrior) . The sound effects that accompany the guns, fists of fury, wooden poles and destructible 
 environments enhance the overall style of the game, but adding pennies to a sizable debt is unfortunately 
 insignificant. 
  
  Aside from the discomfort endured in Path of Neo, its also discomforting to think that Shiny and 
 Atari mean only for the best, never meaning to harm or discourage anyone; the young, innocent boy 
 with blonde hair behind every fan-boy title. The unfortunate fact of the matter is that mankind 
 has not yet developed the capabilities to enjoy games like Path of Neo; a brain cannot withstand 
 a story without a reasonable pace, a camera without reasonable control and a graphics engine that 
 makes unreasonable sacrifices. Creating a game based on the most daunting character of the modern 
 age of kung fu is a feat beyond that of any developers capabilities. Creating a game that is worth 
 playing, however, is a feat that Shiny and Atari have yet to discover. Behind an offer from this 
 game-developing duo there is only one doomed path. I should have taken the blue pill.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  As a die-hard Matrix fan, i really wanted this game. I was alittle disappointed.
  
  The Good:
  
  Matrix, thats pretty good to me. Has really cool combos, get to use a sword and 
 other melee, get to kick the **** out of smith, alot. The ability increase is really nice but has 
 a few problems.
  
  The Bad:
  
  First, theres a serious problem with its graphics resolution: has issues with lighting and shadowing, 
 the pictures actually appear blurry at times, Frame Rate is low very often (and i'm running a 512 
 nvidia GForce 6800 Ultra) . The patch didn't really fix my problems. It also has a replay ability 
 problem whereas, you can't really replay it. There are secret stuff places but if you don't find 
 them, then, well, you can't really without an online walkthrough. Some of the combos don't really 
 work no matter what you do and there isn't an obvious explination on precisely how. That is, there 
 is an explination but since you can't practice it and when you do what the screen tells you to 
 do during gameplay and nothing happens, your **** out of luck. The ability increase is, as i said, 
 nice but has issues with the fact that the abiities increase sometimes don't matter because you 
 can't do the ability that you just got. I know i'm probably getting confusing; if you played it, 
 i think you'd understand. i'm gonna stop rambling now. I have alot to ramble about this game... i 
 was disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics inside this game are lame. For the system recomends that the game gives you it should 
 be much better way better than it is. The graphics for now are from year 2004 or older.
  For the graphics it has it only brings your PC to the ground (like kicking the hell out of your 
 RAM)
  enough with the bad sides now for the god part the gameplay is very god and you get to know neo 
 way better
  Sow have fun knowing that neo is the one that will kill all smiths hahahaha
  Every time we all have played the matrix we never had the time or the posibility to play with neo 
 so this is the god part of this game tha you totaly control neo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  suppose I am the best possible choice to reviewing this game, being one of the biggest Matrix fans 
 this side of the Mississippi and all. To give you an idea of how much I love the universe created 
 by The Wachowski Brothers, I will tell you that I loved Enter the Matrix simply because it was 
 a Matrix video game. Is it, objectively, a good game? I have no idea. It was a Matrix game, I played 
 it, I loved it.
  
  Now, that was two and a half years ago. The Wachowski Brothers have refused to let go of their 
 franchise, even though The Matrix Revolutions wrapped it all up in a very satisfying way (yes, 
 I will defend that film - and Reloaded, for that matter - until the end) . We've received The Matrix 
 Online, which I haven't played, and when I tell people that, I get the same response: "No one's 
 on it." We got the new-fangled Ultimate Matrix Collection DVD box set just in time for Christmas 
 last year, which assured us had must-have special features we didn't get during the first run of 
 the three films' DVD releases (and The Animatrix, for that matter) . And now we have
  The Matrix: Path of Neo, yet another property that proudly proclaims, "Written and Directed by 
 the Wachowski Brothers."
  
  So. Yes, you get to play as Neo, from the time he's rescued from the clutches of The Matrix by 
 Morpheus through his final battle with Agent Smith in the Smith-infested, torrential no-man's-land 
 we saw at the end of Revolutions. The story of the game doesn't so much repeat the chronological 
 events of the three films but rather presents variations on those events (for example, when you're 
 attempting to escape from the office via some cell-phone help from Morpheus, as we saw in the original 
 Matrix, you can actually succeed in escaping and jumping on a motorcycle with Trinity, if you're 
 good enough - or you can get caught by the Agents) . You go through a much more lengthy training 
 process than Keanu Reeves ever did, learning all of the seemingly hundreds of moves the game has 
 to offer and going up against more and more dangerous enemies.
  
  From there, the theme of the game is the theme of the trilogy itself - it's all based on your choices. 
 Choosing to fight or surrender in a given situation will lead you down a different path depending 
 on that choice. It's nice to see these elements from the film brought into the game, even if it's 
 presented in the most simplistic way possible (this is, ultimately, a fighting game) . As expected, 
 there are cut scenes from the film as you delve further down your path to give players a narrative 
 reference. As a Matrix fan, it's actually quite exciting to get to experience this world yourself, 
 learn how to bend and break its rules and go up against its villains.
  
  The graphics are... not bad. Actually, you get the sense that maybe this was originally designed 
 to be a next-gen game but the Wachowskis wanted to get it out there as soon as possible. There's 
 a bit of a flicker to the graphics, as if the PS2 is desperately trying to keep track of all this 
 code. Gameplay and movement is relatively easy to master, even if the countless number of possible 
 fighting moves gets a little overwhelming at times. The only weakness might be when you're using 
 your guns - the need to hold down R2 to even keep the guns in your hands is difficult when you're 
 also trying to move around (left stick) , Focus (L1, a feature that was introduced in Enter the 
 Matrix) , target (right stick) , fire the weapon (R1) and actually keep track of what the hell is 
 going on in the first place.
  
  Ultimately, The Matrix: Path of Neo has the strength of its franchise to get past any serious criticisms 
 a player might have about it. If you're a fan of The Matrix, you'll certainly like the game, as 
 its enough of a thrill to play as Neo to ignore some of the game's flaws. If you're not a fan, 
 you'll find it a slightly above-average fighting game with some frustrating weaknesses - but then 
 again, if you're not a fan, what are you doing playing it in the first place? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgrogan84
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  Just to show you that i am this serious about this game, this is the VERY FIRST review i've EVER 
 written for a video game in my life.
  
  I have to say that i am rather disappointed with this game, considering the fact that the Matrix: 
 Path of Neo has the same engine used for graphics that even the first matrix game had when it came 
 out almost three years ago. The game's engine is just horrible, even after you patch the glitchy 
 graphics from retail to version 1.0, the graphics still are, well... GLITCHY. There are a ton of 
 clipping, non-rendering on environments and characters and the graphics options just don't allow 
 any "in-detail" approach to help support the game or fix these problems. When you want to change 
 levels of graphics there are 2 ways (of course not using brightness levels) : a bar that gives you 
 visual rendering on a scale of 1 through 10; and resolution setting (the cool thing about this 
 is that it DOES support 1680x1050 for us wide-screen users) . After the graphics, I couldn't stand 
 the gameplay, the very first level DOES put you in the pit of the battle which is nice for the 
 time being, but after a while the fighting gets very repetitive and tedious (just like the original 
 "enter the matrix") . After this, you are placed in Mr. Anderson's office where you must escape 
 Smith. BOORING! Holy Cr*p, after the second time i got to the part where you hear Morpheus telling 
 you to "hide behind the file cabinet" i ask myself, "WHICH ONE?!", there are about 4 in that hallway 
 alone. Thus, I figured if this game is this unhelpful in the beginning, i don't want to be here 
 to see the end, let alone the middle.
  I hate this game with an undying passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  I suppose I am the best possible choice to reviewing this game, being one of the biggest Matrix 
 fans this side of the Mississippi and all. To give you an idea of how much I love the universe 
 created by The Wachowski Brothers, I will tell you that I loved Enter the Matrix simply because 
 it was a Matrix video game. Is it, objectively, a good game? I have no idea. It was a Matrix game, 
 I played it, I loved it.
  
  Now, that was two and a half years ago. The Wachowski Brothers have refused to let go of their 
 franchise, even though The Matrix Revolutions wrapped it all up in a very satisfying way (yes, 
 I will defend that film - and Reloaded, for that matter - until the end) . We've received The Matrix 
 Online, which I haven't played, and when I tell people that, I get the same response: "No one's 
 on it." We got the new-fangled Ultimate Matrix Collection DVD box set just in time for Christmas 
 last year, which assured us had must-have special features we didn't get during the first run of 
 the three films' DVD releases (and The Animatrix, for that matter) . And now we have
  The Matrix: Path of Neo, yet another property that proudly proclaims, "Written and Directed by 
 the Wachowski Brothers."
  
  So. Yes, you get to play as Neo, from the time he's rescued from the clutches of The Matrix by 
 Morpheus through his final battle with Agent Smith in the Smith-infested, torrential no-man's-land 
 we saw at the end of Revolutions. The story of the game doesn't so much repeat the chronological 
 events of the three films but rather presents variations on those events (for example, when you're 
 attempting to escape from the office via some cell-phone help from Morpheus, as we saw in the original 
 Matrix, you can actually succeed in escaping and jumping on a motorcycle with Trinity, if you're 
 good enough - or you can get caught by the Agents) . You go through a much more lengthy training 
 process than Keanu Reeves ever did, learning all of the seemingly hundreds of moves the game has 
 to offer and going up against more and more dangerous enemies.
  
  From there, the theme of the game is the theme of the trilogy itself - it's all based on your choices. 
 Choosing to fight or surrender in a given situation will lead you down a different path depending 
 on that choice. It's nice to see these elements from the film brought into the game, even if it's 
 presented in the most simplistic way possible (this is, ultimately, a fighting game) . As expected, 
 there are cut scenes from the film as you delve further down your path to give players a narrative 
 reference. As a Matrix fan, it's actually quite exciting to get to experience this world yourself, 
 learn how to bend and break its rules and go up against its villains.
  
  The graphics are... not bad. Actually, you get the sense that maybe this was originally designed 
 to be a next-gen game but the Wachowskis wanted to get it out there as soon as possible. There's 
 a bit of a flicker to the graphics, as if the PS2 is desperately trying to keep track of all this 
 code. Gameplay and movement is relatively easy to master, even if the countless number of possible 
 fighting moves gets a little overwhelming at times. The only weakness might be when you're using 
 your guns - the need to hold down R2 to even keep the guns in your hands is difficult when you're 
 also trying to move around (left stick) , Focus (L1, a feature that was introduced in Enter the 
 Matrix) , target (right stick) , fire the weapon (R1) and actually keep track of what the hell is 
 going on in the first place.
  
  Ultimately, The Matrix: Path of Neo has the strength of its franchise to get past any serious criticisms 
 a player might have about it. If you're a fan of The Matrix, you'll certainly like the game, as 
 its enough of a thrill to play as Neo to ignore some of the game's flaws. If you're not a fan, 
 you'll find it a slightly above-average fighting game with some frustrating weaknesses - but then 
 again, if you're not a fan, what are you doing playing it in the first place? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pain_Killer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  the path of neo is the best game , best then Matrix (normal) cause she is the film and neo is the 
 hero , only neo, so u live the film in the game and a things that is very specific u have to see 
 it and rank it as 10 superb game in her graphiques gameplay.... she need ur best computer and as 
 we know she need a good head to perform good performance in playing so in the end i want to tell 
 u something don't look at the rating but look at the pics in the web and see how is the game beautiful 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubby_spiderman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  When you talk about Matrix games theres one concept they r always lacking & thats the graphics 
 section. Earlier ETM now TPON, gameply is always good but graphics r not that good. This time the 
 makers concentrated on the faces of the chracters but not on the overall enviroment. Sounds were 
 also good, This game game would have made a different impact if its graphics could have been better.
 
  In the start u get a little sloppy with the gameplay, but after some time u are familliar with 
 various controls. The brawl battle dissapointed me a bit as it was too easy. Not like in the movie. The 
 ending was also too easy.
  But Its overall a good game. I say a worthplaying one. U could spend ur money in getting this title.
 
  They should make another game on the same story with neo, but this time improve the Graphics. It 
 makes the game game a lot better looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentSmith34
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Since Atari made the Matrix games, everyone was wondering when and where you could play as Neo, 
 the main character in the Matrix movies. The day has finally come to play as Neo, you play through 
 the entire storyline as him, just like in the movies. You even get stronger throughout the storyline. 
 Playing as Neo was what everyone wanted, and they finally got it.
  
  Gameplay 5/10:
  
  The only thing fun about this game, is doing cool moves and awesome combos. The controls are one 
 of the worst in a game that I have seen in awhile. You cannot even configure it for a controller, 
 which would be so much easier to play with. Your stuck to the keyboard and mouse, which cause major 
 problems when trying to fight multiple enemies.
  
  Story 10/10:
  
  One of the good things about this game, is the storyline. One of the best storylines in games. 
 Just like the movies, this game has plenty of cool scenes, and moves done in slow motion.
  
  Graphics 4/10
  
  Fully unoptimized graphics is what this game has. ATI is practically cut 
 from the list of graphics cards that can run this game good frame rate wise. This game also looks 
 like it was made for the Nintendo 64. There is not even a way to turn on AA or any shadow effects 
 or anything else people like to change in graphics settings. There is one option to change the 
 graphics, and that is it. If Atari put a good game engine like Unreal engine, or even the Quake 
 engine in, this game would be one of the best out there.
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  Techno is what the Matrix is about. Most of the music you can recognize from the Matrix movies, 
 as well as the previous Enter the Matrix game. When people hit each other, they all pretty much 
 sound alike and there are some audio problems when people talk, sometimes it repeats, and they 
 say the same thing twice.
  
  Play Time and Replayability:
  
  The game is lots of fun if you can get passed the graphics, frame rate problems, controls, as well 
 as annoying repeats of sound. Most people would probably only play this once then put it on the 
 shelf.
  
  Final Recommendation
  
  Only get this game if you are a true Matrix fan, and even then, you would have to ignore the graphics, 
 as well as how hard it is to control the character. This is would be a great game, if only Atari 
 gave controller support, and got a new game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crutch20
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game. It is a huge fix from the bugs in Enter the Matrix. The story is ok. The transitions 
 are a bit awkward, but if you're playing for gameplay factor you will be happy. The graphics are 
 really good (if you have a good graphics card) . I watched a friend play the ps2 counterpart and 
 the graphics look horrible. I recently got a Geforce 6800 and when you turn the graphics up to 
 10 it looks pretty good for a 3rd person beat em up.
  
  Check out some screens I took. http://photobucket. com/albums/y137/Crutch20/Neo/
  
  Now there 
 are bugs. They've already had at least one patch though. As I was taking a screen just a moment 
 ago I was listening to Smith's voice in the background but noticed a glitch. When I rotated the 
 camera around Neo I noticed his mouth was moving to Smith's words. The biggest problem in the game 
 is the lack of options. There is controller support, (with me I use my Saitek p880 in any game 
 besides FPSs and RPGs if possible) but there are no options for input configuration. Shiny has 
 decided to make their own configurations for a variety of controllers out there. I have a huge 
 problem with that. Before the first patch my right joystick had each axis backwards. Up would look 
 left and so on. That's been fixed in the patch, but I still have some issues with some of the button 
 locations. Graphic options are limited as well. All you have is a 1-10 option in which each setting 
 adjusts the qualities on it's on. I don't know why they would do this. Besides that there is the 
 resolution option. At least they instituted that. 
  
  Overall though, it's more of just a fun game. If you have a PC that can support the graphics and 
 a controller (I wouldn't think keyboard+mouse combo would be very comfortable) and you have either 
 an interest in the Matrix (quirky as though this rendition is) or just action games, then I recommend 
 this. The shooting aspect isn't so hot. Focusing on a fire extinguisher and unloading a couple 
 shots and causing a small explosion that launches a few guys around is about as fun as that gets. 
 Unless you end up surrounded by enemies and they are sending flurries of bullets your way, I recommend 
 just slugging them around. There is a satisfying element to knocking your foes senseless in this 
 game. Though there may be bugs of plenty, Shiny seems to be on the task of fixing them as quickly 
 as they can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvusp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks in the beginning and umm... doesn't rock in the end.
  
  The only noticable goof in the beginning are the graphics which, though good, don't exactly transfer 
 the movie atmosphere onto the screen. The cutscenes made from movie scenes were done well, but 
 I can't say the same about the rest of the cutscenes.
  
  The leveling is fairly good, however the game doesn't save before major fights, so it is sometimes 
 very annoying when you have to replay large parts of the game due to a stupid boss. This is especially 
 true for the katana training level. 
  
  Okay, now we're in the middle of the second movie. The Merovingian. Suddenly the game sucks. It 
 is an annoying, long level. The middle door was okay, but the outside doors were really boring, 
 especially the left one, where you have to "find the right door" while fighting... stuff. It's 
 boring.
  
  Then the storyline goes goofy, you fight agents in "who knows where, why, and when", and then you're 
 in the "for Zion" fight with Smith? What about the third movie? Then you get the "one of a kind 
 ending cutscene" which is funny (in my opinion) , and then the last fight, which could and (should) 
 have at least looked better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhs84
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:48 am PT
Review:  i Think That The Last Ver Of The Metrix Game (Enter The Metrix) its Lovley But it dose Not give 
 The Story that You Want. So When I Bay it and Play That Game its disappointing me Becouse i dont 
 See the Here of The Movie (Neo) and I Can't say its a bad game Its Funny Actually ;  
  
  But........... whan i see That Thers a Game and (Neo) is Playing I Said...
  (Woooooooooow Thats 
 game Will Be !awesome! its fear game Actually 
  The Motion The Story, Conroling The Game and suspense. but I have a qustion its Don't have that 
 Big Graphic Things ,Way, i mean its a good for Pepole That don't Have High Reslution Graphic Card.
 
  
  Finly I Said This Game Gonna Be ! awesome ! Gyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  As you probaly already noticed, the reactions about this game are very mixed. My opinion: Most 
 of the people who think this game sucks only look at the graphics. O. k. if you only look at the 
 graphics this game isn't that good, but you have to look beyond the graphics, people! It's all 
 about the gameplay, graphics are just something to make a game even better. And if you look beyond 
 the graphics in this game (which aren't that bad, really) it totally rocks, dude! The fighting 
 is just so cool! So buy this game! Or if you really only looking at the graphics; don't buy this 
 game, but rent it first or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dv137
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  tis' my first pc game review @ gamespot.
  
  i'm running matrix: path of neo using PIII 1Ghz, Ati Radeon 9600 SE 128MB, creative soundblaster 
 live! 5.1 and kingston 768 SDRAM @ low setting.
  
  it's definitely better than enter e matrix. 
  
  e gds
  1. more actions e. g. combos.
  2. 
 more exciting
  3. longer gameplay than enter e matrix
  4. more ingame movies ranging fr. matrix 1 to 3 and some fr. animatrix
  5. it's in DVD and come 
 wif free t-shirt, lanyard and usb phone charger (in my case cos i bought e limited edition, S$10 
 cheaper than market price.)
  6. more worth playing than enter the matrix
  
  e bads
  1. graphics and sounds tend to be choppy @ times even after applying e patch
  2. controlling is 
 not that fluid
  3. camera view not v. gd and useful
  4. tends to returns to desktop when playing without e disc after a few game, similiar to CiV 4
 
  5. it's expensive
  6. e information on e box is quite inaccurate, eg. require 1Gb of harddisk space but in actual fact 
 about 4.5Gb of spare are needed
  
  in conclusion, it's not a bad gaming experience. it's definitely worth 7.0 than a fair 6.8 although 
 e graphics, sounds and controlling tends to be flawed and buggy. lack of multiplayer option is 
 also of concern cos e gameplay are exciting. i hoped that e newest patch can correct most of e 
 flaws and bugs that're still present now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magician9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  Lots of varied opinions here.. Time to set it all straight. The PC version is good in every way 
 except the graphics. The graphics are good on the environments which is all you will really be 
 looking at but bad on the characters for the cutscenes. You should just ignore the cutscene graphics 
 (with the exception of the final few which are the best graphics iv seen) as they dont ruin the 
 plot and well you get used to them. I should say that the graphics get considerably better as you 
 progress through the game and really pick up after the training levels. So basically arent a problem. 
 
  
  The gameplay is very enjoyable throughout the game except a couple of leves after distorted dimensions 
 which are just there for padding and are very fustrating levels. After playing the game through 
 with a concious effort to use the guns more I find them much better than my first impressions of 
 them. They get better the more you play with them. Im now very accurate and the guns are deadly 
 so I am very pleased that I cna paly hte game using mainly guns. This adds much more replayability 
 to the game. Im on my 4th run through. So if you are finding the guns weak just keep playing with 
 them. I completely disagree with gamespot on the control front. Just put in your own controls...... 
 I have got a very good configuration which must be easier than on the consoles. So overall worth 
 buying for the enjoyable gameplay and all round experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobetko
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is uninspiring. When there are more then 4 opponents you are really not sure what is going 
 on and who is hitting who. Some moves are attractive, in matrix fashion, but poor graphics kills 
 it all. You can save only at checkpoints which can be annoying. If you are hitting shift, ctrl, 
 mouse1 and mouse2 like crazy, you will do pretty well. That's going to make you wondering..... 
 The shooting action is the worse. It takes a way too many bullets to kill opponent. The whole action 
 is bleak and does not give you satisfying felling. The funniest thing is to see an agent dodging 
 your bullets. At first I thought that something is wrong with the game.... Burst from your machine 
 gun is exactly on the place where your target is so when your target move away you find yourself 
 shooting empty space because you really don't see anything. Bullet time is bad as well. It is hard 
 to keep track how much time is left, and actually, except visual change (you see bullets flying 
 through the air) , you will find it out ineffective. It is too short to cause any damage to your 
 opponents (partially because it takes too many bullets/hits to kill somebody) . In most of the cases 
 all your opponents will still be alive after bullet time is over. Your gameplay is constantly interrupted 
 by notifications (advices) and you have to push enter to continue. 
  
  I don't remember seeing lately game with so bad graphics and glitches and yet graded fairly high. 
 Don't think about this game in terms of FarCry, FEAR, Qake4, HalfLife2 and so on... It's not even 
 close. Graphic is dull, unimaginative and nothing that you will wish to see one more time. Low 
 res textures are all over.
  
  Sound and video scenes are the only aspect of the game that you can't complain.
  
  This is 
 a one bad game. I am wondering where high grades for this game come from. It must be conspiracy 
 ;-) Grade 6.3 is way too high.
  I think producer was going after Matrix Fans who don't care for anything as long as Matrix or Neo 
 are mentioned, and high grades are probably coming from them. The game is not playable. I went 
 through 6-7 levels hopping that game will grow on me or that I will be surprised with something, 
 but I only grew mad and I quit. The game is compared a lot with Enter the Matrix which had bad 
 graphics as well, but was much better game. It was playable. Bullet time had sense, and shooting 
 and fighting scenes where from time to time very exciting. If you want game that uses bullet time 
 effectively, play Max Payne. Its 2 years older and 2 years better. Isn't that a shame?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebel_punk34
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix: Path of Neo is spectacuilor game. Plus, it being a brawler it will make it a button 
 masher. The fighting style of Path of Neo is easier to control if you now what you are doing. More 
 combinations, and the ability to better attack combos, weapon disarming, and the all time favorite; 
 Neos focus abilities. Another bonus in the game is the leveling up styles, which to allow you extra 
 abilties like the Bullet Dodge. So there's no need to jump to dodge bullets. With all these new 
 features on the game I feel the need to tell you this. The game gives you choices. Confused? To 
 make it simple, in the beginning of the game Morphes asks Neo (you) if you want to take the Red 
 pill or the Blue pill. If you take the blue pill you go back to the start menu, and if you take 
 the red pill; the game begins. Ah, another good example is when the agents come after you. If you 
 get caught, that worm thingy is put in your stomach, and if you don't you jump on to Trinity's 
 motorcycle and get a clean getaway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  To be honest this game is not a total bust. If you are a fan of the Matrix trilogy then you will 
 find it enjoyable. Gamers who did not enjoy the movie (s) beware!! I would imagine you would find 
 this game as flat and boring as an older PS1 game is now. Personally I have found it both entertaining 
 and laughable. The story and brawling segments are the entertaining, the graphics, sound and gun 
 play mechanics are laughable. The hand to hand is good and keeps your interest but the gunfights 
 and controls are just downright frustrating and confusing. It is quite easy to lose your bearing 
 and get pummeled during the heavy gunfights. The graphics and sound are damn near ridiculous and 
 not a stretch from the polygonal figures in the original NBA Live. I enjoyed Enter the Matrix much 
 more.
  
  All in all The Path Of Neo is true to The Matrix story line and does follow Neo through his Mission 
 in all three movies with some entertaining content added for good measure. Where it lacks is in 
 being a good 3D action game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkoneGogeta
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. The ending was very interesting and very good to work on for the Brother 
 Duo. The game was fun and action packed. There was 3 difficultly levels to choose from by a little 
 "practice" level and it kept me going. Awesome game. I couldn't stop playing it until I beat it. 
 I really have nothing more to say, but I don't really reccommend buying it, its still a great renting 
 experience, though I'd buy it if you're a die-hard Matrix fan. The Agents i thought, though, were 
 a little too easy.... well being The One and all and kicking butt... this is the best Matrix game 
 out there except for The Matrix : Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is very nice, i loved thr storyline also the gameplay, Sound are good quality also when 
 your playing it, youll find good scenes where you can kick everybody arses, anyways the game fits 
 with the storyline of the movies, i loved the game.. my personal opinion its better than matrix 
 online.
  But, graphics arent cute enough, some of it has glitches, i put texture 10, and game lacks of polygons 
 and other gfx stuff.
  
  But however the game is fun, and its has so much action. Keep clean the cache and clear from any 
 spyware and enjoy it!
  
  peace.
  
  :. dazie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skia_serget
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  General:
  I think that the game is very very cool, u just to see how u hit at these guys, a lot of combos 
 for fighting, sound that makes u sumerge in the game, i dont know why people says doesnt like it.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  And its not a linear game, i mean, u have to do a lot of another things, for example, a lot of 
 ejercicies doesnt appears in the movie, and u have to choose 5 missions when u complete "movie 
 1", u just have to play a lot of it and ull love it.
  
  Graphics:
  Fair, i mean, nice when u see it at 1280x768, but i think that too heavy for just these graphics, 
 ive a MSI 6600GT withe AMD 3200+ and sometimes its at 15 FPS when a lot of action!.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: circleoffear
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  Wast of time, this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of 
 time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this 
 game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game suWast 
 of time, this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, 
 this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game 
 sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this gameWast of time, 
 this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game 
 sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast 
 of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucks suckscksWast 
 of time, this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, 
 this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game 
 sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast 
 of time, this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, 
 this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game 
 sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast 
 of time, this gamWast of time, this game suckse sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, 
 this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game 
 sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucksWast of time, this game sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  If your not a die hard fan for The Matrix movies then this game definatly isnt for you. The game 
 is directly based off the movies with some added stuff to lengthin levels. Cut scenes from the 
 movie is regularly played. Game play is very basic, alot of the stuff is manually done by pressing 
 1 button to do combo's in fighting. Graphics are very poor. I played for a short period of time 
 and stopped becuase the game was not appealing what so ever in graphics and game play. I dont recomend 
 anyone paying to play this game unless your a hardcore matrix fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FortMinor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  I've played Enter the matrix, and it was a good game, however I had the feeling it wasn't complete.
 
  Wtih good reason cause what is a Matrix game without Neo??
  
  I think that this isn't just a good game, but also something that made up for ETM.
  With a nice 
 altered story line ,the fantastic martial arts moves and the feeling that you are truly The One.
 
  The battles with the agents, and the parasite Smith are fantastic.
  That is a true plus, 
  Another bonus in my eyes, are the Merovingian levels. It's gives you a nic moment to show off you're 
 Kung Fu Skills
  
  However, the training levels, wich were definitley needed, Where stretched too long in my opinion.
 
  Because of the simple fact that there are so many moves, it would be better to present them as 
 tips.
  Wich was also something I missed, You couldn't read them back, 
  However, the moves itself is more than a kiss r upper
  
  I think that the game itself is brilliant, 
 but it could damn near be divine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambizkit
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say the game was mediocre, at best. I had problems with the graphics from the 
 get go. After cranking the rendering detail up to 10 and seeing bobbing heads and no bodies, I 
 tried 9... still no cigar. So I settled with 8 and realized that you can't do much to make this 
 game look great, the graphics are horrible, even with the shiny material they added. The story 
 follows Neo from the moment he is contacted by Morpheus to the end of the Matrix: Revolutions. 
 The reason I picked this game up was because I could finally play Neo and I thought that it would 
 be cool to retrace his steps in the movie. Now to some extent you do that but you are also given 
 the option of deciding for yourself and that will change the original story of the Matrix Trilogy. 
 This was a very cool idea and almost makes the game playable. The controls are a little hard to 
 get used to but once you start throwing enemies around and pulling off insane martial arts stunts 
 you won't remember how bad they were. Speaking of martial arts, there are numerous abilities that 
 you can earn in the game, and its kind of fun using them on your numerous enemies. Unfortunately 
 in the beginning you have to go through the most boring training exercises known to man to earn 
 some of them. I almost gave up in the training sessions but pushed on to see what the game was 
 all about and plus I was waiting for the cool battles to come against the Agents. The sound in 
 the game was mediocre too. You can tell not much was spent on looks and sounds. The voice acting 
 was horrible, and I think that whoever played Neo wasn't Keanu Reeves. But if you can push these 
 aside the game is moderately enjoyable, I mean who doesn't enjoy action/martial arts games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbob13
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  I know what you're thinking, ' Wonderful, another Matrix game. How did they mess it up this time?' 
 I say this because the Matrix franchise has just been taking a beating. Personally, I liked all 
 three films. I even liked Enter the Matrix. I began playing The Matrix: Online, and was horribly 
 disappointed. Shiny has taken the work started in Enter the Matrix and expanded on it. The Path 
 of Neo is the result of that.
  
  The Good:
  
  Well, for starts you're the ONE, finally. This game has the ability of making anyone look like 
 an instant Kung-Fu master. That is, as long as you are not getting you butt kicked across the floor. 
 The combos are really easy to use as is the 'stun', which is just a way of setting up even more 
 elaborate moves. Your combos and special moves will level-up as the games progresses, mirroring 
 Neo's mastery of the Matrix.
  
  The game is also fairly good at connecting the dots that the movies left, to some extent. There 
 is some extra content in the form of what Neo was up to between the first and second movies as 
 well as a few changes that were thrown in to make the in-game storyline make sense and just for 
 filler to make the game longer. The end was... well different, I'll say that. I personally didn't 
 like it, but then I've never been a big fan of the Power Rangers and when you get there you'll 
 know what I mean.
  
  You'll get to use all kinds of waepons. What do you want? Staff? Got it. Sword? Yeah, that too. 
 Hatchet? Wait, hatchet? You mean like a little axe? Well, we've got that too, for some reason. 
 The weapons are very cool and you'll look awesome while using them. They use the same basic controls 
 as the martial arts, just now you've got something besides your hands and feet to pummel opponents 
 with. You'll even get to use, and will probably need to use, the metal pole while fighting all 
 the Smiths. The weapons are way fun and really easy to use. Except the guns, but I'll get to that 
 later.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Controls. That is the main problem with the computer version. Now, I spend all my money on my computer 
 and there for do not have a PS2 or XBox. I know, what kind of gamer am I right? Well I'm old and 
 stubborn and like my computer games over my consol games. This is a game obviously meant for consol 
 play and was just put on PC since most fans of The Matrix are computer nerds. No surprise there. 
 The fighting will get pretty fast and furious, as it should be, but the controls just don't keep 
 up.
  
  Guns, lots of guns. Problem is they are pretty much worthless. I hate using the guns and will usually 
 just throw it in bullet time so I can get close enough to pummel my enemies with martial arts. 
 Sometimes the guns are nice to use while running up on the bad guys, but for the most part they 
 just get in the way. I especially don't like that when guns are picked up they are automatically 
 equipped. Just because I picked the gun up doesn't mean I immediately want to start using it. Of 
 course this is a minor complanit next to the fact that most of the time the guns won't work when 
 auto-equipped. You have to put them away and pull them back out to make them fire. And Neo has 
 the bad habit of just randomly pulling out his guns in the middle of a hand-to-hand fight. Just 
 leave them out and let me beat the snot out of the bad guys.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Now I know games have come a long way since Virtua Fighter so why are Neo and Smith so blocky? 
 Did someone pull out an old Sega and disguise it as my PC? Now it's not all THAT bad, but close 
 enough for government work. And trust me, I've been a government worker. Shiny needs to work on 
 their graphics engine and I mean pronto. I hear that the consol version is actually better, but 
 that isn't how its supposed to be. The computer should always have better graphics or at least 
 the same. Are you telling me that my high end computer is actually sub-par when compared with a 
 consol. I think not! Easily the most laughable aspect of the game.
  
  In conclusion, The Path of Neo has some redeeming qualities and is fun in most aspects. You will 
 prbably find your self doing the 'burly-brawl' against the multiple Smiths over and over again 
 as it is just so fun. Certain aspects of the game I could do without. At some times they will make 
 you fight with a fixed camera view, such as the fight with Seraph, which will seriously limit Neo's 
 ability to kick butt. Especially since they have been training you on the whole 360-degree fighting 
 and then take that away. I would suggest waiting for the price on this bad boy to go down a bit 
 as it isn't worth the $50 pricetag, but is easily worth $25-$30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  You know, I havent had such an experience with a game for a long time (if not ever) .
  
  This game is special, at least to me, and let me tell you why.
  First time I got the game, I 
 tried it, and at a first look I didnt like it AT ALL and was greatly dissapointed. "Textures look 
 like crap, game is full of bugs, etc..." But for some mysterious reason I came back to it, just 
 to fight some enemies and see the moves. Then I started to frecuent the atari "Path of Neo" forums, 
 asking and demanding a solution to everyone's performance and graphical problems, and got highly 
 concerned and involved with the solutions for the current issues the game has.
  At the same time, I started to more deeply analyze the game's composition, and then I saw it: the 
 amazingly depth this game has. Its gameplay mechanic is intricate yet simple, yet almost neverending, 
 and highly entertaining and addictive. Its environments are true to the matrix franchise and highly 
 destructible, which is amazing. The music and sounds are top notch, crisp and exactly how a matrix 
 game should sound and feel. And then I payed close attention to some of the graphic effects and 
 character models, amazing.
  A couple of days later a new driver for my card was out (5.11, you know what brand I might be talking 
 about) and found out that few of the graphical and lighting bugs I blamed Shiny and Atari for not 
 fixing them, they were fixed with the updated vcard drivers. This showed me how advanced and "more 
 than meets the eye" this game is and will be months from now.
  Its weird, cause this is the kind of game that doesnt look like much, but with a sharper eye, you 
 are revealed with the TRUE game inside the vague appearance I first perceived: Although somewhat 
 buggy, this game is a huge, solid (in many aspects) , enteraining, and beautiful (to a sharp eye) .
 
  Of course it all depend on each users' computer power, but Im speaking from my own and personal 
 point of view, and my experience pereciving this game.
  If you think about it, this game resembles the matrix story. At first Neo perceives the world with 
 one set of eyes, then as he evolves and open his eyes, the world takes a much difference form than 
 what he intially saw.
  All in all, with all its bugs and problems, its an amazing game. I bet that a month from now, many 
 gaming sites' reviewers and users who reviewed this game on a first impression will feel they didnt 
 gave the game the score it really deserves.
  
  Again, just my opinion.
  
  Malcolm "TheFreeman" Sohm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  I think that by now everyone remembers Enter the Matrix, a game based on The Matrix, a movie made 
 by Wachowski brothers. The game was full of bugs, glitches and gaps in AI. Shiny decided to make 
 up for that mistake and have created an another Matrix game. This time around you will play as 
 Neo, also known as The One.
  
  In comparison with the earlier game made by Shiny, this one is slightly better. Furthermore, it's 
 more exciting to play as Neo, gaining access to a large variety of abilities. Besides, we've seen 
 so many Burly Brawl maps and modifications for various games, why not just play the original Burly 
 Brawl (edit. comment: burly brawl is the scene where Neo fights dozens of Agent Smiths) !
  
  But, as a standalone game, it does not do well amongst other games. The graphics are pretty standard, 
 even on highest settings. What's more, the game misses out on most important aspects of a Matrix 
 game - bullet trails and motion blur. There is nothing but a screen fading to green once you 'focus', 
 and bullet trails are simple 2D textures. An agent, when fired at, does nothing but a dance (just 
 like in Enter the Matrix) . Physics aren't even worth mentioning - ragdolls get stuck in walls (Wow, 
 looks like Neo doesn't know his own strength, if he can 'bury' an enemy into a wall!) , some other 
 object and so on. Shaders are what makes this game look impressive visually, especially during 
 cut-scenes, but some shaders are awfully made/placed. For example, in one of the training levels, 
 Neo's pants look like they're made of some kind of plastic.
  
  As for sounds, there aren't any! Voices and music are all what you're going to hear when playing 
 (apart from gunfire and punches/kicks) . Sometimes there will be an ambient sound when the music 
 is absent.
  
  The gameplay is what makes this game good. You'll be able to literally walk the Path Of Neo, upgrading 
 his abilites as you progress through The Matrix storyline, all three of them. Fights and stunts 
 are rather impressive. What I also liked that in the very first level your playing skills are put 
 to test, and when you die, a difficulty setting is chosen for you. If you win, of course, you'll 
 be given the hardest difficulty. But don't worry, you can choose the difficulty setting anyhow.
 
  
  Altogether, this game is mediocre with glitch-full low-quality visuals, lack of sounds, and only 
 the gameplay barely covering the above mentioned disadvantages up. If you're a big fan of The Matrix, 
 and you've somehow enjoyed Enter the Matrix, or if you simply want to take it out Kung Fu style, 
 you're going to like Path of Neo. Otherwise, don't bother like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoShash071
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Very mediocre game, poor graphics, poor checkpoint save locations. It seems all Matrix games don't 
 play so well. Only the original Matrix movie was good, everyy thing else tried to repeat on the 
 success of the first movie including the games and tried too hard and came out with very little. 
 Very mediocre game, poor graphics, poor checkpoint save locations. It seems all Matrix games don't 
 play so well. Only the original Matrix movie was good, everyy thing else tried to repeat on the 
 success of the first movie including the games and tried too hard and came out with very little. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aca86
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok for me. If you dont like it dont pay it. Is that clear. Now go back to other games. When writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by 
 doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste 
 it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews 
 must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you 
 may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, 
 remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you 
 will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review 
 in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the 
 posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarpHedin
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  What can I say about a game that's based on a popular movie trilogy?
  Well, in Path of Neo's case, not a whole lot. Atleast on the positive side. I can say a bunch on 
 the negative side, and I'm going to.
  
  First off, getting the game to even work right, and run well on your system, could be a hassle. 
 I restarted the game about three times before it rendered "correctly". When I tried to run the 
 game at the highest level of quality, it basically just rendered floating heads. Yeah....
  Continuing on with the graphics in the game, they are simply horrible. The models look like they 
 could've been rendered on the first Max Payne engine, and apparently, Shiny has taken their name 
 to a whole new level, giving all the model a extra level of shinyness, for that laminated look. 
 The animations are also very sub-par. They are very jagged, objects aren't always where they should 
 be, and they haven't even bothered to make a unique jump-animation.
  
  The sound is also pretty horrible. Sure, some of the sounds are pretty neat, when they actually 
 get played, or are in a high enough volume to even hear. For some reason, Neo loves to whisper, 
 and Morpheus likes to talk really loud. Atleast that was the situation when I played through the 
 game. I was also incredibly dissapointed when Smith uttered his first word, and I realized that 
 he was not voiced by Hugo Weaving, but by some other guy. Crushed my heart. Aside from that, the 
 sound works.
  
  So what good can I say about Path of Neo? Well, the action in sometimes solid. It's a game with 
 bullet-time, and martial arts. That's pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 1.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  This is an ugly port of a console game. Graphics are set by the game and cannot be altered, whatever 
 the options screen may lead you to believe. But it gets worse.
  
  The game has no ability for the player to choose where to save. Saves are made at checkpoints. 
 So if you get killed you need to do most of the level again - fight past tons of grunts to get 
 to the boss and get killed, fight all your way past those very same gunts again. And again, And 
 again, And ... oh switch it off!
  
  Unexpected guests arrived? Phone call? Don't leave the game! You will have to redo, not from the 
 last checkpoint, but for the whole of the last level. All the way back to the start.
  
  Can live with all this? Get ready for the unexpected system crashes! You completed the level, you 
 killed the grunts, the game crashes! And you get to do it all again - what great value for money! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rfnpenn
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game ain't bad. Especially if you are a big fan of the Matrix series. But it does have its 
 shortcomings.
  
  Learning the game is relatively simple. When not holding a weapon, clicking does an assortment 
 of punches and kicks that progressively get cooler and stronger as you prgoress in your path of 
 becoming The One. Right clicking will set up special moves, and holding down Left Shift will enable 
 a bullet time-esque feature.
  
  When you know what you're doing you can do some pretty cool moves, and even if you don't know what 
 you're doing, clicking like a madman will usually perform a simple five-hit combo. The fighting 
 interface is fairly simplistic, and you'll find yourself doing the same mouse-clicking combos over 
 and over again. 
  
  The in-game graphics aren't bad. Firing weapons is fun, and when done in the bullet time-esque 
 "Focus" mode, bullet make the rippling effect made famous by The Matrix. However, for those of 
 you with high-end systems, prepare to be thoroughly disappointed. The only display options you 
 can alter are brightness and resoultion, with the max resolution being 1280x1024, and there is 
 not much noticeable difference in graphic quality between the highest setting and 800x600. I have 
 a pretty high-end system, and at the max resolution, I was pretty disappointed. While playing the 
 game, there is simply too much going on to be able to see the malfromities the graphics engine 
 creates, but during in-engine cutscenes, its impossible to miss the blocky and miscolored faces 
 of Neo and Agent Smith.
  
  The missions are usually pretty straight forward and sometimes too easy. Many missions involve 
 escorting people from one place to another and trying to prevent them from getting hurt. However, 
 I encountered a bug while playing where certain people that oyu have to escort simply cannot be 
 hurt, even if an agent is shooting them and/or beating the crap out of them. I also found another 
 annoying bug where if I performed a weapon strip or am put back in the game after a mid-mission 
 cutscene, my firearms won't work unless I put them away and then take them out again. Needless 
 to say, this is pretty annoying.
  
  The save system is pretty weak. You can't save whenever you want, only at certain 'checkpoints' 
 throughout the levels, and if you must leave the game in the middle of a mission, you're out of 
 luck -- if you exit the game you'll have to start the entire mission over again. Some gamers like 
 this type of challenege, but the absence of a legitimate save-game feautre is a serious shortcoming 
 for most gamers. Between mission, you can choose from a handful of skills that you can upgrade. 
 It's no big deal at all what skills you decide to choose since it's pretty linear, and the upgrades 
 are essentially just making you do cooler moves.
  
  The best part of the gme is by far the first half of it, where you follow Neo through the sequences 
 of the first movie. That's right, you'll be able to play the infamous lobby scene, and if you know 
 your moves, you can even end that level with that crazy kick where you walk up your enemy's body 
 and finish him off with a swift kick to the grill.
  
  Playing the game is decent fun. Any huge fan of the Matrix trilogy will probably enjoy renting 
 it for a console, if they can. There is no multiplayer at all and replay value is zero. While it 
 is pretty cool clicking away and pretending like you really control Neo's onscreen moves, the subpar 
 graphics, simplistic fighting interface, and lack of replay value make it hard to drop $50 on it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarAnakin
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  Maybe you were asking yourself what so special about this game. Well, there is nothing special 
 about it. The game play is kind of cool but is not that good. This is MATRIX, you were supposed 
 to get in and out and do everything you wanted whenever you want ! The sound is not bad. The graphics 
 are awful, i can't believe a game like this uses pixel shaders ! HAH ! There are many bugs in this 
 game. The subtitles just go ahead or maybe they're not even displayed. The game's engine is stuck 
 at 30 fps and in some levels is stuck at 15 fps. What the heck is this ? Since when are you people 
 locking fps ? For all the games that have limited fps, is not worth buying them. If the company, 
 that made such a game, continues this way, i hope that in the future they won't do this anymore. 
 If they continue this way, i honestly hope that they'll go down for good ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  poor neo... and a stern fist shake to atari who has a couple of cool trademarks like transformers 
 and matrix , both could be so sic as a freeroaming type of game why not make a matrix city and 
 start the game neo flying through the clouds then you could take control there could be endless 
 ways to go from there subway under the city civilians turning into agents everywhere phone exits 
 throughout even a huge freeway running rite in the middle with some hot street bikes parked around 
 like grand theft... i could go on for days but nooooooo instead you get a couple of games that are 
 about worth a 7 buy and sell or just rent , who the heck are the game testers? is it like a jury 
 where you find people that cant know anything about the case/game haha and even though the brothers 
 were involved i kinda thought they lost it after the first movie anyways wich had manson on the 
 soundtrack how cool is that but still its a matrix game and theres not alot to choose from if thats 
 what you have an urge to play and that make me even more angry grrrr... also showing clips of the 
 movies is lame i thought that in the lord of the rings games also , but whatever i just wanted 
 to vent ... make that buck atari and sleezy way you can sniff why do they make pc versions worse 
 than consoles somtimes id pay the extra 10 or 20 if they'd make it better honest i would.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackmage0_15
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  Overall, you wil find that the game has a MUCH better fighting engine than ETM. This is due to 
 the condensing of punches, kicks and blocks on one button. Although the game starts out on a great 
 note, at about the battle with seraph, the man in the audience totally ruins the feel on the game. 
 The tone moves from great action to monotonous running around. All of this is outdone by the great 
 story and fighting and physics engines.
  
  The physics engine at least is much better as well, including Rag-Doll physics and inpact checks. 
 Almost everything in the game is breakable.
  
  If you like the matrix, pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man4the1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  As I'm a fan of the matrix movies this game is almost 'the one' I've been wating for! Actually it 
 has some disatventages, like: weapons- these are unnecessary in this game, the target is way to 
 big and it's very uncomfortable to aim, it's much easier to use kung'fu abilities to fight an enemy, because 
 weapons do very little harm to your enemy. I'd give 7 of 10, cause there are stil things which need 
 to be improved. I hope someday there'll be a game which could really make us believe that we're 
 in matrix while playing, because the envoronment in someway is not to realistic. But as I said, 
 I played it and I'm going to play it again and again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneCheeseMan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  The game isn't too bad overall. The controls are irritating at first but you tend to catch on to 
 them pretty quickly. Gameplay is basicly just throwing waves of guys at you and easily taking them 
 out. Graphics wise, the game isn't much better off then Enter the Matrix but has less bugs, though 
 it still has a few. The camera doesn't get you killed, which is a plus. Sound bugs are in there 
 a bit more then what you'd want them to be. And lastly the the plot loosly follows the movies up 
 to the last once, then just goes weird, but it's still better then the actual movie's ending ; 
 )
  
  If you're thinking of buying this game, I'd advise renting first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geonuk
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  as is with The Matrix Online mmo, this game sucks only good thing is this cant get worse like MXO 
 does each day, i cant believe that with all the talent and ideas that people have that a great 
 development of the matrix trilogy cannot be made, this is good for moves but graphically a mess. 
 MXO is graphicly amazing but the stories, believability and development staff are unbelievable 
 to think that these games are good and can only start to begin to believe the lady that claims 
 to be the Mother of the Matrix as the wach brothers obviously have no clue about who the get to 
 do things and to pass them as a finished masterpiece is disgraceful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8tal_e
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Well for starters ,i still dont understand how someone dicides to port a game originally made on 
 a pc ,down from a console version. Anyways thats just my opinion. and as for graphics ,they might 
 of ,as well taken "Enter the Matrixand added noe to it, because they look identical in graphics 
 ,only that "ETM" had better gameplay. I know that there are alot of you out there wich have given 
 this game an incredible thumbs up ,but i will forgive you for that, because i know that you are 
 the guys who are in need of a serious upgrade ,where games like this one that has 1990 graphics 
 , can actually run on your system. But how about all of you Hard Core gamers out there that have 
 every last next-gen component on your system ,and spent thousands and thousands of dollars ,getting 
 it to be the fastest computer around. Hoping that something good , would come out ,like this game 
 for example ,So much hype ,getting everyone fired up ,only to find out that you feel Gipped!! That 
 hard earned money was just flushed down the drain ,and as for the controls you can modify them 
 but it wont save your settings, so when you start the game again they go back to there default 
 keys. Oh , and god forbid the game pad works. So of course everyone is going to believe its going 
 to be a great game , because its ATARI , a known company , theyve made some good games in the past 
 ,but this year i guess they had a "Brain Fart" just like the movie makers that did "Doom the movie" 
 come on you know that movie sucked bad! well what im trying to say ,is that this game is not what 
 you think it is , actually its all the oppisite ,so whe you go to eb games or any store etc., and 
 feel li purchasing this game remeber me. Dont spend $49.99 for this game, at least wait until it 
 goes down to $9.99 that way the burden wont feel so bad. The only thing i give them credit for 
 besides the advertisements ,was the creativity put into this game. But really this game at least 
 for the PC (wich everyone knows would normally have every feature and more) Is not worth the price 
 tag. I dont think ive been this dissapointed in a agme as i am with this one. Oh and by the way 
 for all of you wondering what machine i have here are my specs :
  AMD Athlon 64 /FX 57 -2000MHZ FSB/SLI - 4GB Ram 400MHZ -260GB SATA HD - nVidia 7800 GTX pci-express 
 . The mother of all mothers.
  
  Well i apologize if i seem so harsh , but i speak the trueth.
  Sorry ATARI ,but im one of a million 
 unsatisfied customers.
  
  ,F8tal_e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andykas
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Jesus, when i first got my fingers on it i realized that it only didnt have horrible graphics it 
 also had weird story-line... The controls are troubled, too... Sound is very out of control too, 
 voices are lower than the effects, so you'll need to keep one hand on the volume controller. Cut-scenes 
 are disastrous, ripped from the movie and edited a bit.. The game isnt actually that much similar 
 to movie, only some parts, maybe... Graphics is like a cheap port from console, very blurry, jaggy 
 and just isnt what its supposed to be. I thank god that i didnt bought it from a store, yes i used 
 other "sources", and im happy that i did cos if i would have really bought this from a store i 
 would be giving this game a 1.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShirohamaX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I know, I know, Shiny made Enter the Matrix, and that game failed. Sorry, I played it, and to my 
 standards it sucked Cojones. BUT I feel Shiny kind of redeemed themselves with The Matrix: Path 
 of Neo.
  
  You may have seen the ads, where the narrator says that the W. Brothers came up with a new ending, 
 and yes they have. I, myself am satisfied with the ending, it kind of reminds me of a episode of 
 Power Rangers. Anway, onto the review.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Using the W-A-S-D keys and mouse, it is a pretty standard first/third person shooter. One thing 
 that really bugged me was that they put Focus (a skill Neo uses to concentrate on dodging bullets, 
 and doing other cool moves) on the L-Shift key. That was hard to use considering the dodge key 
 was L-Ctrl, but luckly you could change it, which I changed to e, yes I like Half-Life.
  
  Usually beating a level, you would get these random clips from the Matrix Triology and if you did 
 not see the movie, don't bother, you're going to be confused.
  
  One thing that Shiny advertised in the developer interview was the first level you play is going 
 to be a test. I really liked this idea of letting users play to the fit of death, so that the game 
 can determine what type of gameplay level you can choose (Easy, Normal, Hard, The One?) I, again 
 only unlocked Normal and Easy, and already I liked the game.
  
  This level allowed to you have most of the skills you EARN throughout the game, and it teaches 
 you the bare minimum to survive and it was fun just punching and clicking.
  
  One thing I won't deny this game is the incredible combos you can do. You can learn these combos, 
 and once you do, it is amazing. Especially when you use Focus. I won't go into more detail, and 
 let you play this game to find out what I'm talking about. 
  
  I was addicted to this game. This game has a LONG training section, but the rewards are endless. 
 It really helps you hone your skills, preparing you for the REAL Matrix. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  I got to say, before getting this game, there was a lot of buzz on message boards 
 talking about how bad the Framerate was, but I disagree. The minimum requirements were quite high, 
 but my computer is not amazing compared with todays standard. (AMD Athlon 2800+, Radeon 9600 (256 
 mb) , and only 512 ram. 
  
  I did not lag at all. No lag, none, whatsoever. So move on. There, that had to be said.
  
  
 The reason why I gave Graphics a 7, is because in some areas of a level, when you moved into a 
 certain level, the whole detail of the model would be gone and that is just disgraceful. I would 
 only see a grey model. However, the developers are trying to fix theses problems, and its great 
 they already have a patch out.
  
  The graphics weren't amazing, but they weren't BAD. You can't compared F. E. A. R or Half-Life 2 with 
 it, but I would say the Graphics I experienced was much like GTA: SA, the feel for the game itself 
 was a lot like that too, third person.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Music ingame was great. The sound effects weren't fancy, but they gave the user the satisfaction 
 of listening to the billion Smiths getting beat up.
  
  Value: 8/10
  I'm just biased towards this, or maybe because I'm Canadian, but I don't think games should ever 
 be 40$ or higher, and in this case, it wsa 50$ probably because of inflation, and other "service 
 taxes". Anyway, I think this game is worth it, if you like first/third person games, a matrix fan, 
 and patient.
  
  Shiny has done a great job with this game, and I think people are biased because of their performance 
 with Enter the Matrix. But, if you're a patient person, and forgiving, try this game out, I think 
 you'll be presently surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first I'll say this game isn't really worth buying, not for 49.99 anyway. So, if you have 
 xbox or PS2 I'd say just go ahead and rent it for a few days. Basically this game follows suit 
 with most games put out by Atari, half done and rushed. 
  
  The Good: The only real good thing about this game is it is pretty fun from a combat point of view. 
 Totally whaling on bad guys with your talents is fun and you get to use a samurai katana which 
 is also very cool. Some of the 'focus' moves are down right amazing. Once I was using my Katana, 
 tosse it up in the air over a guys head, jumped up and did a lateral 360 over him, grabbed the 
 sword mid-air, and while landing sliced down his back, killing him, was so awesome, kinda made 
 you wish they had replay in the game. :) I've done lots of very cool focus moves and combat in 
 general is pretty fun.
  
  The Bad: Basically everything else is bad, I have the PC version of the game, since I plan on selling 
 my xbox and PS2 soon to get the xbox 360. :) Anyway, the story seems to be only loosely based on 
 the films, the way they tell the story is very chaotic though, you'd never be able to follow it 
 if you haven't already seen all the films. Once of the biggest let downs though for me, were the 
 graphics. I mean in this day and age they could easily be a lot better overall, but even as they 
 are, they aren't even done well. The very first time I loaded up the game, the only thing I could 
 see was Neo's head, which was open at the top. I couldn't see the building I was in or the guys 
 attacking me, at first I wasn't even sure if this was an error or not. Eventually I restarted and 
 then could see the intended building lobby, but the graphical glitches throughout the game are 
 still horrendous. The issue with shadows is just commical. Whenever Neo steps into a shadowed area, 
 he just turns completely black, that's their idea of him being in shadows. Then there are gons 
 of texture issues, etc.
  
  So, while the game is actually fun, while fighting, the rest of the game falls short, so if you 
 buy this game, I'd suggest waiting for the price to drop way down, maybe when it hits the 19.99 
 or even better the 9.99 wrack at Wal-Mart. But you'd probably be satisfied with just a rental, 
 it does have slight replay value since you can go back and play finished levels and the first few 
 levels that I've come across are training type levels and are mostly pure combat. Like the level 
 with the katana, that's definately my favorite so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehybriddesign
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  True Matrix fans will find this game an absolute blast. Although it may be a little of the same 
 move over and over it is still fun to take on 7 guys and kick some major butt. Training is kinda 
 tough at times, but worth it in the end. Anyone that badmouths this game had way too much expectations. 
 I don't know why, anyone remember "Enter the Matrix"? Now that was a disappointment. 
  
  In retrospec, if you think you'll like this game YOU WILL! If your not to sure, take my word for 
 it. If you like the movie, you'll like that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danhabsi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  Man its the MATRIX and you are NEO !!!
  I think the best is to upgrade Neo's abilities...
  I'm already looking forward for the next Matrix Game
  ... maby with UNREAL 3 Engine ?!
  I would 
 take some other persons of the matrix and show this in a new title.
  Some other fighters which also can be upgraded and learn new attacks.
  I would take Original 
 music from the films ,the original voices of the actors
  and mr. Smith also have to be in the game.
  The Graphic have to be a milestone in the Videogames 
 world, so that the next titles are just story add ons for the mean game.
  The next important thing is to put a good multiplayer-, and online mod on the Game. The slowmotion 
 effect is one of the most attractive abilities in the Matrix games, maybe when there are lots of 
 enemies the slowmotion effect should take a 360 turnig around the player, wouldnt this be a cool 
 effect ?!
  So i'm still looking forward for a title like this, and i hope i will have the chance to play it 
 in the next 3 years.
  but in the matrix world is known that "everything that has an beginning has an end" so hopefully 
 "Path of Neo" was not the last Matrix game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: al3x_inferno
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  So, let's get the obvious things out of the way, this game IS NOTHING like Enter the Matrix (ETM) , 
 the only thing that reminded me of ETM is the way you kill enemies from behind. In my review i 
 will compare this game with other games and with the movies.
  
  Aspect of the game : I thought the game will be the exact copy of the movie, but it seems i was 
 wrong, not only that it has new adventures that are not shown in the trilogy, it also modifies 
 (slightly) the scenes from the movie.
  So, you start the game by chosing the blue or red pill, this is a bit funny cause in the movie 
 that happens later. After selecting the red pill, you end up fighting a series of bad guys so you 
 can determine the difficulty you will play on, this is pretty cool, not all games have this. After 
 doing that, you will play as Thomas A. Anderson escaping the Agents. In this part there are some 
 stealth elements, but they aren't so great. After you finish this part, you will be introduced 
 to a series of training programs, believe me, a lot of training, from hand-to-hand, sword combat 
 to gun fights. When you finish the training it seems the game is going in the wrong direction, 
 it seems boring, no real goal, graphics look awfull and you didn't see anything that was in the 
 movie. Well, things are going to change soon.
  
  Before analizing the game, let's talk about graphics, sounds...
  
  Graphics : I gave it a 6, 
 but many of you would not agree with me, you would say the graphics are bad, everyone says that, 
 yea sure they are bad if you compare it with other game, that part is obvious, but most people 
 don't see the rest, come on, just look at the envoirements, EVERYTHING can be destroyed, everything 
 can be torn apart, lot of smoke, lots of bullets, this part of the graphics reminds me of FEAR. 
 So... stupid graphics, great envoirements.
  
  Sounds : The guns and bullet sounds are amazing, exactly like in the movies, and probably like 
 in reality, also slow motion sounds are great. Music is great, but you only hear it at fights, 
 too bad... The only thing standing between the sounds and a 10 are the voices, they are not from 
 the actors, and they also sound a bit lame. Except that, everything is great, so a 7 for the sounds.
 
  
  Value : Enter the Matrix and most games become really boring after playing for a few hours, but 
 this game seems to keep you entertained because of the abilities you gain (read more on "Gameplay") , 
 the only thing boring in this game are the fights with the bosses that regenerate their lives (read 
 "Gameplay") . An 8 for value.
  
  Gameplay : Let's start.
  
  Weapons : You have a lot of melee weapons which you don't use to much, that's bad, and despite 
 the line "guns, lots of guns" this game DOESN'T have that many guns, simple pistols, grenades, 
 smg, rifle, and grenade launcher, so this is VERY BAD.
  
  Slow motion : I thought slow motion will be an important part of the game, but it seems it isn't, 
 slow motion is actually FOCUS, so you will use it to do cool moves, and not to make throws more 
 powerfull. Slow motion occurs automatic when you do something special, you wount be needing it 
 somewhere else, believe me.
  
  Moving : Most people complain about the cameras, i don't get it, it seems normal to me, it's just 
 like the other games of this type, it's just like in Max Payne or Prince of Persia. Walking on 
 walls is not such a big part of the game like it was in ETM, you only use the walls for special 
 attacks.
  
  Shooting : Most people say that shooting in this game is terrible, well... it is, it doesn't have 
 auto-targeting but it's rather hard to actually hit anything maybe because of the sensibility, 
 i usually play FPS with a low sensibility, but this game doesn't have one, the lowest is very high 
 (maybe just for me) . Slow motion will make you see bullets and the trail they leave, but it won't 
 help you aim better, not that much anyway.
  
  Envoirements : Things are very different from ETM, the places you fight are larger (this makes 
 wall-running useless) , and of course with things to destroy, a lot of things to destroy.
  
  Fighting and special moves : Fighting is the most important part of the game, unlike the lack of 
 weapons, you have a A LOT of moves to chose from, in fact, you have ALL the moves from the film, 
 if you've seen something in the movies, it can be done in the game as well. The moves aren't easy 
 to make, but they aren't very hard either, this is definetly NOT a click 'n watch game, you do 
 have to think about what you are doing or what you are going to do, even in easy difficulty. Basicly 
 you have a throw and a stun button, you can throw punches and kicks, but most will not succed, 
 that's why you need the stun button (this doesn't succed all the time either) . With the throw button 
 you can fight normally and it lookes like click 'n watch, but this won't be easy to do when you 
 fight more difficult enemies... that's where the stun button comes in. You stun the enemy and then 
 you have a series of moves to do, these moves are done a bid harder and will change at the middle 
 of the game, so you will not see the same moves over and over again, now this is VERY good. You 
 will have to choose special moves over the game, this will makes the game less boring after a few 
 hours of play, you will always have something new. Fighting multiple enemies is also a VERY important 
 thing, and very fun, you ever wanted to do the cool moves Neo does when fighting the 3 agents or 
 when he fights the Smiths ? well, this is your chance to do them, very very very cool.
  
  Special things : By special "things" i mean things like being able to see the Matrix as code and 
 the other abilities Neo has. Code vision isn't very imporant, you can use it to see the enemies 
 that are behind a wall or a door, but you don't really need to, it's not like they will disappear, 
 you still have to fight them. Even if it's not very usefull, it still is awsome (BTW - they made 
 Seraph look the same with everybody in code, but in the movie the code is goldish) . Another cool 
 thing is that Neo can dodge bullets, just like in the first movie on that roof top, but you will 
 not be able to do this after you unlock the "stop bullets" ability. Stoping bullet's or dodging 
 them isn't very usefull cause bullets don't hurt you that much, but it still looks cool. A lot 
 of people ask about flying, dissapointing, this ability isn't available. I also wanted the fly 
 ability, but the anti-gravity jump is really great, trust me, you jump very high. These special 
 "things" aren't very usefull, but they sure make the game a lot better, don't know why, maybe just 
 for me cause i'm a Matrix fan...
  
  Enemies : Well... this is a very important part of the game, and i can say they made it just right. 
 There are a lot of enemies, normal guards, police officers, police with shields, swat teams, agents, 
 Merovingian's soldiers, Smith, and many more. At first you only fight the police, the first encounter 
 with an Agent is more like a "run for you life" kind of action, which is good, Neo couldn't stop 
 Agents at first. But as you play the game enemies become stronger, don't worry, so will you (read 
 Overall) .
  
  Story : This game has it all, hand-to-hand combat, weapon combat, and the puzzles that most of 
 the games these days have. Yep, it's not all fighting and shooting, there are scenes in the game 
 where you have to put the muscle "that matters" to work,. The story isn't boring, the only thing 
 lame about it is the end (which i won't spoil) . Maybe it's just me, but it seems lame, anyway, 
 i was surprised to see who showed up at the end of the game, and so will you probably.
  
  Overall : In the movie, The One is very powerfull, and this is how he is in the game too, it's 
 very hard to get yourself killed from one point of the game (when you revive and kill Smith) , bullets, 
 kicks and punches hardly damage you, only special moves, the grenade launcher and melee weapons 
 will deal enough damage to cause real troubble, this is nice cause it's just like in the movie. 
 I was saying "from one point of the game", THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT : at the middle of the game everything 
 changes, your moves change, you are faster, stronger, you now kill enemies faster, and very important, 
 the Agents are upgraded, so they are a real threat, they regenerate, most of you will probably 
 think this is a bad thing, it is somehow, but i think it's a great ideea, i mean, they shouldn't 
 be very easy to kill. So, fights are longer than expected, that seems good, but later you will 
 find them to be too long. Most of your enemies are weaker when you almost killed them, but there 
 are enemies that are tougher when they are low on life. Despite that ETM didn't had that many fights 
 with strong enemies, this game has a lot of them, at one point, you will end up fighting only Agents 
 and enemies that will block most of your attacks and will counter the one's you succed. Multiple 
 enemy fights are very cool, not only that you can hit more enemies at the same time, but you also 
 have a series of combo's that you can do to 2-3 enemies (this is not easily done) .
  
  Tilt : The gameplay is more than cool, awsome or great, it's outstanding, you can play this game 
 for 10-20 hours and still wount be able to master all the moves, the difficulty of the game is 
 just right, and learning the hang of it can be done in 1-2 hours. Graphics are bad, sounds are 
 good, value is also good, so... 7 for Tilt.
  
  This game is NOT a click 'n watch game like ETM was, and it manages to have new stuff for you, 
 so you will not get bored, come on, how many games have this ? Also most people complain about 
 not having a save option, this is not something to complain about... well sure i think checkpoints 
 should be placed more often, but i don't think you need a quick save option. The only thing missing 
 in this game is Multiplayer, now that would be very cool. But i gues that's a job for Matrix Online...
 
  
  
  The game has 3 (i think) difficulty levels : Easy, Normal and The One, Easy is easy, Normal is 
 normal and i didn't yet played The One, but i'm guessing it's hard :) So, the difficulty is just 
 right. You need about 10 minutes to understand how everything works, but it will take you more 
 than just a few hours to master all the combos, after 20 hours of play i still find new combos 
 that i do by mystake lol.
  
  
  This game is incredible. I rated it as underappreciated because it has everything you need (except 
 graphics) and people say it's a bad game, no it isn't, just open your eyes and see that it's very 
 original and very complex.
  Most of the games made after movies aren't very good, but this game is an exception.
  
  Suggestions 
 : If you are a fan of the Matrix trilogy, then this game is for you ! If you like fighting, and 
 cool moves, then this game is for you ! If you like shooting people, then you should at least try 
 this game. If you just want something new, then it's the perfect game for you. If you want a cool 
 science fiction story and you haven't seen the movies, then this game is for you. If you are a 
 graphics dependent gamer, then this game i'm affraid is not for you.
  
  Have fun playing, i know i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalGotex
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  The story of The Matrix, The Matrix Revolution and The Matrix Reloaded combined with the game play 
 that will blow you away. The sound is what we expect from a Matrix game (the Matrix theme mixed 
 with Rock and Heavy Metal) The graphic engine isn't the best but you cant complain. The graphic 
 engine is similar to Prince of Persia Warrior Within (a little better) . The camera is good, but 
 lives room to improve (it is like in Enter the matrix) . The fighting system is very easy to master 
 ( if you played GAMES like this before) if not then you will need a bit of training, but it isn't 
 that hard. Overall the game is SUPERB!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efortier
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  Here's the lowdown: 
  
  - graphics suck big time
  - models are atrocious to look at
  - animations are bad, motion capture was surely not used
  - real people cutscenes break the pace 
 of the game
  - controls are bad
  - no save game sucks on PC
  - gameplay reminding of games 4-5 years ago
  - $45 for this game?
  - an utter insult to The 
 Matrix
  - I could go on, but you get the point
  
  You start at Neo's workplace and must follow Morpheus directions to escape the agent and police. 
 If you don't follow the directions very precisely, someone sees you or the police put the cuffs 
 on you and you're cooked.
  
  Frankly, I rarely saw a first level as frustrating as in Path of Neo. One step in the wrong direction 
 and an agent will see you. I restarted it so many times I almost quit right there.
  
  While on this level, you'll see some of the worst graphics of the past 5 years. The "computer room" 
 is so ugly you won't believe it. A game with bad graphics can be redeemed if the gameplay is good, 
 but there's nothing in here.
  
  'Nuff said. I pity the people at Gamespot that had to play this game to the end... If you still 
 think you might like this game, do yourself a favor and wait for a demo.
  
  Bottom line: Shiny, please stop making games based on this franchise. You suck at it.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RZappa31
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  PC Versions of POD might now have a say in the graphical issue as Atari (www. atari. com) has released 
 a patch for the game in the Support page fixing translation issues for non english/ fixing various 
 rendering/lightning issues, interface and icon issues on interface and menu screens, framerate issues, 
 texture issues, character model issues, particle/effects display issues, also addresses various 
 issues with some pc peripherals not listed 55.1mb patch and also quite a time to wait for it to 
 patch as i have a 3.0 dual core p4 2gb ram 256 6800 pci-e / extra empty pci-e (sli setup) and ive 
 been waiting for 5 mins while writing this review and its still updating the game so worht all 
 this time i hope its makes changes that were very much needed right away or this game would go 
 to the dump for me, ill review later to see if the changes helped out the game's status in the 
 gaming world. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintertim
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  Its terrible, I dont know about the xbox and the ps2 version, but the gameplay sucks, you almost 
 cant upgrade a thing, it is just uncontrolable, terrible camera views and the graphics are very 
 bad, and is also very hazy. I know its just a port, but i've seen better.
  
  The voice acting is alzo very bad..... you hear someone just saying it from a piece of paper and 
 the voices dont fit in the environments... very flat and all.
  
  The shooting is also very dissapointing because aiming is very unprecisely, and the camara view
 
  The only good thing of the game is, the cool martial arts moves...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shieldy21
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  Matrix: PON could have been a great game if there isn't so so many graphics and other bugs in the 
 game.
  First of all the graphics: If you are an Ati graphics card user, prepared to be disappointed as 
 the graphics will look like trash. The game doesnt allow Ati card users to reach the the maximum 
 graphics detail as if you do, there will be severe graphic issuses, like objects, cutscenes not 
 rendered properly (like on seeing the head for neo and the body is gone) . 
  From what i realised, the game's graphics looks very poor with low resolution pixels, even at 1024x768. 
 Although i may be wrong for Nvidia card users as they can turn their graphics to the max so i wouldn't 
 know how it looks. Right now apparently, the xbox version is a more "complete" version to the pc 
 version, so if you want to play this game i would recommend getting the xbox version. 
  
  Gameplay in my opinion is quite enjoyable with the combat system being very interesting but again 
 this is let down by graphics issues and the chopiness of some part of the game. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinamonas
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  I really liked The Matrix (the first movie) and I was so excited that I will be able to play this 
 game, but after I tried it, the excitement has gone far far away.
  
  Gameplay.
  If we'd skip the fact that combat system is broken, there are some good moves though, but that's 
 all the game can offer.
  You will see so many glitches during the combat, that all enjoyment will just disappear. The models 
 are sliding to each other when one goes off a bit and so on. Terrible...
  
  Graphics.
  Same here. Not to mention that they are outdated, authors were able to make them so broken that 
 it looks worse than a few years old games. You won't see much difference between this one and the 
 old one -- "Enter the Matrix".
  
  Sound.
  The worst thing I've ever seen: the subtitles are way off the original voice! That's awful. And 
 the music/sounds itself didn't get me into the game at all...
  
  Value.
  They made it terrible, while the game, based on such plot, could be many times better. That's sad...
 
  
  To conclude, first of all, the game is highly overrated. And the game itself is broken and really 
 disappointing... A disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xilanne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  As one of those rabid fans of Matrix, I was quite excited about this game's release. I picked it 
 up as soon as it was available, and started playing it.
  
  Path of Neo's a third person shooter, sometimes dubbed as the sequel of Enter the Matrix, which 
 received a wide range of grades from reviewers worldwide. The game features both melee and ranged 
 combat.
  
  Upon starting the game, we are greeted by a nice and simple menu. You can adjust the settings, 
 quit, or load a game. The controls menu allows the player to set primary and secondary buttons 
 for each command, which is useful for performing many-key combos. Sadly, quicksave is absent. The 
 graphics settings menu is somewhat simplistic, featuring a Brightness and a Rendering slide, the 
 second adjusting the Pixel Shader version the game will use. This has caused me some problems at 
 first, but after reading the short descriptions in the .ini file, i finally jumped into the fray.
 
  
  At first, I was a bit disappointed. The textures aren't very pretty, and the models are dull. After 
 I got over it, I collected my jaw from the floor and chose the red pill. This sent me to a sandbox, 
 so to speak, where I fought various enemies until i was beaten and shot down. The game uses this 
 level to decide which difficulty level would suit the player's skill. It's also a good place to 
 get used to the controls.
  
  Melee combat is played out with both hand-to-hand techniques, and weapons, which can break after 
 extended use. The animations used here are very good, and "realistic". This is the part where the 
 physics engine, Havok, has it's main role. Your attacks send people flying into walls, breaking 
 furniture. Unlike in Enter the Matrix, running up to armed enemies and punching them to death works 
 well, so the martial arts fans will be satisfied. This, I believe, is the best part of PoN.
  
  After beating two white-shirted guards senseless, we get to fight with armed guards. Crashing 
 one into the wall and taking his pistol, we get introduced to ranged combat. You'll have to use 
 plenty of focus here to actually hit something, as targeting is a bit strange, due to the camera 
 which sometimes acts as a really drunk person. Only a couple of weapons made it into the game, 
 but they do their job well.
  
  Throughout Neo's adventure, there are places where he becomes "more aware of his surroundings", 
 thus getting a longer focus bar, and a special ability. The ability is either spent at once, or 
 can be spent by the player to improve one branch of skills, adding an RPG element.
  
  The sound is good, and accurate. The voice acting fits the situations well, and the score suits 
 the locales and circumstances. We get to see footage from the movies as well, somewhat edited and 
 re-arranged.
  
  All in all, Path of Neo is certainly a solid game, which will probably satisfy most Matrix fans 
 (if they can get over the sometimes dull graphics) . I absolutely recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hideandfreak
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  I will spare you a long review and give it to your straight. This game is awful in almost every 
 respect. Now, if you care to read further . . . 
  
  The cut scene editing is a jumbled mess of scenes from the movies. The game play is inconsistent, 
 quirky and super duper repetitive. Most of the animation is passable; however, the jumps, walks 
 and run cycles are sub standard and amateurish looking. Some geometry intersection is ok and expected 
 in games, but there is one scene where Neo is running with a sword and the blade keeps poking through 
 is head. There are also many shots where the finger geometry can be scene intersecting with triggers 
 and what not. The texturing is rock bottom bad. There are a few cut scenes where you can see the 
 texture seam running right up a guys neck. The dynamics and physics are laughable. Neos belt 
 and bandana point straight up into the air or out to the side for no reason in some cut scenes. 
 The modeling is also sub par. The humanoid models look ridiculous especially on the main characters. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikecs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  Matrix-Path of Neo is not an over-night game play, I'm still in the training simulation, which 
 to some might seem never ending. Though with all the different abilities that Neo has, it would 
 be nearly impossible to play the game without the training. Everyone that watched the Trilogy knows 
 when Morpheous came in and asked "how's he doing" Tank said "10 hours straight, he's a machine" 
 so its no wonder the training takes so long.
  
  The martial arts aspect of the game is amazing, truely a work of art, much better than Enter the 
 Matrix, the movement with Path of Neo is almost fluidic. It has a natural flow to it, almost, and 
 the ability to fight multiple opponents, and the way it displays it, is amazing.
  
  In all of its glory, there are a few areas that could have been adjusted, though since I have the 
 PC version I'm looking forward to a patch for some of the bugs I've noticed. Nothings to annoying, 
 but it does interfere with the game play slitely, one of which is, you can't boost the graphics 
 all the way up... at least from what I've noticed. The first time playing it, the game crashed, 
 also after playing the game for about 2 hours, it suddenly decided to crash again for no reason. 
 And my computer is a P4 3GHz HT, with 1GB RAM, and 256MB DDR EVGA GeForce FX 5700LE.
  
  The sound is another area that I've been dealing with, though it may be partially because I have 
 a 4 year old speaker setup. The SB Audigy Audio, 5.1, what I've noticed is that even though some 
 of the voice and audio come through very clear, other voices are really muffled badly. For the 
 moment I will give the game the benefit of the doubt. As the music is incredible, its mostly the 
 characters voices that don't come out well.
  
  The learning curb in this case, is how long you spend in the training simulation, it might take 
 some just an hour... though if you've never been that great at combat, such as me, then it might 
 take you a few hours. There are several levels to the training, the first few are basic hand to 
 hand (throwing basic punches) Martial Arts (thats my favorite) , and then guns "Lots of guns".
 
  
  For those that don't like the training, its not all a waste, as half way through you get to fight 
 along side Trinity, who tells you she's there for the "exercise"
  
  The movie cut scenes which come between the actual gameplay are put together rather interesting, 
 it jumps back and forth giving a new perspective on the trilogy itself. Almost as in a memory sequence, 
 putting it together to give you a good idea of whats to come, though throwing you off enough to 
 keep you guessing.
  
  Though I've just playing the game for about a day, and have barely scratched the surface of the 
 game. I definitely say its a game worthy of any regular gamer, hardcore gamer, and Matrix fanatic 
 (that would be me) . Also if you mostly like shooter games its for you, but if you don't like shooter 
 games and prefer martial arts games, then its still for you. Want an awesome storyline, then its 
 for you.
  
  The Wachowski Brothers out did themselves on this game. Even with the small glitches I think its 
 a game everyone will have hours of fun with.
  
  Make sure to have all the latest drivers for you computer, the first crash was before I noticed 
 my video card driver was a few months out of date, afterward, everything has been fine, other than 
 the slight crash two hours later. Still other than that, the game has played flawlessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FREEDOMhacker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  There was a 60/70% completed version at a comic/games show in NZ. Most of the game was in it including 
 the film footage and upgrades etc... It plays well nicely, with plenty of cool moves to pull off. 
 Neo is very agile and you can run/flip around very easily. You can jump towards pretty much any 
 object or person and press jump and he'll jump off it. you can also focus jump massive distances (very 
 cool) and he also has a mid-air double jump. There is a very satisfying amount of destructible 
 scenery (especially during the Morpheus helicopter rescue) , with it all looking very nice when it 
 explodes. "Code Vision" also look's very cool. This game is definitely far superior to ETM in every 
 way, with none of the awkard looking animation. There are various unlockable's i. e.: Concept art, 
 movies, cheat's etc and also a "making of" video. The menus (which could've been placeholder) were 
 disapointingly bland and the code on the loading screen just didn't look right. Although I couldn't 
 hear it properly, the music sounded different to the film's which sucked. 
  
  The Burly Brawl: Disapointingly, you only fight 6 Smith's at once while the rest just crowd around 
 you running into each other. If you run up to the crowd, they run away (very funny...) , and there 
 is some noticible slowdown. The overall effect of it is quite good though and the 6 you fight are 
 enough. Smith fights like he does in the movies, i. e. no spin kicks like ETM but only 2 seem to 
 attack you at once. To use the pole you simply need to run up to it and a cut-scene will pop up 
 showing Neo pick it up and smash it into a Smith like the film. There weapons are decent enough 
 and don't seem tacked on. I couldn't do his running/spin around thingy, though this could be an 
 upgrade. To complete the level you need to smack 3 Smith's into the building's causing them to 
 crash down and stopping them. Oddly though after smacking 2 of them, a message pop's up telling 
 you to smash them into the buildings (really?) . Smith starts taunting you later on and his voice 
 didn't sound like Hugo Weaving's. Upon completion Neo goes through some silly looking stances before 
 flying away.
  
  Overall though the game does play very nicely and has an addictive feel that was definitely missing 
 from ETM. From what I saw and played i'd give it about a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannontm
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is my first attempt at reviewing a game so here it goes. 
  
  It should really say something when even installing a game is a chore. I had to turn off my virus 
 protection to install this game properly... It seems that in a few of the files there is something 
 that looks like a known virus and won't install them. I turned off virus protection and re-installed, 
 my computer has no ill effects of a virus and the game runs better.
  
  The menus leave alot to be desired, with not even the ability to control with a mouse, its all 
 arrows, enters, and escapes people. The graphical optimization is barren. The only adjustments 
 that can be made is a 1-10 scale for brightness, and detail rendering... and being able to choose 
 resolution... no AA, gamma adjustment, nothing... you can choose to turn on and off light bloom. 
 
  
  The game itself is very unstable, with frequent crashes to the desktop... mix this with an auto-save 
 only feature which only saves between levels and not checkpoints this becomes very frustrating. 
 The graphics in this game are also bad... perio... full of techinical bugs and bad textures, its 
 just not what we should be seeing graphically at this point. On the pc though the framerate was 
 stable, but I can think of a few places that the consoles are going to have problems.
  
  A game being named Path of Neo I was expecting to actually follow the Path of Neo but apparently 
 that wasn't good enough and some major liberties have been taken with the 
 
  The opening leve is neo's escape from the office building with ducking into cubicles... this is 
 a very long and drawn out level, with only the ability to shove the police (which is fine because 
 at this point he probably didn't have the ability to throw a punch) But instead of a duck here 
 and there and getting trapped on the ledge, you actually make it out of the builiding onto trinity's 
 bike... in most instances getting caught in this level is an automatic restart the level. Which 
 if he was captured in the movie to progress the story why doesn't it matter here. Although to be 
 fair near the end I think I saw a accept capture option (which I didn't take so it may not be that 
 big of an issue, but the accept capture should be an option all throughout the stage.*****************end 
 
  
  The Movie footage the show is actually a very good quality, but its mixed in an a quick cut out 
 of linear sequence way that was very meh, because we have already seen it, and it doesn't really 
 help the story progress.
  
  The level design is very poor... sure there are the levels from the movie, the question you have 
 to ask yourself is which movie... at which point you would answer one of the matrix movies, and 
 yes those are there... but there is also levels ripped directly from crouching tiger, and a few 
 others.
  
  The fighting in this game is actually a lot of fun and there seems to be a ton of moves to pulloff... the 
 problem is pulling off these moves feels very random with a big how the heck did I do that factor. 
 hit detection seems to be off with Swords going straight through people sometimes. Character modeling 
 is also pretty bad by todays standards with Neos head sometimes being not quite on his neck, and 
 other thechnical issues.
  
  Gun play is the exact opposite to the fighting, its not very fullfiling and quirky... plus there 
 really aren't as many guns as I would have liked to have seen in this game, with the plethora we 
 see in the movies I expected more. 
  
  Enemy AI is also not the brightest... with enemy's, Inculding some bosses, really just sitting around 
 waiting for you to hit them... the do use cover behing pillars but not really in the way that we 
 have become used to.
  
  All in all this game is very meh... not really worth the $50 that was spent on it... I would be really 
 happy to only spend $20 becuase thats really what its worth... however not all is lost becuase it 
 is fun to fight in this game and with some destructible enviornments it makes it playable for awhile.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
