-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Moon Project
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/moonproject/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: TopWare
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 11, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of the series will be able to dive right into the game and won't be disappointed. 

 The Moon Project is a fully 3D real-time strategy game set in the year 2150. It's actually the sequel 
 to Earth 2150, which was released in the summer of 2000. While it wasn't as popular in the United 
 States as it was in Germany (where it was originally released) , Earth 2150 was an excellent game 
 that remained true to real-time strategy conventions but still offered many interesting features, 
 such as the ability to construct original units from component parts. The Moon Project stays very 
 close to this formula and has the same three playable factions as the original game, but it also 
 introduces many improvements to the game's 3D engine, as well as additional weapons and units, 
 and improved enemy artificial intelligence.           Once again you play as one of the three factions 
    

  The Moon Project was originally intended to be an expansion to Earth 2150, but the developer decided 
 to make it a stand-alone game. Thought the new game is different from its predecessor, The Moon 
 Project does have a lot of superficial similarities to it, and this can make it seem like less 
 than a full-blown sequel. Earth 2150 told the story of three factions: the Eurasian Dynasty, Lunar 
 Corporation, and the United Civilized States. Each of these was trying to acquire enough resources 
 to build an evacuation fleet in time to escape the earth, following a major war that caused the 
 earth to move out of its orbit. Unlike most sequels, The Moon Project actually takes place during 
 the exact same time period as its predecessor. The Lunar Corporation discovers an alien relic buried 
 beneath the moon's surface and begins researching the weapon. The other factions catch wind of 
 this and move in to stop the new threat.   

  The 3D engine in The Moon Project has been revised to allow for more detail and has been optimized 
 to run more smoothly. The game also focuses on combat and research more than its predecessor does. 
 In Earth 2150's campaign, you had a time limit in which to build an evacuation fleet, but The Moon 
 Project doesn't confine you to these constraints.   

  While the engine has been improved, the controls and interface remain largely identical to those 
 in Earth 2150. Fans of the previous game will feel right at home, but the game is still pretty 
 easy for new players to pick up and start playing, especially if they're experienced with other 
 real-time strategy games. The Moon Project features easy-to-use camera controls: The right mouse 
 button is used to rotate and elevate the camera, while the mouse wheel is used to zoom in and out. 
 The interface panels are unobtrusive and can be removed, and building lists only appear when a 
 construction unit or facility is selected. The screen can even be split if you want to keep track 
 of different areas at the same time. You can also set the game speed, but speeding up play can 
 make the game's performance suffer on a low-end system. Otherwise, when the action gets intense, 
 the game simply slows down, so as to maintain playability by not compromising the frame rate. This 
 way, you can still coordinate attacks effectively.           Explosions launch shrapnel and fireballs 
 in the air    

  The Moon Project looks good, and the effects in the game are impressive. Plasma bolts and laser 
 beams are vividly colored, and you can see energy shields shimmer around the units on the receiving 
 end. Nuclear explosions form huge mushroom clouds that shake the screen violently. The game's 3D 
 engine isn't just for show -- the unit detail is high enough that you can tell what weapons are equipped 
 on the various units. This is particularly important because the game lets you construct your own 
 units, so it's good to be able to tell what sort of weapons are mounted on a tank chassis just 
 at a glance. When nighttime falls, you can even turn the lights off on your units either to hide 
 them or to help launch sneak attacks on an enemy. Even more minor details help add to the game's 
 atmosphere -- shadows revolve around a building as the day ends and nighttime begins. Trees burst 
 into flame and fall over when hit by errant gunfire.   

  The sound of the game isn't quite as good, but it's not that bad either. The weapon effects are 
 fairly subdued overall, though explosions sound convincing. On the other hand, the sweeping, orchestral 
 music is done really well, especially the Eurasian Dynasty's tracks. The game has 10 new music 
 tracks in addition to the standard Earth 2150 tracks.     

 Perhaps the greatest thing about the game is its convincing sense of realism. The maps are representative 
 of actual geographic areas on both the earth and the moon. When units or buildings are destroyed, 
 their charred remains are left on the battlefield. The former buildings actually block a unit's 
 line of site, so that units must maneuver around the rubble in order to get a clear shot at their 
 enemies. Your units can accidentally harm your own buildings if you're not careful: When rockets 
 miss their targets, they continue on their flight path until they explode. The terrain may block 
 shells and rockets from reaching their targets as well. Shields are only effective at blocking 
 energy weapons, so any projectile weapon will penetrate and take away from a unit's health directly. 
           Earthquake generators can damage buildings from below    

  The Moon Project adds new land, sea, and air units to each faction's already formidable arsenal. 
 Some of these new weapons are available to every side -- stationary artillery is one such addition. 
 It has a very long range and can cause massive damage as either an offensive or defensive weapon. 
 Each side can also place earthquake generators on units, which can severely damage buildings. Earthquake 
 generators can be very devious in that they can be used underground to damage buildings above. 
 In addition to these weapons, each side has some new unique units.   

  Thankfully, The Moon Project has improved the artificial intelligence of your units. While pathfinding 
 and target acquisition were already very good in Earth 2150, the units would continue moving toward 
 a target when attacking, even when they were within weapon range. This led to their getting themselves 
 killed by powerful, short-range weapons like the Lunar Corporation's electro cannon. The worst 
 culprits in Earth 2150 were the aircraft: They would chase enemies into their base and quickly 
 get destroyed in the process. The Moon Project fixes both of these major issues. Units stop at 
 their maximum weapon range when engaging targets. Not only can aircraft hold position and have 
 advanced scripts, but they can also have dynamic attacks. This means that they will swoop in to 
 fire their weapons, continue flying away from the target, then turn around to fire again. It's 
 only really useful when enemies haven't researched heat-seeking rockets.   

  The game features three single-player campaigns. The United Civilized States campaign starts with 
 your having to rally its disorganized forces on the moon. You must lead your forces to find lost 
 units and to find the main base. The Lunar Corporation must defend its home territory. The Eurasian 
 Dynasty campaign takes place on the earth -- you play as an ambitious warrior who tries to gain in 
 rank by gaining career points for each victory you achieve.           New units add to the arsenal 
 of each side    

  The fact that the game was intended to be an add-on does show. There aren't as many missions available 
 as in Earth 2150. Yet it's not a short game, as each side has at least 10 missions, not including 
 nonessential side missions. The missions can be difficult right from the beginning due to your 
 being outnumbered or your being outclassed in technology. Even the first mission starts you off 
 with some of the more advanced weaponry that wasn't even available in Earth 2150 until halfway 
 through the game. Unfortunately, the enemy artificial intelligence can't cope with advanced strategies 
 or weapons. For example, when playing as the UCS, the computer can't get around the shadow technology 
 that cloaks friendly units from sight. So a group with only one shadow unit can decimate a computer's 
 base without it even firing a shot in retaliation. When you get to this point, you will find more 
 enjoyment playing multiplayer games against human players. Multiplayer games can be found on Earthnet, 
 the free matchmaking service provided with the game.   

  The Moon Project is one of those games that make you wonder why others in the genre don't have 
 the same features. Then again, a real-time strategy game with good graphics, good artificial intelligence, 
 and good unit balance is quite uncommon. But The Moon Project is such a game: The graphics are 
 distinctive, the computer opponent is good enough to give even experienced players a tough time, 
 and each side plays differently and has its own advantages. Fans of the series will be able to 
 dive right into the game and won't be disappointed. New players may even be compelled to get Earth 
 2150 after their experience with The Moon Project. Regardless, if you're into real-time strategy 
 games, then you'll find that The Moon Project is a rewarding, interesting game that's well worth 
 your while.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game and its ''father'' EARTH 2150 show the way that RTS should be made like.
  Its realish is astonishing.. laser weapons increase the heat inside the vehicles causing explosion ( 
 on the other hand laser is useless against building which have much more space and are difficult 
 to be heat up- i give this example because of C&amp; C3 where the laser is a common weapon that 
 simply reduces enemy energy-total dissapointment) rockets miss their target if not ugraded, snow 
 sits on vehicles if they stand for a while etc.
  The graphics are amazing. even today they look very good. imagine 2000 that earth 2150 first realeshed. 
 day and night cyrcle is very good, lightrealish is fantastic even for today, weapons effects are 
 really fun to watch.
  the sound of the game isnt very good. speech of units is nice but the soundtrack are very limited, 
 and sound effects should be a little better.
  the research tree and staff is very good and makes this game unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowUs3r
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  That is what this game is all about. The first time i picked this game up from radio shack in the 
 bargin bin for $9.99 CAN in 2002 i thought to myself that this would not be too good of a game. 
 But i was wrong, comepletely wrong.. This game is amazing, for a game from 2001 the graphics are 
 top notch the gameplay is great but the sounds were a little weak. The value of this game is totally 
 awesome.. 9.99.. GOD! Another plus to this game is the multiplayer feature, there are probaly 60 
 -120 people that still this game online a day which is great.. I enjoy getting stomped by 7 pro 
 players all attacking me at once. :) The only problem i find with this game is the sound.. the 
 explosions sound so weak and the voices of the units begin to get annoying after a while, the only 
 plus side to the sound is the orchestral music being played in the heat of battle.. it's so neat. 
 ^__^
  
  I give this game a 9.0 out of 10 for stuff.. kekeke. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
