-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Neverhood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/neverhood/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 8.4, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 561 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamworks Interactive
Developer: The Neverhood
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The frustrating thing about The Neverhood is that its simple beauty belies its malformation. 
 

 The frustrating thing about The Neverhood is that its simple beauty belies its malformation, making 
 it all the more difficult to squash. Never before has a game's window on its own secret world begged 
 so colorfully and texturally for you to stick your hand right into the thick of it and start moving 
 your character around. Were this by some as-yet invented medium actually possible, however, the 
 design would backfire, for the ability to encircle little Klayman's neck and squeeze all of the 
 animated life out of him in the last third of the game would make ever finishing it impossible. 

 Which is not to say that finishing the game isn't impossible anyway. While exploring The Neverhood's 
 early stages and solving its puzzles - which involve moving or rearranging items, making connections, 
 and mimicking a tune - are a pleasure to work your way through, things take a serious turn for 
 the worse the deeper you go. Clues are so abstract they will lead you to despair. Remembering what 
 you have encountered and how it may be relevant to your current situation or problem becomes a 
 dumbfounding enterprise - in part because once you pick up an item and add it to your inventory, 
 there's no way to see it to reconsider its use - or anything else you are carrying - again. It's 
 not until you click on whatever else one or more of your inventory items goes with that it suddenly 
 reappears and fits itself into the grand scheme of The Neverhood's muddily linked together objects. 
 Trial and error is one thing, but to make, for instance, the assumption that players will spontaneously 
 relate a beam of light and a series of floating crystals to the colors in the spectrum of 
 visible light that you learned back in high school is just plain unfair.  

 Which is a pity, especially when you consider how the game's fungible look and feel will, on the 
 surface, appeal to younger players. The irony saddens the heart, because The Neverhood seems to 
 have everything going for it: A lovingly hand-crafted character dreamed up by Earthworm Jim creator 
 Doug TenNapel, painstakingly modeled sets, and - for once - marvelously animated cut scenes that 
 are a joy to watch, each one building upon the last, as though you're sitting front and center 
 in the screening room of your own private, shoe box-size claymation film festival. Yet despite 
 its lively hero and enchanted story, The Neverhood's sum of parts never quite lives up to its promise. 

 Published by DreamWorks Interactive, whose founders include former Disney animated film honcho Jerry 
 Katzenberg, Stephen Spielberg, and David Geffen, it is hard not to expect a certain level of widespread 
 accessibility for young and old players alike, along the lines of that perennial mega best-seller, 
 Myst. But as with certain unsatisfactory films such as Casino, whose actors mesmerize us, and whose 
 locations and sets and cinematography transport us to another place and time, the plot ultimately 
 distracts us from ever reaching total absorption. The Neverhood would have benefited from a tighter, 
 more attainable script.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: courageslasher
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  The Neverhood is a perfect combination of humor and difficulty. Though it is lacking in length, 
 The Neverhood has such tricky and challenging puzzles that it could take you a month or 2 to beat 
 it. This game is not for little kids, even if it has no text. Believe me. I remember playing it 
 when I was 4, and the giant green monster scene that I now find hillarios, gave me nightmares for 
 a week. For it's time, the graphics are certainly fantastic. The Neverhood is not nearly as ridiculously 
 obscure as Gamespot says. One of the characters will send you clues throughout the game for when 
 you are stuck on some of the more difficult puzzles. They do get quite difficult. In conclusion, 
 The Neverhood easily gets ten out of ten, 2 thumbs up, however you say it, this game was humorous 
 and fun from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slobaldric
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the BEST point and click adventure game of all times. It is the first adventure 
 game I played as a kid.
  I completed the game about 4 times.
  The graphics and animations are great.
  The cinematics are the best because of the claymation. The 
 music is superb.
  Everything in the game is just different from the usual adventure game, the music, the enviroment 
 is just wacky and different .I even went and bought a soundtrack of the game (and I usually don't 
 do that) .
  That is what makes Neverhood a revolutionary and great game to play.
  
  A few of the puzzles are a bit hard but you get through.
  
  The ending is great. You can choose 
 between the good or bad ending.
  
  In the entire game there were only 2 annoying moments. One of them was the long tunnel in Hoborgs 
 house and the puzzle where you had to memorize a sequence of symbols (a lot of them) and then you 
 had to enter the same sequence at another point in the game.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who loves a puzzle adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-hearts987
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The frustrating thing about The Neverhood is that its simple beauty belies its malformation, making 
 it all the more difficult to squash. Never before has a game's window on its own secret world begged 
 so colorfully and texturally for you to stick your hand right into the thick of it and start moving 
 your character around. Were this by some as-yet invented medium actually possible, however, the 
 design would backfire, for the ability to encircle little Klayman's neck and squeeze all of the 
 animated life out of him in the last third of the game would make ever finishing it impossible.
 
  
  Which is not to say that finishing the game isn't impossible anyway. While exploring The Neverhood's 
 early stages and solving its puzzles - which involve moving or rearranging items, making connections, 
 and mimicking a tune - are a pleasure to work your way through, things take a serious turn for 
 the worse the deeper you go. Clues are so abstract they will lead you to despair. Remembering what 
 you have encountered and how it may be relevant to your current situation or problem becomes a 
 dumbfounding enterprise - in part because once you pick up an item and add it to your inventory, 
 there's no way to see it to reconsider its use - or anything else you are carrying - again. It's 
 not until you click on whatever else one or more of your inventory items goes with that it suddenly 
 reappears and fits itself into the grand scheme of The Neverhood's muddily linked together objects. 
 Trial and error is one thing, but to make, for instance, the assumption that players will spontaneously 
 relate a beam of light and a series of floating crystals to "the colors in the spectrum of visible 
 light that you learned back in high school" is just plain unfair.
  
  Which is a pity, especially when you consider how the game's fungible look and feel will, on the 
 surface, appeal to younger players. The irony saddens the heart, because The Neverhood seems to 
 have everything going for it: A lovingly hand-crafted character dreamed up by Earthworm Jim creator 
 Doug TenNapel, painstakingly modeled sets, and - for once - marvelously animated cut scenes that 
 are a joy to watch, each one building upon the last, as though you're sitting front and center 
 in the screening room of your own private, shoe box-size claymation film festival. Yet despite 
 its lively hero and enchanted story, The Neverhood's sum of parts never quite lives up to its promise.
 
  
  Published by DreamWorks Interactive, whose founders include former Disney animated film honcho 
 Jerry Katzenberg, Stephen Spielberg, and David Geffen, it is hard not to expect a certain level 
 of widespread accessibility for young and old players alike, along the lines of that perennial 
 mega best-seller, Myst. But as with certain unsatisfactory films such as Casino, whose actors mesmerize 
 us, and whose locations and sets and cinematography transport us to another place and time, the 
 plot ultimately distracts us from ever reaching total absorption. The Neverhood would have benefited 
 from a tighter, more attainable script.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is a Revolutionary game!! The first EVER game made in clay!! No other game has been made 
 with such inovation!!
  
  BOO HAA!! The same old 3D Gfx Animations!! This game is a game that can be played even today 2008!! 
 And it was made 12 years back in 1996 can you believe it??
  
  Now what is Neverhood really about?? Why am i saying its under appreciated??
  
  Neverhood is 
 a game that revolves around a character called Klayman!! The story is kinda silly but that's understandable 
 guys its a KID's GAME for god's SAKE!!
  
  Anyways the story is You, Klayman is trying to stop another EVIL guy from being crowned the king 
 or stealing it from the real king of the COUNTRY called NEVERHOOD King Hobart. The game for 1996 
 has 2 ENDINGS or as they say in today's games ALTERNATE ENDING!!
  
  The graphics for that time (I Played this game in 1998) were ABSOLUTELY MINDBLOWING!! Its really 
 good even for today!! Just because the hero looks like a DICK and the game is little silly doesnt 
 mean it has to be rated POORLY 4.9 BAH!!! PATHETIC work by GAMESPOT!! 9.1 USER rating is perfect!! 
 Infact it deserves more atleast a 9.5!! The puzzles of this game are EXCELLENT and innovative!! 
 One of the best puzzles and the BEST PUZZLES in the 90's ERA!! The only little drawback was that 
 this game is VERY DIFFERENT from any game you have played and hence may take you by shock!! Also 
 the some of the PUZZLES are WAY TOO HARD!!
  
  You will either LOVE this game a LOT or hate this game a LOT!! No neutral or balanced feelings!! 
 This legendary game is made such a way!! If you have never played this game, you wanna try it out 
 definitely try it!! The graphics are great and the gameplay damn funny that is if you are a 12 
 year old KID!! If you are a guy who is used to playing GTA or NFS please dont play this game!! 
 It will just be like enduring the torture of playing old games like Contra, Doom, Prince Of Persia, 
 Mario or even Bomber Man for that matter!!
  
  Thank You!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss71
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When I got my first computer (not counting the piece of crap Mac I had) The Neverhood came with 
 it and so I played it. I was probably 13 or 14 at the time and I had fun playing it. Its a very 
 funny game and the puzzles can be quite challenging. The Game is clay animation and it's the 1st 
 and only time I've ever seen this. The game is rather long and parts are quite tedious. Theirs 
 this hall that you can choose to walk down and read little bits of story but it takes like a total 
 of thirty minutes to get to the end and back and all your doing is side scrolling and clicking 
 left or right. I finally finished the game and then let a friend barrow it and we both agreed that 
 it was fun but it has zero replay value. ZERO!!! So I wouldn't go hunting for the game but if you 
 stumble across it, you should give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helena73
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I had to review this game because I enjoyed the imagination that was put into it. The Neverhood 
 is a game that I played about 10 years ago but I have not forgotten. It was a hell of a puzzle 
 to solve, lots of fun when I'd get it right and I got attached to the little plasticine character 
 that I got to play.
  
  The environment in the game is very nostalgic, very strange indeed, you feel like you are literally 
 in another land with a little lonely guy trying to poke his way around and make sense of things.
 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who has the patience to solve puzzles without using any FAQ's or 
 walkthroughs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  The Neverhood is a 1996 PC CD-ROM Claymation video game created by animator Doug TenNapel and released 
 by Dreamworks Studios. It is an adventure game. Each clay animation is painstakingly captured frame-by-frame.
 
  
  Owing to the quirky and wacky animation, silly characters and unusual music by composer Terry Scott 
 Taylor, this award winning game has a cult following to this day, though it has been out of print 
 and largely unavailable for years. As of 2007, there are numerous fansites devoted to The Neverhood. 
 Its soundtrack, Imaginarium: Songs from the Neverhood, also continues to sell well.
  
  The Neverhood received good reviews, but was not a commercial hit. By the mid-1990s adventure games 
 had begun to decline in popularity. Several other adventure games made in this period such as Grim 
 Fandango also received critical acclaim, but failed to sell well. The Neverhood was put in the 
 official Microsoft list of underrated games. [1]
  
  A sequel to The Neverhood was released in 1997-98 for Sony's PlayStation video game console entitled 
 Skullmonkeys. It was not an adventure game like the first installment, but rather a platform game.
 
  
  Characters
  
  Klaymen
  Klaymen is the protagonist of the story. The player leads him on his adventures through The Neverhood, 
 solving puzzles and getting out of difficult situations.
  
  He is a curious, cheerful being and a cousin of Willie Trombone. Klaymen is the hero of the Neverhood, 
 and also to Planet Idznak. He saves the creator of the Neverhood, Hoborg, from his long, solid 
 sleep and ruins evil Klogg's plan - or takes over the throne, depending on the player's final choice 
 for an alternate ending.
  
  Klogg
  Klogg is a creature created by Hoborg for companionship. Although originally just greedy, after 
 stealing Hoborg's crown Klogg became downright sinister. He will stop at nothing to keep you from 
 completing your quest. In the end, his plans fail after he accidentally shoots himself with a giant 
 cannon, knocking him off of the Neverhood (he ends up landing on the planet Idznak, created by 
 Hoborg's younger brother Arven) .
  
  Hoborg
  Hoborg is the creator and ruler of the Neverhood. He also gave life to Klaymen and the evil Klogg. 
 The name Hoborg means Big Heart (referenced in the Hall of Records) . He, with Willie Trombone and 
 Big Robot Bil's help, went through a harsh journey and got the finest klay in the universe. This 
 klay could last for ever, and was perfect to make the Neverhood. The first son he made was Klogg, 
 but Klogg wanted to be the ruler and took Hoborg's crown. Without the crown, Hoborg went into a 
 deep sleep, lifeless. Luckily, one life seed escaped Klogg's attention. Willie took this seed, 
 which grew into Klaymen, the hero who would save the Neverhood from Klogg's evil reign. Later, 
 Klaymen got the crown back and returned it to Hoborg's head. Hoborg was pleased and made many more 
 sons with the remaining life seeds.
  
  Willie Trombone
  Willie Trombone is Klaymen's dim-witted cousin and informant throughout the game. Willie is afraid 
 of Klogg and really wants to help Klaymen. The Hall of Records chronicles Hoborg's first meeting 
 with Willie, but also the fact that he was created by Ottoborg, a picture of whom can be found 
 on the wall in Willie's room.
  
  Big Robot Bil
  Big Robot Bil is Willie's robot pal. He is humongous, metal, very creaky, and just wants to hold 
 his teddy bear. He was one of the robots that Ottoborg created. There were three of them, Appie, 
 Togor and Bil. Bil was good at building. When Ottoborg's world broke apart, Bil met Willie Trombone. 
 Then they met Hoborg, and helped him to find the finest klay in the universe. In gratitude, Hoborg 
 gave Bil a blue teddy bear. Bil loved it. Willie and Bil stayed in Hoborg's world called The Neverhood, 
 after Hoborg finished it. But Klogg took over Neverhood and he trapped Bil in a sort of prison. 
 He also turned Bil bad, by pushing a lever from 'good' to 'bad' inside Bil's body. Soon Klaymen 
 came to rescue. Bil's good nature was restored and Bil got his Teddy back. But Klogg was watching, 
 he sent the Clockwork Beast to stop Klaymen. Bil defeated the beast with Klaymen's help. But Teddy 
 was broken by the beast with its Bear Retrieval Units. Klogg wasn't satisfied yet, he fired the 
 cannon and blew a hole on Bil's body, soon he fell out of the Neverhood along with Willie. Willie 
 appeared in Skullmonkeys, the second game of Neverhood, and Bil was left on The Neverhood to protect 
 it until Klaymen got back.
  
  Bear Retrieval Units
  The Bear Retrieval Units are sent out by the Clockwork Beast to retrieve Bil's blue bear. They 
 are eyeless, beaked, skinny creatures similar to pterodactyls who wear red hats and drive in a 
 roofless car with a harpoon gun. In the Neverhood theme, they are referred to as Crit Units 'A' 
 and 'B'.
  
  Clockwork Beast
  The Clockwork Beast is a mechanical beast created by Klogg to protect his castle. It's about the 
 size of Big Robot Bil, and looks similar to the Bear Retrieval Units, except for its two cyborg 
 eyes and other mechanized features. It was released once to try and stop Big Robot Bil from entering 
 Klogg's castle. It knocked down Bil and ripped off his blue bear's head. Bil got angry and defeated 
 the beast by knocking it off of the Neverhood with his built-in springs
  
  Weasel
  A large greenish crustacian/insect creature that chased Klaymen early in the game, when he accidentally 
 released it from a closed cave. Eventually, Weasel chased Klaymen into a house after trying to 
 catch him. Klaymen then fed Weasel a Klaymen-looking doll thingy made of dynamite, and blew him 
 up.
  
  The Neverhood Hall of Records
  The Neverhood Hall of Records is a 38-screen long wall found in the game, filled with The Neverhood 
 Chronicles, Bible-esque lore of the universe in which the Neverhood exists. The Hall of Records 
 was made up of a self-carving, history recording klay wall. This wall once belonged to Quater, 
 the creation of Father. Quater, as Father commanded, recorded history with these walls. There were 
 seven of these klay walls, given to Quater's seven sons, Ogdilla, Bertbert, Numeron, Ottoborg, 
 Homen, Hoborg, and Arven. One of them could be found in the Neverhood, in the Hall of Records. 
 The wall stopped recording when Klogg took the throne of Hoborg.
  
  In an unofficial Russian translation of the game, the writings were replaced with humorous stories.
 
  
  The Neverhood Chronicles (written by Douglas TenNapel and Mark Lorenzen) tells the story of the 
 creation of the universe in which the Neverhood exists. It contains eight separate books and occupies 
 38 screens within the game. While reading it isn't necessary to complete the game, traversing the 
 38 screens it occupies is.
  
  Several of the characters and stories found within The Neverhood Chronicles possess striking similarities 
 to those found in the Bible. In addition, several large portions of The Neverhood Chronicles are 
 written in Biblical verse fashion, with close examinations of detailed lineage throughout.
  
  Upcoming feature film
  Doug TenNapel wrote in March 2007 to his official forum that he is 
 in talks with a producer about making a movie based on the Neverhood world. [3] Frederator Studios 
 later remarked that they would be working with Doug TenNapel on the film. [4]
  
  A June 25 Variety article confirmed that The Neverhood would be one of the first projects of the 
 newly formed Frederator Films, a company formed for the purpose of creating animated feature films 
 budgeted under $20 million
  
  Trivia
  A PlayStation port of the PC game dubbed Klaymen Klaymen was made and released to Japanese audiences 
 only. The Japanese release of Skullmonkeys, in turn, received the appropriate name Klaymen Klaymen 
 2. Following the sequel, another Japanese PlayStation game set in the Neverhood universe called 
 Klaymen Gun-Hockey was made. A Japan-only sports action game, it was based on the characters of 
 the Neverhood, but was not developed by the designers of the original games; it also did not feature 
 the previous releases' distinctive Claymation design techniques. The game is a variation on air 
 hockey, only played with guns instead of mallets. Klaymen is featured as a secret fighter for the 
 PlayStation game Boombots, developed by The Neverhood, Inc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  ok all the people who voted this game 4.9 just dont get this game, look at the PLAYER REVIEW Score, 
 its 9.0 How the hek can there be such a big diffrence of score unless im right? I lost faith in 
 gamespot, im very very disappointed that this game is scored so low, i think its a master piece. 
 Sure the gameplay get boring sometime (for example the long tonnel) any way, i think this is a 
 very beautiful work of art, and it deserves MUCH MUCH MUCH better than 4.9. who ever voted 4.9======&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
 at least play the game then vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezner
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Go on a funny, entertaining and enjoyable journey with clayman as he travels through a plasterscine 
 built world full of imaginiation and originality. the graphics are new and refreshing which makes 
 you feel like you are in a real animated story exept you control everything. the whole game is 
 full of puzzles and challenges which keep your mind in constant use and the collection of obstacles 
 may prove to be difficult but it is rewarding to see the funny movie at the end of some of them. 
 Although this game didnt receive any special awards for its ingenius build, it still is more fun 
 than some of these next generation games you see on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSphoenix
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  ...
  u can write this good, i dunno y u can't rate...
  4.9= well yeah u have some serious issues...
 
  i rate from 9.0 to 9.4 ... cuz i really think the game deserves it...
  i really hope to see Neverhood 2 soon.. though it's nothing but a mirage to me : (
  but let's pray 
 to see such fantastic games in the future :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shengongwu3000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  The Neverhood is the very first clay animated PC game ever to come out. It was also the beginning 
 of Klaymen's adventures. Not only this game is amazing, it is also funny. Klaymen experiences through 
 many comedic events such as falling down the stairs, jumping into the hole that leads to nowhere, 
 and being chased by a big green monster. It's too bad that they stopped making this great game 
 for any video game console available. I was really hoping to play this game myself, but they're 
 completely sold out. I try to buy one at eBay, but the prices are so high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredz123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Me Willie, Me Willie Trombone . Embark on a clay adventure that breaks the mold. This game was 
 completly made out of clay. Its graphics are great for the time period in which it was created. 
 The Sound is awesome . Though this game may look like fun for a child it is extremely hard. This 
 game is basically a collection of puzzles and obstacles you have to make it through to advance 
 in the game. This game is really a great game but was forgetten due to its terrible ratings that 
 were given to it from several websites.
  
  If you ever find this game at a garage sale pick it up.
  
  This game will Run on Windows XP 
 though it was made for WIndows 95 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klobot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is by far the best game ever made, which may surprise some, as I am a fan of First-Person 
 Shooters and many modern games, and I find it hard to enjoy most older games. The Neverhood is 
 a 10-year old adventure that at first looks childish, but then you play it...
  
  Story:
  
  10/10
  
  The story is my favorite aspect of the Neverhood. Once you press start, you are 
 instantly thrown in a blue room, and you see some weird looking klay guy sleeping and snoring. 
 *CLICK*. He wakes up. There is a door with no knob over to your right. You click a red button next 
 to it, and the window opens, but the door remains shut. So you move to the left and pull a lever, 
 which swings a mallet down over the door, which is now bended and in rough shape. You do it twice 
 more and it opens. That's pretty much how starts. This game progresses beautifully. You soon realize 
 your name is Klaymen. You are on a quest to collect 20 floppy disks, which can be stored into T. V. 
 machines that are scattered throughout the world. The disks tell a story told by one Willie Trombone, 
 a clumsy but heart-felt character. Basically the world you are in, or rather on, is called the 
 Neverhood, or the place that never was. It was originally called the Everhood, created by king 
 Hoborg who has a magic crown. He decided to create inhabitatnts. His first creation was Klogg. 
 Klogg was greedy though, and stole Hoborgs crown, paralyzing Hoborg. Klogg mutated into a powerful 
 being, and was ruler of the Neverhood ever since. I won't ruin the rest of the story for you, but 
 basically in the end you are given two choices, to rule the Neverhood like Klogg, or to save Hoborg.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  10/10
  
  The gameplay is just point-n'-click. But oh what a marvelous click it is. Gamespot has said that 
 clues are sometimes abstract. I disagree. Some clues may be un-orthodox, but they all require some 
 logic, and once you find the anwsers, you'll think back to how stupid you were. Here's the best 
 advice I can give you, if you get stuck, retrace your steps all the way back, to the first room 
 if you have to. Basically the puzzles are magnificent. Some may be figured out right away by some 
 people, while others will keep them stuck you weeks on end. No two puzzles are the same. Some puzzles 
 interwind with others. It's all good.
  
  Graphics:
  
  10/10
  
  There are simply no graphics like the neverhood. It was created over several years in klaymation, 
 a painstaking process of moving peices of Klay frame by frame turning it into an animation. This 
 game looks spectacular. The only reason it can't compete with today's graphics is because it was 
 limited to 256 colors and was shot on a 320x240 pixel camera. But for the time it was created, 
 it looks simply astonoshing.
  
  Sound:
  
  10/10
  
  The voice-acting in the Nevehood was actually all done by the creators, modified for the pitch. 
 It isn't exactly the most professional, luckily the Neverhood has very few times when talking is 
 needed to explain what's going, unless you count the disk-story by Williw Trombone, but that's 
 already great. The music should probably have its own section. Doug TenNapel (the creator of the 
 Neverhood) hired Christian Rock singer Terry Taylor. Strangely enough, the Neverhood's score sound 
 nothing like Terry Taylor's regular music, or any music really. Originally planned to be natural, 
 earthly music, it actually sounds like happy, fast-paced, never-gets-old, dixieland music. It was 
 all done by a talented orchestra, and the only parts edited were the singing, which was done comepletely 
 by Terry Taylor himself. Every song is great in its own respect, and you could easily listen to 
 it time and time again. I've found that turning it on in the car radio can pick me up and make 
 me happy when I'm feeling down. It isn't like anything you've ever heard, but that turns out to 
 be a wonderful thing.
  
  Value:
  
  10/10
  
  This game probably has more value than must games out today. I mean, klaymation is one of the most 
 painstaking arts there is, as I know from experience. The creaters literally spent night working 
 on the game. But it all payed off, the animations are great and smooth, the Neverhood itself looks 
 amazing and colorful, and it really looks better than almost all other games at that time.
  
  Tilt:
  
  8/10
  
  At first this game looks childish, with un-educated humor, and many 
 fun colors. But the Neverhood can be played by people of all ages. For toddlers it can be a colorful 
 adventure, for teenagers it can be a great way to spend time, and ever for middle-aged people it 
 can be used to exercise their mind.
  Unfortunatley it isn't portrayed like that at first glance, so I can't give full marks here.
 
  
  Total: 9.4/10
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  The best game I can ever remember playing, a classic, original, there are so many ways to describe 
 the Neverhood, and all of them are positive. Basically, I would suggest doing everything you could 
 to get a copy of this game, the best way would probably to get it off of eBay. I promise everyone 
 will enjoy the Neverhood experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yaxxxy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  How could they. How could Gamespot have rated one of the best point-and-click games ever a measly 
 4.9? The Neverhood is nothing short of a masterpeice. With its brilliant sense of humor and amazing 
 landscape, mixed with clever puzzles, you can't go wrong. The characters are interesting (Willie 
 Trumbone is one of the high-lights) and are wonderfully crafted out of clay. This original approch 
 is great and works really well with the puzzles and cut scenes. Sadly, The Neverhood is not on 
 sale anymore but if you know anyone who has it or you've seen it on E-Bay its a definate must buy.
 
  Gamespot say it's a 4.9
  We say its a 9.1
  
  I think maybe Gamespot should actually get people who can actually play the game properly before 
 giving it a bad reveiw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattwinter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant - It's not a typical video game, and in my experience it is the sort of 
 game that people who don't normally play games will love.
  
  Not that gamers won't like this as well.
  
  If you want to play this game, be prepared to spend 
 time with it. Be prepared to get stuck in one place for weeks on end - it is difficult. But it's 
 difficulty is what really makes it rewarding. I think the best way to play it is in bursts - play 
 it for a week or so, and then when you get stuck - give it a rest. When you have forgotten about 
 the game for a week or so, you might come back and find the answers obviuos.
  
  My tips for getting through this game is to think logically, remember that everything has a purpose 
 and if you get stuck - there's usually only one or two places where you can solve puzzels and move 
 on.
  
  It's also a good idea to have a piece of paper handy, as you will need to write things down.
 
  
  This game is also long, I remember thinking that I was almost at the end on multiple occasions. 
 Once you get going, you will want to finish this game - and while it starts off as a couple of 
 fun puzzles - you suddenly realise the depth this game has.
  
  And did I mention the humor - hilarilous, but I won't spoil any of it for you (just make sure you 
 eat 3 apples - you'll know when you get there) .
  
  My Conclusions - brilliant game, but know what you're getting into when you start playing, have 
 patience and persistance and it will turn out to be a fantastic experience for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfisha
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  I love this game, but no one knows about this masterpiece. I reckon Doug should get together another 
 neverhood and Klayman will be REBORN!!! If you are reading this Doug I want to say; remake Klayman, 
 I miss him so much, I look at sites and there 10 years old!! What has the world come to and why 
 does no one know of this great game? 
  || \\||//
  __ \ \
  \ / \ \
  | || | / /
  === / /
  \ / / /
  ______ / \_____/ /
  / \
  | | 0 0 0 |
  I done this as a tribute and 
 to fill in my last 20 words... Well I hope you go to your PC turn It on and play, The NeverHoOd... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skemodan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I remember getting this game amidst a package of software that came with my Gateway 2000 (back 
 in the day when the company carried that name) . Perplexed by the artwork on the cover I began my 
 journey into a game that was, for a lack of a better term, life-changing. It took me a long time 
 to get the hang of the game. There was a lot to get a grip on for someone like me who really didn't 
 have a grip on the whole "Adventure Game" genre, but once I got past the questions, "Why aren't 
 there any bosses?" and "Why can't I friggin' die?", the game really took off for me. I spent many 
 hours slaving away at this game. Being only 10 years old at the time, I felt VERY proud of myself 
 whenever I solved one of the games more complicated puzzles without the assistance of a walk-through. 
 By the games end I had at least 20 pages worth of notes and had read the entire log in the museum.
 
  My one and ONLY complaint about this game was the ending. The ending itself felt a little rushed 
 and felt like the game should be able to continue steadily afterwards. Perhaps my disappointment 
 came from the fact that I simply didn't want this game to end because in my heart I knew I probably 
 wouldn't see another game like this ever again. To my great dismay, I was right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskodogama
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  the never hood is one of the best games I played, I used my tiny brain on this game, not other 
 games! this game is f**king hard in the puzzles! IT IS THE PUZZLES! 
  
  You wake up in a room! no issue who you are, and where you come from, but by the films you collect 
 in the game, you find that you are Clayman! and you have to rescue the king of The Neverhood!
 
  
  The neverhood is totaly fun when you play it using your OWN mind, no walkthropughs! I bet, you'll 
 enjoy it with the puzzles you solve! you will be proud of your selfHEY, I'M A GENIUS THAT I 
 CAN SOLVE THESE PUZZLES, WHAT'S E=MC^2? COM'ON, IT'S a JOKE!!
  
  after playing the game, you'll love Clayman too! He's Kinda My Favorite Character! A Freak Fool!
 
  
  Don't Listen to Gamespot's Review Point, Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viggen13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game, The Neverhood was my first "real" game. (All the others was children games.) I played 
 it when i was 4 years old and my dad helped me, i was amazed of it, i thought Clayman was a duck 
 and i was scared of the evil laugh in the start of the game, but i loved it.
  And now 9 years later i have i played again and i still love it.
  Clayman is just born in the 
 start of the game, but he is not scared at any time in the game (Ok only one time with the big 
 green monster) and it teached me not be afraid and just live the life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSGD2003
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  "Hello. Me JSGD. Me JSGD 2003. You read this, you do good. JSGD happy. You play Neverhood you do 
 more good. And look out for bad. 
  JSGD knows, bad is always where you forget to look."
  
  The is pretty much your typical adventure game, just with new clothes and a 1st person perspective 
 when you move around in the outside world. You go around the Neverhood solving puzzles and find 
 videotapes. These videotapes are the key to this game, and tells the story about how the Neverhood 
 came into existence. 
  
  The worst part of The Neverhood is that it slow and methodical. That and its short. For an example, 
 when your in 1st person perspective, you move slow, real slooow. This is really a downside to the 
 game, together with the fact, that sometimes you have to go very long to go from one end to the 
 other. The slow pace is definitely the worst part of the game.
  
  Just like most like other of the greatest adventure games out there it is humorous, and the humour 
 is really great, its just unfortunate that there goes so long time between the humorous bits. The 
 best part of the game is watching the videotape you collect throughout the game.
  
  Now, the graphics are beautiful in their own right. Since this game is made completely by clay, 
 it definitely gives the game a great feel, something I never seen in games before. There characters 
 animate great, especially in the cut-scenes. There are some graphic hick-ups, like compression 
 artifacts in the video, but not earth-scattering.
  
  The audio is where most people get off the train. The audio is really hit or miss. This isn't action-pumping 
 music, nor is it relaxing classical music. In fact I don't know what genre; my guess would be acapella, 
 but completely different. I quite liked it, but my guess is there would be plenty of people of 
 would hate it. The music also constitute a problem within the game, because sometimes there just 
 isn't any, which is really annoying.
  
  So, all-in-all a great game, especially for established fans of the adventure genre. You should 
 really give it a try, despite it's shortcomings.
  
  "JSGD know that once you know this truth, then you know what to do." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetxshots
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  iam personally disgusted with the rating gamespot posted of lesst than 10 for this game.... you 
 must pretty stupid to not enjoy this game.... i think i've played the full thing 3 times JUST because 
 it gives the fun surroundings, details.. FOR GOODNESS SAKE ITS ALL REAL CLAY... HOW CAN IT NOT GET 
 PURFECT GRAFICS... ITS REAL!!!!!! DEFINATELY TOP 3 with BEyond Good and EVIl (the most overslept 
 on game, since.. umm... NEVERHOOD) and ubi series..... amazing storyline backed up with grreaaat game 
 play... i fell in luv with this game on the FIRST PUZZLE... if u hate this game its YOU that has 
 the problem..... this is the most underrated game of all time... forget these new graphic games, 
 this game better than existing game..... real talk..1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minh998
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  The Neverhood poses an aesthetic quality that no other game, as of yet, has been able to surpass. 
 And while one run-through the game is all it takes to experience everything it has to offer, the 
 game has so much charm that it's hard not to appreciate the vibrant and moody atmosphere. 
  
  The moment you begin your adventure, you are thrown into a room where you witness a being, 
 known as Klaymen, awaken. You are given no real introduction to who Klaymen is, or what is going 
 on in the world, but as you progress and explore you find cassettes strewn about, which contain 
 information about the what the current state of the world is. This give the player an incentive 
 to actually solve the many puzzles of the world to find these cassettes. 
  
  The puzzles themselves don't look too out of place because everything that the world is feels so 
 organic. It doesn't look like it was built, but is appears that everything has this flow of natural 
 growth.
  
  The game's music is probably some of the most original music heard in a video game ever. The blues 
 and jazz fit the quirky atmosphere of the Neverhood and it's cast of characters. On top of that, 
 the animation of the clay-animated characters is very cartoonish and adds to the game's humor.
 
  
  While the Neverhood is a childhood favorite of mine, the only complaint I have about it is that 
 trying to play through it again is hard to do when you know exactly what to do. 
  
  Even with that in mind, the world you are thrown into is so utterly gorgeous, the puzzles are entertaining, 
 the characters are wonderfully modeled, and the story, while nothing to new, is enjoyable. The 
 Neverhood isn't just a puzzle game, it's art.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretikur
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Neverhood is a little fuzzy in the graphics but the game is as close to art that any game can get. 
 The story is good and the whole game is made in clay stop motion. Neverhood is fun, but kind of 
 creepy too. The stop motion is super good and the music is almost the best in the game. All gamers 
 should buy this great game. After playing this game you can't think of any game better than this. 
 I can't find any bad things in this game except for the graphics. Buy this game if you want somethin 
 for the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  Despite an unfortunate review from Gamespot, The Neverhood has been a favorite game of mine since 
 its release in 1996, and it inspired me to upgrade my hardware to include, yes, an 8x CD-ROM drive. 
 As a fan of Doug TenNapel and his Earthworm Jim games, I was excited to see how Dreamworks Interactive 
 let him and his crew loose with the thousands of tons of clay it took to make this game. 
  
  I was not disappointed.
  
  Featuring a unique and perfect soundtrack by Terry Taylor, The 
 Neverhood is a game that never deviates from its own quirky beat. The point-and-click interface 
 works very well, and many of the backgrounds, puzzles, and movies are still stunning for the work 
 put into them and their utter genius. 
  
  Featuring a very memorable cast, The Neverhood remains the finest game from the miind of Doug TenNapel. 
 Find it, play it, at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvnobrien
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2004 4:36 pm PT
Review:  GS reviewer was way off on this one. The Neverhood was beautiful, funny, and fun to play. There 
 were some difficult parts that required a pen and paper to write down the clues but I haven't played 
 a game that creatively matched this one. I wish I new where my copy went, my friend's loved to 
 play it too. Very enjoyable for all ages. The only bad thing about this game was there was not 
 a sequal. But seriously, there were some running around that you had to do back and forth trying 
 to figure out the puzzles. Once you solved them it was great and rewarding. They usually had a 
 clip with some of the best claymation that dreamworks was know for. They stayed true and consistant 
 with the look and feel the characters were animated with great detail. It was like playing a Gumbi 
 episode with better characters and a neat plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osakanu_kain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2004 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is gold. The history of adventure games is littered with ones that tried - and failed. 
 This is not a failure. The Neverhood's beautiful scenery and lovable characters make this one of 
 the best adventure games of all time. Every sound effect is perfectly placed (My nextdoor neighbour 
 was the one who actually sold all the sounds to the Neverhood. Small world!) and fits the look 
 and feel of the game. The soundtrack is probably the best I've heard for any game. I actually went 
 out and bought it. 
  
  Alright with the personal opinons out of the way lets get down to the juicy stuff. 
  
  Gameplay: 
 
  The Neverhood has three diffrent control schemes for diffrent parts of the game. Two for moving 
 around and one for the puzzles. Whenever Klayman is in a room where things can be done (E. G. pressing 
 a button) the game shifts to a side view that all adventure game fans will recognize immediatly. 
 Click to the left or right to move Klayman in the respective direction and if theres a doorway 
 or ladder click in that direction and you'll see Klay strut (There is literally no other way to 
 describe his movement) his way up or through it. Whenever you're outside of a building moving from 
 area to area, the game goes into a first person view that works amazingly well. Again you click 
 in the direction you want to go but being this close up to the clay world of the Neverhood is quite 
 an experiance. The games puzzles suprise you with how thought out they are. Sometimes though, they're 
 a little too thought out. For example, in one part of the game you have to activate a radio and 
 in order to do so, have to go back to the beginning part of the game and pull on a string that 
 was part of another puzzle. Its parts like these that will infuriate you to the point of suicidal 
 rage, but luckily these kinds of puzzles don't come up often. But with this game, you have to be 
 watching and listening constantly as you might very well miss something important, like (again 
 with the radio) the right station to tune to. Other than that its really enjoyable. 
  
  Graphics:
  I don't really need to say anything here. One look at the game from any angle will 
 tell you EXACTLY how good the graphics are. (hint: they're amazing)
  The cutscenes in the game really stand out. Just incrediable. 
  
  Sound:
  Probably what I 
 like the best about the game despite the ingenious and artfull way the game was put together graphically 
 is the sound. Every sound effect is in perfect time with whats happening and fits the feel of the 
 Neverhood. The music is equally good. A witty sound track full of songs that really capture the 
 imagination and blend perfectly with the charaters and situations that Klayman encounters.
  
  Value:
  The game can be replayed many times because lots of the puzzles are random in their 
 content for each new game you make. Also, its just fun to play through with its bright colours 
 and amazing music.
  
  Don't listen to gamespot on this one. This is an amazing game which got a really unfair rating. 
 If you see it, buy it without hesitation. If you know someone who has it? Borrow it without delay. 
 Play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sia_abd
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2003 12:34 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worse reviewed games on this website. I wish there was a way for the 
 gamespot crew to go dig up and re-review some of the ones they messed up on. The reader reviews 
 clearly show that The respectable critic of the game was utterley wrong. The game has some of the 
 most memorable animation moments. Douglas Ten Naple is an artist, and this game is art. The puzzles 
 might seem tedious but they are so odd-looking you will enjoy it very much. its been years since 
 this game is out, so if you stumble upon it, buy it instantley!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
