-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Operative: No One Lives Forever
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/operativenoonelivesforever/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 1,774 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 9, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just when it seemed as if first-person shooters had run out of ideas, along comes No One Lives Forever 
 to reinvigorate the genre. 

 Just when it seemed as if first-person shooters had run out of ideas, along comes No One Lives Forever 
 to reinvigorate the genre. Two years after the release of Half-Life, a first-person shooter has 
 finally arrived that's so stylish, so ingenious, so well written, so well acted, and otherwise 
 so great that this review won't have to include the expression "it's no Half-Life" - except for 
 right there. No One Lives Forever takes the impressive enemy artificial intelligence of Half-Life, 
 the stealth features of Thief: The Dark Project, and the gadgetry of the console shooter GoldenEye 
 007 and then combines them all with a unique, colorful '60s setting and a great sense of humor. 
 The resulting game's unrelenting inventiveness shows in virtually every aspect of its design.  

  Although you might expect that it's somehow inspired by Austin Powers, No One Lives Forever's inspirations 
 actually seem to be drawn simply from the same cultural well as the Mike Myers comedy. The game's 
 plot is part Avengers and part Our Man Flint, with a little Dr. Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs thrown 
 in for good measure. The story itself isn't especially engaging: The good guys, an international 
 antiterrorist organization called UNITY, attempt to foil the world-domination plans of the bad 
 guys, a mysteriously well-funded group of homicidal lunatics called H. A. R. M. But this simple plot 
 acts as a framework on which the designers have strung a great number of brilliantly absurd details. 
   

  Someone at Monolith had the bright idea to portray the cutscenes in the game using cinematic flair, 
 rather than with bland camera angles typical of most games. By locking the camera down and framing 
 each shot as if it really were from a movie, the designers have given the game a singular look 
 that really sets it apart from the competition. The acting in No One Lives Forever is so good and 
 the dialogue is often so sharp that it'll cast a pall over your memory of previous action games 
 and might even ruin your experience with future shooters that are any less impressive.   

  Thankfully, the gameplay in No One Lives Forever is every bit a match for the execution of its 
 story. The game includes close to 60 levels spread over 15 diverse and often brightly lit and colorful 
 environments. Expect to spend more than 20 hours finishing the single-player game. The action alternates 
 between missions in which shooting at things is the primary goal and levels wherein the game's 
 heroine, Cate Archer, must sneak undetected from one place to another. Some missions combine the 
 two elements in surprising ways. True to the game's spy theme, stealth is always rewarded, even 
 though it's not always strictly required. At the end of every level, you're ranked on your performance, 
 and a large part of your score is based on remaining unseen.   

  Unlike many other shooters before it, No One Lives Forever never settles into a boring routine. 
 After a few more-standard shooting or sneaking sequences, the game always adds an interesting twist. 
 It's a testament to the game's ingenuity that to describe the setting or action of many of the 
 levels would spoil a lot of the fun of experiencing these sequences for the first time. But to 
 give you some idea of what to expect, here's a description of just the very first mission. You 
 must protect a clueless yet surly ambassador from assassins as he stumbles around the streets of 
 Morocco. First you'll stand at a window and snipe enemies as they appear at various spots in a 
 building across the street. Then you must sneak to another room, without alerting any civilians 
 to your presence, where you set up a new sniper nest for another round of protecting the ambassador. 
 Once you've finished this sequence, your room is besieged by a group of thugs, and a wild, close-quarters 
 gunfight ensues. This is all in the first level of 60.    

 Every gunfight in No One Lives Forever is very exciting thanks to the game's truly outstanding artificial 
 intelligence for enemy characters. For starters, you won't ever witness an enemy running in place 
 or bumping into things as in many other shooters. It's almost startling to realize just how much 
 of an effect that one detail can have on your sense of immersion in the gameworld. But the developers 
 have done much more than rectify that problem. Namely, your enemies actually appear to care whether 
 or not they live or die. In large groups, they'll assault you head-on. But alone or in pairs, they'll 
 often run for cover and then switch position if they notice you've moved. They'll knock furniture 
 over to hide behind, they'll stoop down to investigate the bodies of their dead coworkers, and 
 they'll even hunker down behind tables, stick their weapons over their heads, and spray suppressing 
 gunfire blindly at you. The enemy behavior seems to be partially scripted, but replaying a battle 
 using different tactics will often result in different enemy actions. What adds to the illusion 
 that you're taking on real, live opponents is that you'll frequently sneak up on henchman engaged 
 in long, often hilarious discussions to pass the time while going about their tedious jobs. These 
 conversations range from a critical reevaluation of the Edsel to an argument over correlation versus 
 causality as it relates to beer consumption among criminals. Delivered in a deadpan style that 
 perfectly matches the dialogue, these ancillary conversations are one of the best parts of the 
 game. You'll replay levels simply to hear dialogue you may have missed by alerting the guards to 
 your presence.   

  The motion-captured animation of the game's characters is also top-notch. Although there aren't 
 a huge number of different character models, they're so well animated that they can express emotion 
 through body language alone. And you'll notice other impressive details such as how enemies killed 
 at the top of stairways will actually come tumbling down. It's true that the characters in No One 
 Lives Forever don't take damage in so many ways as in Soldier of Fortune; you can't vivisect them 
 into forty bloody pieces. But a single head shot will usually take an enemy down, and chest hits 
 appear to be more damaging than targeting a limb, all of which is more than enough to reward accuracy 
 over wild shooting.   

  The graphics in No One Lives Forever are powered by the newest version of Monolith's Lithtech engine. 
 It seems a little less technologically advanced than either the Unreal Tournament or Quake III 
 Arena engines. There are no curved or reflective surfaces on display, and items you'll find throughout 
 the game frequently appear blocky. But it's hardly an issue. Regardless of how many triangles the 
 engine is spitting out, the art direction in No One Lives Forever is spectacular, and the graphics 
 are colorful and always interesting. The game even saves and loads data quickly, unlike other recent 
 Lithtech-engine games.   

  The game's sound effects and '60s-era music are excellent as well. Different game actions have 
 different themes, which actually segue from one piece to another without a jarring jump cut. It's 
 a subtle effect that's one of many other features that make No One Lives Forever seem so polished. 
   

  To live up to the single-player game, the multiplayer experience of No One Lives Forever would 
 have to be pretty spectacular. In short, it's not, though there's nothing really wrong with it 
 either. There's a built-in game finder, plenty of character models to choose from, four deathmatch 
 levels, and six maps designed for a capture-the-flag variant called H. A. R. M. versus UNITY. The 
 problem is that most of the elements that make the single-player game special - the acting, the 
 dialogue, the sneaking, and the precisely orchestrated gun battles - are simply absent from the 
 multiplayer game. However, the multiplayer mode does have a few interesting elements. For instance, 
 motorcycles and snowmobiles are provided to help you traverse a couple of the larger maps. But 
 ultimately, there isn't a lot to differentiate the multiplayer component of No One Lives Forever 
 from that of most other shooters.   

  Whatever minor problems or shortcomings there are in No One Lives Forever are dwarfed by the technical 
 expertise and sheer creativity that went into it. The fact is that Monolith Productions has finally 
 delivered an undeniably superlative action game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KidKombo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:32 am PT
Review:  In my opinion Cate Archer should be right up there as one of the best female stars in a video game 
 ever! Cool, calm, collected, dedicated to her job, and smolderingly sexy, she kicks ass as much 
 as any male lead in any game you care to mention. And she is but one of the wonderful characters 
 contained in this amazingly fun FPS, a game which really re-invigorated the genre when it was released 
 back in 2000. After finishing the game once again, i sat back and marveled on how much fun the 
 game as a whole was... very few games leave me feeling as satisfied as much as the NOLF series, 
 and im going to break down exactly what elevates this FPS above the others in such an already overcrowded 
 genre.
  
  Story 8.5/10: as with any good spy adventure, you'll be whisked to many different and exotic locations, 
 following a plot full of intriguing threads, full of revelations, double crosses. the story unfolds 
 slowly, and the various twists are great and unpredictable. There is definite tongue in cheek attitude 
 towards the whole game, and the game does a great job balancing this humor and the seriousness 
 of Cate's quest to save the world. 
  
  Graphics 9/10: for a game released in 2000, im sitting here 9 years later and still marvelling 
 at the amazing graphics in NOLF. the cut scenes are superb, and the in game graphics are very well 
 done. weapons effects are great too. 
  
  Sounds 10/10: oh my lord. soooo good. we'll start with the music, which is done with a great retro-themed 
 60's flavour. you can tell real effort went into the creation of these tracks, as they are all 
 great, and never get on your nerves or become monotonous. incidentally, my edition of NOLF came 
 with a bonus CD with 10 music tracks from the game, score! the voice acting is seriously top notch, 
 some of the best voice acting ive ever heard in a game. especially wonderful are the frequent 'enemy 
 conversations' which you'll hear, as you come to a room with H. A. R. M. henchmen in, you can eavesdrop 
 on their conversations, the majority of which are just hilarious, wonderfully written and acted. 
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10: NOLF sticks fairly closely to the cookie cutter FPS formula, but adds some ingenious 
 feature which really keep the game fresh and exciting. as well as your standard gun weapons (pistols, 
 machine guns, sniper rifles) you get many James Bond-esque gadgets to play with, which come in 
 very handy during your missions. hair barrettes which double as lockpicks, lipsticks which double 
 as grenades... the list of these cool gadgets goes on. the level design is excellent, and very varied. 
 youll be taken around the world to many different locations, from the streets of marakesh to the 
 swiss alps, to underwater adventures in a sunken freighter!
  
  Replayability 9.5/10: Ive just finished it for i think the third time, and all 3 times have been 
 an immensely enjoyable gaming experience. the wonderful graphics, sound, gameplay, and the humour 
 of the game overall really make playing it again a very worthwhile and tempting proposition.
  
  Overall, "The Operative: No One Lives Forever" is a game that is a joy to play, and to revisit. 
 I have absolutely no hesitation in calling this not only one of my favourite FPS games of all time, 
 but even one of my favourite games of any genre. I couldn't give a masterpiece such as this anything 
 less than a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  "Are you insulting my monkey!?" - Some random guy selling his monkey for "Twenty dollars american"
 
  
  You're Cate Archer, as you're in a shower the telephone rudely rings thus forcing you to find out 
 some worse news (atleast for her) ... you gotta get back to work. And who does our Cate Archer work 
 for? She works for UNITY, some company that assigned Cate to be their first female spy ("Spy sapping 
 for my sentry!" No, not that kind of spy) . You appear in UNITY's building (which finally gives you 
 the control of Cate Archer) , and you're on your way to one of the greatest experiences of 2000. 
 Before actually starting any missions, you get to speak with some of your colleagues (or bosses) 
 and complete the first training steps. Gladly, the dialogues and the training aren't boring, and 
 unlike alot of other games, the tutorials are even fun. After finish your first steps - you get 
 on with your first missions... which you will find out after buying the game.
  
  STORY:
  
  The Good:
  1. Who wouldn't want to be a Spy in the late 60's? A game that doesn't mess up 
 this great experience is a Great Game. No one Lives Forever accomplishes it and anytime you finish 
 one mission, you can't wait to know what's going to happen in the next one.
  2. No One Lives Forever brings up some really memorable characters, the main Antagonists are all 
 very distinct in their looks, personalities and they are just classic 'Evil' Characters. Last, 
 but not least, minor characters. They don't really affect the story but are clearly the best in 
 the game by their very funny dialogue or just extraordinary looks.
  3. The game holds alot of twists that don't mess up the story, they make it even more interesting. 
 A spy being a woman is already a twist.
  4. Numerous Cut-scenes are great too. Sometimes your game will be interrupted by a Cut-scene. I 
 know that some people don't like it when it happens too often so I ain't telling you that they 
 are annoying, I think they're pretty good as well. It will usually just show you the Antagonist 
 running away or you meeting a new contact. (Not a bit factor, some people don't like Cut-scenes 
 at all you know.)
  
  The Bad:
  1. The title of the game is a bit too long don't you think? Sometimes it stops me to type its long 
 title one more time. (This is not a big factor... but it annoys me just a little, I really don't 
 know why but it just does. I hope fans won't kill me)
  
  The Story is marvelous, being a spy is a very great experience and it is just the way I would have 
 imagined it before actually playing the game. Cate Archer herself is just plain cool and her personality 
 greatly matches her ... headshots. The twists in the game make the game incredibly more interesting 
 and while you're watching the loading screen on to the next mission - you know, that something 
 unexpected will appear and WOW you. 
  
  SOUND:
  
  The Good:
  1. The time you hear the quote above, you will be laughing your head off. NOLF is full of great 
 and funny quotes, the whole game may feel like a comedy most of the time. This is probably why 
 the Cut-scenes are great.
  2. The voice acting adds up to the characters' distinction. You will sure hear a difference between 
 an evil Russian criminal and some drunk stumbling around.
  3. Some cool soundtracks while you're sneaking around or already in a shoot-out.
  
  The Bad: 
 Nothing much.
  
  The Sound is great overall in NOLF. It is greatly entertaining to watch (and hear) the criminals 
 discuss their plans, in a variety of different voices that would perfectly suit an evil master. 
 The best aspect of NOLF is probably the comedy, I don't think a game has had that much laughs until 
 2000, this is one of the things that makes the game so much fun and easy to learn. The soundtracks 
 in NOLF really add up to your feeling of being a spy.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The Good:
  1. Good AI, anytime you put a headshot to somebody having a conversation, the partner would not 
 start shooting you like he already knew that you were around. First, he would check about what 
 happened to his partner and then start looking for you. The enemies and aren't so unbelievably 
 smart. The AI is what makes the game so life-like and believable.
  2. A great variety of weapons and stuff with great design. You will get a large variety of weaponry, 
 for ex., you will get different kind of pistols with different kind of bullets that have different 
 kind of effects. The same goes with automatic rifles and I think it is amazing. 
  3. Great Level design. With almost each mission, you will get a different environment unlike any 
 other. NOLF is incredibly unrepetitive and you will never be bored. Ranging from a simple morocco 
 apartments and on to under-water mission, shoot-outs in a castle... infiltrations of under-ground 
 military bases.... pure fun!
  4. A good multiplayer, with the great variety of weapons - you will have alot of ways to murder 
 your opponent.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Sometimes the levels are a bit misleading, I got stuck a bit looking for something that was 
 hidden almost perfectly. In some cases, you cannot finish the level on the first try, quick-save 
 is your savior.
  2. Some levels are a bit frustrating due to their objectives like - sneak past 20 people without 
 being noticed or you will fail. These kind of levels are a bit annoying to the people who don't 
 get to finish them in the first tries but it is not much of a big deal.
  
  NOLF's gameplay is superb with little problems to look at. While the variety of ways to kill your 
 enemies is large you may wonder how a woman can be so cruel. Don't worry, you may not care while 
 Cate Archer over here can bring you as much headshots, backstabs and dynamite as you would like. 
 The enemies you fight against are greatly believable, their AI is great and it allows you to have 
 a good shot at them until they shoot you. On the hardest skill level you can kill the opponent 
 almost as fast at they can kill you, so you will have to put some more strategic thinking into 
 your actions and their AI makes it easier. 
  
  The environments you play in are great, each level in NOLF brings you a different environment that 
 doesn't even have enough time to get old until you get into another greatly designed level. NOLF 
 though has some downsides. Some of the missions in the game are to disarm (or arm) some bombs that 
 are hidden around the level or just to find a hidden exit... it is sometimes frustrating to people 
 that don't pay alot of attention to their surroundings, so I got stuck a bit there and there. Another 
 type of mission that may not be as exciting is the 'sneaking mission,' you have to get past without 
 being noticed or else you fail. These missions are cleverly made but could be frustrating since 
 there is not much margin for error, but it is not much of a big deal though.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The Good:
  1. Very creative design of characters, environments, weapons... everything! 
 NOLF's at whole is a very creative game. You will be amazed that the actual Cate's grenades is 
 lipstick while the lock-picking ( and backstabbing) weapon she is using is a hair-accessory or in 
 other words - Barrette. The characters are creatively and amusingly designed to make you want to 
 kill them (or just laugh at them and leave them alone) and the environments you fight in are just 
 beautiful.
  2. Great Character detail. To add to the character design creativity, the detail is great as well 
 just to add to your enjoyment of this marvelous game.
  3. Outdoors... since the environments of the game change occasionally, it is good for the designers 
 to keep it interesting... well, of course they did. Jungle, under-ground military bases, warehouses, 
 a sunken submarine - this game has it all and with a great design that excels on every level.
 
  
  The Bad: Nothing... the game is beautiful.
  
  There is nothing bad to say about Nolf's looks, they are just beautiful. The environmets, characters, 
 even weapons - they all look in great detail and each has it's own creative design, everything 
 a spy needs. Simpler, this game doesn't need much words to describe it, beautiful.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  No One Lives Forever is a classic that much be bought and played (unless you did 
 already) , you have no idea what you're missing. No One Lives Forever combines Creative Design with 
 Incredible Story and Unique Gameplay that will leave you wanting more... well, no worries, the 
 second installment of NOLF came out in 2002 and thus called NOLF2. Buy this game or you will regret 
 it. :)
  
  SCORE:
  
  STORY: 9.75 OVERALL: 96.88% = 97%
  SOUND: 10
  GAMEPLAY: 9 
  GRAPHICS: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CateArcherNOLF
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  First Person shooters arent my favourite kind of game...
  
  but with NOLF is different!!! 
  
  NOLF is special, it has something all other FPS doesnt have! 
 
  
  NOLF is original, groovy, colorful, stylish, funny!!! Different from all FPS before and after NOLF!
 
  
  The graphics are dated, its a 2000 release, but the game holds well by today standarts thanks to 
 its amazing art direction, something most FPS developers seem to be not worried these days. You 
 gonna be impressed by the ammount of detail every level has, theyre huge and varied, the environments 
 goes from Morrocos to a Space Sattion, from Sunken Ship to an Airplane, all with that 60's feeling, 
 its gorgeous!!
  All this prevents the game falling into boredom since every chapter differs so much from each other 
 in design, just fantastic!
  
  The sound is the best you can have in terms of sound effects, music and specialy, voice acting!!! 
 The voice acting is superb, the voices fits very well to the characters, specially Cate. She really 
 sounds like a british!! The funny conversations during the game are another positive aspect of 
 this game, you can pretty much sneaky into corners and listen to enemies talking to each other 
 about relationships and other things that can distract you!
  In the sneaky parts the sound plays slow and if you get caught, music plays faster or change, giving 
 it a perfect feeling on the situation!
  
  Gameplay is one of the best aspects of NOLF. The game plays exactly like any other shooter, but 
 you have a some spy gadgets to use and not being noticed by enemies, as to help your progress during 
 missions. The controls are easy to learn and answer well... the levels differs basically from sneaky, 
 action and driving.
  Enemy AI is also great, they can hear sounds, investigate, activate alarms, etc..
  
  For last, 
 NOLF has a huge replay value, over 20 hours of fun and 40 levels, but once you finish this game, 
 you will find yourself playing it again over and over for best results and to revive one of greatest 
 adventures ever created in a game!!!
  
  If you missed this game in the past, try play it now, it worths every minute spent with it... from 
 the 60's feeling, to the awesome characters and story, the superb sound and art direction, and 
 a lot of humour, NOLF is one of the best experience ever you can have in a game, full of great 
 moments that will make you remember Cate forever!!!
  
  NOLF maybe old, but like wine, just gets better with time!!!! (specially considering the ammount 
 of repetitive FPS's in the market, using the same world war theme over and over and over... NOLF 
 is a true gem)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ali_P30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME. I'm not usually so inarticulate but, trust me, this game rocks. You play 
 spy Cate Archer who gets assigned, more because no one else could do it, to find out the leak that's 
 leading to the deaths of several top spies. As Cate, you work for a security service called UNITY 
 aka 'The Good Guys' and trying to thwart you along the way is the organisation H. A. R. M aka 'The 
 Bad Guys'. The game is hilarious from start to finish, whether it be because of a snort-inducing 
 conversations you overhear between two characters, or because of the witty banter between Cate 
 and her collegues. Despite the laugh-out-loud factor that is definately present in No One Lives 
 Forever, you can't take away from the actual genius of the plot. You are armed with an array of 
 weapons such as the .32 automatic hand-gun to the robot poodle that distracts the rather rabid 
 guard dogs that could act as your undoing. Even through all of this, you find yourself taking every 
 level seriously, focussing on working out the best strategy through each locale, which are numerous 
 by the way. Cate starts off in Morocco, heads through an army base in Germany, parachutes out of 
 a crashing aeroplane over london, sneaks through a ski lodge in Switzerland, and the list goes 
 on. Every environment is different and interesting to look at, and teamed with the extreme retro 
 theme, you're lucky your eyes don't go funny. Let's face it; you're a babe who's armed and dangerous 
 with tons of great gadgets and a brilliant line of dialogue. What's not to love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pod81
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  this game is the best thing to happento first person shooters besides half life bioshock and far 
 cry and crysis the ps2 version of this is so-so but this is 10 out of 10 i would recomend this 
 to every one so if u dont like this u dont know games i love this game so much please right now 
 get this on amazon right now pesae trust me u will love this game the best game in the world AND 
 I AM VERY DAMN SERIOUS this game offers great laughs this is like funny and first person shooter 
 version of tomb radar please this is really funny and will make u laugh for hours and hours and 
 hours i just bout this on amazon, got it, played it, loved it. and compared to ps2 version this 
 is much better with multiplayer and to make saves when ever. The game of the year edition is funny 
 on the extra level but i dont know if it was a glitch or what but not much blood to make M rating 
 unless u have cheats on but who cares about the blood. This game is more differnt than almost any 
 other game THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  ============ Description ============ 
  
  The Operative: No One Lives Forever (NOLF for short) is a first person shooter set in the 60's 
 that resembles an Austin Powers movie. The lead character is Cate Archer, a spy for the British 
 agency called UNITY. With the help of the agency, she undergoes several missions to foil the plans 
 of the terrorist group H. A. R. M.
  
  *********************** QUICK REVIEW *********************** 
  
  If players can look past the 
 lengthy mission mode and dialog, they will be pleasantly surprised. Even on normal mode, this is 
 a difficult game; expect to quicksave and quickload often. NOLF should run around 15-25 hours (on 
 normal mode) and can be picked up now (2008) for around $10 or less.
  
  *********************** DETAILS *************************** 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  -- a good mix between 
 strict stealth like Splinter Cell and the straight out action of games like Far Cry.
  
  ENEMY AI
  -- Strong. On normal mode, guards will take cover, alert other guards, set off alarms 
 and chase Cate down through doors, up and down stairs and shoot with accuracy.
  
  WEAPONS and GADGETS
  -- Excellent, many different types of single handed and two handed guns 
 with many fun and humorous gadgets.
  -- scroll down for details
  
  VARIETY
  -- Excellet, many different locations, snowy hills, forests, deserts, space facilities, underwater, 
 office buildings, rooftops, nightclubs.
  
  GRAPHICS
  -- Solid. This title is from 2000, so any decent PC/graphics card a few years old (from 2008) should 
 be able to run in 1024x768 with medium/high details.
  
  SOUND
  -- voice acting is amazing, probably done with professional actors. Music and sounds effects are 
 also solid.
  
  WRITING
  -- Very strong. Jokes are subtle and constant throughout the story; poking fun at everything and 
 everyone. The guards have hilarious conversations to eavesdrop on.
  
  PACING
  -- Single player is too long, around 75% through, the game feels like it's dragging on.
  
  
 CUT SCENES
  -- Uses the game engine
  -- Too long, some are funny, most are boring.
  
  ============ Guns ============
  
  PISTOLS
  Shepard Arms P38 9mm Pistol - simple pistol, with 
 silencer attachment.
  Petri .38 Airweight Revolver - 6 bullet revolver
  Braun 9mm Parabellum - looks like a Nazi hand gun
  
  2-HANDED
  Hampton MPL 9mm SMG - solid 
 automatic weapon
  AK-47 Assault Rifle - the usual AK-47, powerful and loud
  Gordon 9mm SMG - old style weapon with side loading clip
  
  PROJECTILE
  Morris Model 14 Spear 
 Gun - for underwater missions
  Sportsman EX Crossbow - silent and accurate.
  
  EXPLOSIVE
  M79 Grenade Launcher - blows up things
  Bacalov Corrector - sniper weapon with explosive 
 rounds
  Briefcase - disguised rocket launcher
  
  SNIPER
  Hampton Carbine - quick, efficient sniper
  Geldmacher SVD Sniper Rifle - loud, heaver sniper 
 rifle
  
  LASER
  Laser Gun - weak but effective, only in one mission.
  Super Atomic Laser Weapon - very effective, only used in one mission.
  
  ============ Gadgets 
 ============ 
  
  Sunglasses - 2 modes
  1) zoom and take pictures
  2) detect mines and trip lasers
  
  Lighter - 2 modes
  1) regular lighter, burn things to 
 distract guards
  2) torch to cut locks
  
  Perfume bottle - 3 types
  1) sleeping gas
  2) corrosive acid
  3) stun gas
  
  Lipstick - 3 types
  1) Proximity explosive (sensitive 
 to motion)
  2) Timed detonator
  3) Detonate on impact
  
  Baretta - 2 modes
  1) lock pick
  2) poison tipped blade
  
  Robotic Poodle - Distract dogs
  Code Breaker - 
 Place on keypad, runs combinations until cracked.
  Coin - Throw to distract guards.
  Belt Buckle - Can shoot a hook to zip up (like batman) .
  Camera Disabler - Place on camera, fools 
 camera with a still image.
  Body Remover - Corrosive substance removes bodies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  i will give good rating to this game as for year 2000 this game carried good graphics and very 
 engaging...
  the game play and the weapon selection was also good..
  the game is fun to play and u will like it..
  i am writing this review today (2008) as i didnt 
 write it before although i played it long time ago like many years ago... and at that time i liked 
 this game a lot and enjoyed every bit of it...
  as far as the difficulty is concerned it is just right.. game is also funny at times which is good..
 
  variety of weapons and variety of missions... u will not get mored..
  once again i will say that this game is not one of those games like mgs series which have awesome 
 story line with great gameplay.. this has ordinary simple story so nothing great about it... the 
 fun is in completing missions and completing the game... and not in the main story.. so plain fun.. 
 and good game.. play it and enjoy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The Operative: No One Lives Forever is an excellent example of why story driven games always end 
 up being the most rewarding. It's not necessarily the gameplay that makes NOLF such a great game 
 (though it's certainly very entertaining) , but rather the excellent delivery of an amazing story, 
 one that's filled with intrigues, betrayals, hilarity, emotiveness, and plenty of tongue in cheek 
 moments, a story that in essence is THE reason to play this game. Despite being more than 7 years 
 old, NOLF ends up being an incredibly rewarding game for virtually anyone with a pulse, one that 
 has certainly passed the test of time.
  
  NOLF tells the story of Cate Archer, a british woman that had a rough childhood and decided to 
 follow a questionable path to get through with life. Along the way she gets involved with a spy 
 organization called UNITY and in the wake of an internal crisis that sees most of UNITY's agents 
 killed, Cate is called to fulfill a daring mission against an organization called H. A. R. M., who 
 is hellbent on wreaking havoc across the planet. Things don't start too well for Cate and she will 
 have to prove herself against those who doubt her abilities. From there on, the story in NOLF is 
 filled with plenty of plot twists, some of them so shocking that I'll stop giving any more details 
 right here, in order to avoid any potential spoilers. Suffice to say, NOLF is a game you'd want 
 to play without knowing a single thing about what's gonna happen next, because it's that desire 
 to know what's gonna happen next that will keep you motivated and on the edge of your seat through 
 the entire game.
  
  One thing that can be mentioned though, is that NOLF is filled with humor all the way. You'll encounter 
 countless funny conversations taking place between guards, doctors, engineers, civilians, etc., 
 that really spruce up the good natured feel of the game. One of the best conversations is in the 
 very first level, and all I'll say is "you look like you need a monkey!"...
  
  The humor is also found in the dialogue during the cutscenes, the intelligence items you collect 
 through the game, as well as some hilarious moments that occur throughout the unfolding of events 
 of the game (pay close attention to the conclusion of the parachute scene...) . It's not easy for 
 a game to succeed at being genuinely funny, but NOLF manages to do just that.
  
  Also worth mentioning, is that you can alter some of the dialogue in NOLF, which is the case during 
 the interactive cutscenes. In most cases you can't go wrong with whatever line you choose, but 
 you'll occasionally net a few extra intelligence items by choosing certain lines and it's always 
 funny to ignite some anger by choosing a "rude" answer.
  
  Leaving the story aside for a second, it should be said that the presentation in NOLF is stellar. 
 The graphics are obviously showing their age from a technical standpoint, but the artistic direction 
 behind them is brilliant. The 60's feel is perfectly captured and it's easy to fully immerse yourself 
 in such detailed levels as the ones in NOLF.
  
  And then there's the sound. Be it the voice acting or the audio effects, soundwise NOLF is simply 
 as good as it gets. The voice acting is simply terrific. It's believable, funny, and just downright 
 memorable. It plays a very important role in elevating the story of the game. And the soundtrack 
 is also incredible. Every tune that plays perfectly fits the scenario you're in, and just like 
 the visuals, it contributes to creating that perfect 60's atmosphere.
  
  To this point I haven't even mentioned the gameplay and that's not because it's lacking, but simply 
 because the story and the presentation steal the show. But the gameplay in NOLF is certainly great. 
 For the most part, this is a shooter that rewards a stealthy approach and you'll constantly rely 
 on your silenced pistols or other gadgets at dispose to take out enemies. You'll have to keep an 
 eye on cameras or patrolling guards before jumping in on the action. But if you feel like it, you 
 can straight lit up the place with your entire arsenal, mowing down anything in your path. However, 
 some missions will require that you remain stealthy, so it's always best to use a combination of 
 stealth and aggression. The enemy AI is great, as you'll rarely catch a guard doing something flat 
 out stupid. It's not necessarily challenging, but the AI doesn't deter from the suspense of disbelief 
 at all.
  
  No One Lives Forever is a game that totally blew me away. I have always made a case for story driven 
 games and this is one game that proves that the "games and good stories don't mix" theory is completely 
 wrong. With an amazing story, memorable characters, spectacular presentation, and satisfying gameplay, 
 No One Lives Forever is nothing short of gaming nirvana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is assome, with the graphics similar that Half life, that is good for the age,, and with 
 a gameplay excellent in all sents, you can drive motorcycle and other cars and can use a lot of 
 spy instruments.
  Like a game is really assome,, with about 20 hours of missions, but the best of all is the excellent 
 sents of humor you can found in this game, with a lot conversation or scene that make you laugh, 
 like one you found a guy talking about how much love "some girl" and when you look the guy is talking 
 with a sheep, and a lot of jokes that make you have a good time.
  Maybe the onlu bad , (that is not really so bad, and dont make you hate the game or something like 
 that) is you can found some bugs that make you restart the game, but you can fix all with the parch.
 
  This game is really amazing and you cant miss it.
  
  For me , Cate Archer is one of the most beatiful girls you can found in a game, only comparison 
 with Lara Croft.
  
  Let the force be with you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0146
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  In a time long ago when videogames were beginning to mold into what they are now, there was a game 
 and this game defined modern first person shooters. That game was No One Lives Forever. This was 
 that game that got me into videogames and playing them. It more or less a time piece set in the 
 Sixties about a female spy competing against a world of male spys. After doing several meaningless 
 little assignments for the orginazation of employment known Simply as Unity. She is called upon 
 for a meeting with the directer of Unity to discuss a very important assignment. She brought upon 
 this assignment because of recent elimination of several other spys from the result of a traitor. 
 More than excited to go on a mission of some importance Cate Archer is sent to Morocco to protect 
 an ambassor from elimination by an orginization known as Harm and hopefully find some lead as to 
 who's the traitor in the organization. THe missions in this game can at time a challenge but when 
 you finish the game it feels like quite an accomplishment. There are a total of fifteen missions 
 each with 2-3 levels plus a special bonus mission on certain versions that I found very fun to 
 do. The Graphics are superb for the period with realistic feature and fairly good AI. The soundtrack 
 for the game is catchy with a very enticing Sixties spy type theme and proper sound for movement 
 voicing and guns. The voice acting is very good and britishy and on just about every level in the 
 game you can over hear rather interesting conversations between the enemies and events relating 
 to the game and the time. The missions are rather diverse: from Morocco to Space to the Swiss Alps 
 every level has something to it. I have spent many hours playing this game these past few years 
 and each time I play I find something new though either playing or scanning faqs for the game. 
 While this game may be fairly old it still is very fun to play and the storyline is very entertaining. 
 No One Lives Forever for the PC is one of my favorite games and this is why I chose to write my 
 first review on a game that is in all aspects a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  My all-time favourite shooter. I may say I love it. No other video game could ever give me that 
 sense which I got while playing this game.
  
  The first brilliant feature of the game is its storyline. It's very sensible and acceptable and 
 you really get along with it while playing and that also keeps you going on. You feel that the 
 fate of the world is in your hands so you've gotta run on and on. The conversations have got enough 
 humour which sometimes are so funny.
  Next feature is the bright and smooth graphic with an attractive background which makes a lovely 
 envnmnt for you during the game. You'll enjoy surfing around the places and finding things and 
 kicking the enemies' arses! You don't have to kill yourself looking around with a flashlight on 
 and losing the great graphics around you. You'll feel free increasing resolution as much as you 
 like with no special chopping-frames problem, especially if you've got a 128 MB VRAM adapter. In 
 addition, I'd mention weapons and gears design. I've seen one of the most accurate weapons in this 
 game. My favourite weapon was the 0.38 revolver (It's mentioned that's the Cate's favourite weapon 
 too) Although it's not as accurate as others and you'll be given the chance of using it only in 
 a few missions (Of course you may always pick it up in your equipment selection menu but you'll 
 run out of ammo during the most levels because there won't be any chance to pick up ammo for it) 
 but it gives you a good firepower. The other powerful (and rare) gun is AK rifle that can equipped 
 with normal FMJ or powerful phosphorous rounds. The gears are also interesting and sometimes funny 
 like when you wanna knock an enemy out with sprays.
  The sound and the music in this game is fascinating, indeed. One of the best tracks I've ever heard.
 
  Only 2 levels sounds boring to me. One was the level in which you'll go underwater to investigate 
 the sunken ship (Thank Godness it won't last long) . The other one is the outer space mission which 
 unfortunately it's damn long.
  In my opinion, NOLF1 is better than NOLF2 as the second one is mostly based on stealth actions 
 and because of that it's got a slow theme and it's kind of boring, indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helena73
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The storyline in the this sequel is what deus-ex would have been if there was humor in it. Picture 
 James Bond, Austin Powers and a bit of Charlie's Angels all rolled into one! There are more cut 
 scenes than the first one which makes the game play more interesting, and a surprise turn when 
 a foe turns into a friend!
  
  The sequel has some interesting indirect political statements.
  Upon finishing the game, past 
 the credits, there are 2-3 little cut scenes which are not only quirky but lead me to believe that 
 we might see a NOLF3!!
  
  I just wished it was a bit longer..
  
  Way to go guys!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This has become one of my favorite games. Screw the engine and fighting and all that. It did it's 
 job and plays well. But what is so great about this game is just the vibe it oozes.
  
  I love the old school 60's super spy Austin Powers thing going on. It's just AWESOME. This game 
 is best played slowly, and silently. Because, if you just go blasting through everything, you miss 
 the most entertaining aspect of this game. When you sneak up on enemies, they have these dialogs 
 with each other that are just hilarious.
  
  Every level is fresh and fun. The action is great. You really feel sucked into things sneaking 
 around listening to the weird private lives up henchmen. When you get to the end, you just want 
 to cry because you can't believe it's over already. It's like saying goodbye to characters at the 
 end of a good book. I love it when a game does that to me.
  
  Fantastic game. Play it, no matter how old it may be getting. It's a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever is a landmark game, and an absolute must-own for any FPS fan.
  
  For me, it's the variety of settings, all very well designed, that really make this game stand 
 out. You'll go to Morocco, a tropical rainforest, a few office blocks, outer space and snow-capped 
 mountains and that's about half of the different locations, which does a lot to keep you interested. 
 The game will last you well over 15 hours as a result of all these different mission and it very 
 much feels like Monolith went above and beyond the call of duty because they so wanted to tell 
 this story right.
  
  Also, I liked the fact that it's not all run and gun - stealth plays it's part. Some missions are 
 exclusively intel gathering, and if you kill anyone it's game over. This doesn't happen all that 
 often and as a result, it works as a break in the intensity.
  
  Story is well told, although I felt the Elite Guard girls weren't really worth having and should 
 have had significantly more backstory, although maybe it's a 60s reference I'm not getting. Also, 
 the voice actor for the main character is a little wrong but I don't know how to explain it, she 
 just doesn't sound right occasionally, but it's not off-putting. The main thing about Cate Archer 
 is that she's a positive female lead in an industry that usually would just put her in a bikini 
 and have her run around using her sexuality to win over her enemies, a highly lazy way to write 
 an action game involving women.
  
  My only real complaint is with the intel gathering/rating system - it's pointless. Whether you 
 gather all the intel in a level or not, or whether you get a good rating or not, it doesn't change 
 anything in the game. Surely it should allow you to carry another gun, or give you special items? 
 Anything to make the hunt more worthwhile, especially as most of the things you pick up are just 
 joke memos that aren't really worth the effort. You don't even get an overall rating at the end, 
 it's that badly implemented.
  
  However, that's the only flaw in what is otherwise probably one of the top 10 PC games of all time. 
 Music and sound is outstanding and the LithTech graphics engine is surprisingly competant for over 
 6 years old at this point. Buy this immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Most first-person shooters involve some very serious business, particularly those that aim for 
 a certain degree of realism. There are plenty of titles on the market with solemn assassinations 
 and deadly raids; hardboiled dialogue and stentorian boss monologues; bombings and burnings and 
 beatings; stately HQs and ratty safehouses; and, of course, dogs and cats living together in the 
 face of mass hysteria. Some games inject a few one-liners and witty pop-culture references through 
 the vocal chords of their protagonist  like Bloods Caleb, the Postal Dude, and good old Duke 
  in order to leaven the slower moments of a bloodbath, but truly funny titles involving gunplay 
 were extremely rare before No One Lives Forever.
  
  Make no mistake: NOLF still contains the same elements I listed above (all but the cats, although 
 there are some robotic dogs) , but the entire gameworld is viewed through the filter of a very off-kilter 
 60s Cold War spy flick. The game frequently draws comparisons to its movieland cousin, the Austin 
 Powers trilogy, and the relationship is very apt in terms of both series gaudy flower-power color 
 schemes and outlandish judo chop! brand of derring-do. On the silver screen, Austin is the source 
 of much silliness, but due to the games internal perspective, NOLFs protagonist, Cate Archer, 
 is typically the most earnest and competent person in the room. She takes advantage of her adversaries 
 airy drollness and the working-stiff klutziness of their henchmen to sneak and snipe her way into 
 some genuinely impressive situations, foremost among which is a startling high-altitude disaster 
 that turns into a giddy freefall.
  
  In addition to NOLFs refreshing art design, glib comedic flair, and well-executed Bondian crises, 
 the games stealth sequences are particularly top-notch. Thats a high complement coming from someone 
 who prefers the loud and bloody action of, say, Painkiller to most titles that share a common ancestry 
 in the make no sound, leave no trace Thief series. Happily, although some levels in NOLF are 
 completely unforgiving of any overt contact with the enemy, Cate can still pull off a silent kill 
 with her crossbow or carbine. Subverting HARMs guards and security systems is also a lot of fun 
 with some ingeniously designed semi-high-tech spy tools, which include everything from simple, 
 innocuously distracting coins to clunky camera cripplers to a wide variety of bombs and poisons 
 disguised as a ladys beauty products.
  
  If there is any part of NOLF worth complaining about, Id have to say that my sole gripe concerns 
 the games static cutscenes, which place Cate and her superiors in a number of seemingly unending 
 conversations at Unitys headquarters. The information about which the characters bandy is pertinent, 
 so I managed to pay attention through each exchange, but some of those segments were tantamount 
 to watching C-SPAN on a slow news day. Once Cate is released back into the big, bad world in her 
 fuzzy rabbit slippers, however, the joys of breaking and entering, deep sea diving, and eavesdropping 
 on some truly inspired day in the life mutterings of idle minions return in full.
  
  No One Lives Forever is a welcome reprieve from the somber demands of soldiering and demon hunting. 
 The threat of global chaos and terrors of mortality are brilliantly offset by such out-of-left-field 
 conventions as evil hand puppets, a lot of surprisingly insightful incidental dialogue, and a spunky 
 go-go soundtrack. NOLFs value is boosted by a decent replay factor, with a few small areas made 
 available as new tools are acquired and the opportunity to pick-and-choose completed levels. I 
 still recommend this title to anyone and everyone -- even almost exactly six years after its release 
 -- whether or not shooters are their thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. FPS and a decent storyline is just not going to happen. FPS are designed to be in-your-face 
 action and picking up really cool weapons. However I have read in some forums that a good story 
 is just as important as action however yet the same people complaining about too much gum-flapping 
 and not enough action. Can anyone make up their minds? Well problem solved. Here comes NOLF - damn 
 great story yet plenty of action.
  
  The story revolves around a spy agency in the 60s, UNITY whose agents are being murdered at an 
 alarming rate. Considering the lack of man operatives, Cate Archer (you) is called upon in a desperate 
 situation. Hey, after all it's a man's world.
  
  During the course of your investigations you will encounter many items of mass destruction including 
 a massive array of arsenals and gadgets. Considering the learning curve would one be high, fear 
 not as the game cleverly uses the 'advance field tactics' sequence (similar to any Bond films) 
 to use these items in a controlled environment.
  
  As typical in a FPS, you shoot enemies to achieve your goals. However as the saying states 'there 
 are many ways to skin a cat' the game encourages alternatives like sneaking; however there are 
 some parts that an all-out shooting spree is needed so to satisfy even blood-thirsty players. Try 
 set off an alarm and what the guards rush towards you!
  
  There is massive replay value as you have your typical easy, medium hard and super spy modes however 
 you can get awards for collecting 'intelligence items' throughout the adventure. Some awards can 
 be 'thank you for not hurting me' (zero damage) , reputation, stealth, more armour etc. It really 
 depends on what you have achieved during the missions. Also by collecting more intelligence items 
 the better spy ranking you'll have which equates to a better ego (and gloating) ! Even though the 
 game officially ends, you can reply any scene to grab that better rating with your newly obtained 
 equipment/s. Want to use that Gordon 9mm SMG (which incidentally is my favourite weapon) using 
 poison tipped bullets in mission two? Go ahead!
  
  The finer points of NOLF are the cinematic approach to the story hence the superior voice acting. 
 No more just listening in conversations (however some conversations are dead-set hilarious) . There 
 are parts where you need to select an appropriate response which of course can add another intelligence 
 item. The acting and story is the best I have seen so far (which lacks quite often in other FPS) .
 
  
  The sounds and music score is by far simply superb! The sound of guns firing, explosions, walking 
 etc wants you to invest a better soundcard. And the music... the music mends well in the game. I 
 really enjoyed listening to the music as it has a 60s feel to it (funny that) . Also if you can, 
 get your hands on the GOTY edition as there is a soundtrack to listen to. Well worth it!
  
  The game graphics and collision detection even though are good and very colourful (as I feel animating 
 humans will be an extremely hard job to do) the Lithtech 2.0 really doesn't stand out as the Unreal/Quake 
 3 engines does. You will get that odd 'getting stuck in the corner' that only a serious array of 
 jumping can get you out or that 'How do I climb down that ladder instead of falling to my death?' 
 moments. However it's definitely not enough to distract the game play!
  
  Overall, No One Lives Forever is absolutely one of the superior FPS shooter in the market today. 
 Its tremendous game play, storyline (which is extremely rare in FPS) , music score and wonderful 
 humour put the colour back in this genre and of course the 60s! Yeah baby!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever is just that (no, the other thing) ! It's a mix of the good-old Bond Movies, 
 Charlie's Angels, Simon Templar, and all the other wacky 60s-70s spy memorabilia you can think 
 of, spiced up with some sharp new-age humor and Austinesque dialogues. BTW, I've read a lot of 
 reviews of this game so far, and I see a lot of people shying away from comparing NOLF to Austin 
 Powers. Well, call me a spaced out goat herder on steroids or something, but I've found that NOLF 
 definitely carries a breath of that Mike Myers' wackiness, which is a good thing in my book. For 
 the first time in God knows how long, a game gets most of the things right. It's like our industry 
 is finally starting to get mature. Games like NOLF and HL are definitely setting new standards 
 and pushing that game designing bar a notch higher. I think many developers are scratching their 
 heads right now and thinking - oh boy At least those that are looking to make a kick ass single 
 player FPS, or an interactive movie as I'm going to refer to these games from now on. NOLF is the 
 first title in ages (all right, the first after The Curse of Monkey Island) to truly make me laugh. 
 It exploits every type of stereotype or a clich&eacute; you can think of when it comes to foreigners 
 and English accents, and it does it in a classy, offbeat kinda way. Hey, how can you beat a game 
 that crams a bunch of Arnold Schwartzennegers, Arab salesmen, Russian sailors, and boozed up Scots, 
 and mixes it all up into this cocktail of foreign cultures flamb&eacute; ed with some archetypal 
 US humor. It's like Saturday Night Live with the two guys that are not GIRLY MEN all over again. 
 Hell, the most important thing of all is that it's fun, captivating, and it made me laugh. It made 
 me postpone the writing of this review 'cause I wanted to look at Cate Archer some more, and it 
 made me embark on a 24h net surfing extravaganza trying to find a single shred of 'Nude Archer 
 Wallpaper' or 'Nude Archer Patch' info (In case you're wondering, Yes, I'm THAT pathetic dammit!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The time of this game released when there is a sort of well action game actually fast person shooting 
 game. the operative, no one lives forever did quiet well in this compition. it seems some different 
 from other fps game before! the story was well. the graphycs and level design was amazing. bt the 
 real fact is the gameplay. u are a undercover secret agent and u have to all type of work a secret 
 agent can do! i think more than that. u have to sabotage rocket launch facility, sometimes still the 
 document, fighting with the enemy with stealth n face to face both. n u also have to drive some vehicale 
 also. sometimes u have to use ur brain also to finish the mission. i did'nt notice any game before 
 to have such many wonderfull things like  so on. this was really 
 a great success. for ur mission, u have to go from underworld to space. n thats really amazing. u can 
 use many type of gun n some of them can be upgrade later. like ak47 can be upgrade with lethel bullet, fire 
 bullet or normal bullet. n there are some type of surprizing weapon too. like scent bottle lethal 
 gas, lipstick bomb lol..... n so on. (cause our agent is a lady...) . n u can use lighter upgrade to 
 break the lock. her glass is upgrade tooo. u can detect field mine ,take pics of imp place, paper 
 too.... every part of the game was fun to play. n attractive too. one of my best fps game in my life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  NOLF is plain fun. You enter the role of a young and sexy operative playing a spy in those psychedelic 
 times in the 60, with fun surroundings ,funny characters and a fun story. Its the only shooter i 
 really had fun with, i enjoyed a lot of shooters but this one was the first that brought fun into 
 the shooter genre.
  
  The visuals are a treat for the eye, very colourful and very wel defined. The places you visit create 
 a world of the 60 more than fun, with well structured characters, that as you imagine are also funny, a 
 good plot and a nice finish.
  
  The game play is very good except for a few flaws, that are not even worth to mention, so i won't 
 go in to details. The main character you play, i may have to say, may be the sexiest female i ever 
 encountered in a shooter. You have different missions you have to pass, each one bringing something 
 new to the game. I can barely hold my self not to tell you at least one of them but i don't want 
 to give you any spoilers.
  
  I enjoyed playing it from beginning to the end. They really watched out for every detail, even the 
 movie in the beginning was not left un-carved. They took care of every detail and they gave it a 
 very good story, good characters and a high doze of humour and out came an instant classic.
  
  If you want to play a shooter and have fun then you've came to the right place because nothing 
 else delivers that as well as NOLF. A friend of mine recommended it to me and now i recommend it 
 to you. You won't be disappointed at all. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: activematx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever is one of the best games of its time.
  
  Its a first person shooter with a austin-powers 60's groovy, and comedic tone to the game. I like 
 listening to the fully voiced conversations the enemys will say as you sneak up to them.
  
  The game runs smoothly and without any bugs and glitches. Character control is also very nice, 
 and the guns have nice sound effects. They really sound like you are shooting a gun as you are 
 unloading on the enemys.
  
  Its your basic first person shooter, with sub-par enemy ai. This type of game is more about shooting 
 multiple enemeys and trying to over load you with them, as opposed to trying to kill difficult 
 enemys.
  
  If this game were a movie, it would be one of those fun, mindless "popcorn" movies that you play 
 through once, and really enjoy. Its not an epic game, or its not a game with a massive complex 
 story, but its is truly one of my favorite games. Its really fun. I don't know why I am reviewing 
 this game right now, since i havent played it in 5 years, but I just thought that it deserved a 
 review from me, because of how awesome it is.
  
  My rating is for the game when it came out.... (not in todays terms.... so I give the graphics 
 a high score, because in that year, it was good graphics) .... but by todays standards, its nothing 
 to brag about. If you are reading this review, and considering this game, I say go grab it!
  
  P. S. Dont play the second one. The first one is much better. Funnier conversations, better 
 control of characters, less bugs, and much less complicated puzzles and better level design. I 
 liked the first one.... but the second one sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is what i call the masterpiece of game art : it has interesting scenario, it has locations, 
 it has involving gameplay, it has nice graphics and moreover all of it is very well done.
  
  In this game you are Cate Archer, ex-thief, who changed her profession and became agent of 
 Unity spy agency. In urge for more exiting tasks she asks for "more fun" assignments. Unfortunately 
 when her wish is finally granted, the H. A. R. M. strikes and whole world's fate is on her's shoulders.
 
  
  The game takes you to most unexpected places while you accomplish your missions : from falling 
 plane to depths of sea, from space station to underground liars. While you get to try a lot of 
 weapons and gadgets the different tactics how to use them are suggested.
  
  The gameplay is really involving and even non-FPS players are easy to attract to the variation 
 of action, puzzle solving and good scenario. There is really not much to add at this point - if 
 you didn't play it yet - you should.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiao
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 25, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  
  From the moment you step into the kinky boots of aspiring superspy Cate Archer, youll find yourself 
 drawn into a world of international intrigue, sharp one-liners and psychedelic interior decoration. 
 This is the sixties, baby  and the actions in full swing.
  
  NOLF brings to the first-person shooter what Max Payne lent to third-person action gaming: a riveting 
 storyline, engaging characters, deadpan dialogue and enough plot twists to baffle a corkscrew. 
 On top of all that, NOLF is extremely funny.
  
  Recruited from a life of crime by the top-secret government agency U. N. I. T. Y., Cate must prove 
 her worth by carrying out a series of 15 perilous undercover missions. Each mission is preceded 
 by a cleverly integrated training level, in which Cate is presented with an impressive and often 
 bizarre arsenal of weaponry and gadgets (these include exploding lipstick and a robo-poodle) .
 
  
  The good guys are fun, but the baddies are superb. The villains of the organization known as H. A. R. M. 
 are a truly delightful horde of characters, ranging from a sinister one-eyed Russian to a corpulent, 
 tone-deaf German diva  they are original, well-rounded and utterly hilarious. Mike Myers himself 
 couldnt have done them any better.
  
  There are two basic gameplay modes available to our fledgling Operative: either sneak around on 
 cautious tiptoes, or else kick in the door with all guns blazing. Sneaking is clearly what Ms. 
 Archer was intended for, as much of the entertaining dialogue can only be enjoyed by eavesdropping 
 on hapless goons as they take cigarette breaks or loaf around on guard duty. The artificial intelligence 
 of H. A. R. M. s flunkies is impressive; leave a body lying around or a door ajar and theyll respond 
 with appropriate and reasonable alarm. They can be distracted by a pretty face or the clink of 
 money on asphalt, but when alerted to Cates presence they will seek her out with apprehensive 
 determination.
  
  H. A. R. M. and high-jinks lead our heroine around the globe and beyond, with assignments in 30 locales 
 including Morocco, Germany, the Tropics, an orbiting space-station and good old Blighty. Gameplay 
 is essentially linear, but choices made over the course of the game influence cut-scenes and the 
 ultimate success of each mission. Cates cachet as a spy increases with the accumulation of intelligence, 
 until the rookie ex-burglar becomes U. N. I. T. Y. s most valued field operative.
  
  In addition to the extraordinary single-player experience, the multiplayer mode offers an army 
 of character models to choose from, as well as a couple of nifty vehicles and the full battery 
 of weapons. Go head-to-head in a deathmatch or collaborate to steal the enemy teams intelligence 
 in a game of H. A. R. M. vs. U. N. I. T. Y. A Game Of The Year edition also features an explosive bonus 
 mission and a groovin audio CD In The Lounge, which in itself is reason enough to seek out the 
 GOTY package.
  
  For varied, challenging gameplay with a sense of mischief and unrivalled panache, NOLF is outstanding 
 and highly recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game used for less than $5. Boy, did I ever get my money's worth!!!
  
  For being severeal years old, I was extremely surprised by the quality of game-depth it had to 
 offer. I always find it great when a game brings something new to the table. Besides the obvious 
 tongue in cheek humor; there was a level where you are falling out of a plane without a parachute 
 and you must take out an enemy to grab there 'chute.
  
  No One Lives Forever is definately a must play. Once done you'll be happy to know there is a sequel, 
 and a prequel available. Though these lack the superb quality of this first installment, they don't 
 let you down.
  
  Normally I despise Sierra. I have had way too many problems with their products. But this title 
 alone grants them salvation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coylez5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting much of this game because it was done back in 2000, but when i started playing 
 it, it was great. I can see now where other games like splinter cell and hitman got there genre 
 from. I have not played the 2nd No one lives forever, but i am expecting it would be better than 
 the first. Overall, i give it a 9.7/10. Other games of our time have strived to be the best first 
 person shooter, and i guess this is one of them. I just hope more games like this come out, because 
 it is unique and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game i just couldn't stop it was just to fun i loved it and think this and james' 
 bond are the two best spy's ever only difference is gender. This was a fun game that lasted me 
 the whole summer and i got to rent it at the north vancover library. I think they should make a 
 movie about cate archer just like the james bond movies. It was so addictive that i couldn't stop 
 playing it till i was done. i played every chance i got. james bond and kate archer are my two 
 favorite spies and i think that their both awsome and they both have great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  VISUALS: Captures perfectly the atmosphere of bad 60's spy thrillers, even the acting.
  SOUNDS: Very groovy soundtrack with a full mix of original songs. 
  CONTROL: Clumsy, frustrating, 
 not what they should be.
  
  + Wide range of silly gadgets. Clever mix of dry humour.
  - Lacks intensity.
  
  The 1960's produced an incredible number of James Bond rip-offs, from 
 the blatantly obvious (Operation Double 007) , to the blatantly bad (Agent For H. A. R. M.) , to the 
 incredibly inspired (The 10th Victim) , each a different attempt to cash in on the bond formula 
 by adding in a higher dose of fashion frivolity, groovy tunes, and ridiculous gadgets. 
  
  The result was a whole new sub-genre of secret spies running around in go-go boots, tight-fitting 
 cat suits, neck scarves, and psychedelic prints. It's this universe, not James Bond or Austin Powers 
 that No One Lives Forever borrows from, placing gun firmly in cheek for a very dry, campy adventure 
 that knows just how ridiculous it is, and is smart enough to have fun with it.
  
  The game plays out like a movie, complete with a title sequence, scripted sequences, and game missions 
 that are divided into "scenes", together helping to form up a cinematic story. It stars Cate Archer, 
 a Scottish minx recruited by the British division of an international spy agency called U. N. I. T. Y. 
 
  
  As a minor agent, she helps out with administrative jams while the division's league of male agents 
 take all the risks in operations against S. M. E. R. S. H. and other secret world powers. But the latest 
 development changes all of that. 
  
  A new criminal organization calling itself H. A. R. M. has somehow infiltrated U. N. I. T. Y.'s ranks 
 and is using the leak to systematically assassinate the company's agents. It's when half of the 
 male agents are dead that U. N. I. T. Y. decides to promote Cate Archer, its first female agent, to 
 the field in the hopes that she can help uncover the enemy organization and put a stop to its killing 
 spree. 
  
  No One Lives Forever is a first-person shooter, one that enjoys a dynamic of stealth, of going 
 from room to room, corridor to corridor, from mini-shoot out to mini-shoot out. The intensity isn't 
 as high as with more open battles of multiple enemies, but the intrigue is always there as the 
 confrontation you'll find behind each corner will always be a little different. 
  
  Sometimes you'll be attacked from above, others from behind, often from some hidden place which 
 will have you scanning the room for the source of hurt you're suffering. Literally you can aim 
 and shoot at the horizon, and similarly be shot back from the same distance, which adds the perfect 
 dimension of being able to shoot first from afar and then close in for tight duels. But at the 
 worst, you're only fighting a handful of enemies, and I should make it clear for action fans that 
 in that respect it's not a game dripping in adrenaline. 
  
  The fun is a mix of exploration, simple puzzle-like situations, and a shooting gallery-like exchange 
 of weapons fire. It's the goofy charm of the game's theme that gives it such a fun flavour. Having 
 a secret agent commit acts of stealth in click-clacky high heels may be implausible, but it's not 
 that Monolith isn't aware of it, in fact they've worked it into the game's mechanics, asking players 
 to learn to walk carefully or tip off the enemy with a poorly chosen wood floor path over carpet. 
 
  
  The downside is an expected one. The PlayStation 2 is not a system that embraces the dynamic of 
 a first-person shooter easily, and although Monolith has done their best to create a comfortable 
 compromise, it's nowhere near what the original PC game offers. 
  
  The difficulty comes in the PS2 controller's accuracy. The analog thumbsticks can only point to 
 within a generalized location while a PC mouse can pinpoint to a specific pixel. To try to approximate 
 that level of accuracy, Monolith has made a few adjustments. 
  
  The first is the option to adjust the sensitivity of the game to the thumbstick's movements. It's 
 like being asked if you would like to be more or less drunk in your movements, not a real solution 
 at all. 
  
  The second adjustment is to give the on-screen reticule, the cursor you aim with, a magnetic auto-lock 
 ability. The result is that you only have to aim in the general vicinity of an enemy agent and 
 the reticule will automatically lock onto his/her body for you. It works, but it also takes away 
 some of the game's sense of challenge. 
  
  So to further adjust that, Monolith made it so that each enemy character is divided into body sections; 
 the head, torso, arms, and legs. Only a headshot will quickly take out the character, while the 
 torso will need several shots before there's an effect, and you can shoot all day at an arm or 
 leg and do nothing. 
  
  Once you lock onto an enemy character, you'll find the reticule has snapped to one of these body 
 locations. To change to a more desirable one (the head) you use the right analog stick to move 
 it up and down the enemy target, from arm to torso to leg. 
  
  Sadly, its not a system that always works. Especially on long distance targets, which because of 
 the pixelation of the graphics may not always be easy to see, it can be difficult to get that reticule 
 to quickly move up to the head, if at all. The enemy are always good shots and you can be sure 
 to be hit while you fumble with the aiming. 
  
  In several of these shoot-outs, it's your higher health and capacity to wear body armor which allows 
 you to survive, not your ability to out shoot. It depends how much of a fan you are of the genre, 
 if you've never played a first-person shooter before, you'll learn the controls and cope with them 
 just fine, but if you're a hard core fan, you'll be frustrated at the number of times you'll lose 
 when with a mouse in hand you would have won.
  
  Much like Her Majesty's Secret Service, U. N. I. T. Y. has a tech division, one they refer to as Santa's 
 Toy Shop that offers up a wide variety of weapons and goofy devices throughout the game. Sunglasses 
 which double as a spy camera, a powder that dissolves human corpses, a zipcord belt buckle, and 
 even a robot poodle which can seduce enemy soldiers, all help the game to have fun with itself 
 and offer up fresh gameplay alternatives to the shoot outs. 
  
  Some levels will ask you to snap pictures of enemy documents, others to find and activate a series 
 of explosives, sneak past a specific counteragent, or take part in a ridiculous exchange of code 
 phrases. 
  
  The humour of the game really comes out in these sections, that and several sub-scenes played out 
 by neutral characters, such as the Raiders of the Lost Ark nod in Morrocco with the conversation 
 of a monkey and a date. 
  
  In one sniper mission, you're given the task of protecting a man who's deaf and half blind and 
 who believes that all of the would-be assassins falling under your careful aim are street vagrants 
 sleeping in his path. This clever mix of serious action with a counter commentary of silly happenings 
 is the game's biggest asset and the main reason to chose it over other games and to push on towards 
 the finish. The villains, by the way, become more outrageous the farther into the game you go.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iowastate
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I have this on both MAC and PC this applies to both. The gameplay is well worth the fairly long 
 load times. The missions are complicated and immersive but amazinly fun. It is a hoot and one of 
 the best FPS games I've played in quite a while. It is the one with the best sense of humour, the 
 banter within the cutscenes between the Brits is quite something. After all Cate Archer is a Scot 
 and her mentor Bruno and the rest are British secret service. The dry English humour is evident 
 at times throught out the game.
  On top of which it come with a CD of the music from the game, which is not too bad, but not something 
 I would ever listen to except as background music when playing NOLF. I'm not sure why this was 
 included. It's not as if any of the track sound like anything other than background music from 
 a spy movie in the first place, but it is a nice thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocipher
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  There were a few hard parts at the beginning but I soon master the technique quite easily and saved 
 often ,that's the trick, saving game. To me it wasn't quite as free manouvering as I expected. I thought 
 it was good though.9 in my book. I would buy it. There is some shaking in the ship scenes that were 
 a bit annoying. It made it difficult to move but it was part of the game I found out nice touch. When 
 it came to loading saved game it would load back from the second quick save not the one currently 
 saved. That ticked me of replaying twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmankin1964
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  NOLF was a ground-breaking game certainly deserving of its several game of the year awards. It 
 allowed the player to take their own tack at how to play most missions, through stealth, sharpshooting, 
 or "blast and run." 
  
  The best highlight of the game are the cinematic cutscenes and "overheard" conversations. The voice 
 acting, musical score and scripted scenes really make the game. The story line is continuous and 
 consistent, and plays much like a movie - the influence of Fox Studios definitely shows. Throughout 
 the game, the player hears conversations betweem guards and other characters, some of which are 
 useful to complete the game, and others hilarious additions to the story line.
  
  A few words about the graphics - even for the date of release, the graphics were somewhat dated 
 (the engine for the sequel fixed this.) Character speech looks particularly awful, and this is 
 especiallly noticable in relation to today's games. This does not, however, significantly detract 
 from the game play. In this case, immersion comes from interest in the story line rather than impressive 
 graphics - the mark of an all-time great game. 
  
  This game is long. The first time, I spent at least 40 hours playing to the end. Also, there is 
 significant challenge in replaying with increased difficulty levels. Another replay consideration 
 is that items "earned" late in the game can be selected when replaying earlier missions. For instance 
 there is a level where an area is unreachable the first time because of the lack of a piece of 
 equipment you earn later.
  
  My biggest complaint is the lack of guidance in several situations. Finishing the mission goals 
 in some places opens a gate which require you to backtrack depending on the path you have taken. 
 While I do not necessarily want to be "herded" down a linear path, it is frustrating to spend 10 
 minutes or more looking for an exit you saw closed before.
  
  Overall, if you want an entertaining, immersive experience with great replay value, this game is 
 a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  this game hands down was a great fps, and so is its sequel. talk about james bond spoofing but 
 setting 007 as a chic, classic and timeless, i recommend this game to anyone.
  also not to mention the multiplayer mode is fun and the weapons you can get with poison etc are 
 just awesome.
  great game worth the money get it while you can.
  the voice acting is great, and the space mission is fun and cool. it definitely has its moments 
 and you get to drive a vehicle and also shoot down paratroopers as they fall along with you it 
 definitely makes a fps fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karadul
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game presents everything a gamer expects from a stealth FPS; 
  - Easy to learn, yet challenging gameplay : Its playing style doesn't differ much from classic 
 FPSs; but with the help of the clever-at-times AI and carefully chosen range of arsenals you can 
 use, it provides the gamer with a unique style of play which holds on to you until you beat the 
 game.
  - Good story : Don't expect an incredible storyline with unexpected twists and extremely deep characters, 
 they're not present in this game. But the game's story is more than enough with its cliche plot 
 twists and some foreshadowing to provide support to its atmosphere.
  - Cool graphics : The only flaw about this game's graphics to my opinion is its crappy character 
 textures. The tastefully chosen color palette of the game which focuses on orange and other pastel 
 colors does a great job to strengthen the 60s atmosphere.
  - And finally, incredible atmosphere : You'll see that I used the word atmosphere a lot of times 
 in my review, because it is the most powerful aspect of the game. Everything in the game -from 
 east Germany science facilities to humorous dialogues between enemy NPCs- adds up to the atmosphere 
 and makes the player breathe (a little exaggeration won't hurt) the sixties.
  Overall, this game is a must have for every PC gamer whether or not he enjoys FPSs, its uniqueness 
 and extremely powerful atmosphere makes it my favourite game of all time, and hopefully yours too 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  The fun in this game never ends. Well, aside from llllllong load times, this game is a true work 
 of art. Like I said, it is fun & humor right from the start. I love that sexy and stylish British 
 accent they gave the spy. Reminds you of the BOND series :-)
  Although I played this game quite some time ago, I can say that when it came out, there really 
 was not any game like it. In this case, this game was unique. Basically you play a covert, female, 
 agent (and Brittish) and you are sent all over the world, and in some cases not on the world, for 
 your missions. Some missions are hellishly hard and some are simpler. The diversity and variety 
 of weapons and gadgets is awesome. That leaves YOU the player the choice to make. Meaning, you 
 can approach a situation in few ways and as always you make the choice. Whether you do it with 
 brute & brawn and go with all your gunz blazing or you can choose to stealthier approach and lure 
 your enemies to their eventual demise...:- (
  I loved doing it with the coins, they always fell for that trick !
  Graphics in the game are 
 better that what I had anticipated back then when the game came out. They have this almost, cartoon-like 
 look to them, which I like a lot. But not cartoonish like say XIII for example, not this much.
 
  The game's difficulty is just right with a tendency to be a bit hard. I played it on hard and 
 had many harsh times with it. 
  Sound is great and there is music that reminds you of the spy movies and series from the sixtees, 
 I love it.
  This game is a classic and a must for all gamers who love FPS's. You must atl east give it a try 
 if you can still get it somewhere. I played the second one too. In terms of innovation the first 
 game is indeed theone I choose. I terms of complexity, character development and gameplay, I choose 
 the second.
  In short , play them both, not necessarily in their release order but just play them :-)
  Have 
 fun!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  ... then No One Lives Forever would probably be the milkshake produced by it. And it's a surprisingly 
 good blend.
  
  NOLF is the story of Cate Archer, female superspy out to stop the forces of HARM, an organization 
 of no-goodnicks whose spokesperson is a hand puppet. Sound odd? It is, a little, but the game's 
 goofy sense of humor pervades everything from the overheard conversations of henchmen to the gadgets 
 you'll use, which are cleverly disguised as things you'd find in a woman's purse (exploding lipsticks, 
 anyone?) .
  
  The best part of NOLF is most definitely its story, which combines a good proportion of drama, 
 silliness and intrigue. The cutscenes do have a tendency to be a bit long-winded and boring at 
 times, although the use of mostly cinematic camera angles helps. The voice acting is terrific, 
 and the writing spot-on.
  
  The gameplay is no slouch, either, of course. The weapons are fairly well-balanced, and the game's 
 conceit of using different types of ammunition to achieve different purposes is interesting. The 
 gadgets are used cleverly, and there is often more than one way to approach any given situation.
 
  
  The other major problem has to do with the game's execution of stealth. Stealth is an important 
 part of NOLF, as setting off alarms will cause an irritating sound to be played throughout the 
 level, as well as alerting every enemy in the area to your presence. Unfortunately, there's no 
 way of knowing when you're safely hidden, and it's too easy for the enemy to find you, or a body 
 you left in your wake, and sound the alarm. Fortunately, if you are discovered, NOLF is fun as 
 a run-and-gun game as well, and stealth is almost always an option as opposed to mandatory.
  
  NOLF's level design is bursting at the seams with creativity. You'll swim inside sunken ships, 
 explore a sixties space station (complete with swank nightclub) and leap out of an exploding plane 
 - without a parachute. Going through levels like these are fun, but the level design does encounter 
 some problems in that it's easy to get stuck if you don't know the correct path to take (i. e. use 
 your grappling hook here, swim through here, etc.)
  
  Overall, NOLF is a fun game that is worth playing despite a few flaws. It's definitely worth a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  No one lives forever sounds like a James Bond Movie but it's better. You assume the role of a Female 
 spy who gets her dream shot of working in the field at last. This stealth action game does not 
 hinge on stealth; you can go almost through the entire game without using stealth. Only two missions 
 require stealth. The replay value of this game is that once you have collected all the equipment 
 in the game you can pick and choose any of it for any mission, plus trying to one up the last time 
 you played that mission. 
  
  As this game was released in 2000 the graphics are by all standards a bit dated, however looking 
 past that isn't difficult as the game play more than makes up for it. 
  
  While this game is not splinter cell given the year it which it was made I would say it comes at 
 a pretty good second which is more than I can say for it's sequel or for the game Cold War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever is a game that takes the spy genre and injects it with some humor and a great 
 story. NOLF stars Cate Archer as a fresh recruit out of UNITY, an organization that protects the 
 freedoms of the innocent. Cate was a former cat burglar that was given the choice of going to jail 
 or putting her talents to use for UNITY. After the untimely deaths of numerous agents due to a 
 leak in UNITY, you are brought in to help save the day. What comes next is an adventure that will 
 take you across the globe in a variety of missions that never get dull, repetative or boring. You 
 are addressed with the task of finding HARM, the evil organization of the game, and what their 
 objective is.
  
  The game plays out over about 10 locations each with 2 to 4 level in each. You play the game from 
 a first person objective and have some unique hardware at your disposal. The normal allotment of 
 guns are here, but the items like proximity grenades in lipstick dispensers, or a belt buckle that 
 is a grappling hook. Infrared/camera sunglasses that can also find mines that are hidden in the 
 ground. You even get some time on a motorcycle and a snowmobile. The missions are varied and deal 
 with retrieval, sneaking or out and out destruction. The levels tend to be fairly linear, but not 
 in a way that is obtrusive.
  
  The surprising part of the game is the humor that is involved. Sometimes it is so much fun to crouch 
 outside a door and listen to two HARM agents discuss their health plan or how they shot someone 
 out an airlock because they did not agree with his analysis of a letter. People shooting at you 
 while they wear Fez hats. When you are shot with a poison dart, you hear and see psychadelic lambs 
 floating in the sky. There are so many things that are sent up in humor in this game. Even some 
 of the art decco is there to show how funny it was to think what they thought the future was suppose 
 to bring.
  
  Graphically the game is stunning for the time frame it was released. There are no interactive environments 
 unless the item is meant to be interacted with. Characters are well detailed, especially in the 
 facial region, but there is a fair amount of clipping at times. Cate Archer is a stunning lead 
 that gives Lara Croft a run for her money, except that Cate tends to be a bit more direct.
  
  The sound is good with weapons having a realistic sound. There is not a lot in the way of ambient 
 noises, but the music is fitting and has that James Bond spy music feel to it. The game comes with 
 a second CD that is filled with music from the game which is a nice addition to the bundle.
  
  I did not play the multiplayer part of the game so I cannot comment except to say that Fox 
 originally did release several map packs for the game that can be found here at Gamespot.
  
  Overall gameplay is smooth. The puzzles are varied and the missions never get stale or similar. 
 The boss fights are a bit on the easy side, but they are not pushovers. Again, the game is a bit 
 linear. Also, the vehicles in the game did not add much to the play of the game. They were there 
 more for getting from point A to point B, and not much else.
  
  This is a game that should be in your collection. It is fun and witty while carrying a jam packed 
 action story that I am surprised has not been turned into a movie at this stage. Unkind sales derailed 
 the series, but you can find the game at a bargin nowadays and it will be worth what you pay and 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  You also get one of the best first-person shooters around. No One Lives Forever is set up in a 
 60s comic-style Bond era  in fact, more towards Austin Powers rather than a James Bond film. It 
 displays some of the most hilarious scenes that I have ever seen in a video game along with some 
 exciting action. The enemy AI is implemented extremely well as many of the battles do not play 
 out the same adding to replay value. There are also plenty of spy gadgets which are fun to use. 
 One aspect of the game that I like is that missions play out just long enough before it gets tedious 
  ergo, it is paced perfectly. And in between levels are some excellently done cut-scenes which 
 are often uproarious; moreover, the training levels are integrated within these segments thus allowing 
 one to test new gadgets. The levels also have a ranking system, therefore encouraging players to 
 replay levels and opt for a stealth approach, or try weapons that were not previously available. 
 It is important to note that NOLF has some of the most memorable characters ever created, and their 
 voice counterparts are well done. One of the real stars of the video game is the soundtrack: it 
 is simply superb. With great graphics, and everything else mentioned above (or anything I forgot) , 
 The Operative ranks as one of the best first-person shooters available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2004 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The Operative: No One Lives Forever is an often overlooked, underapreciated game. While no having 
 great commercial success, reviews of the game praise it as one of the best FPS game ever.
  
  Combining a witty, immersive, and just plain fun story, the game keeps you waiting for what 
 happens next constantly. The action is fast paced and never lets you down. The game is fairly long, 
 and has great replay value. The online play is incredibly constructed riviling UT or Quake in pure 
 fun. While the graphics aren't top notch, the games engine does a great job of capturing and furthering 
 the mood of the game. The sound is crisp and clear, letting you hear every bullet you fire and 
 body you drop.
  
  With furious action, a stellar story, and awesome replayability, this is a must have for any gamer; 
 a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2004 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The Operative: No One Lives Forever is an often overlooked, underapreciated game. While no having 
 great commercial success, reviews of the game praise it as one of the best FPS game ever.
  
  Combining a witty, immersive, and just plain fun story, the game keeps you waiting for what 
 happens next constantly. The action is fast paced and never lets you down. The game is fairly long, 
 and has great replay value. The online play is incredibly constructed riviling UT or Quake in pure 
 fun. While the graphics aren't top notch, the games engine does a great job of capturing and furthering 
 the mood of the game. The sound is crisp and clear, letting you hear every bullet you fire and 
 body you drop.
  
  With furious action, a stellar story, and awesome replayability, this is a must have for any gamer; 
 a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 27, 2004 3:51 am PT
Review:  Ever since Sean Connery uttered those immortal words: Bond  James Bond, modern culture has been 
 inundated with images of suave, sophisticated, and debonair spies combating evil, getting the girl 
 (or guy) and generally saving the day. As with all cultural icons that begin to take themselves 
 too seriously, the James Bond persona has become a favorite subject for parody. Austin Powers is 
 the most recent parody incarnation, but before that there were the classic spoofs portrayed in 
 the Avengers, Matt Helm and the-like.
  
  Mrs. Peel, the female lead in the Avengers series, is probably the best match you can find to describe 
 the female lead in Fox Interactives first-person-shooter (FPS) The Operative: No One Lives Forever. 
 Like Mrs. Peel, Cate Archer is a stylish, attractive heroine with leggy features, cat-like reflexes 
 and a dangerous attitude. This is one hip chick in the 1960s tradition of the term.
  
  Ms. Archer is part of an international spy network sanctioned by the United Nations know as UNITY 
 and operating in the depths of the Cold War circa 1967. Previously relegated to mundane administrative 
 functions, Cate finds herself pressed into field work and the dangerous adventures she has always 
 coveted. Shell have to deal with villainous spies and with the male chauvinist attitudes of her 
 superiors in order to be successful, but with the players guidance, she is up to the task. 
  
  Taking cues from the best-selling FPS-games of recent years, No One Lives Forever (NOLF) is 
 plot driven rather than kill-everything-that-moves driven. A terrorist organization known as HARM 
 has systematically eliminated UNITY operatives until there are only a few remaining. Much to the 
 chagrin of the pompous UNITY leadership, they must send a woman into the field to do a mans work. 
 As the game progresses, Cate proves herself again and again as more than a match for the villains 
 and thugs that get in her way as she uncovers the evil plans of HARM. Of course, as with any good 
 spy yarn, the circumstances are dire and millions of lives are at stake.
  The Things People Say
  The game interface for NOLF follows the usual control scheme of the FPS 
 genre. Most of the important activity revolves around the mouse and the keyboard shortcut keys. 
 Players can change the configuration to suit their whims but the way that is accomplished is more 
 difficult than it should be, requiring many mouse-clicks and too much trial and error. The reconfiguration 
 of controls seems to be the last thing producers think of when developing a game, which is a shame 
 because it is probably the easiest game aspect to actually code.
  
  The game ships with a shareware version of Microsofts SideWinder Voice Technology called Game 
 Voice. I was not impressed. I believe that voice recognition will become an important part of game 
 interfaces in the very near future, but we are not there yet. I give Monolith high marks for the 
 try, but, for now at least, the mouse-keyboard combination is much more efficient.
  
  There is one game-characteristic in NOLF that sets it apart from other action-oriented games  
 the dialogue. The overall tone of the dialogue is witty and quite funny, especially the conversations 
 that take place between guards and other thugs while you sneak around levels. In many cases, I 
 found myself quite content to sit in a corner and wait for the conversation to end before resuming 
 the pursuit of my mission objectives. Like Deus Ex, it is not really critical that you kill each 
 every bad guy on a level to complete your mission. In fact, judging from some of the conversations, 
 these thugs are pretty pathetic and could do with a little mercy.
  Psychedelic Extras
  It is obvious that Monolith has put an extraordinary amount of effort in designing NOLF to be a 
 complete spy-parody experience. All of the levels are highly detailed and the environments and 
 predicaments Cate finds herself in are varied and intriguing. These environments run the gamut 
 from underwater scuba diving, underground tunnels, trains, airplanes, and even outer-space. The 
 animation, the quality of the artwork and the precision of the sound effects are all top-notch.
 
  
  Another unique feature of NOLF is the extra CD-ROM that ships with the game. This CD contains several 
 purely audio tracks in addition to some game data. These music tracks are playable in any CD-player. 
 The tracks are psychedelic, acid-tripping, 1960s-inspired music pieces that bring back memories 
 of black-lights and lava lamps. Very kitsch and very cool.
  
  However, this high-level of sophistication does have its price. Several times during play, the 
 game has crashed my system to the point where I was required to cold boot. For the uninitiated, 
 a cold boot simply means turning the computer off while still in the game and in Windows. This 
 is a very bad thing. Several patches have been issued to help solve these problems and they are 
 available on the www. the-operative. com Web site.
  
  NOLF carries an appropriate ESRB rating of Teen. The game does contain violence and players will 
 be required to shoot human bad guys during the course of play. However, if your children have been 
 able to handle the Austin Powers movies with no ill effects, I believe they will be able to handle 
 the cartoon violence of NOLF.
  
  For fans of the first-person shooter, The Operative: No One Lives Forever is not a game to be missed. 
 Continuing the precedents set by Half Life and Deus Ex, NOLF creates and interactive world in which 
 the game player is required to make decisions that will determine how the plot unfolds. While NOLF 
 does not reach the pinnacle set by those other games, it does hold its own when compared to the 
 current less than stellar competition. At a price that is almost half the cost of many other games, 
 No One Lives Forever is a bargain. Dont pass it by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The last superspy game that I thoroughly enjoyed was Goldeneye for the N64. There was tons of action 
 but there were also missions in which stealth, moving around undetected, was essential. There were 
 security cameras to watch out for, patrolling guards to eliminate silently and intelligence items 
 to gather all in the pursuit of the missions goal. No One Lives Forever (NOLF) takes what Goldeneye 
 did so well and improves it immensely, with the added bonus of setting it in the swinging 60s.
 
  
  Everything about NOLF oozes style  the 60s style of Austin Powers. Cate Archers outfits are 
 bright and colourful, which is not exactly how a super spy should dress but its consistent with 
 NOLFs time frame. Its also an indication of the sensibility that runs through the game.
  
  The LithTech engine does an excellent job bringing the world of NOLF to life. Environments 
 are detailed like real world locations  office complexes have book shelves filled with files, 
 phones on the desk, plants for esthetics  and the textures look textured! From a distance, walls 
 look flat but up close there are pockmarks and flaws that make it seem real. There are a variety 
 of indoor and outdoor missions and everything moves at a good clip. Each level is self-contained 
  once a level is loaded there is no waiting for other sections to load up  which is a good way 
 to maintain the pace of each level. Levels range from a small office complex to a space station, 
 but whatever the setting, each looks realistic. Characters look good too, but most are over the 
 top renditions.
  
  There are 15 missions to sneak or blast through. Some of the levels require absolute stealth, which 
 is a plus/minus. On the plus side, you must develop a strategy, actually think about what youre 
 doing, or your mission will end in short order. For example, one mission requires you to gain access 
 to a hidden sanctum located in an office. There are security cameras all over the place and a few 
 guards patrolling the halls. Use your gun and the alarms start going and its mission over. Let 
 a camera zoom in on you or let an office worker see you with your gun drawn and your cover will 
 be blown. You have to maintain a delicate balance between moving quickly and maintaining cover. 
 Moving quickly will give away your position to guards, since they can hear your footfalls. To get 
 through some of the levels all your cunning and inventory must be put to use.
  
  There are real world guns including the AK-47 and .38 revolver. What really shines are the gadgets. 
 Santas Workshop (equivalent to James Bonds Q branch) cooks up a variety of interesting tools. 
 Among them: a pheromone spewing mechanical poodle, a lock pick that doubles as a barrette and poison 
 tipped needle, Corpse-be-Gone powder, exploding lipstick, and a belt buckle that is also zip line. 
 Some of the items have alternate functions  the lighter can be used as a mini-welder. To successfully 
 navigate some of the missions you must use the gadgets. Shooting a lock off will alert the guards 
 but using the lock-pick will gain you silent entry. Of course, if you like to run-and-gun, you 
 can do that too. Be warned: your accuracy decreases the faster youre moving. Standing still allows 
 for precise shooting but it also makes you a pretty target for HARMs minions to plug holes through.
 
  
  Enemy AI is some of the best found in a FPS. Enemies take cover, sometimes knocking over tables 
 and ducking behind them. Theyll lean out from doorways and squeeze off a few shots before taking 
 cover again. And theyll even run away. Mostly they will stand their ground and make a commotion, 
 attracting others to lay down more fire.
  
  Mission objectives are varied. Some are simply, "Get out alive," while others have multiple goals 
 that need to be fulfilled for a successful mission. For example, some missions require that you 
 photograph dossiers or specific ship containers.
  
  No One Lives Forever is a great game, well worth the money. The combination of style, wit, creativity, 
 spycraft, cool locations, great gadgets and the overall sense of fun make this one a must have 
 for FPS fans and a recommended game for casual gamers. NOLF is one of the best FPS's ever created 
 it oozes style, it's gameplay is top notch, it is very funny and the story is one of if not the 
 best created for a FPS. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 29, 2004 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the sequel to this game (which was very disappointingly generic in every way) , this game 
 is a blast. Most of the levels are huge and reward exploration. There are mini-games, most of which 
 are quite humorous and entertaining. The combat in this game is great fun with all of the standard 
 weapons, plus a few odd ones that play for laughs. There are boss enemies that are also quite original 
 in design. This game has aged a bit graphics-wise but the gameplay still holds up very well. The 
 voicework is great and usually I dont care about stuff like that. The single-player is quite long 
 as FPS games go, and you can replay the entire game again and gain access to new parts of each 
 level.
  
  Avoid the sequel to this game!
  My biggest gripes with the sequel is the re-spawning enemies (cheesy way to increase the difficulty) 
 and the constant back-tracking thru small levels already visited to pad the length of the game. 
 The sequel looked better but the gameplay was poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of my favorite games of all time. I've played it 3 times through without 
 getting bored. Why? Simply put, it's fresh, funny, colorful, and entertaining. It both emulates 
 and mocks the '60s-style spy thrillers (e. g. James Bond) with its unerringly confident and feminist 
 protagonist (Cate Archer) , over-the-top gadgets (a barrette that doubles as a lockpick and triples 
 as a poisoned dagger; a wind-up poodle that seduces guard dogs) , bright and colorful environments 
 (a hip nightclub; a plunging airplane; a shark-infested shipwreck; an Alpine chateau rife with 
 secret passages; etc...) and original objectives (when you are free-falling through the air with 
 enemy parachuters all around you, what would you do to save yourself? hmm...) . The game is simply 
 so diverse that it is difficult to get tired of it.
  
  This being a spy game, lots of sneaking and reconnaisance is of course expected. However, besides 
 one mission in which you must remain undetected all the way, it IS a viable option to go in with 
 guns blazing all the time, if that is your preferred style of play. That is probably not the most 
 effective (or even the most fun) method, though. Fortunately, there are many gadgets (as mentioned 
 above) and silent weapons (including a crossbow) that make sneaking around a bit easier.
  
  Graphics are, technically, not spectacular (especially since they are pretty dated by now) . Artistically, 
 however, they are delightful and very reminiscent of the style of the '60s. The music and the voice 
 acting are excellent. There are a few vehicles in the game, but they handle pretty awfully: fortunately, 
 they are not really needed. Lastly, something must be said about the humor in the game, which manifests 
 in the sheer outrageousness of some of the people and situations, and also in the hilarious conversations 
 between enemy guards that you overhear while sneaking up on them. This is definitely one of the 
 funniest shooters ever made, if nothing else.
  
  [Note: The Mega Mix Demo for NOLF is pretty disjointed and confusing (plus, they don't tell you 
 some crucial information on how to use your gadgets) , although it shows a bit more of the diversity 
 of the locales. The first demo (featuring the whole Misfortune in Morocco mission) is, in my opinion, 
 the more enjoyable of the two. Choose as you will.]
  
  But the bottom line is: No One Lives Forever is a great game, and worth a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rnork
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2004 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great, I can't understand how people can give it anything under a 9.0. When 
 I played this a few years ago, I remeber that it had some of the best acting and one of the funniest 
 stories I had ever experienced in a game. The gameplay was as good as they come as well. I tried 
 to play as stealthly as possible which is the way I like to play FPS games when the option is presented. 
 Keeping out of view from cameras and gaurds is frustrating somtimes, but it simply added to the 
 challenge as far as I was concerned. With excellent characters, great gameplay and a comical storyline 
 this ranks high among the best shooters that I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulkas
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 1, 2003 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This must be one of the worst games I've played, ever. Sure, it was a bit dated when I bought it 
 from the "bin" (2003) , but it was a major diappointment even so. Deus Ex came out the same year, 
 and is IMHO a much more thought out game than NOLF.
  
  Some of its problems:
  - Yap, yap, yap, yap (I often pressed Space to skip over the pointless talking that could take 
 longer than the actual task) .
  - Very episodical and uninspiring tasks.
  - Foes sometimes shot at "me" through doors and walls (without visual) .
  - Often incredibly illogical 
 problem solving. I played Project Eden right before, and that's a masterpiece in comparison when 
 it comes to tough but clever puzzles.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
