-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Orange Box
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflife2episode2ob/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Portal is an amazing combination of thought-provoking gameplay and a terrific sense of humor.
 Outstanding sound across all five games.
 You won't be finished with everything on the disc anytime soon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Playing through all three Half-Life 2 games in succession makes Episode One stand out as a relatively weak link.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.6, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 7,687 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 10, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Between Half-Life 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2, you're bound to find something you'll absolutely 
 love in The Orange Box. 

  It's hard to talk about what Valve's The Orange Box offers without immediately falling into an 
 impression of some sort of late-night pitchman for fantasy knives and alternative cleaning products. 
 That's partially because the name "The Orange Box" sounds more like some kind of citrus-scented 
 bathroom cleanser than a video game, and partially because this five-games-in-one package is the 
 kind of crazy deal that almost forces you to shoutNow  how much would you pay?" With three amazing 
 new games and two classics all in one package, it's impossible to go wrong with The Orange Box. 

           You'll need both Alyx and the gravity gun if you want to survive.      

  With your purchase of The Orange Box, you'll get Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Team Fortress 2, and 
 Portal. They're all based on the same graphics engine, but they're all incredibly different games, 
 which ensures that there's something for everyone. You'll also get 2004's Half-Life 2 and 2006's 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One, which is handy if you aren't up to speed with what Gordon Freeman's been 
 doing over the past few years. On the PC, you'll launch each game separately. On the Xbox 360, 
 the game boots up to a menu where you can easily select any of the five games, and quitting out 
 of a game brings you back to the selection menu.  

  Let's start with new stuff. Episode Two is the continuation of the Half-Life 2 story. It picks 
 up right where Episode One leaves off, with Alyx helping Gordon out of the rubble of a train crash. 
 You've escaped from City 17, which now looks more like a smoking crater in the ground with a huge, 
 swirling portal floating over it. But you aren't safe just yet. You've escaped with information 
 that the Combine very much wants to get back from you, so the chase is on again. Fortunately, you'll 
 do much more than just run in Episode Two. The biggest difference here is that Alyx doesn't directly 
 accompany you through the entire game. You'll split up much more frequently, so, for example, you'll 
 find yourself working your way through antlion nests and crushing antlion grubs all by your lonesome. 
 You'll also negotiate a mine with the help of a vortigaunt who happens to serve as a subtle form 
 of comic relief. It spouts dialogue that plays off of the serious, spiritual tone that most of 
 these aliens take, only applying it to things such as crates full of supplies that just flew down 
 a broken mineshaft and out of reach. These bits alone give Episode Two a much different tone than 
 the previous games, but there are also significant gameplay alterations.  

  Episode Two marks the return of the lengthy vehicle sequences seen in Half-Life 2. There's a large 
 block of action that takes place with you moving from spot to spot in what appears to be a stripped-down 
 Dodge Charger. There are also a couple of big set pieces, such as one sequence where you have to 
 defend the center of a mine from relentless antlion attacks. Likewise, the game's final sequence 
 takes place in a wide-open area and, without getting too specific, feels very different from anything 
 Half-Life 2 has done so far. Although you won't encounter any new weapons in Episode Two, the developers 
 have at least broken the flashlight power meter out from the same auxiliary power that you use 
 to sprint. This is a smart change that doesn't make much sense in terms of continuity between episodes, 
 but it's handy and the sort of thing you wish they'd roll back into the much darker, much more 
 flashlight-oriented action of Episode One. At about four or five hours, Episode Two is also longer 
 than Episode One.  

  With all that Half-Life, you'd think that the other two parts of this package would be minor additions 
 thrown in to make the deal sound more attractive. But Portal is probably the greatest thing about 
 The Orange Box. It's a clever mix that combines first-person action with very focused puzzle-solving. 
 It's also completely hilarious. The premise is simple. You're a woman who wakes up in a tiny box 
 inside some lab facility run by a mysterious company called Aperture Science. You're presented 
 with a portal that lets you walk out of the room and into another. From there, the game gradually 
 introduces you to portals and eventually gives you a gun that you can use to fire portals onto 
 walls, ceilings, and floors. Your primary and alternate fire buttons are used to create blue and 
 orange portals, respectively, and walking, jumping, or falling into one portal sends you out of 
 the other one. You can also pick up objects, such as large boxes, which often must be placed on 
 large buttons to open doors so you can proceed through a variety of test chambers.  

           Portal can be a real mindbender, so stop and think about what you're doing before you 
 do it.      

  Along the way, a computerized female voice guides you... and misguides you. The dialogue from the 
 computer supervising your test gets more and more overtly funny as you play and leads to a very 
 satisfying conclusion, including what might be the best end-credit song ever written. Later puzzles 
 force you to pull off some tricky portal maneuvers and require you to consider how much momentum 
 you have when you enter a portal, given that the same momentum is carried with you when you come 
 out the other side. So if you jump down into a floor portal and have the exit portal set on a side 
 wall, you'll rocket out of that portal with the velocity you had when falling into the hole on 
 the floor.  

  Upon finishing Portal, which may take you three hours or so if you're able to quickly grasp the 
 concepts that are presented, you'll unlock a series of advanced challenges. These include six harder 
 versions of puzzles from the main game, and challenges that ask you to finish levels under certain 
 limits, such as the time it takes you to complete the level, the number of portals you use, or 
 the number of steps you take. The advanced puzzles are tough, but not impossible. However, the 
 challenges are much rougher. There are bronze, silver, and gold medals awarded for each of the 
 three challenge types across six levels. Even after you've figured out the puzzles, Portal remains 
 fun and is worth coming back to again and again, just to listen to the dialogue and spend a few 
 fleeting moments with the weighted companion cube. It's a shame that it had to end this way.   
   

  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer component to The Orange Box, and it's been a long time coming. 
 Almost a decade, in fact. But we'll leave out the history lesson and get right down to business. 
 Like its predecessor, Team Fortress 2 is a class-based multiplayer shooter in which the red team 
 dukes it out with the blue team. There are six maps in the game, each with its own set of objectives. 
 So 2fort is your basic "capture the flag" type of game, wherein each team tries to get into the 
 basement, collect the enemy's intelligence (a briefcase) , and return it home. The rest of the maps 
 deal with the capture and defense of control points in different ways. For example, some maps put 
 both teams on a course to capture the enemy's base, but require you to control the other points 
 on the map to get a shot at the final objective. Hydro is an interesting map because it takes the 
 control-point concept a little further by breaking each point up into its own specific area of 
 the map. After each capture, the game is reset; a different part of the level is used for the next 
 conflict, which makes it feel like multiple maps in one level. That's a good thing, too, because 
 the downside of TF2 is that there are only six maps to choose from, and 2fort is the only capture-the-flag 
 map.  

           Capturing control points is much easier if you work as a team.      

  Choosing your character class is a vitally important decision. The right answer is a mixture of 
 personal preference and your current situation, because each class has unique weapon loadouts and 
 abilities. The scout can't take as much damage as other classes, but he's faster, can double jump, 
 and captures control points twice as quickly as other classes, which makes him a vital but fragile 
 man on the battlefield. The soldier is your standard no-frills class, but his default weapon is 
 a rocket launcher, which is handy. The pyro packs a flamethrower, which is fun to use. Then there's 
 the demo man as well as the heavy, both of whom are slower-moving, tougher targets that bring heavy 
 firepower along with them. The engineer's main weapon is a shotgun, but he can also build things 
 such as turrets and teleporters, which can have a huge impact on the game. The medic can heal other 
 players and let out an ubercharge that can turn players invincible for brief periods of time. Teaming 
 up a medic with a heavy can be an incredibly devastating combo. There's a sniper class for those 
 who like to shoot people in the face from long distances. Finally, there's the spy class, which 
 you can use to disguise yourself as a member of the opposite team, turn invisible, and place sappers 
 that eliminate pesky engineer turrets. The classes feel as if they've been balanced out fairly 
 well, and for each action there's an appropriate counter. But none of that sounds particularly 
 special, does it?  

  The thing that makes Team Fortress 2 so special is its graphical style. Rather than going with 
 the ultrarealistic military look that's still all the rage these days with the kids, TF2 has an 
 over-the-top, cartoonish design to it that starts with the great-looking characters. They're really 
 well animated, and each class just has a ton of personality. The level design holds up its end 
 of the bargain, with a visual style that occasionally reminds you of old Road Runner cartoons with 
 their rocky, Southwestern styles.  

           The good doctor's waiting patiently for your arrival.      

  In case you haven't played 
 the two already-released games in the Half-Life 2 saga, they tell the story of Gordon Freeman, 
 your silent protagonist. At the end of the original Half-Life, the scientist was placed into stasis 
 by a mysterious, nameless figure known outside of the HL universe as the G-Man. This governmental-looking 
 guy pops up right at the beginning of HL2 to awaken Gordon and, apparently, place him on a train 
 headed into City 17. This is a very different world than the one Gordon left behind. Time has passed, 
 though it's unclear how much. The alien invasion from the first Half-Life has resulted in the Seven 
 Hour War, at the end of which humanity surrendered to a force now known as the Combine. But even 
 with the human race under complete lockdown, there's still a group of rebels out there fighting 
 for freedom. Some of these rebels are scientists that come directly from the Black Mesa facility 
 where the original Half-Life took place. You quickly hook up with the rebels and the "good" aliens, 
 the vortigaunts, all of whom speak of you in hushed tones, as though you were a legendary hero. 
 Half-Life 2 is a very lengthy adventure with somewhat odd pacing. The game contains two very long 
 vehicle sequences that perhaps go on a bit too long, but let's let sleeping dogs lie. This 2004 
 game is an absolute classic that should be played and enjoyed by almost anyone that comes into 
 contact with it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (340 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xjeykox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is a very good combination of Valve's best FPS games! You can just shoot robots, people etc 
 or play the story mode! There are also many secrets (Mostly in Portal) ! If you don't want to take 
 down the baddies the hard way or you're stuck in some place, you can enable the console, find commands 
 in the internet and use them in the game. And it's very cheap, it isn't hard to find and if you 
 take the games one by one it'll cost much more than the "Orange box" pack! For now this is my favorite 
 game pack ever! 
  
  
  Here are some cool sites and fan sites about "The orange box" to check:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/The_Orange_Box
 
  http://ApertureScience. com/
  http://ApertureLaboratories. com/
  http://ApertureLabratories. com /
  http://xbox360. ign. com/objects/830/830467. html
  
  
  Um.... 
 that's all :) ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Again I find myself in the rut of reviewing a game based on its product and value, not on its character. 
 While there's a maniacal glee in judging nearly anything on the superficial level, sometimes it 
 cannot be ignored  from games to members of the opposite gender, we all have our times of surface-level 
 thinking. Bear with me here and we dive into the treacherous waters of the following question: 
 Is The Orange Box a good deal?
  
  Oh God yes. But let's hold off on that part for a minute.
  
  Other news sources champion Portal 
 to be the best of the batch, and I'd agree if I wasn't enamored with Half-Life 2. Portal uses a 
 puzzle concept and takes it well beyond the level of "get over there" by the end of its three hours 
 playtime. By using a deceptively simple mechanic, Portal allows the player to experiment and even 
 exterminate enemies in some wonderfully enjoyable ways. And that all happens to ignore the story 
 element, which is hilarious and genuinely entertaining. I haven't laughed at a game in years - 
 where the punchline was intentional, mind you - and it's refreshing.
  
  The Half-Life 2 saga occupies most of the rest of the two-DVD set, and it's worth buying the Orange 
 Box for those games alone. While the entire series is largely the same and I've covered this material 
 elsewhere, Half-Life 2 excels through controlling the experience to the perfect degree. The action 
 and story are so well integrated into each other that oftentimes it's easy to mistake one of the 
 other. In other games that will show a short movie and then (finally) get into the game, Half-Life 
 2 has always seamlessly shifted from emotional state to emotional state, sometimes offering solstice 
 while warning of foreboding danger ahead. This is wrapped around a thin but involving and well-told 
 plot that combines 1984, The Bourne series, and "Lost" mystical gibberish.
  
  The episodes just build upon the framework the first game created. Episode 1 introduces a rise 
 in action and an even more neck-breaking speed than the first; the entire game clips along at a 
 good five hours or so. While the lack of new material was slightly disappointing, Episode 1 ends 
 in a breathtaking twist that jumps right into Episode 2. Episode 2 is the most mature of all of 
 these games, offering new environments and a gradually opening sense of exploration of freedom, 
 which culminates in one of the best climaxes in video game history.
  
  I'm leaving out Team Fortress 2, because I am generally uninterested in online multiplayer (unless 
 there are bots to practice with before I give it a try, which TF2 lacks) . I played briefly, but 
 certainly not enough to speak on its quality  thankfully this is not a professional review and 
 you can discard my opinion as you wish. Perhaps at a later date I will amend this review, but until 
 then, know that this verdict was made without the multiplayer portion and that the score cannot 
 get any lower than it is  even if TF2 was terrible, the rest is so far beyond my standard of value 
 that it would be an eleven anyhow. I'm just going to assume TF2 is good for now.
  
  The single player games may be short - Portal at three hours, Half-Life 2 series in total around 
 twenty - but I don't see this is a detraction by any means; the games are so well paced and free 
 of filler that it's hard to fault their short time span. The games still look nice thanks to Valve's 
 dedication to their Source engine, and everything's just so perfect that there's no faults for 
 me in this box (aside from Steam, bleagh) . Of course it's a great value: it is five AAA titles 
 for $50 (or less) .
  
  I'm at a loss for words. It's hard to fully comprehend how excellent and immensely satisfying The 
 Orange Box was. It is the best two DVD's I own, and it should be on your list. Right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRailton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, where do I start? There's six games in one package. There's Half Life 2, a shooting puzzler, 
 its sequel Half Life 2 Episode 1 and its sequel Half Life 2 Episode 2. There's Half Life 2 Deathmatch, 
 which is an online shooter. There's as well Portal, a puzzle game. And there's Team Fortress 2, 
 one of my favorite online shooters. 
  
  Half Life 2 takes place after the events of the original Half Life, and it's basically the same 
 thing, although a WAY better story. Its also outside pretty much the whole time, unlike Half Life. 
 Half Life 2 was made like 7 years after Half Life, so the graphics are AWSOME. There are as well 
 a few minor changes, so ya.
  
  Half Life 2 Episodes 1 & 2 take place after Half Life 2.
  
  Half Life 2 Deathmatch is an online shooter with the same weapons as Half Life 2.
  
  Portal 
 takes place as the same time as Half Life 2, although the only gun you can use is the Portal Handheld 
 Device. Awsome puzzler.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is an AWSOME online shooter. You choose your class, which there is 9. Pyro, Heavy, 
 Sniper, Medic, Spy, Scout, Engineer, Soldier, and Demoman. There are different maps with different 
 objectives as well.
  
  The best thing about this deal it that it's $20.00!!!! AWSOMENESS!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OHSO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this set of games I wasn't sure what I was getting, I personally was interested 
 in Half Life being the FPS fan that I am. Much to my surprise I found that playing Portal became 
 the obsession! Here's a game that has no enemies... well I can't say that exactly it's complicated, 
 and I get a gun that doesn't kill things... how can this be any fun? Well after the first 6 hours 
 of playing, my eyes red rimmed, my bladder ready to burst and the gears in my head all messed up 
 I had to go to the bathroom and then to bed... and dream about it.. it is just that kind of experience. 
 The next time I played Team Fortress 2 and after wiping the tears from my eyes from laughter found 
 a pure multi-player game, not something I was terribly interested in at first, but after another 
 6 hours of play found I was quite addicted to the game play and enchanted by the cartoon-like graphics. 
 I then went onto play the game I had originally bought the box for... Half-Life and was prepared 
 to not like it... I have never been one for hype and this had a ton of that.. delightfully I found 
 the experience to be completely engrossing. I payed next to nothing for all three of these title 
 and got way more than my monies worth out of it. I highly recommend this set of games for anyone 
 and everyone... I only hope that this sets a trend that will be followed by the other big name game 
 developers out there. Give the players what they want and they will keep coming back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrischamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  If you even own a computer, I recommend this game. I myself am not much of a computer gamer, I 
 usually play on a console but this game is among my favorites for all systems. Every game in theis 
 package is worthy of being sold on it's own, and many of them have been released individually. 
 The graphics and frame rate etc. are not sacrificed to fit the games on two discs (I think one 
 is just installation actually) , and they play unexpectedly well on my computer that is older than 
 the games. With so much to rave about in The Orange Box, it's really hard to complain, but there 
 are a few minor things that can get annoying. Portal is amazing but short, really short, but is 
 still worth playing. The load times in Team Fortress 2 can be long (but you are connecting to servers 
 and stuff so it is expected) . And right now I can't really think of any problems with the Half-Life 
 2 games. Seriously, I would buy this game for double it's price, and I recommend it to anyone even 
 remotely interested in computer games. I wasn't even very into first person action/shooter games 
 before I bought this package but again, it is now one of my all-time favorites. Any one game in 
 The Orange Box could easily go for $30, btu all of them?! get yourself out there any get a copy 
 people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Five games combined? For $50? Valve hit the nail on the head with this package. All 5 games are 
 splendid in their own way, giving all but the most picky gamers many hours of great gameplay. Even 
 if you've already played Half-Life and Episode 1. If you haven't been fortunate enough to try those 
 two out, well.. This package is a God-send to you. 
  
  The innovation is Portal is astounding, and the game will draw the player in within moments. The 
 graphics are decent, with some good textures and shading, but the physics will blow you (and possibly 
 your computer) away. The storyline is set in the Half-Life universe, presumably sometime after 
 the Combine invasion. But it's not the main plot that will get to you, it's Glados the robot. She 
 makes crude and hilarious remarks through the entire game, growing more maniacal as the levels 
 progress. The witty remarks will leave the gamer laughing and begging for more.. or annoyed and 
 wishing to kill the damn thing. As you continue, writing on the wall, especially writing concerning 
 cake and the late companion cube, will leave you laughing but will also plant a more desperate 
 feeling in you: a wish to get the hell out of this enormous building. The puzzles will take some 
 thinking, but are unlike anything gaming has seen yet. They are thought-provoking and sometimes 
 challenging. Wonderfully, there are several possible ways to complete each one. A terrific boss 
 battle ends the game topped off with unarguably the greatest video game song ever created.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is sort of the weakest of the games in the package. With new updates added, 
 the game became much better, and well over 100 achievements will leave you coming back frequently. 
 The cartoon graphics are solid, with good shading and lighting effects, but the cartoon appearance 
 keeps the Source engine from showing its age. Each of the classes is useful in its own way, and 
 all have its own added sense of humor. With two good teams squaring off, intense matches can be 
 loads of fun for hours. However, that doesn't keep the game from losing its luster after a while, 
 even with the addition of new maps and different game types. 
  
  Episode 2 takes up where Episode 1 left off, and is a huge improvement in every way. Whereas Ep1 
 simply seemed to be a mini Half-Life 2, Ep2 almost seems like its own game. The Source engine is 
 starting to show its age, even though Ep2 and the others still look better than quite a few games 
 made today. The textures are slightly improved, and the gore has been upped quite a bit. Some character 
 models, like the vortigaunts, look vastly better. The biggest addition has undoubtedly been the 
 much better destructible environments. Entire buildings can be destroyed by powerful laser blasts, 
 and some walls can be smashed down. The story is much improved over the Half-Life 2 and Ep1 as 
 well, making the experience that much more enjoyable. Capped off with some great battles, Ep2 delivers 
 on its promise to the fullest.
  
  With 3 amazing new games plus 2 great older ones for $50 is a splendid deal that should be taken 
 by any fan of shooters or puzzles. For those that haven't played Half-Life 2 and Ep1, it's time 
 to start on Valve's newest achievement *not counting L4D, which I will review later*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is an incredible deal that gives you 5 amazing games, while costing the same as 
 an average game. You might think "these games must be horrible and old if they're doing this" but 
 you're dead wrong. The 5 games included are arguably the best fps games ever made. Halfe Life 2 
 + episode 1 & 2... team fortress 2 and a unique game called portal. If you haven't played Half 
 Life 2 what the hell are you doing with a PC?! All gamers should have played Half Life 1 or 2 because 
 theyre classics. They're must plays and if you havent tried it yourself you're missing out. Team 
 Fortress 2 is the multiplayer component of this package. It's a squad based team game sorta like 
 Battlefield (but of course team fortress is the original squad based shooter) . It can get frustrating 
 when you first play it, because, since it is an online game you can get owned constantly the first 
 times you play it. But once you get the hang of it, its really awesome. Each class is completely 
 different in playstyle and each has a different role in helping your team achieve victory. The 
 best thing I love about TF2 is that they constantly update the game with things like new weapons, 
 achievements, and maps. Recently, the Heavy update was released. I can't wait for the next one. 
 Portal is a very unique game. It's a first person "shooter" where instead of shooting someone with 
 an actual gun, you get a weapon that shoots portals and you solve intriguing puzzles by using them 
 to manipulate the game's physics. It's a fresh and amazing experience. The only real issue i have 
 against portal is that it's a bit on the short side, but considering how they've bundled 5 games 
 in the orange box, I can't really complain. Half Life 2, I don't think i really even have to explain. 
 It has an epic storyline and it is probably the best game ever made.
  The verdict: Get the orange box RIGHT NOW if you don't have it yet. Also, I'd like to say that 
 Valve is the best ever. I've been playing their games since HL1 and they've never failed to disappoint. 
 I can't even think of a game off the top of my head that they've made that was a failure except 
 condition zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DojoKanooJoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game or games. The orange box is probably the best game deal ever with 5 
 games for 1 price. The whole half-life 2 series is insane and portal is nothing short of amazing. 
 Team Fortress is fun when its not lagged out. I like it on the pc the best cause you could play 
 it where ever you want (if you have a laptop) problem with that is if your pc already has a lot 
 of memory on it the game is a little slow and glitchy. One more thing is you can get garry's mod 
 which is one of the greatest ideas ever. For Team fortress 2 every once and awhile valve will add 
 updates like more achievements and new weapons for certain classes eg. boxing gloves for the heavy. 
 It just takes for ever for them to make games half life3 might not come out til 2010 thats way 
 to long. Overall it's good but can have some technical difficulties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msalerno03
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box comes with five games: Half-Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Team Fortress, and Portal. 
 Team Fortress is a fun and addicting multiplayer game similar to the original. If puzzles are more 
 your style than Portal is a great 1 to 3 hours of entertainment. But the guts of this package are 
 Half-Life 2 and the episodes.
  As far as first-person shooters go Half-Life 1 revolutionized the genre. Graphically it pushed 
 the curve but what made the original great was the added feel of a plot. Half-Life 2 picks up where 
 the original left off to create the best fps experience out there.
  Graphically Half-Life 2 matches other shooters on the market even 4+ years from its original release. 
 Face expressions are top notch and the physics engine remains cutting edge. Even though some games, 
 Crysis in particular, are technically better looking, what sets this series apart is the story. 
 Character and plot development are light-years ahead of any other shooter out there. You can connect 
 with the other characters, learn about them, and interact with them. The style of never hearing 
 your character, Gordon, speak enhances the overall feel of the story. And by the end of the series 
 you feel an emotional connection similar to that of watching a good movie. The experience of playing 
 Half-Life is just that, and experience. One unlike anything out there today.
  On top of all this is the fact that all these games are available for the price of one. The Half-Life 
 series and Portal will provide over 20 hours of quality gaming experience. There is no repetitious 
 game play as each of the four games were\are individual releases. If you are a fan of fps, you 
 have no option but to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemas10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  If you want to know what i think about the individual games of this collection read my reviews 
 for them. If not know this all the games in this collection are good and fun. If you don't care 
 about all the other games in this collection then at least get portal, please its fun. Buy this 
 collection it is well worth your hard earned cash, even after beating the games in this collection 
 there still is, Team Fortress 2 too play for more hours of endless enjoyment. So good job Valve. 
 Oh and Valve please release Half-Life 2 Episode three soon. Also I can't wait for a Portal sequel. 
 Also right now this collection I think is $30, so really worth it think about it it is 5 games 
 for $30. So in the end all i have to say about this collection is... well ah I just have to many 
 things to say about it but i guess i will have to simply say OMG! Money Well Spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  There have been plenty of outstanding titles released by Valve over the years. The Orange Box takes 
 some of the best that the company has to offer and gives it to you at one affordable price. Games 
 that come in the package include Half-Life 2, HL2: E1, HL2: E2, Portal and Team Fortress 2. While 
 the episodic games are short, they make up for this by providing a great single-player experience. 
 Portal is a puzzle game that provides physics based challenges. Team Fortress 2 is the follow up 
 to Team Fortress Classic, considered to be on of the first class based multiplayer shooters. 
 
  
  As you can see, this package is by far one of the best deals in gaming history. Even long after 
 you finish the single player games, you will have plenty of sleepless nights on TF2. It is rare 
 to see such value attached to a solid computer game product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This lengthy review will cover the different parts of The Orange Box in three reviews within, and 
 then end with an overall summary. I will only assign an overall score to the package and not individual 
 games. If you make it to the end of the review, there will be cake and grievance counseling.
  
  What is The Orange Box?
  
  The Orange Box is a collection of games by Valve Software, containing 
 both old and new content.
  
  Old content consists of Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode 1. Despite the unusual naming of Episode 
 1, it is actually a direct sequel to HL2 rather than a prequel. Valve has decided to release three 
 Episodes to continue the story, and together they comprise what is essentially Half-Life 3.
  
  New content includes Half-Life 2: Episode 2 (the next chapter of the HL series) , Portal (a 
 very original puzzle game) , and Team Fortress 2 (sequel to the multiplayer TF expansion that was 
 made for the original HL) .
  
  All of this content is on a single disc, for the price of a normal game. Also, you can select any 
 of the games from a menu right from the start. So if you already played HL2 and/or Episode 1, you 
 can jump right to the next part you haven't played.
  
  Half-Life 2 + Episodes Review
  
  Simply put, Half-Life 2 (and by extension the Episode expansions) is the greatest shooter of all 
 time. It once again places you in the shoes (or rather, the Hazard Suit) of Gordon Freeman, the 
 scientist who accidentally opened a portal to alien worlds in the original Half-Life. You wake 
 up an unknown amount of time after the original HL, and find yourself arriving at a huge city simply 
 called City 17. Disoriented and full of curiosity, you step through the gates to the city and soon 
 realize that a new alien threat known as the Combine has enslaved the human race.
  
  HL2 and HL2: Episode 1 both revolve around exploring City 17. You'll travel through abandoned towns 
 (such as the alien-zombie infested Ravenholm) , highways, construction areas, a prison, and of course 
 the main streets of the city. Along the way, you'll be reunited with old allies and some new ones 
 on your quest to liberate the human race from the tyranny of the oppressive and brutal Combine. 
 Episode 2 takes place outside the city limits in all new areas, mostly outdoors, while on the run 
 from the Combine.
  
  The games have an amazing atmosphere, with superb art direction, unique environments (as opposed 
 to copying and pasting identical rooms over and over again the way Halo does) and realistic special 
 effects like water and fire, the latter of which has been noticeably upgraded. Other upgrades to 
 the graphics include higher quality characters models (particularly their faces so as to allow 
 for better facial expressions) and updated lighting, which now creates realistic shadows of anything 
 you shine your flashlight at. The characters you meet have distinguishable personalities, and act 
 realistically to whatever is happening. There are lines of dialogue you get from doing things that 
 the other characters will react to, and this really makes you feel like you are having an impact 
 on the game world.
  
  Audio is also top-notch. Music ranges from subtle ambient tracks to louder action packed music 
 and always seems to kick in at just the right time. Weapons all sound unique, the screams of alien 
 foes satisfying, and the main characters (besides your silent protagonist) expertly voiced. Seriously, 
 this could be the best voice acting I've ever heard. The voice acting brings so much emotion to 
 the story and really makes you bond with the characters. Of course, the great acting is backed 
 up by a strong script. The entire game is well written, a fine balance between serious storytelling 
 and offbeat humor.
  
  Half-Life 2 retains key gameplay elements that made the original so great: enemy variety, weapon 
 variety, excellent level design and brilliant puzzles. Back when HL2 was released, it was the pioneer 
 game for realistic physics. That is to say, everything will react the way it would in real life. 
 The physics still hold up and are still better than just about any game released since then. The 
 physics are used for just about every puzzle, and allow the game to not be limited by the laws 
 of old-school game design. The game just feels like the future of gaming. Indeed, physics have 
 now been integrated into just about every respectable modern game but they play a bigger part here 
 than in any other game, primarily due to the innovative Gravity Gun weapon.
  
  The Gravity Gun allows you to pick up heavy objects and then launch them at high speeds towards 
 your enemies. For example, you can grab and exploding barrel and shoot it at an enemy. It will 
 explode on impact and send you enemy flying to a beautiful ragdoll death. Or you could find objects 
 to hold in front of you as shields as you charge towards the enemy. Creativity is encouraged and 
 there are many ways to play the game, ensuring that you will want to play it again and again. You'll 
 get plenty of other weapons in addition to the Gravity Gun, so you'll be pumping plenty of bullets 
 into your enemies as well.
  
  THE FEW COMPLAINTS PEOPLE MAY HAVE:
  - Ugly box art. Hardly a reason to not play a game though.
  - The frame rate may drop on rare 
 occasions.
  - Vehicle segments: some people think they are too long. Although I admit they can be long, I found 
 them entertaining, and you exit your vehicle to explore stuff on the side which helps break up 
 the long driving stretches.
  - Not enough new enemy types or weapons. Episode 2 has only one enemy that is 100% new. Other "new" 
 enemies in the Episodes are just new forms of previously existing enemies. Episode 2 introduces 
 a sort of sub-weapon, but not a real new weapon.
  - Cliffhanger endings: all three parts of HL2 have cliffhanger endings. Deal with it.
  
  Portal 
 Review
  
  Portal is a first-person puzzle game that takes place in a science laboratory. Your main character 
 is a test subject for a new gizmo that creates portals. However, you are essentially trapped and 
 the only way to leave is to solve the test courses. There is actually more to the story, but I 
 won't spoil it. Just know that it is more interesting than merely running through obstacle courses.
 
  
  The portal creation device allows you to place only two portals at a time. Entering one will take 
 you out the other. You can quickly reach higher areas or move from one end of a room to the other 
 with this, and transport things like boxes and energy balls which act like keys to open doors, 
 since the energy balls must be directed into slots) . Later puzzles take momentum into account. 
 For example, placing a portal on a wall and a portal on the floor will allow you to jump from a 
 high up place down into the floor portal, and the speed of the high fall will send you flying out 
 the wall portal and across to the other side of the room onto a ledge you couldn't normally reach. 
 You'll also be avoiding hazards like toxic waste and gun turrets.
  
  It may sound hard (and it actually is) but the learning curve is perfect. Puzzles start out extremely 
 simple as the game teaches you how everything you interact with throughout the game operates. After 
 that, each test chamber will take longer and longer to complete as skills you learned in previous 
 levels will need to be combined with new ones, or used in different ways. The one thing people 
 may complain about is the game time. On a first run through the game, Portal will take between 
 2 and a half to 3 hours to complete, but then you unlock some advanced challenge puzzles, and bonus 
 challenges (such as beating levels quickly, or beating levels while placing as few portals as possible) . 
 These extra challenges easily double the gameplay time.
  
  One last note: Portal is hilarious. The AI system that controls the test chambers says really funny, 
 sarcastic, and morbid things. The gun turrets that are obstacles in certain levels are cute, non-menacing 
 turrets that will cry for help if you pick them up, and if you knock them over to disable them 
 they will say things like "I don't blame you". This could be the funniest game I've ever played, 
 and yes I have played all the Monkey Island games.
  
  Team Fortress 2 Review
  
  This is the only multiplayer component of The Orange Box, and also the most disappointing one. 
 TF2 is a cel-shaded, cartoon style (a departure from the original) team based shooter. There are 
 nine different character classes to pick from, each with different weapons, hit points, speed, 
 and special skills (double jump, healing, temporary invisibility, etc.) . Building a balanced team 
 is the main goal here, and you must work together and take advantage of your unique skills to win.
 
  
  There are several points of criticism about TF2. For one thing, you can't play offline split-screen. 
 There is system link mode though. Second, there are only six maps, which is relatively low compared 
 to other multiplayer games. Of course, these maps are well designed, and a lot of people have come 
 up with a counter-argument: "Most games may have more maps, but they aren't as well designed and 
 you end up with only a handful of good ones anyway." Yet another problem is that game types are 
 pre-assigned to maps. You choose a map, and that map will only have one game type. The last problem 
 is that you can only have two teams, as opposed to just about any other game out there, which would 
 allow you to have up to four teams.
  
  In all fairness, TF2 is an overall solid multiplayer game that has an interesting character class 
 system. It shouldn't be the main reason for you to pick up The Orange Box, but it is still a good 
 game. I suppose it delivers what fans of the original wanted: more. It does its job, but it feels 
 like it did the bare minimum. Hopefully more maps and options will be added through downloadable 
 updates.
  
  Summary
  
  There's a vast amount of variety and fun to be had here, for both single player and multiplayer 
 gaming. The disappointment of Team Fortress 2 isn't enough to impact the score, because even if 
 TF2 were not included, The Orange Box would still have been worthy of a perfect score.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - A consistently high level of detail, an updated lighting engine, enhanced character 
 models and amazing animations that bring the worlds and characters to life.
  
  Audio: 10/10 - Perfect across the board: voice acting, music, and sound effects are all outstanding. 
 Also, the Episodes and Portal feature optional audio commentary (sort of like what DVD movies have) , 
 which is yet another welcome innovation.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 - Too hard to summarize here, but all the games play extremely well and feature 
 the amazing level design.
  
  Value/Replayability: 10/10 - There are at least 30 hours of gameplay for the single player games 
 alone. And since they are so fun, you'll want to play them more than once, and with the awesome 
 audio commentary. The multiplayer mode should entertain for a while too.
  
  Final Score: 10/10 - A must-own game (or games) for anyone even remotely interested in shooters 
 or action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultramalakian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I had never played a HL game before, I saw the OBox at $40, so i decided to give it a try (I mean, 
 from 5 games, at least one should have been good)
  Well, seems like ALL of them are excellent. Half-Life, Team Fortress 2 and (Toobad so short...) 
 Portal, they are excellent games that don't even require a great computer to run.
  The balance between price and quality is incredible. Individually, you would pay about $80-90 for 
 all of them, but now, you have th oportunity to play all this excellent games, without paying so 
 much.
  All the companies should think like VALVE: Piracy is senseless when an offer like this appears. 
 
  I'm satisfied about my $40, and I'm proud to have my Orange Box near me. 
  Really, if you want to spend a loooooong playing good games, get your Orange Box now!
  
  (!) 
 By the way, the PC version comes with HL2: Lost Coast and Peggle Extreme (which is highly. addictive) . 
 That makes 7 GREAT games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1DdL3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty and Classification are hard to describe because we are talking about a package of games. Even 
 so, I put Difficulty Just Right because we are talking about 2 expansions, an fps-like puzzle game 
 and a team deathmatch game.40 to 100 hours it would certainly take especially if you like Team 
 fortress 2 as much as I did. Half Life 2 may be my favorite FPS of all times, I loved the game and 
 I also played Half Life 1. There is a negative part about the Episodes, I don't quite like them as 
 type of a game, they are too short as well but both of them combined are like a good expansion. I 
 really liked Portal it had brilliant ideas and it made a great atmosphere, you in a facility you 
 know nothing about being able to talk only with a machine with some quite mysterious messages and 
 an obvious absent of people. Team fortress 2 for me was pure fun. And it was great. All are games 
 that are known and i personally love them. So it totally deserves a 10. Every game from me gets 10 
 except the episodes that get a 9 because of their shortness. But combined all these games must get 
 a 10. I had and have a great time playing with these games and I'd certainly suggest them to anyone 
 who likes sci-fi fps, puzzle or team deathmatch games. The package has everything :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hofstetter17
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is by far the greatest game experience you can get for $50. Portal is addictive and hilarious. 
 I played it through at least five times in the first week I got it. Half-Life 2 is the greatest 
 computer game I have ever played. (I have never played Half-Life, but I heard it was good.) The 
 episodes for Half-Life 2 just make it that much more immersive and fun. It makes you feel like 
 you really are fighting against zombies, aliens and an oppressive, overseeing, 1984-esque combine 
 with a group of resistance fighters who seem like they become your friends. By the end of episode 
 2, you feel like you know the characters and that you're part of a "family." And I cannot say enough 
 about how awesome Team Fortress 2 is, from its subtle (and not so subtle) sense of humor, to the 
 cartoonish characters, to the manical laugh of the heavy, it is a great game. The community has 
 come up with some great maps for it. If you have a PC. BUY THIS GAME! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT. IT 
 WILL BE THE BEST $50 YOU EVER SPENT.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian32672
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  One game (rather 5) that is worth every penny. Granted I had a few games already, now they can 
 be given away. If you have played the other HL games, you will notice the same gameplay. It is 
 a very story rich game, that is very easy to follow (unlike my review) . For an RPG it is easy to 
 become the game player aka: Gordon F. I rank it only a 9 for the lack of serious graphics in a 
 age where graphics are king (think Crysis) but that does not take away from the fun, and for better 
 graphics I would have only added an extra half point. Making a 10 is very hard, and must have an 
 awesome tilt factor, which this game falls shy. The upcoming D3 with luck will have that factor, 
 and may get a 10 from what I am seeing. I will gladly review that as soon as available. Back to 
 HL, The Steam value is usually pretty good with this series, but with the orange box taking the 
 cake. It adds all 3 HL2 games as well a dedicated online shooter of Team Fortress, and a single 
 player game based on mazes called Portal.
  Personally I have played Portal twice and find it very fun, but for most it will suffice for a 
 one time play.
  Awaiting another installment of the HL series, I do hope they up the graphics. Hardware requirements 
 are very minimal and the Valve engine runs very smooth on the cards I have here, including a single 
 7600GT, a HD 4850, a 8800 GTS, and a SLI 8800 GTS dual setup. Obviously the 7600 GT will not run 
 at max everything but the other cards can (that is at 1920x1200) At lower resolutions the 7600 
 GT could easily run at max and I have tried it, so no worries there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turnspikeguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  any player can instantly put this game in and be sucked into a new world, the story of half life 
 2 and its corrosponding episodes 1,2 will keep you guessing and will have you on the edge of your 
 seat! its storys like these coupled with graphics and phycics of this kind that really make it 
 a stand out leader in the gaming world not to mention its re-play factor.
  The AI in this game is great! even if you run and hide they will seak you out, or sit and wait 
 for you to come back. There are a number of differnt enemys so the game dosent become too repetitive 
 and boring, not to mention the awsome selection of avaible weapons.
  the weapon you will have the most fun using is the "Gravity Gun" this allows you to pick up and 
 object around you and move it around to make a higher place more accesable or you can use it to 
 launch objects at enemys in a number of amusing ways.
  
  Portal is a awsome brain teaser with its super funny psycottic computer everyone can enjoy this 
 game, but make sure you get some cake!
  as for team fortress i never actually played it as i found halo 3 to more of an interesting online 
 experiance.
  in all i rate this gaming package 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you don't already own this package deal than you are definitely missing out, but 
 if you don't, just wait until the holidays when you really will get these great games for very 
 cheap. Now to say that getting all the games included in the Orange Box is a great deal is a complete 
 understatement. I didn't believe that they were all full games, but instead trial versions when 
 I first bought the Box, very pleasently surprised to say the least. It's like saying that you get 
 to go to a buffet for only $5 and get to eat all the steak, lobster, shrimp, and whatever else 
 you find delicious for as long as you want, but instead of food you get Half-Life 2, the first 
 and second episodes of HL2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2, all of which are worth quite a bit on 
 their own.
  Now i won't talk about each seperate game (you can find my reviews on the individual games in there 
 respective places) , but instead my impression of the overall package. 
  Like I already said, the Orange Box is a steal. Now for gameplay, each has it's own quirks that 
 make each quite unique, giving the Orange Box a large range to satsify all types of gamers. 
  HL2 and its episodes give you the regular type of fps, but with great features that put it apart 
 from other fps's in the past. Just an example is the gravity gun, and very interesting story. 
 
  Portal is more of puzzle type game, but still very much oriented toward fans of a good fps, with 
 your goal not only to solve puzzles, but to solve the puzzles to save your life. One of the biggest 
 features of portal is the portal gun (obviously) which makes it a very different experience from 
 usual fps puzzles (is there any others?) . A game like this has never come out before, which makes 
 it very unique to most, and is very fun and exciting. Sometimes just goofing around shooting portals 
 wherever you want and seeing where they take you can be just as fun as actually playing.
  For TF2, the multiplayer gaming is very exciting, and with a new way of level and character design 
 not seen before, this game will stick out when compared to others multiplayer games. Also, it has 
 a very good community of gamers making for more interesting gameplay.
  The graphics of all the games are quite well done if you have the graphics card to handle it. You 
 don't need to have something amazing unless you want to have every setting set to really high, 
 otherwise the games are just as fun with lower setting on graphics.
  So this game is definitely worth every penny, and if you don't already own, get it as soon as possible 
 and prepare to be amazed. If you do own it already, join my steam group.
  
  Group: The Homestarmy (HSA)
  Player: (HSA) HOMESTARGUNNER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helbrec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to pick where to start with with The Orange Box.. this amazing deal any PC Gamer, or if 
 you choose 360 or ps3 gamer should have. Youve got 5 games ranging from puzzle to fps/rpg hybrid 
 all the way to multiplayer action. Lets start with portal.
  
  Portal is a fun first person, adventure game. You take the roll of a "prisoner" of sorts guided 
 through out the first few levels by a unknown narrator. The point of the game is to get from point 
 A to point B using the blue and orange portals. After the first few levels you gain a portal gun 
 which allows you to choose where you want to put these portals. Portal is an amazing bonus to Orange 
 Box and is worth a try for any who buy the game.
  
  Half Life 2 is these legendary game where players once again take the role of Gordan Freeman himself 
 battling combine and mutant zombies once again. The game is without a doubt one of the best FPS 
 games I've ever played and has an amazing story along with the intense action. The box also includes 
 the 2 continuations of the game.. Episode 1 and Episode 2.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the second team fortress (obviously) which engages players in multiplayer combat 
 choosing up to 9 diffrent classes. The game is great fun and the cartoonish look is diffrent for 
 the typical realistic looking shooters we have seen in the past. 
  
  My overall recomendation is that anyone who wants to have enormus amounts of fun and wants to get 
 a great deal in the process.. then The Orange Box is for you!
  
  Rating:
  Presentation: 9/10 - I thought that a manual wouldve been nice rather than just a slip of paper 
 with game controls.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - Half Life 2 defanetly stands out with the best graphics compared to Portal and 
 ofcoure TF2, nothing new but still amazing.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10 - Sound is great in The Orange Box, nothing really to say here.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9.5/10 - Combat in TF2 is kind of sloppy but Half Life more than makes up for this engaging players 
 with missiles, machine guns and 3 legged tripods.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10 - 5 games in 1 box.. One being a fun puzzle game you cant get enough of and 
 one being a multiplayer shooter, no question here folks!
  
  Overall: 94/100 - Shall I say it again... buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BanHim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box includes the entire Half-Life 2 series to date, the return of a great multiplayer 
 game, and a revolutionary game. Five games total all for fifty bucks at release. The Half-Life 
 series is one of the best in the shooter genre. Team Fortress 2 has a unique look and fun gameplay. 
 Portal is simple and at the same time simply amazing. Prey had portal tech in it, but Portal takes 
 it a step further... a big step. The four campaign games included are short, all were less than 
 10hrs. The length of each game in my mind is forgiven for a few reasons; 1. Half-Life 2 is episodic. 
 2. Each episode so far is great. 3. Portal is our first encounter with a game to have portal/puzzle 
 mechanics. 4. There are five new games included for the price of one. To overly criticize The Orange 
 Box would be asinine and greedy. I insist that every PC gamer own this Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist131
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  First i think that the orange box a bad game but this game is a masterpiece for every game should 
 have first if you don't have this game you would said what kind of name is that for a game or how 
 weird name i will not buy this game but when you buy it you will be totally amazed of the game 
 this gae contains 5 games in one box with 3 new game first let talk about team fortess 2 this game 
 is very addict and it comes with the best multiplayer experience and it haves it unique new graphic 
 style with 9 clases it's very adict and fun then portal this game is a revolutionary puzzle game 
 since tetris this game is awesome with very challenging puzles and good graphic and with a excellent 
 voice of GLaDoS and it's very fun and then half life 2 ep 2 trustly i never had played half life 
 series but when i play this game i love it the graphics the story everything is awesome and this 
 isn't over beacuse this game also haves half life 2 and half life 2 episode 1 if you had never 
 played half life 2 you can buy this game and you will know all the story to beggining to end well 
 when the Orange box was launched it cost 60 bucks but now it costs 30 bucks so buy it this game 
 is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare treats that comes around only so often: a collection of fantastic games 
 for a great price. And every one of these games is an absolute blast to play and offers hours and 
 hours of great gameplay. The Half-Life games are really an incredible journey with lots of puzzles, 
 killing, challenging bosses, and incredible scenes. Follow this up with mind ripping reality in 
 Portal where your ideas of what is normal will get twisted completely around and the puzzles will 
 stump you for hours, if not months. Try getting all of the achievements and you may be stuck for 
 even longer. Than to cap off teh already fantastic fun we have Team Fortress whose animated graphics 
 and gameplay is one of the most fun online 'battlefields' I have ever come across. Every class 
 is fun, humorous and exciting to play and the missions never get old. This remains to this day 
 one of the best games I have ever invested in for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Wolf_86
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I knew that Portal was going to be good but, Wow!
  
  I actually had no idea what I was getting myself into. The only reason that I bought The Orange 
 Box was because of the fact that it was 3 in 1. But the only game I really wanted was Portal.
 
  
  When you finally perform your first consecutive free-fall that is infinite, your brain will explode.
 
  
  It's also how you get that big falling achievement.
  
  Portal starts off kind of humorous and a little creepy at the same time but then gets fun.
  
 
  Of course, it is a puzzle game so it doesn't really have to be fun but the fun part happens when 
 you have to sling-shot yourself across the map for the first time. 
  
  I nominate the "Companion Cube" for best character for 2008. And I hope that you all made it to 
 the party at the end. Or were smart enough to realize what is actually happening.
  
  When I finally tried Half-Life, I played for 20 minutes and then turned it off. (too intense)
 
  
  Seriously... After I calmed down, I turned the game back on and went at it. I only made it 1 more 
 hour. And I still haven't beaten it. This game is everything I was looking for in a first-person 
 shooter.
  
  Very intimidating.
  
  Team Fortress 2's network is broken. Lag-Lag-Lag-Lag. Everywhere. I just wish I could figure out 
 all of the commands. Or how to play with the console version (that would be nice) .
  
  But seriously, it is actually really fun. When I need to relax from Gears of War, or Half-Life, 
 Team Fortress is there to take me in.
  
  Too much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaremaing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Holy Amazing Game Batman! I picked this up on Amazon for 30 bucks, and what a steal! I've completed 
 Portal (in a way, my favorite game in the box) , played for hours on Team Fortress 2, and am about 
 three quarters done with Half-Life 2. I haven't even played Episode One and Two yet, and I've already 
 felt like I've greatly surpassed my money's worth. Now, if you have an older PC, with only a PCI 
 card slot, and you're wondering if there are any new games that will work for it, check out the 
 Orange Box! System requirements are extremely reasonable, and my GeForce FX card looks freaking 
 great with this game! Be warned though, if you don't have a fast internet connection, Steam will 
 be a beast at updating. If your internet is good, it's perfectly fine. Everything in this box could 
 stand alone easily, but since they're packaged together, it's the best deal ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydappyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  i liked almost every part of this orange box! portal is extremely fun but like everyone says to 
 short. still very fun and replayable also its funny. half life episode 1 and 2 were realy fun i 
 really enjoyed them. the part with the car is fun but hard to explore. i just loved solving the 
 puzzles they are very well done. graphics are average it seems with everything maxed out but maybe 
 thats just me hey i dont know anything! voice acting is amazing and the dialogue is genious. the 
 ONLY thing i didint like the 1 thing! is that the zombie parts started to just get really long 
 and boring it seemd to be kinda aimless at times. other than that a very good game pack and well 
 worth the mony! Buy it now!!!!!!! i would rate it 10 but parts of half life 2 seem to have no purpose 
 like going on and on with zombie killing, but hey you may be one of the many people who like that 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGTAvaccine
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is value gaming at it's finest. This gaming warehouse contains 5 full games, all 
 of which have their own perks.
  
  Portal
  
  Portal is a first-person shooter puzzle game involving, you guessed it, portals. The game features 
 story driven gameplay, and uses comedic situations to draw the player in, to create an amazing 
 experience. Portal features an updated version of the Source engine, so the graphics and physics 
 are stunning, and the same can be said for the game's sound. GLaDOS is a pleasure to listen to, 
 thanks to the voicework of Ellen McLain, and everything from the sound of the portal gun firing, 
 to energy balls bouncing off walls is a treat. The gameplay is top-notch as well. The portal puzzles 
 have you thinking quickly, and on your feet, so there's a lot of quick fun to be experienced. Sadly, 
 the game can be had in about three hours, leaving players with hunger for more Portal.
  
  Half-Life 2, HL2: Episode 1, HL2: Episode 2
  
  Half-Life 2 is a first person adventure, set 
 at an undetermined amount of time after Half Life. Released in 2004, Half-Life 2 was considered 
 by many to be the pinnacle of gaming. Great, story driven gameplay, stupendous graphics, and believable 
 characters all made Half-Life 2 an excellent experience. Although a bit dated in this day and age, 
 Half-Life 2 is an experience ill-replicated by any other, and should be played by everyone.
  
  The episodes are "expansions" of Half-Life 2. They continue on the plot, beginning from the 
 end of Half-Life 2. They are episodic, are each about three hours in length.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a multiplayer-only team-based first person shooter. Being 
 the sequel to Team Fortress, Team Fortress 2 had a lot to live up to. Thankfully, it delivered 
 on that, with stunning, unique visuals, and amazing gameplay. From the moment you boot Team Fortress 
 2 up and join a game, you are completely immersed in the constant struggles of Red and Blu. You 
 have the option to choose from nine classes, each with their own special abilities and weaknesses. 
 Every aspect of the game is fantastic, from the cartoony, almost cel-shaded comic book style characters, 
 to the screams of a player calling for a medic. The game even goes as far as having a hilarious 
 taunt for each of the characters weapons, which can allow for some comical situations. The only 
 qualms I have with Team Fortress 2 would be that, if you are on an unfamiliar server, teamwork 
 tends to be fairly lax, and that can lead to a disgraceful losing streak.
  
  On the whole, The Orange Box is a breathtaking collection of some of the finest games in history, 
 and should be experienced by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunfo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a worth wait for but alot of money, as long as your able to get the money you 
 should be able to get it, the prices are going down a little for it so I am betting it should reach 
 maby about 20 dollars. The five games that are in The Orange Box is Portal, Team Fortress 2, Half-Life 
 2 Episode 2, and of course Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2 Episode 1 and Half-Life 2 Lost Coast. One 
 of The Orange Box games I will talking about right now is Half-Life 2 Episode 2. Half-Life 2 Episode 
 2 is the second trilogy of the Half-life 2 Saga. It is a little bit longer than Half-Life 2 Episode 
 1 because people really wanted to play alot more of Half-Life 2 Episode 1 than Half-life 2. Half-Life 
 2 Episode 2 adds 2 more enimies into the Half-Life 2 saga, the Hunter and the Antlion Worker. The 
 Hunter is something that was shown in Half-Life 2 Episode One, except we couldn't see the colers 
 of the hunter and its name was a Mini Strider. The Hunter is something made by combine soldiers 
 to kill Gordon Freeman and Alyx Vance and maby the rest of the team. It is hard to take down the 
 hunter it might use all of your ammunition. There is a weapon in Half-Life 2 Episode 2 that kills 
 hunters instantly, and AR2, the alternative fire would kill the hunter in one shot, without alternate 
 fire use you are probably having and 80% chance of killing the hunter. The Antlion Worker is in 
 the caves of Episode 2 after you awakening from the train wreck, The Antlion Workers spit out acid 
 to kill their opponents easly. If you shoot the front of them which is were the acid comes from 
 it will die instantly blowing up acid, stay away from the Antlion Worker when that happens. Gordon 
 and Alyx are trying to send a warning to white forest that the combine are coming to attack so 
 they try sending transmissions and going there. The second game of the orange box is Portal. In portal, you 
 play as a girl name Chell that has awaken in the facility. You are to do 19 tests with the portal 
 gun. The portal gun can be very helpful in tests because that's why the gun is there. Your health 
 bar does not show up in game because when you get shot by a turret or get into toxic water once 
 you get out of the way you will quickly heal. The next game I will talk about now is Team Fortress 
 2. Team Fortress 2 is a fun multiplayer game full of excitement in all of the players. You can play 
 alot of class`s, one of the class`s from Team Fortress Classic is not in Team Fortress 2, which is 
 the Civilian, a weak class that no one wants to be. But the other characters from Team Fortress Classic 
 is still there in Team Fortress 2, such as the pyro, scout, sniper and demo man and all of the others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarxPhil
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a fantastic deal. You get 5 games in one package. All the games are great. I 
 finished both Episode 1 and 2 and i can't wait till EP 3. I also can't stop playing Team Fortress 
 2 it is the best multiplayer experience i have had in a long time. It also comes with a new game 
 called Portal and it is really creative. My brother played Portal and he loved it. All of this 
 games in one package will keep you playing for years to come. I recommend you play all the games 
 in there they are all creative and just overall fun to play. They also have Half life 2 is there (not 
 the ep's but the original) . So if you haven't played it you have a chance to now. And then when 
 you are done you can start on the Half Life 2 EP's that come with it to. There is not one game 
 in there that i do not recommend all of them are fantastic and Valve is a great company that will 
 live on in gaming history. So Orange Box ftw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilosophiCon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This pack of games made by Valve, the same people who brought us the phenomenon Counter-Strike 
 and the great Source physics engine, contains five games, all which are absolute masterpieces, 
 that will keep you playing for months and months.
  
  The first games I'll touch down on are the Half-Life 2 games.
  This pack comes with all of HL2 
 to date; Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, and Half-Life 2 Episode 2.
  I've not played much of these, although I do intend to, but from what I've played, this series 
 is absolutely amazing.
  Great AI, great graphics, great story, everything about these games is absolutely amazing.
  These 
 games are spectacularly captivating and drag you into the story very well. Not only will you love 
 playing through the game, but you'll love the cinematics, and you'll kill through anything to get 
 to the next one.
  From what I've played, I give these games a 9.5/10
  
  Next up, Team Fortress 2 is a great online class-based multiplayer first person shooter.
  You 
 will, over time, develop strategies with the separate classes and know when is the right time to 
 use one or the other.
  You'll be playing this game for a long time.
  With great cartoon-style graphics, awesome weapons, and fun gameplay, you'll be trying to convince 
 many friends to get this game, because believe me, playing with a bunch of strangers is nothing 
 compared to playing side-by-side with a compadre.
  You'll frag your way through the enemy frontlines, or become a spy and sneak your way past, to 
 get to the objective and win the game, in a capture-the-flag essence.
  Or, you'll capture territories and keep your enemies away.
  Unfortunately, these are the only 
 two gametypes in this game at the time, and it does tend to get a bit repetitive, but it's still 
 great fun, and will have you coming back.
  This game has built-in voice chat to help you communicate with your team to devise a strategy and 
 take out your enemies.
  The voice chat definitely adds a lot to the game, getting you more involved with your team, and 
 more dedicated to winning the game from the screams of your team mates.
  I give this game a 9.5/10.
  
  Now. The cream of the crop. Portal.
  This game is the absolute 
 best game I have ever played in my life.
  Portal is a game that will get you playing religiously until you beat it, and then some.
  This 
 game is jam-packed with amazing dry humour and surprises around every bend.
  The concept of this game is absolutely amazing, and Valve pulls it off better then anyone else 
 possibly could.
  The point of this game is to get from point A to point B using a new Portal technology developed 
 by Aperture Science.
  GlaDOS, the main computer guiding you through these tests, is a monotone joy, and is my favourite 
 character in this game. She is incredibly funny and really helps make this game better.
  I don't want to give away any spoilers, so I'll shut up about her now.
  Another great character 
 in this game are the turrets.
  They help fill the game with hilarity and make you feel sorry for throwing them through a portal 
 to their doom.
  This game fulfills you with an amazing gaming experience and left me wanting more more then any 
 other game I've played.
  This game is definitely the best game ever made.
  I would give this game an 11/10 if I could, but since i can't, it gets a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay so valve is known for being slower than a dead turtle at making their games. Well there is 
 a reason for that cause almost everything they make is screaming pure quality.
  
  In this box you get so much that it almost seems criminal to me. First of all we got the two already 
 released games Half-Life 2 and Episode 1. Almost everyone will agree that Half-Life 2 is a brilliant 
 game, but most of us have already played that so nothing new under the sun for us already experinced 
 players to the Half-life univers.
  
  Episode 1 Is also a previous release that I myself never tried before getting the orange box wierd 
 thought since I enjoyed Half-Life 2 so much. Episode one is good but not much more than that, and 
 is the only thing that keeps me away from giving the orange box a 10.
  
  Episode 2 is far surpirior to Episode 1 in all ascpects. If you like Half-Life you will enjoy this 
 more than ever.
  
  Team-Fortress 2 is a great multiplayer shooter and it's one of the most balanced class multiplayers 
 ever made in my opinion. Usually I'm not much for Multiplayer shooters but this has brought some 
 fun hours every once in a while 
  
  Finally we got Portal. I enjoyed this game so much I had to write a separate review for it cause 
 I enjoyed it so much. It was the last game I picked up in the package except for Half-Life 2 I 
 had played through a long time ago. I am so excited about Portal that I have written a review for 
 that alone that you can read if you so choose :) .
  
  All in all there is no reason for you not to go pick this up may you be new to the Half-life univers 
 or have experince with it there is little chance that you will regret your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Well for this review I will break up the games and scores.
  
  Half-Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2: The single player story is still as amazing as it was as before. Still 
 has great interesting weapons. There are well I thought that there was some improved graphics. This 
 game's story is easilly in my top 5 of most epic story's in gaming history. Just a remarkable story 
 that wont be forgotten. Although the explosions aren't great some bland textures and the puzzle's 
 are sometimes are childs play it's still a great set of games. Well Episode one is pretty short 
 in my mind, but if your gonna play the first then Episode 1 then Episode 2; then it will seem like 
 a game with a nice lenth. The score I will give this set of games is:9.5
  
  Team Fortress 2: This game is arguably the best online only game ever. The 9 classes are all great, fun 
 and have there own special perks. You'll at least find one or two class'es that fit you. Mine is 
 the Spy and the Scout. With the huge loads of modded maps you will never run out of new maps. The 
 achievements is another thing that'll kepp you going for weeks. But I have fount quite a bit of 
 online games that have lag and when you get in a nice sizeable game the frame rate drops significally. My 
 score for this one is:9.0
  
  Portal: This is in my mind the best puzzle game invented in history. There are mind benders everywhere. But 
 the thing that sucks about those mind benders is that they end way to quick which is disappointing. You 
 can complete this in a night although you'll probably wakr up with a head ache after all that thinking. This 
 is just one of those games that is simple but really hard. And with the humor in this game it just 
 adds to the fun. I give this one:9.5
  
  Re Play Value: If you are really wondering about the replay value then you are crazy because there 
 are 5 games to keep you interested in for weeks maybe even months.
  
  End It! All in all this is a buy you'll definatly find at least one game in this 5 gam bundle that 
 you love. And with an amazing multiplayer game and 4 amaing single player game, you will be entertained 
 for a long time. Thanks for reading.
  Real Score:9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Owl
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about The Orange Box that hasn't already been said? It's a mother lode of gaming 
 goodness!
  
  If you don't find something you like in this package, you probably:
  
  - just don't like video games
  - forgot to install it
  - are clinically dead
  - are Jack 
 Thompson
  - are lying just to be different
  
  It's hard to pick a favourite, but the stand-out for me was Portal. But why pick a favourite at 
 all? You get another piece of the Half-Life story (in fact, the whole game if you didn't already 
 own it!) , a fresh take on puzzling with Portal, and just when you start to well up with tears after 
 finishing them both, you remember that you've got Team Fortress 2 to keep you up for even more 
 late nights!
  
  The only negative thing I could say is that I feel a small pang of guilt, as if Valve game me an 
 exorbitant Christmas present and i didn't get them anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Peggle Extreme, Portal and Team Fortress 2.
  
  Each of these games are great, they've all got flaws (too short, outdated graphics/physics engine, 
 repetitive gameplay etc.) but they deserve their place in the Orange Box.
  
  There's really not much I can say about the Orange box other than it's the best investment in video 
 gaming I have made to date, all these games plus the countless free and cheap mods out there now 
 or soon to be released make this game fantastic.
  
  Day of Defeat Source, Counter Strike Source, Insurgency, Minerva: Metastasis, Black Mesa, Natural 
 Selection 2 and Garry's Mod just to name a few.
  
  There needs to be more games like this, The OB is just incredible.
  
  I hope we'll see some 
 of the same in the next Orange Box, maybe Portal 2 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is hands down the best deal ever in gaming, you have HL2, as well as episode 1 and 
 2, Continue the awesome story of Gordan Freeman. The unfortunate mute scientist that is recruited 
 time and time again to save everyone. Big guns, smart enemies, epic storyline half life will always 
 be the best FPS ever made.
  
  Want multi-player instead? TF2 Is finally here, the granddaddy of class based FPS is back and better 
 then ever with its insane action and crazy maps the fun never stops! every class is a thing all 
 its own and they can all be used to win the day! With an art style all its own and some of the 
 craziest characters ever TF2 will keep you entertained for the duration. And with the custom maps 
 of the PC version the fun just keeps getting better.
  
  
  And lets not forget Portal, the holy grail of puzzle games. You think that HL2 had some annoying 
 puzzles? BEHOLD!!! Valve making a puzzle game. take a tour through the aperture test labs and take 
 down a killer robot, And don't forget! The cake is a lie.
  
  
  The Orange box just cant be beat! It has everything a gamer can want, Puzzles, Amazing storyline, 
 Flawlessly made Multi player, and one of the best soundtracks to date, It can satisfy your every 
 desire and then some
  
  Hosi's score: 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antimat0r
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Shortly after the release of the Orange box i went to game where i fought for several hours with 
 a 15 year old to get the last copy. I then went to Morrisons to see if i could get a copy from 
 there, they had a few copies going for 27.99.
  
  For this i got not 1, not 2, not 3, not 4 but 5.... thats right, 5 games. Half life games on a 
 scale from 1 to awesome have always been the **** so to get Half life 2, plus both the episodes 
 was like several birthdays coming all at once. On top of this theres Portal, i have done a review 
 on this too, so read it, read it now!! (but finish reading this first) .
  
  Lastly, and for emphasis i had put it in another paragraph, theres TEAM FORTRESS 2. This was the 
 Icing on the Cake (little portal joke for you there) and so far just as a sniper have clocked up 
 an impressive yet concerning 26 hours. I never thought that spending money, would save me money. 
 Since having this game, i no longer have the problem about deciding whether to go out to town on 
 a friday night or stay in and play games.... because there is no comparison.
  
  The only downside to the game, is due to CD key, i cant install it to 2 pcs meaning i cant play 
 it at work!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  First of all I need to make one thing clear, you will get 5 different games for the price of one 
 game O. o. Now that is something you don't see everday :) .
  
  I will go through all the games with some short notes so you know what makes this box to a golden 
 chest with golden games.
  
  Half-life 2: This is the sequel of Half-life 1 as you maybe could've guessed and it's for sure 
 one of the best games I've played. It's lenghty and the story is simple but grips you hard with 
 the fantastic voice actors that makes the characters in the game alive. The source engine makes 
 the coolest and the most realistic physical perfomance.
  
  Half-Life 2 - Episode one: This is a great sequel that will bring you down with the short play-time 
 and the major cliffhanger in the end. But as I wrote this is a great sequel and is well worthy 
 the play through. And it was a pain to wait for episode two but now it's here :) . Btw Alyx will 
 go with you through the whole game and she got one of the best AI's that is out there.
  
  Half-Life 2 - Episode two: Just so you know this is one huge leap for the serie and makes this 
 game the best of all the Half-life games. The graphic is improved in some places and it do really 
 feel refreshing. You will meet new enemies that is awesome and you will see some strange things 
 indeed. They made this game a bit more emotional than the other games and one part of the game 
 made me cry for a bit but I will not tell you what point of the game but you will see what I mean 
 if you play it. Just play this game it's so damn good and I've played some emotional games with 
 great stories like Kingdom Hearts but this is the most emotional game out there. Weird? I know 
 it's weird indeed but I'm not lying to you.  Warning  
  Portal: This is the best puzzle game and that I can promise you but it's for sure one of the shortest 
 that makes you ache for more. The strongest part in this game is the robot-voice-advisor (female) 
 that got an award for the best voice acting in a game or something like that and I can't agree 
 more. She is super funny and makes you really motivated to play through the game.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Is for sure one of the best multi-player games that I've played. You can play 
 9 different (classes) that got atleast 3 weapons to choose from. One of the classes is a medic 
 that I love to play and his strong "weapon" is a healing beam that heals your comrades. Maybe it 
 sounds boring but it's super fun to heal in a FPS game XD. Just try this game and find your class 
 and I promise you a game that will make you stick for along time because of all the cool achivements 
 that you can unlock through out the game. You can even upgrade your weapons if you're good enough 
 with your class :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  As a believer on the free market and the rights we have to do with the stuff we buy whatever we 
 want, including selling them again after they are not longer needed, or even give them away, I 
 like to propose a ban to all games delivered through Steam and the anti-piracy paranoia and stupidity 
 of the people in Valve. The only problem if that the Orange Box can be easily ranked at the top 
 of all the 'combo' packages ever delivered on the gaming industry to date, so we gamers had no 
 other choice that to live with Steam, like it or not. So this review has to be split in two: The 
 Orange Box itself and Steam
  
  Regarding the Orange Box, there is only one word to describe it: astounding. Every single game 
 contained on that package is an exercise in virtuosity on the art of game making and a lesson to 
 other video gamers that usually rely only on powerful graphics and all sorts of eye-candy and physics, 
 while forgetting about the story itself (a good recent example of this mistake is Crysis) . The 
 entire Half-Life franchise success, since its inception, is in great part due to a thrilling story 
 and the most refined Sci-Fi script writing, on a good effort to emulate the work of luminaries 
 Philip Dick, Isaac Asimov and the dark future seen from the eye of Eric Blair (a. ka. George Orwell) . 
 The culprit of the story is reached of course in Episode 2, and I cannot wait to see what Valve 
 has reserved us for Episode 3. Add to the story one of the most amazing game play mechanics (easy 
 to learn, straight and fun!) ever seen, very modern graphics, an incomparable attention to detail, 
 a great music score and superior system stability and you have a master piece. Period. If you have 
 not played the Orange Box or any of the HL franchise games, you're a missing a very important part 
 of gaming and you shouldn't wait any longer
  
  Now to the bad part and in a way supporting the dystopian world depicted in Half Life: the evil 
 STEAM. What can I say. I hate it. I hate the interface, I hate the slow downloading and loading 
 times, I hate its intrusiveness, I hate its monopolistic view of gaming, I hate the way it treats 
 all of us as crooks, I hate the degree of control it exerts over something that is no longer theirs, 
 as I paid to buy it and now its mine, I hate being forced to use it to play. Steam is DRM and anti-piracy 
 inanity taken to the degree of absurdity. I will do all my best to never-ever again get a game 
 trough Steam, unless there is no other way to get it and it's a master piece to the tall of HL. 
 This stupid program should be banned, dropped and incinerated together with its code so it can 
 not be revived
  
  Having said this, the Orange Box and all its games deserves a solid 10, a rare perfect score few 
 games deserves in my view. But because of Steam, I have to take a whole point out of it and give 
 only a 9. I could have gone even lower considering the monstrosity Steam is, but it would have 
 not been fair with the games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I really do mean that. 5 Games for 40? now thats what I call one amazing deal.
 
  
  Orange Box contains the amazing Half Life 2 with Episode 1 & 2 + Portal + Team Fortress 2. Simply 
 outstanding package.
  
  First of all we will start with HL2 + Episode 1 & 2. As we all know HL2 is brillient, it has been 
 out a wile now so I really wont go into it. Episode 1 also have been out for a wile and like HL2 
 its excellent and I really dont need to go into this. Episode 2 is new and its excellent. It increases 
 the story of HL2 even more and to be honest, the story is better than ever. More fights, More drinving 
 and most of all... more killing. The graphics are the same as both HL2 and E1 although I belive 
 that some textures and lighing have been improved in E2 from HL2 and E1. But this is somthing i 
 cannot be sure of.
  
  Portal, is a puzzle game like no other. It has some humerous dialog to it and one of the best theme 
 songs ever in a video game. But Portal falls short and doesnt live up to the hype that people give 
 it. Simply I think it sucks and that is my least played game from this outstanding package.
  
  Last but not least the best item in the package is Team Fortress 2. TF2 is simple one of the 
 best online class shooters out there. It's cartoon style graphics is brillient and even though 
 it looks like a cartoon game, it really isnt. The classes are fantastic and they are well balenced, 
 plus the dialog in this game will have you laughing out loud.
  
  If you take out Portal this is a perfect game package. A game package that you have to own, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Lets be honest now, its not a hard concept to understand, that 5 games for the price of one is 
 a great deal. When you take an overview of what exactly those games are, your pretty much sold 
 that this is quite possibly one of the greatest game compilations EVER. Half Life 2 is an instant 
 classic that needs no introduction. For those who have not had a chance to pick up by now, this 
 package provides the perfect opportunity. A FPS with an actual decent story, and solid gameplay? 
 Who would have thought that. The huge modding community added hours and hours of gameplay to an 
 already amazing title.
  
  Continuing the lineup is Half Life 2: Episode 1. Although, I'm not too much of a fan of episodic 
 content, mainly due to its short gameplay time, you still can't go wrong here. The story continues 
 with the familiar story from the predecessor. The Orange Box begins to truely shine with the last 
 three components. The first, Half Life 2: Episode 2. It's about time the next chapter came out, 
 and it tops the original in every way, shape, and form. Though still relatively short, it is still 
 a solid entry with memorable moments. Second, Portal is an amazing new concept in gaming. Perhaps 
 not entirely new due to the countless portal gun additions to GMOD as well as the spiritual successor 
 Narbacular Drop, but portals have finally been done correctly. The game is very short, but the 
 puzzler is worth every second and dollar spent. Its humorous and witty and designed very well. 
 The ending credits song alone is well worth playing through the entire game numerous times. The 
 third and final piece to The Orange Box is Team Fortress 2. I cannot stress how amazing this game 
 is. This game is the glue that holds the whole compilation together and ensures months of gameplay. 
 Being the only multiplayer game in the box, it does what it was meant to do, recreate the class 
 based online FPS the we all know and love. The art style is beautiful, although many may consider 
 it a turn off. Each aspect of the game has so much character it will never fail to entertain you. 
 The game isn't a graphics extravaganza, but it has something many high profile titles are lacking: 
 gameplay. (Well other than the wonderful art style of Team Fortress 2) This word was overused in 
 this review, but its what you would like in a game purchase. $45 for this much content... Nothing 
 more needs to be said.
  
  This review is more like a summary stating the pure brilliance of the game. Going into too much 
 detail would be wasting precious time you could be using to go out right now and pick this game 
 up. You will not be disappointed. (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, The Orange Box isn't really a game, but it contains 5 really good FPS which contain Half-Life 
 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. Also, the PC version 
 has 2 more games (Half-Life 2 Lost Coast and Peggle Extreme) . Which basically makes it one of the 
 best games of all time.
  
  Good:
  - All games are good
  - Storyline is very good (Half-Life 2, Ep1, Ep2)
  - Multiplayer is great and well-balanced (Team 
 Fortress 2)
  - Unique style of characters (Team Fortress 2)
  - Best Puzzle game ever (Portal)
  - Awesome Physics (Half-Life 2, Ep1, Ep2)
  - Great Graphics 
 (Ep2)
  - Realistic gestures on characters (Half-Life 2, Ep1, Ep2)
  - Great voice acting (Half-Life 2 Ep1, Ep2)
  - Beautiful level design (Half-Life 2, Ep1, Ep2)
 
  
  Bad:
  - NOTHING
  
  Is the game worth buying? Hell Yeah! It's better than Halo 3 (In my opinion)
  
  My score for 
 this game:
  
  10/10 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  [Gameplay] 9/10
  The gameplay of the games are great, especially in HL2. Most of the things in HL2 are interactive. 
 Like the cans you can pick up and throw it around, also the gravity gun is by far one of the most 
 entertaining weapons in any FPS.
  Portal gameplay is completely different as it is a puzzle game. It stimulates your thinking of 
 how to beat each level, even though I felt the levels were kinda easy and I didn't really get stumped 
 on any of them.
  
  [Graphics] 8/10
  Although the graphic is a bit outdated the graphics overall is still great and runs rather smoothly.
 
  
  [Plotline] 7/10
  The HL2 plot line, the only game that really has a story line in the bundle is somewhat draggy. 
 There are aspects of the story that are never explain or even hinted.
  
  [Sound] 8/10
  The sound is pretty good on all of the games
  
  [Value] 10/10
  5 games for $40.00 is an awesome 
 value. Some of the games like Team Fortress has endless replay value. Overall the value of this 
 bundle is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Nezwych
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Hmm where to start then? First, 5 games for the the price of one. Either Valve had a very bad marketing 
 director or they are giving us one hell of a deal. Half life 2, HL2 EP1, HL2 EP2, TF2 and the eyebrow 
 raising Portal for 25 quid. Rub your eyes and go and get a drink if you already haven't.
  
  Lets kick of with the Half Life 2 series then: I had not known what on earth Half life 2 was, and 
 previous to buying the orange box thought it was just some crappy game a few of me mates played. 
 Oh how wrong i was. Half Life 2 is a FPS like no other, combining FPS action with puzzles and the 
 most interesting story in a game to create a game in which the hours roll by of little notice to 
 yourself. I personally enjoyed the change in pace in Episode 1 in the darkness but anywayz moving 
 on...
  
  The multiplayer piece of the orange box resides in team fortress 2, a FPS shooter requiring teamwork 
 to win ("team" fortress 2 might of gave that away) . It has an interesting graphic presentation, 
 which is cartoon like but the action is oddly strategical involving a variety of tactics to overcome 
 your foes.
  
  And finally, we come to Portal. A total of 7 characters on my keyboard separated by full stops 
 will now show you what Portal is. ?. Hmm. LOL.
  As you can obviously see Portal is a thought provoking, entertaining puzzle game which makes you 
 wonder. Unsurprisingly the game involves "Portals", which can be used to travel from one place 
 to another after placing 2 portals, one orange and one blue, using the buttons on your mouse respectively. 
 Portal is a game you can't not like, unless you are unable to understand what a portal is. In that 
 case, get an education you blithering idiot.
  
  To sum this review up, you require only 6 words: YOU MUST HAVE THE ORANGE BOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  Just to get this out of the way.... Im not much of an online fps gamer. As such, I havn't touched 
 Team Fortress 2, and I don't really intend to.
  
  I won't bother reviewing Half Life 2 itself very much. Enerybody more or less knows it. Its a great 
 fps game all round. Characters are memorable and you develop an attachment for them. The gameplay 
 is fun, and at times challenging. Basically anything good you can say about an fps game, you can 
 say about Half Life 2.
  
  Following on this, Episodes 1 and 2 remain in the same class as thier preceeding full game. The 
 characters are still there and in the same context (with the exception of one new character randomly 
 added in episode 2, which was confusing that everybody acted like they always knew him but you 
 don't) . That is the only thing that really detracted from the game for me. Maybe if the newly added 
 character was somebody we should know, like Dr. Rosenthal (if you have played Blue Shift) , he might 
 have been recieved in a nicer light. However, overlooking this, both games follow fairly closely 
 to the original philosophy layed down by Half Life 2, doing no more than continuing the story. 
 
  
  On a side note, the addition of achievements in Episode 2 also adds a little more depth for the 
 player. I know from experience that I went through the game a second time specifically to hunt 
 down every single last antion grub. This may sound a little redundant, but to somebody who takes 
 pride in their gaming, getting every single achievement is something you just need to do.
  
  Now for the clincher of the Orange Box. Portal. Without a doubt, the most enjoyable 3 hours 
 of my life. The game is at times challenging, makes you think, smooth, no issues, just downright 
 hilarious and addictingly fun. The advanced maps are challenging, and require some real problem 
 solving ability to do at the top level. It may be a casual game, but its probably the best one 
 ever made. Whenever you put REAL humour into a game, its always going to make it more fun to play, 
 and Portal does this well, and then some. 
  
  *spoiler*
  
  The ending was great. I did not expect a Half Life style adventure sequence, and spent hours laughing 
 to myself saying "A boss battle in a puzzle game? That is so awesome". 
  
  *end spoiler*
  
  The Orange Box is worth 9.5 and no less. I'm almost tempted to say that its worth buying just 
 to get Portal, but the inclusion of Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, and I suppose Team Fortress 
 2, makes it a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basil68
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I have a 56K dial-up modem. To play this game, I have to first connect to their server and update 
 steam's application. Then I have to peruse a very long and detailed license agreement regarding 
 the usage of the games. I feel as though I am buying a car. Then I have to create an account . 
 Next I have to key in my registration code to register the game. After that I have to wait for 
 the game files to cache before it would start installing. At first I selected all five games to 
 install. The caching process went on for at least ten minutes! I had to ctrl-alt-delete to stop 
 the steam program. Then I run the steam program over and I chose to install half life 2 only. The 
 caching process again took a while but this time I believe it ended in about 5 minutes. Altogether 
 I spent more than an hour getting to play just one game, and I have to stay connected to internet 
 in order to play the game. I would like to ask the community: Are all these hassles worthwhile 
 to play a few games? EA had collections like this but I don't ever have to go through such pain 
 to start playing a collection like Command and Conquer Decade or the Battle of Middle-Earth 2. 
 
  
  The game itself, Half Life 2 itself is pretty interesting and dramatic. I will get around to the 
 other games, as I am sure the games themselves are not bad. I am just annoyed with the way the 
 whole collection is packaged and so my score is based on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blades7558
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I would recomened this to any one that has anything thats faster than dial up. i sadly have dial 
 up and thats all i can get. so upon buyin this game i had to take my whole pc to my cousins house 
 (who has cable) and downloaded patches and "regestered" my game. my first and onlt beef it with 
 steam WTF were they thinking!!! GAH it makes me so angry!! i have to register my game with them! 
 what happened to the old days when you didn't HAVE TO register and you could just play the freakin 
 game. also i have had several occasions when i want to play a game say Half life 2 ep. 2 and i 
 click on the icon and it says only one steam may run at a time... grr... oh and what happened to 
 half life 2 episode one. did valve just crap on a cd and call it a game man i was very disappointed 
 so my main complaint is with steam and thats why i give it such a bad rating.
  P. S. the end song in portal is awsome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say? This is an overall great collection of games valve put together.
  
  Portal: Just an amazing, addictive game. The levels are fun and yet challenging. A very creative 
 game. Although it was VERY short. I would most definitely LOVE to see a sequel of some sort.
  
  Team Fortress 2: As a fun of TFC this game was also amazing. Great multiplayer balance. Many 
 classes to choose from to fit you perfectly. From being a stealthy backstabbing assassin, to a 
 medic that goes around and heals the wounded; this game has everything you'd want.
  
  Half-life2/ep 1: Blah blah blah. Too be honest I have never played half-life 2. I played through 
 half life one and thoughtThis just isn't for me." Good game, but not for me.
  
  But anyways,
  This is a great! A recommended by for ANYONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box, The next expansion of the Half Life 2 franchise and one of Valves greatest games 
 ever. Not only do you get one great new game but Three of them.
  In the Orange box are included 5 games, Half Life2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Team Fortress 2, and 
 Portal.
  Half Life 2 Episode 2.
  is another great add on to the Half Life 2 series. With intense combat sequences amazing cut scenes, 
 and new and improved graphics you'll simply be amazing. 
  Storyline: You must face the consequences of the destruction of the citadel and the rise of new 
 combine factions. G-man begins to lose control over you and his surroundings. And a fateful new 
 twist when you learn the truth about Alyx and G-Man
  Graphics: The new and improved Graphics and physics in the game add the the realism and excitment 
 of the game. 
  Sound: Great sounds, voice acting and cut scenes to keep you on the edge of you seat. 10/10
  
 Portal.
  Apature Science testing facility. It is your job to test the new portal gun, oh and try not and 
 get killed by the angry Artificial Intellegence.
  Storyline: There is really no set storyline in the game but more of a Linear first person shooter 
 games where it turns out the AI has no need for her prisoner test subjects once they finish testing 
 new hardware. Do you have what it takes to make it out alive.
  Graphics: Great Graphics to make the game almost believeable and real. The lighting and Physics 
 of the game, especially in the portals push technology to the limits.
  Sound: Great Voice Acting and Awesome music, want to hear the portal song you gotta beat the game. 
 
  Only downside to this game is that it is a little bit short, 9.5/10
  Team Fortress 2
  The next expansion of the award winning team fortress, it's back and better than ever. You'll find 
 yourself up late at night playing this game.
  Gameplay: Amazing multiplayer team actions. choose a class from engineer, medic or even the heavy 
 weapons guy. Challenge it out on the field of Cartoon like battlefield. The fun doesn't stop there. 
 You must rely and help your team mates in order to win the game.
  Graphics: The Approach to Cartoon like graphics is made possible in this game. They may not be 
 the greatest and brightest but it gets the job done. 
  Sounds: many Hilarious sounds and music mixed in with the game to make it overall enjoyable. You'll 
 never get tired of hear the heavy scream and yell as he fired his minigun into a crowd of blue 
 team members. 
  Warning: be prepared to spend long nights on the computer 10/10
  
  Overview: If you have not bought the orange box yet you are missing out. It is a must for any video 
 game collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Not many games come along like this where you feel like your ripping off the company. But here 
 comes The Orange Box that makes you feel like you are getting your money's worth. Just to let some 
 of you know I bought this for $40. Steam was having a weekend deal and I saw the perfect chance 
 to get my hands on this.
  
  Half Life 2 & Episode 1: I played these two before I got this package but I didn't own them so 
 I am just mostly using HL2 for mods.
  
  Episode 2: I didn't care for the beginning but it has one of the best endings in a video game ever. 
 I found myself personally angry at what happened at the end that makes me hyped for Episode 3. 
 This one is a little more challenging and I felt like I had to do impossible tasks by myself. Every 
 a rebel soldier would help they get killed. I don't like that at all its a war, and it felt more 
 like Gorden Freeman is a John Rambo want to be.
  
  Portal: Wow!! Just wow... I think this is the best game when it comes to game play. It's so different 
 and original it's hard not to like this.
  
  TFC 2: The buggiest game on the list. But graphically I think it really delivers. But this isn't 
 for everyone and I think this might be the least liked game in the list only because its only multiplayer 
 and sometimes playing online isn't so great. But it would have been nice if you could create your 
 own match setting with bots.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics may not be perfect, but with all visuals turned up, the game holds its own. I can run 
 everything on maximum (AA and AF) but in Team Fortress my framrerates drop in the 40s, which I 
 find unplayable as a scout. The games are top quality. I found the weak point to actually be the 
 half life 2 series :D
  
  Portal, first of, portal is near perfect. Its only flaw was its lack of levels. Replayability is 
 available if you want to beat your old time and such, but I would have rather had totally new levels. 
 Portal is funny beyond any other game and is so simple yet innovative. The theme and the end song 
 captured my heart. "The cake is a lie"
  
  Team Fortress is the near perfection of multiplayer games. The only thing I would have wanted (but 
 its a bit too much to ask) is for AI to play in my own matches with. I was a counter strike source 
 fan for so long, but this game made me realize how dumb and simplistic it really is. "Uber!"
  
  Half life 2. Everyone knows what to expect from half life 2. The episodes are weaker than the 
 original, but its still a great game. 
  
  Team fortress 2 and Portal alone would have justified this purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrerep
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, for those that don't play half-life you have to get the orange box and immerse yourself into 
 a create story line and gratifying game play. Portals is additive and TF2 is a wonderful upgrade 
 to a classic. The achievements make the game for me but once you are done getting them its all 
 about community game play, fun, and getting crits- not to mention all the map exploits. I like 
 the fact they added achievement to Half-Life Episode 2, I still haven't launched that dam gnome! 
 The achievements alone have added some replay value to the game and after replaying the half-life 
 series, I can't wait to see where valve takes it next. Oh yeah don't forget about the mods available.
 
  
  I just have to say that all of these games are awesome and a great way to get into the half-life 
 series. Go get it now, you must play this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I've reviewed Half Life 2, and to me, it is the only perfecty 10 game I have ever played. It's 
 not my favorite game of all time (though it's definitely in my top ten) , but I feel it succeeded 
 at achieving it's own goals better than any game I have ever played, without nary a fault to be 
 found.
  
  Now, Valve has crafted a puzzle game and a online multiplayer class based shooter that do what 
 HL2 did for FPS's. They succeed on their own merits better than any other game I have played.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2...
  
  ... is easily the most addictive, and outrageously fun multiplayer team based shooter I have ever 
 played. The cartoony 'warner bros.' look does alot to make it appealing from the start, and keeps 
 new players from getting too upset when they're being dominated by another player. As a matter 
 of fact, the first time someone killed me, I laughed out loud at the presentation of the crash 
 pan close up of the player that killed me, complete with icon.
  
  With the multitude of classes to play, anyone who tries this game is likely to find a class they 
 enjoy from the start that feels more natural than the others. They're also going to find a class 
 that owns them more often than any other, while playing said class. Pyro's own spies, soldiers 
 own pyros, scouts own soldiers... there is always a rock to your particular brand of scissors in 
 Team Fortress 2.
  
  And, like any other team based game, some teams play really well together, and some are so bad, 
 that you'll often hear players own your own team telling you how bad you all suck (you know that 
 brand of @$$hat, they'er in every game) , but quickly remind them that they're part of the suck, 
 make fun of their mom's drinking habit that led to their birth, and move on. The game is more fun 
 than the schmucks who try to drag you down, and as long as you don't let them, you'll find most 
 of the players very fun to play with.
  
  Portal...
  
  ... is easily the most entertaining, and engaging puzzle game ever made. This is not your typical 
 passive 'myst' style puzzle game. It's kinetic, your guide is a hysterical antagonist programmed 
 to sound sincere while trying to get you killed at every turn, and no matter who you are, you'll 
 love your companion cube. And, as stumped as you might become while playing, the promise of cake 
 will keep you going.
  
  Half Life 2 episode 2...
  
  ... was the reason I purchased the game, and honestly, was my least favorite new installment. 
 
  
  It's not bad. It's actually quite fun at moments, and visually leap frogged the original game. 
 But there are slow moments to be had, which are absent in the original Half Life 2, and while finally 
 getting out of the dismal City 17 is nice, the game doesn't have the same since of constant urgancy 
 the original game had.
  
  Criticism aside, it is a fun game, and they did a great job integrating psuedo puzzles into the 
 ream time combat to make both feel more appealing. It also does alot to distract your attention 
 from the awful screams of humans controlled by aliens attached to their backs or faces. When the 
 combat happens, it's alot more fun than the first game, and the addition of Hunters and Striders 
 made for some interesting, and sometimes frustrating, encounters.
  
  The other two games...
  
  ... have been released previously, so I won't speak about them here.
 
  
  But for the new content, it's two perfect 10's and one 8.5. Team Fortress 2 and Portal are some 
 of the best installments offered to gamers in their particular genre's, and the fact that they're 
 offered on the same disk makes it impossible for me to think of a gaming package that offers more 
 value for their dollar. And, while Half Life 2 ep. 2 isn't a perfect 10, it's a solid 8.5, that 
 only suffers from pacing issues that occasionally break the illusion of the world you're playing 
 in, but at it's best, I feel it has some of the most interesting and fun twists on combat in the 
 entire series. Also, Alex is with you the whole time, who's pretty easy on a gamers eyes when you 
 need to look away from the horrible atrocities that exist outside City 17.
  
  I have not met a single person who feels this package wasn't worth the money. If you've never played 
 Half Life 2, then the value only increases, as you're likely to find three games that are the best 
 in their genre's, for 20% of the price of games we sometimes wish we never played. It's only an 
 outstanding value, because every game is at worst great, and at best, genre defining. If you bought 
 this package for Team Fortress 2 or Portal alone, it would be worth the money.
  
  Stop reading... just buy it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  *Since I can't post a review on the Portal page and haven't played the other Orange Box games.
 
  
  
  
  Portal has it's roots in a fairly simple independent game called Narbacular Drop. Originating from 
 the Digipen Institute of Technology - the simple premise of using two inter-connecting portal mouths 
 to solve puzzles was an amazing concept that saw the game winning many well-deserved awards. Unfortunately, 
 as may have been expected Narbacular Drop's level designs were fairly uninspired as a whole, and 
 overall the experience came across as fairly soulless and repetitive.
  
  Portal doesn't make the same mistakes. Developed by the same people under the supervision of what 
 has to be one of the world's most creative teams of designers at Valve; Portal not only makes superior 
 use of it's premises, but delivers it with what has to be the most memorable and entertaining story 
 to ever grace a puzzle game.
  
  Portal's concept is one which could challenge your perception of momentum and gravity. With the 
 Aperture Science Portal Gun you fire two different colour rays - orange and blue - which create 
 a two-dimensional oval-shaped Portal on any flat surface that isn't made of metal. One Portal can 
 be set for each colour, and anything that passes through one will come out from the other. The 
 game steadily and very cleverly eases you into this mechanic, starting with a few sections where 
 you simply pass through pre-set Portal's, then expanding this to give you control of one and eventually 
 two Portal's. The puzzles in the game are generally very well designed and downright ingenious 
 at times, and the levels are very clever at using tricks of suggestion to make sure you have a 
 thorough look at the field of play before proceeding.
  
  However, as good as Portal's gameplay is, it's most memorable and entertaining aspect is arguably 
 it's story. If you were lured into the game unknowingly you'd be unlikely to assume the game was 
 much more than a simple puzzle game with clean, nondescript environments. Indeed, the voice-samples 
 from your robotic, female instructor GLaDoS seem innocent enough at first. Then she accidentally 
 lapses in Spanish speech, and then she starts talking about donating your organs to a self-esteem 
 fund and you know something is horribly wrong. This kind of humour builds into almost every aspect 
 of the gameplay, mixing your own reservations with genuine laughs, and immersing you into the otherwise 
 clinical and inhumane science-fiction world. The actor behind GLaDoS delivers each line with perfect 
 indignation and humour that brings the inanimate character to life. Couple that with excellent 
 writing and hilarious jokes and you've got a classic story that will be remembered for months. 
 Completing Portal is likely to result in a fanatical devotion towards the weighted companion cube, 
 and driving forum dwellers insane with your inept adaptions of the games humour.
  
  At around 3 hours in average length, Portal is an extremely short game. Yet with 19 levels including 
 a fairly lengthy section on top of that; it's no slouch in terms of variety. Most of all Portal 
 seems to draw that line between 'casual' and 'hardcore' that most games fail to touch upon, and 
 it makes both very little and perfect sense at the same time that Valve would be the ones to do 
 this. Most people could easily get through the campaign without any experience in the first-person-shooter 
 genre the game is based upon, yet for those more experienced and dedicated gamers, there are a 
 number of new ways to play 6 of the games later levels. These include advanced levels - which keep 
 the level concepts but make subtle changes to make them very challenging - and challenges, which 
 force you to complete a level with either as little portals, steps, or time left as possible. Getting 
 gold medals on these can be a real mindbender, making finding out they are actually possible even 
 more surprising. The 'least steps' challenges can just be are real pain though, since the game 
 seems to count every slight movement as a step.
  
  The game's audio has already been touched upon with my commendation of the games voice work, but 
 what about the games visuals? It may seem a little inconsequential from some perspectives, but 
 the games visuals are almost as important to the experience as it's audio, and all the better for 
 it. Valve's Steam engine is already pretty dated by today's standards, but the game's clean, brilliantly 
 realised art style more than makes up for this. (As well as the fact it can run on very high settings 
 on a relatively old machine.) The games clean look is very reminiscent of Valve's Half-Life 2 in 
 some ways, and the game's menu screen and HUD are directly ripped from that game. The clinical, 
 testing-style environment is perfectly-realised with it's own unique touches and a sensible melange 
 of neutral colours. Even more impressive are the robotic, animated turrets and cameras which reflect 
 this style perfectly.
  
  In the end Portal comes off as a short yet sweet experienced with a great concept and wholly original 
 and incredible execution to back it up. As if that weren't good enough it's packaged with 2 other 
 games that follow entirely different concepts yet similar design philosophies, and yet this is 
 arguably the crowning jewel of the collection. It's simply essential.
  
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidpearsonj21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  This game just shows how good valve is at making games, i despise those of you who say that the 
 time episodes are made in is not episodic, halfe life 2 took 6 years, episode 1 took one year episode 
 2 took 2 years now comparing them they ARE episodic and why would you care if they werent anyway? 
 the games are awesome, immersive some of the action seens are just cinematic! and episode 2 has 
 acheivemnts aswell! all the half life games in this box HAVE to be played through twice, and you 
 certainetly wouldnt complain!
  
  TF2 is very addictive and fun to play (aside from spanish ten year olds screaming down the mic) 
 you are spoilt for choice when it comes to classes.......... scout, pyro, demoman, soldier, heavy, 
 medic, sniper, engineer
  teamwork well used online as well, and there are some great custom maps out there!
  
  portal, 
 aweosme puzzler and action game, although i found it the least entertaining in this pack, glados 
 is very funny and the song: still alive is aweosme!
  
  buy this game. now. (do not get it on consoles, this is best on pc by a long shot!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubel_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  First off, this is the best commercial deal in gaming history. If that's not enough, the games 
 it contains are some of the highest rated in PC gaming history!
  (All of my ratings are in increments of 0.5 and are out of 10)
  Alright, the review!
  
  ******HL2, 
 Ep. 1&2
  For those of you who don't know, you play as theoretical physicist and crowbar connoisseur Dr. 
 Gordon Freeman. You are, essentially, representing an alien race who's contact "saved" you in the 
 first game. You are his wench until further notice. He drops you off in a future time where you've 
 become somewhat famous. He gives you a shove and you're off. I won't go into the plot but you should 
 know that it's good.
  
  Story: 9.5
  This game's story rivals that of Metal Gear: Solid and the Resident Evil series with its depth 
 and color. If you like puns about crowbars, ventilation shafts, and zombies, you need this game.
 
  
  Control: 10
  It's a PC game so you can change the controls. I can imaging the console versions aren't too bad.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  Stunning effects. The voice acting is top-notch with voices like Lou Gosset Jr. and Robert Culp 
 (I Spy) . Amazing.
  
  Graphics: 9
  I've seen better, but the fact that it looks great and runs maxed on my XPS laptop with 6x anti 
 aliasing means that it looks reaaaaalllly pretty. Facial detail is stunning.
  
  Replay Value: 8.5
  The replay value is kind of "meh..." because the story is pretty linear. There's 
 always the achievements in Ep. 2, Portal, and TF2.
  
  Overall HL2 pack: 9.5
  
  *******Portal
  Story: 8
  It's "okay". There's a plot, but it's a bit lame.
  
  Control: 
 10
  Again, it's a PC game.
  
  Sound: 10
  Stunning! The sound effects and voices are great. The turret voices are *ADORABLE. Also, the credits 
 are the best part of the game.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Again, I've seen better. I couldn't run this maxed or with AA, but it still looked great.
  
 
  Replay Value: 10
  There's a bunch of achievements to unlock that level your Steam account. There's also a bunch of 
 new levels that you unlock when you complete the game. Additionally, the game's relatively difficult, 
 so you'll want to perfect your fifteen minute run.
  
  Overall Portal: 9.5
  Well worth the money, even if the game is less than 3 hours long. Even the first time.
  
  ******TF2 
 (Team Fortress 2)
  
  Story: N/A
  You kill stuff; as much plot as Counter-Strike.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  The cartooney look of the characters gives the score a little boost. It didn't 
 need an upgrade.
  
  Sound: 10
  Just AWESOME. The voices are funny and the guns sound great. What else could you ask for?
  
 
  Control: 10
  PC game.
  
  Replay Value: 10
  Like America's Army, Counter-Strike, etc., the game is online only so you'll always have a new 
 experience.
  
  Overall TF2: 9.5
  Sweet.
  
  ******Orange Box******
  Overall: 9.5
  Pros:
  -Respectively cheap: $50 for 5 games, though there's a price drop either out or soon to 
 be released.
  -It's Half-Life! What more do you want?
  -Graphics
  -Control
  -Story
  
  Cons:
  -15 GIGABYTES OF HARD DRIVE SPACE; yeah... it's big...
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Buy this 
 game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Almost everytyhing is perfect in this title, just a few things I wish were better.
  first off all of the half-life games are perfect, they couldn't be better, but portal and team fortress 
 have some issues. Portal has absolutly nothing wrong with is except it's just TOO SHORT. You will 
 love it then love it some more then it will end and you will cry :*** ( and I don't know if it is 
 just me, but I realy didn't enjoy team fortress, it seems like there is no rythem or flow or strategy 
 to it at all. But I'm sure some people will like it.
  
  good: Half-life 2 is a classic.
  episode 1 and 2 are great.
  portal is inventive.
  team fortess has multi-player in it.
  
 
  bad: team fortress isn't fun.
  team fortress has very few maps.
  team fortress isn't visualy plessent
  portal is short.
  
  If portal was twice as long and 
 team fortress was fun, I would have easily given this a 10, but they aren't so a 9.5 is what I give 
 this game, and just wanted to note that I didn't take away from the score because of any personal 
 tastes or preferences I have, Just because I don't like team fortress dosn't mean everyone dosen't 
 like it, so I just Imagined it wasn't there. The main reason that I didn't give it a 10 is because 
 portal is soooo short, it is about 3 and a half to 4 hours long, if your good enough you can beat 
 it in under an hour or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArethNaar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  What's not to love. You get Half Life's zombie killing gravity gun wielding hero, Gordon Freeman, 
 and Gordon Freeman is the one guy who I think could singlehandedly kick Master Chief's ass. Yeah, 
 I'm a Half Life freak. I love killing headcrabs, bad thing: I'm still on the original Half Life 
 2. So I haven't finished it yet, but the quality of the game is all that counts, right? It's brilliant, 
 easy to use and fun.
  
  On to Portal. once again, I haven't finished it. This is a difficult puzzler where you play as 
 a  with a portal gun. It's awesome, I love it, you can jump 
 through portals. So that's a great game.
  
  On to Team Fortress 2, you can choose from 9 classes and then fight against the other team, in 
 a multi-point King of the Hill, or a Capture the Flag game with a briefcase. I love this game, 
 especially the classes. You could appear out of nowhere and stab someone in the back as a spy, 
 run-and-gun as the heavy, ambush as the flame-loving Pyro, heal as the medic, run twice as fast 
 as anyone else in the game as a scout, blast your way through as the soldier or demoman, and those 
 aren't even all the classes. I love the diversity of the game and replayability of all the maps. 
 I could play for hours without stopping.
  
  All in all, I give the game a ten, because another games strengths make up for even the biggest 
 flaws of another and because every single game just completely rules. Overall the game is challenging 
 and I call it a masterpiece, yes, it is the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  EP2 is in essence a flawed masterpiece. While it brings nothing new to the table in terms of game 
 play it does add more to the story. We have the same characters as HL2 EP1, but now minus a major 
 one and an addition of a new person who actually was in HL1 but forgotten about. This time we have 
 some major changes in the story including a deepening understanding of who the G-Man is, and his 
 motives. Like the Episode 1 nothing is resolved at the end, and more questions are asked. We are 
 left in a lurch. Though we can feel that this Episode is the beginning of the end.
  
  Gameplay wise: Nothing new was tried, It is the same linear ,repetitive formula as in the previous 
 games. Which is fine since Valve has it down to a science. There are some new enemies to fight 
 including the Hunters, which are by far the most challenging in the series. There AI is far beyond 
 that of any of the other Combine forces. Making them tricky to deal with in some areas. Though 
 I did find some of the sequences a bit dull. The whole antlion tunnels was boring has heck, including 
 the battle. I also found the driving sequences in the car annoying. The controls where just to 
 sensitive. I really did not like the finial battle that annoyed the hell out of me because it was 
 so repetitive. And the ending while shocking was not unexpected. Someone had to go. Something they 
 did had in this game that helps with the replay value is the Achievements that one can complete 
 during the game to rack up points. In reality this gives the game some replay value but most of 
 the achievements can be completed in two play troughs. 
  
  Story: Well nothing to really comment here. It is a continuation of the events in HL2 and EP1. 
 We have now left City 17 with Alyx carrying important information. The retreating Combine are pushing 
 into the wilds surrounding the city trying to regain some control over the area. I am not going 
 to go into detail of the story. But basically we have to find our way to an long forgotten missile 
 base where the resistance is trying to launch a missile to close the Portal to the Combine. Alyx 
 is still our sidekick but unlike Ep1 she is not at our side the entire time. Thank god. We have 
 some new enemies to fight, but still get to fight some of the old ones. This is the first Hl that 
 takes place mostly outside a urban area, so we now can see what the Source engine can do with nature. 
 
  
  Graphics: Are solid but starting to show their age. While Valve did add some new features, and 
 higher resolution textures it all seems outdated compared to some new generation games. But still 
 the animations are very good, with some excellent facial expressions. I found some of the textures 
 are still very low resolution. Making things like the cool car look ugly up close. 
  
  Sound: Nothing different than previous HL games. Some of the voices changed so don't be surprised 
 by that. 
  
  Overall: I liked this game including the extras added to the Orange Box including Portal. I will 
 separately review Portal. I have not played TF2 since I have no real interest in multi player games. 
 The story really does not add much to the game, while the game play seem tighter it is more the 
 same as in Hl2. The graphics are not outstanding but are still very nice. I really liked playing 
 HL2 EP2 but could not complete it more than a few times. It has little replay value since it is 
 so linear. It seems like Valve was playing it safe with the Ep. Trying to kill time to the next 
 and final Ep. Hopefully EP3 will be the final chapter to Gordon's adventures. 
  
  I will say Portal makes up for some of the failings in Episode 2. That is why I am rating the Orange 
 Box a 9, instead of giving it a lower rating just based on EP2. Portal is a magnificent puzzle 
 game, with a dark comedy story. By now most people know about the game so I won't go into detail 
 about it but it is the jewel in the Orange Box. Much better than the by the book HL2 Episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumbreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost if your debating which version to get then get the pc version considering it 
 has fairly low requirements for such a modern day game all though it does take up a nasty near 
 13gb.
  I'll start off with the half-lifes first, these games are all pretty good, nice detail, quite lengthy 
 (considering there's 3 on this one disc) and to get past certain points you have to use your surroundings 
 so you can't quite just run and gun through the whole game. Unique storyline and guns which is 
 a nice extra. Overall a great, and polished series of games.
  Now portal, this is in no way shape or form a first personshooter game. The closest this game gets 
 to a shooter is shooting your portal gun at the walls. This is very interesting unique game and 
 concept with, as gamespot sais, great humor, which can only be a good thing to break up the monotony 
 of things. This particular game really makes you think before you do something and to observe your 
 surroundings well before making a move. Once you have completely something that totally stumps 
 you at first, you get a very rewarding feeling after accomplishing. Great game you'll definetly 
 want to check it out, however difficult it maybe.
  Finally my personal favorite out of the whole set, team fortress 2 the multiplayer aspect of this 
 whole box set. You can play as 9 classes/roles through the game: Scout, Soldier, Pyro, Demoman, 
 Heavy, Spy, Medic, Sniper, and Engineer. What i love about all the classes is that there really 
 is a big difference between all the classes, unlike other games where they have slight differences 
 but you can still play the same way. With these different classes you really have to change your 
 gameplay for each individual one, and they all have their own unique abilities. It's however run 
 by steam which is a mediocre chat program through which all the online data (kills, assist, heal 
 points etc.) are saved. So if steam decides they want to close down the friends server you therefore 
 get no record of you ever playing and you'll also get some weird errors about your steam user id 
 ticket. All in all it's a wonderful game which I can't seem to stop playing. There aren't too many 
 maps, but it's definitly replayable in fact i've found my self playing the same maps each time 
 i play.
  This is a great value and great deal for this collection of 5 truely amazing games. Definetly a 
 buy! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieatorium
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Eash of the games in this compilation is a fantastic example of gaming, from Half Life 2's story 
 , Portals gameplay and humour to Team fortress 2's exiting multiplayer.
  
  The Half Life series is a great example of what a FPS can be if you build the game around the story 
 and characters. Your involvemnet in the story as the ever silent yet reliable Gordon Freeman makes 
 you want to see how it unfolds not to finnish the game or get an "acheivement" but to see how it 
 plays out. My only gripe with the game is that the driving missions are slightly longer than i 
 would lke but they still serve as a nice break in gameplay snd help flow the story to the next 
 area. The gameplay on a whole is fantastic and while at its core its a shooter thees alot more 
 to it with the physics (especially with the gravity gun) and they way the game changes from run 
 and gun to the more problematic situations your put in.
  
  The "Episodes" are also great, continuing the story of Gordon and Alyx with a tighter flow than 
 the original in my opinion, and they share the same great gameplay . 
  
  Portal is a very engaging often funny game that i guess you would describe as a first person puzzle 
 shooter. The unique portal gun and how its used to get you around is extremely fun and easy to 
 fairly learn how to use it from task to task. It is a little short but once your done you can go 
 on to the advanced maps which up the diffuculty a good amount.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is an amazing multiplayer game with a team focus and fast pace that has given me 
 many hours of enjoyment. It'sunique style and varied classes give it a good deal of variety and 
 replayabilty.
  
  All in all this is a fantastic group of games each worthy of praise in its own right but as a whole 
 one of the best choices out there for your hard earned to be used on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Valve has done a great work to put five games in one package. These games have the same engines 
 but the purposes are totally different. Half-life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode One and Half Life Episode 
 Two are the series of what happens to Gordon Freeman. Thanks to the good scenario, Valve makes 
 a good series of Gordon Freeman actions and what happens in his life conquering the aliens. What's 
 new here is Episode Two. In this episode, you are again with Alyx from Episode One and you move 
 along to deliver a encrypted code of what the enemy up to data to a facility to recover the data. 
 You encounter enemies which some of them are new comparing to the older Half-Life's. One amazing 
 part of this episode is that you drive a car which I really liked the action. You can hit the enemies 
 with your car and they will be killed easily which prevents you from wasting your best weapons 
 on them. However the dramatic ending of the Episode Two announce a great Episode Three which comes 
 soon.
  
  Although Half-Life 2 Episode Two is a great game in this package but another game named Portal 
 is introduced which is a very great game which puts the Orange Box in one of the top games in the 
 year. Portal is first person shooter puzzle solving game. You go through different levels and each 
 level becomes harder than the previous level. The goal of each level is to reach the elevator to 
 the next level. In each level there are doors, turrets, laser shooters, acid waters and etc which 
 makes you harder to move. What it may be comprehend from its name, the game is based on the portals. 
 there are two color portals which can be put on the concrete walls, floors and ceilings. if you 
 pass through one portal, you will appear on the other portal. Based on this, you can travel in 
 the chambers and reach your goal. Beside these puzzle solving, you hear a machine guiding device 
 which guides you in each level. At the early levels, the voice really guide you but when you advance, 
 the voice becomes funnier and make you laugh while you find a way to solve the level. And at the 
 end, the final credit songs was really amazing. If really don't like the Half-Life's just but the 
 package to play the Portal. It's really worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGoff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Its great playing games from Valve. Well 5 great games from them. Valve's The Orange Box is an 
 package with 5 games in it. Nothing could go wrong with 5 games in one great price.
  
  In this great package theres Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Portal, Team Fortress 2, and the previous 
 Half-Life games (Half-Life 2, and Half-Life 2: Episode One) . The difference between the PC version 
 & the console version is that the PS3 and 360 version boots up an selection menu to choose which 
 game you want to play. On the PC, you'll have to luanch each game seperate.
  
  All the games are running on the same graphics engine and still looks cool. Lets get started with 
 the Half-Life 2 saga, you're once again the silent protagonist Gordon Freeman. It started with 
 the G-man waking Gordon and putting him on a train to City 17. The world was different after the 
 first Half-Life. Humanity is on lockdown to a force know as the Combine. You'll join some rebels 
 (Some of them are scientists from Black Mesa in Half-Life) , and some good vortigaunts. In most 
 parts of the game, you'll be in long vehicle sequences. Which might be abit too long.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode One start after Half-Life 2 when the Citadel blow up so close to Gordon & Alyx. 
 Now you have to escape City 17, and Alyx will follow you if you need any help.
  
  Now Episode Two started when City 17 blew up when you and Alyx escaped. They have to get to White 
 Forest to give them the copy of the Combine data. You'll see some new enimies like the Hunter.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer game in this package. It is an class-based game with some maps 
 but Valve is making some more new maps on the way. The game give 9 well balanced classes with their 
 own abilities. The heavy weapons guy, enginer, sniper, scout, soy, medic, soilder, and the pyro 
 and his flamethrower. Each map show the game mode of it like ctf_2fort. CTF is where one team have 
 to capture the other team's intellegence to win. The other mode is where the blue or red team must 
 capture all of the control points.
  
  Last but not least Portal. It a game where you use a portal gun to complete number of tests. 
 
  
  The Orange Box is a great package to get for $50. If you like get 5 games for a great price, this 
 will be a deal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is what is now being referred to as "The best deal in gaming history". I don't know 
 if I agree with that, but either way, this is a truly amazing deal that doesn't come around often 
 if ever. To start off, I've put a ton of time into this game since I bought it nearly 2 months 
 ago. Still to this day, I haven't completed the whole Half-life 2 saga. I've completed Half-; life 
 2, Episode 1, Portal, and have played hours upon hours of Team Fortress 2. This is a game that 
 takes forever to get around to get to all the amazing content that is inside.
  
  Half-life 2 is a great game that I missed (I was out of PC gaming for quite a while) when it debut 
 nearly 3 years ago. While I found HF2 very engaging and a very solid shooter, I found that from 
 what I heard, it was a bit overrated. This is probably due to the fact that the first person genre 
 has came a long way since 2004. This is not to say that HF2 is a bad game, it is a truly awesome 
 game that will remain a classic for years to come. HF2 is also one of the longest shooters I've 
 played in a while. The game took me a good 15-20 hours to complete and there wasn't 1 point in 
 the game where the action slowed down. One mechanic in the game that I found very, very frustrating 
 was the way that vehicles controlled. It always felt very awkward and cluncky. There are a few 
 points of the game where you are on vehicles for an extensive amount of time. I do have to say, 
 that I understand what Valve was trying to do by not having any cutscenes during the game, I still 
 felt like a lost a bit of the cinematic feel that I get from game that have cutscenes. Still, the 
 parts of the game where you are learning about the story is very interesting and the animations 
 and voice acting is some of the best around. The character models in this game are beautiful, even 
 foe a 3&1/2 year game. While the characters look great, some of the environments were a bit dull, 
 but once again this is an older game and I'm sure that many of the parts that were dull were supposed 
 to to fit the atmosphere. This all adds up to a great game and a great shooter.
  
  Half-life episode 1&2 both have the exact same feel as HF2. The story picks up exactly where you 
 left off with the destruction of the citadel. This game really shows how graphics change and progress 
 over time. There is a noticeable difference between each one of the games as far as the look. This 
 is a good thing. each of the games adds new effects and more polish. As far as gameplay, they are 
 exactly the same, and I mean exactly. That it my main complaint is that there isn't anything really 
 new. The guns are exactly the same with no new or any taken a way. This next to the game's length 
 is the biggest disappointment. When it all adds up, these games feel very much like what they are, 
 expansion packs, nothing more nothing less. Although I have to say that Ep.2 does add a new vehicle 
 that is interesting.
  
  Portal was a first person puzzle game that was added to the package and it is the most interesting 
 game in the package. The game revolves around a person that is a test subject to a computer named 
 Gladius. The computer adds tons of humor to this game the makes you want to get to the next room 
 just so can hear the next thing it says. You used portals to get you through various puzzles in 
 the game. This is a very innovative game that is so much fun. The real problem with the game is 
 simple: its way too short. I clocked in may 3-4 hours before I had the game done. Luckily this 
 was part of the Orange Box because by itself, it would be an extremely pricey $50. Still this is 
 the game that in my opinion shines the most out of the package.
  
  The final game in the package is Team Fortress 2. A class based team shooter that is one of the 
 best FPS games I've played in a while. One of the things that you will immediately notice is that 
 it has a very unique art style. Some may hate it, but I think that most will love it. I like to 
 think of it as a rated R Pixar movie. It has that Pixar look to it, but it is far, far from a family, 
 kid-friendly game. There are points where people are blown to pieces with animated looking blood 
 and body parts fly every where. As for the classes, I won't go into detail, but they are very balanced 
 and every class has its own strengths and witnesses. Great multiplayer shooter, and as far as I'm 
 concerned, it plays just as well if not better than Halo3 (It doesn't have nearly as much content 
 or as many maps, but it does play great)
  
  This game ends up being a package that anybody with an Xbox 360 or a PC should not miss. It has 
 so much content, that it is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the Orange Box. Not just one game but 5 games (unless you have the PC version, then you 
 get Peggle Extreme and Half Life 2: The Lost Coast.) The games are Half-Life 2, HL2 Episode one, 
 HL2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2, so no matter what their's something you'll like. First 
 off Half-Life 2 is long, fun, creative, and suspenseful. You play as Gordon Freeman, the hero of 
 the world, and you have just been awoken from stasis by the "G-Man." Anyways you try and save the 
 world. Next in Portal you are a girl named Cell or Chell (does it matter) who is a test subject. 
 You'll enjoy this one. It is an excellent puzzle game. Then there's Team Fortress 2 which is a 
 highly addictive, online fps. You can choose from many different classes and then, basically, just 
 kill your opponent. All of these games are built on the source engine, which means it has good 
 physics. If you want, I highly recommend Garry's Mod which is a sandbox editor that can be purchased 
 off of Steam for $10. Anyways all together the games have decent graphics and are highly addictive. 
 I recommend it to any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Trying to describe this game with words just wouldn't be right. You just have to play it so you 
 can feel it's perfection and glory. It's the best spent 50$ ever! You get 5 titles, 3 completely 
 different game styles (HL2, TF2, Portal) .
  
  For those who don't know HL2, the whole episode, is just legendary. Can't wait for the finishing 
 title. Team fortress 2 is the most entertaining multiplayer game I have ever played. It's has so 
 much fun & creativity in it that you just can't not to like it. Oh and Portal Well, completely 
 new game, completely new idea, new story Amazing! In the whole level there are no enemies, no-one 
 to kill, but it has such great game-play, it will just suck you in with it's logical riddles & 
 great story, but for the hint when playing - the end is not the end (just like in Hitman Blood 
 Money)  there is still a lot more to do after "the end".
  
  About hardware optimization, well you have to admit that Valve has done a great thing in optimization, 
 because you can play all the titles on satisfying level with pretty old rig & if you want to play 
 it on ultra high :D you don't have to own a PC form the future, a bit more powerful machine than 
 regular one will do just right and let you enjoy this bundle in all it's greatness & glory.
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Great quality games
  - Superb replay value
  - Superb money value
  
  What you may not like:
  - Requires Steam
  
  
  Game - Err, not a game!
  
  The Orange 
 Box is not a game on its own. It is a package of multiple games developed by Valve.
  
  The games that you will have access to are:
  
  Full Games:
  - Half Life 2
  - Half Life 
 2: Episode 1
  - Half Life 2: Episode 2
  - Team Fortress 2
  - Portal
  
  Demos:
  - Half Life 2: Lost Coast (technological demo)
  - Peggle Extreme
  
  The Orange Box requires 
 you to install Steam. Steam is a game center that allows you to buy and play your games. It has 
 the downside of requiring activation and does contain advertisement.
  
  The main reason why this package has such an incredible value is the quality of the games you get 
 in return.
  
  If you were one like me that didn't get Half Life 2 when it first came out*, this package is even 
 more worth it as you get it plus its 2 sequels. Unfortunately, the story doesn't end after the 
 second episode but there is still at least 20+ hours of quality game play right there.
  
  If the Half-Life series isn't reason enough for you to get this package, Portal is a very unique 
 and hilarious Puzzle game that everyone should go through at least once, no matter if you are a 
 fan of the genre.
  
  Now, if the single player games are not your thing, Team Fortress 2 is also included. TF2 is a 
 superb multiplayer FPS. It's a fast-paced, funny and incredibly addictive action game.
  
  You can find in-depth reviews of each game in my Reviews.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  This package 
 has an incredible value for your buck and deserves a 9.7/10.
  
  Go get it if you haven't already done so.
  
  
  
  * About why I skipped HL2 when it first 
 came out: Back in the days, there were many games with a very deep story line where enemies actually 
 had personalities [Deus Ex, Chronicles of Riddick, Max Payne] . Half Life 2 was bringing random 
 targets back into the gaming world and that was a major drawback in my opinion. So it wasn't worth 
 my interest. 
  
  Now that I've played it, my assumptions ended up to be correct: HL2 is a great shooter and technologically 
 innovative, but very weak on the story and character development aspects. Episode 1 and 2 address 
 some of those issues though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmann1994
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  OK, i will start out by saying that this is the best game I have ever played. I am a HUGE fan of 
 the half life series, owning Half Life 2, HL2: EP1, and the orange box. I simply cant wait for 
 episode three, I will buy right away! Lets start with Portal, probably the most innovative and 
 fun game to date. No one has ever thought of the concept of portal! Its amazing! The story is surprisingly 
 deep, and kinda emotional in the end. I cant wait for Portal 2! The only flaw I found was that 
 this game is very short, 18 quick levlels, and 1 LOOONG one. But, the valve team has said it is 
 because they wanted to make the first portal game a training. Awesome game. Now skipping to HL2: 
 EP2, because I couldnt play TF2 cause of my slower comp! XD! But Half life 2 episode 2 is stunning..... thats 
 it..... stunning. It has amazing graphics that really pull you into the game. Every texture is clear 
 and detailed. Lighting effects and water details have been upgraded to modern day. The story is 
 soooo emotional and sad at the end. The ending was so good, that I HAVE to but EP3, because of 
 it. There also is a stunning difficulty in the game, making it a challenge, not a breeze. Overall, 
 The Orange Box is a game that you need to have, becauce it is a masterpiece, Valve really got it 
 right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Now let's just get this out of the way first, the Orange Box has 5 games in it. Some people like 
 myself would expect a package with that kind of statement on it to be some sort of bad mini-game 
 collection in disguise, but no. The package has: 
  
  Half life 2
  Half life 2: Episode 1
  Half life 2: Episode 2
  Portal
  Team Fortress 2
  
  So we have 
 arguably the best story based first person shooter series ever made, and in addition a mind-bending 
 puzzle game, and a multi-player frag fest that never gets old. I'll just give a brief overview 
 of all the games in the package now.
  
  Half life 2: Fantastic shooter. It shows that a shooting game can have a fantastic story, and fantastic 
 gameplay as well. A 10 out of 10 game on its own in my opinion, and its greatness is only strengthened 
 by the fact that the cliffhanger ending is alleviated by its 2 mini sequels! 
  
  Half life 2: Episode 1: Some call this the weak point in the series, I would agree somewhat, but 
 that doesn't mean it is a bad game in any regard. As a matter of fact, it is an excellent game, 
 and is of course leading up to episode 2 of the series. 
  
  Half life 2: Episode 2: The best of the series. Even though its short, it is also jam packed with 
 brain melting action and drama. And the final scene in the game is one of the best in gaming in 
 my opinion. Graphics are also a bit smoother than the previous 2 games in the series, due to its 
 improved facial animation. 
  
  Portal: Considered the best game in the package by many, this puzzle game is a one of a kind experience. 
 The player utilizes the portal gun, a gun which allows you to open up two portals and go through 
 them. The game is filled with fantastic puzzles, but the game does tend to be a bit on the easy 
 side. So while you won't be ripping your hair out, it does give a fair amount of challenge and 
 is a great experience. 
  
  Team Fortress 2: My personal favorite of the package, this game offers unlimited multi-player mayhem. 
 The player can jump in a server and join either the red, or blu team. There are 9 classes, each 
 with its own unique weapons and abilities. The game is just plain fun, and its art style is very 
 refreshing, especially in a genre notorious for un-originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluefishhead
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The moment I played Half-Life 2 for the first time, I knew I was onto something big. The graphics, 
 the game-play, the characters and the weapons all done to perfection. After finishing it I sat 
 back in my chair and thought to myself, "It doesn't get better than this". 
  
  When I heard what The Orange Box consisted of, I was instantly excited. HL2, Episode One, Episode 
 Two, Portal and TEAM FORTRESS 2!!!. As a fan of the original Team Fortress, I knew the sequel was 
 going to be big.
  
  After what seemed like months of waiting, the release date finally came. I bought the game, rushed 
 home and downloaded the games to my steam account. 
  
  I instantly fell in love with every part of The Orange Box, the two new HL2 episodes are superb 
 and Team Fortress 2 was every bit as great as I expected. But the real gem of The Orange Box is 
 Portal. What at first seems slightly too simplistic eventually becomes possibly the best puzzle 
 game ever. Portal provides a perfect break from the action of the rest of The Orange Box, but still 
 supplies a fantastic gaming experience.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is absolutely amazing. One of the best online games ever, the characters are hilarious, 
 and it is one of the few games where you can actually REALLY benefit from playing as a team. You 
 also feel a real sense of achievement when you complete the achievements. 
  
  If The Orange Box has one slight weak point, it is that Episode One does feel weak in comparison 
 to the other parts of the Half-Life series, and really should be at least another hour longer (Episode 
 One can easily be finished in 4-6 hours) . 
  
  In conclusion a superb game box, which deserves to be remembered as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owyns
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode Two is sticking players on their chairs in front of computer with it's story 
 and perfect gameplay. With new graphics and effects, new creatures, new story, and new two other 
 puzzle games what come with it, the TF2 and Portal it's getting better than it was. Also the TF2 
 and the Portal games are plus exciting too. The system requirements are not to great, and at the 
 lowest settings the details are very good. And playing multiplayer with the new TF2 is a bit more 
 comic and enjoying more than the TF. HL2 Engine in this Episode is greatly improved too.
  A look at Portal that what is a good game with opening portals where you want and getting somwhere 
 what makes the game really enjoyable with good 3B models and with exciting and very logical puzzels 
 makes people to play that game again. 
  If we take a look at Half-Life 2 Episode 2 we will see what there are many new things, for example 
 you know at the end of the game what there is a bomb like a ball what you throw it towards to the 
 big machines what after throwing you hit them with your weapon and they blow up, this is pretty 
 cool.
  And combines killing them is being a pleasure, what you are able to play the game with more effects 
 when hitting combines the blood goes through everywhere what takes a good look at this game.
  At least many thanks to developers of Orange Box.
  Hope we will be able to see the Episode Three 
 and new games in it's box too, and to clear our minds with that ugly question - "What will happen 
 in Episode 3?", and other questions like: "Will the Alex's father die?", "What will Gordon do?", 
 and others staff.
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  The Ornange box for PC includes 5 great games for the price of one. All these games can be individually 
 bought from steam, but for nowhere near the excellent price of $50. As most know, Ornage Box includes 
 Half Life, it's two expansion packs, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. All of these games are different 
 and original in their own way. Episode 2, the main attraction, is the second expansion pack of 
 Half Life 2 and lives up to it's name. The graphics are severely improved and the story line has 
 more twists and turns than any other version in the series. The action is fast and always engaging 
 just like in previous Half Life games. It's also a couple of hours longer than Episode One, which 
 could be beaten in two and a half hours by experienced Half Life gamers. Meanwhile, Portal and 
 Team Fortress 2 are definately more than throw-ins. Portal is a fun puzzle game that looks like 
 a FPS. Team Fortress 2 will add many hours to your gaming expirience online. Overall, Ornage Box 
 is a can't miss game. For just $50, there's something for everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mracoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  There's just something about Valve. The creators of the Half-Life series just can't seem to go 
 wrong and this time there is no exception. The Orange Box gives us 5 brilliant games, 3 new: Half-Life 
 2 Episode 2, Team Fortress 2 and Portal, and 2 old: Half-Life 2 and Episode 1.
  
  Lets start with Team Fortress 2. This game has been years in the making and the end product will 
 not disappoint. The new art style, which looks like it was taken form The Incredibles, suits the 
 game perfectly and makes it easy to distinguish between the plethora of classes to choose from. 
 Speaking of classes there are 9 to choose from and they're all back from the original Team Fortress. 
 They include medic, sniper, spy, demoman, pyro, heavy, scout, soldier and engineer. Each class 
 has there own unique weapon and abilities and some will require a good deal of teamwork to use 
 properly. Take the heavy, he's got lots of health and a powerful minigun but he's slow and easy 
 to pick off with a sniper. Team him up with a medic and you're a force to be reckoned with especially 
 when the medic has his ubercharge and can cause temporary invulnerability.
  
  So far TF2 only has a couple of maps. With the recently added cp_badlands and ctf_well the total 
 is now up to a decent eight. All of them are fun to play and each has a specific goal like 2fort 
 being capture the flag (which is a briefcase) and granary being a control point, where you stand 
 on top of a control point until it becomes your teams colour. My personal favourite has to be 2fort 
 where two opposing teams basses are separated by a bridge. The fun thing is, like with the other 
 maps, that there are several ways to go about achieving your goal depending on the class. If you're 
 a sniper you'll probably go on the battlement and snipe unsuspecting victims or you could be a 
 scout and go through the sewer system which leads you right to the intelligence briefcase. All 
 the depth a variety will have you playing TF2 for hours (my playtime will probably shoot from 40-100 
 hours to 100+ by next week)
  
  Next up is HL2 Episode 2, the next instalment in a series of 3 episodes which off-shoot from HL2. 
 It starts straight after the events of Episode 1 (**spoilers** if you haven't played any previous 
 games) where you and Alyx are now in possession of valuable information regarding the combine. 
 This all done with the backdrop of the Citadel which is now a smoking inferno.
  
  Episode 2 is a nice change from the so-so Episode 1. It's much more story heavy and tells us more 
 about Gordon Freeman's world, and the ending will have you craving for more. The game also reintroduces 
 vehicle sequences which were last experienced in HL2. These are extremely enjoyable but can go 
 on for a while. Back again is Alyx who is a lot more useful and her AI has been improved even more 
 from the last instalment. She will duck, cover and defend herself appropriately all while still 
 giving you words of reassurance. The gravity gun also makes a comeback and is still fun to use 
 even though its novelty may have worn off a bit. The gravity gun will be used a lot more when fighting 
 one of the new enemies which require you to constantly throw a barrage of items to defeat it. Episode 
 2 still has the usual Half-Life puzzle solving and jumping challenges. Overall the voice acting 
 and graphics are still top notch and with the added Steam achievements there's a lot of fun to 
 be had.
  
  And finally Portal. My absolute favourite game out of all the new content. It's a first-person 
 shooter/puzzler. You've probably know what it is by now but I'll explain again. You're character, 
 who is a female, wakes up to find herself in the Aperture Science Laboratories only greeted by 
 a robotic voice. You're character is eventually given possession of a portal gun, it fires an entrance 
 portal and an exit portal. When you enter the entrance portal you come out at the exit portal and 
 if you enter the exit portal you come out at the entrance portal. It may take a bit for you head 
 to get around the concept but that's what the first few levels are for. You have to use the gun 
 to solve a series of brain-bending puzzles most of which are really enjoyable and leave you with 
 a sense of satisfaction after completing.
  
  Probably the best part of Portal is your guide (if you can call her that) throughout the trials. 
 This is GLaDOS, and she is one of the most devilishly funny characters in videogame history. No 
 joke. Her 'advice', conversations with you (she is the only one talking) and promises of cake will 
 have you laughing for days. As the story unfolds you become aware of more sinister intentions that 
 leads you to a satisfying ending. Oh, and how can I forget to mention the Weighted Companion Cube 
 who is metal a cube who helps you through your journeys.
  
  The only qualms I, and most people for that matter, have with Portal is that it's short. You'll 
 finish the first 15 levels in no time at all, though it depends on your grasp of the concept, and 
 probably complete the main game 2.5 to 3.5 hours. I only wish they could have extended this a little 
 as the game was so fun to play I expected more. There is some relief in the fact that there are 
 challenges to complete. These consist of completing a puzzle in a certain amount of shots or steps.
 
  
  Overall The Orange Box is a must buy. It contains 5 great games, one of them arguably being one 
 of the greatest of all time. If you've never played HL2 series buy this game, if you like puzzles 
 buy this game, if you enjoy multiplayer shooters buy this game, if you like games buy this game. 
 Orange Box is one of the greatest deals I've ever seen and I would give it a 9.8 if Gamespot's 
 rating system allowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you all know what the orange box is so i'm going to go straight to the games.
  Half Life 2 Ep 2 takes you outside City 17 and into the white forest. Its what happens in between 
 that is what makes the most of the Episode 2. There's a lot more driving included this time and 
 a lot more action compared to the first episode. You meet new enemies, which i wont mention, and 
 a lot more striders! In the end you had to kill like 10 of them. A bit of an overkill if you ask 
 me, it got very redundant and annoying. 
  The story also went a little forward, you get to know a little about Aperture Science and their 
 'ship'. Gman still remains a mystery. The ending was sudden but quite emotional. Over all the game 
 was better than Ep 1, it was only a tad longer, still very very short and included a heck of a 
 lot more action. The visuals and sound remain the same, in other words, incredibly top notch!
 
  
  OB also contains a puzzle game called Portal. Basically you shoot portals to go from one place 
 to another. That includes going to a place where you normally cant (either too high, or impossible 
 by other means) . You finish 19 levels, all quite short, but i guess for a game like this its fine. 
 You have an artificial computer voice talking to you through out the game. Its a women, incredibly 
 evil, manipulative and funny. In fact Portal is the funniest game I have ever played and i laughed 
 my self silly on some of the lines the AI had to say. Its 100% original and definitely worth a 
 play, or maybe multiple! The end credits song is very humorous.
  
  Even if you're not a HL life, Portal is something you just have to experience, and its an experience 
 worth having, believe me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The games are spectacular. It's worth paying the price of $50 or less. The games offer a different 
 variety of game types; like portal is a fun puzzle game, where as team fortress 2 offers a really 
 fun multi-player experience and half-life 2, episode one and two, offer a great story that is very 
 thrilling and challenging (although you may need a lot of patients) . All the games offer a different 
 type of game but share one thing in common, they are extremely addictive and fun games.
  
  First I will talk about the most challenging and funny game in the box, portal. Portal is a load 
 of fun. You go on a journey through a science lab were you encounter many tests ands trial and 
 usually spend a lot of time pondering how to solve the puzzle. Not only does it offer a challenge 
 to the mind; it is full of humorous sayings in which you will most likely have tons of laughs. 
 Portal is probably one of the funniest games I have ever played.
  
  Then there is the team strategy game, Team Fortress 2. This game is really fun. This game is a 
 game for teamwork. What I mean by that is that you could not singal handedly walk into the enemy 
 fort and steal their briefcase (AKA: their flag) . It would involve much teamwork to get the job 
 done, and its just plain fun. The different classes offer many different ways to play the game. 
 From scout to sniper you are sure to find a class that fits you. If you are not a team player you 
 will not like this game and will be extremely bad at it. This is one of the most enjoyable FPS 
 CTF's I have ever played, and the cartoon graphics makes it so much cooler than regular FPS's.
 
  
  Finally there is Half-Life 2, episode one and two. These games have a great story. It is a action 
 packed game that will always keep you on your toes. You will find action at almost every turn of 
 the street or were ever else the game takes you. Though the game can be quite tedious at some times 
 it is still extremely fun. What I mean by tedious is that it can get frustrating when you cant 
 find what way to go; and there are always trick areas to distract you and the game doesn't tell 
 you were to go or what to do to get were your going.
  
  Overall the Orange Box is probably one of the best game bundles out there and if you're a FPS fan 
 or Half-Life fan, or if you just want to try a new game, you should consider picking it up. I give 
 this a ten even though the game can get frustrating, but that is no reason to lower the score. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snobas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that i'm going to review only "Portal" because i don't have much to say about Team 
 Fortress and HL Ep1 or 2.
  
  So let's begin.
  
  The first thing that got my attention in portal, was weird beginning. Love beginnngs like portal's, 
 you wake up and don't know anything.
  
  The game itself is awesome. It has great idea. Incredible mix between 1st peron shooters and puzzles.
 
  
  After compliting this game you will ask yourself a question: "was it worth it??" .
  
  I personally still cant believe how good it this. I'm extremely happy cuz' i completed it. I really 
 recommend this game for ya.
  
  The good:
  
  Great idea, GLaDos, Portal gun itself, incredible voice acting, developer comments, nice graphics, 
 great soundtrack, cake XD, cubes.
  
  The bad:
  
  Sometimes it's extremely hard, short.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Combine_A
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Just amazing! It comes with all the up to date Half-Life games. It even includes some extra games!
 
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2: The story line really has changed and made a few adjustments like their 
 map designing. It looks almost real! There are many challenging puzzles and characters that you 
 have to fight and solve. This really has advanced the Half-Life Story line a lot.
  Team Fortress 2: Just like the old days but in source! Team Fortress Classic had finally made it 
 to source! This has really changed! Its a fun fast paced game especially with a lot people in one 
 server. The classes also have changed cause they have new looks and personalities! The Scout New 
 York, The Soldier of course American, Pyro unknown..., Demoman Scottish, Hw Guy Russian, Engineer Southern 
 Cowboy, Sniper Australian, Medic I don't know, Spy French. They even have new weapons and taunts!
 
  Portal: This is part of the Half-Life Storyline but this time you play as a Test Subject using 
 a portal gun and using it to get through hard obstacles, challenges, and there's a twist at end (ain't 
 gonna tell ;-)
  Its really fun and dizzy sometimes when you use the portal gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This set of games is quite possibly the best offering I have had the pleasure of spending my money 
 on since the Half-Life Platimum Pack. It has variety (1 multiplayer game, 1 puzzle game, 3 single 
 player shooters) , and all of its contents are a blast to play. There isn't much for me to say in 
 this review, if you wish to know how each individual game is, refer to my individual reviews for 
 each game. Here, I will treat the Orange Box as a compilation, and so I will average the total 
 ratings of the included games, and add in Tilt and overall Value.
  
  Half-Life 2: 10.0
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1: 8.5
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2: 9.0
  Portal: 9.25
  Team Fortress 2: 8.75
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I should add that Half-Life 2 Lost Coast is included. This was originally a short level that demonstrated 
 some of the new effects that would be used in Episode 1. It is not more than 10 minutes long, but 
 it is fun and neat. Another included thing is Peggle Extreme, which is sort of having a mini-version 
 of the full Peggle game. You can play to your hearts content, but not ALL of the levels are featured 
 in Peggle Extreme. Peggle is a neat and somewhat fun game, to which you can read my full review 
 of when it is up. Since this isn't the full version, I decided not to factor it into the full average 
 score. One last thing is that it would have been nice if Half-Life 2 Deathmatch were included, 
 since between that (and its mods) and TF2, you will have an endless amount of fun in multiplayer. 
 This is a very minor complaint though, because the package is flawless as it stands. Enjoy.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.5/10 (9.36/10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elisecobrauk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the "Half life 2 series" . Half life 2 is included in this box and is a very good 
 FPS game , it combines challenging puzzles with intense battles , this gives the game a sense of 
 variety and also a chance to appreciate the game itself whilst your not charging around with guns 
 blazing. In my oppinion this makes a brilliant game and i give Halflife 2 9/10
  
  Episode one is also included , this is the follow up to Half life 2 . This game was a relative 
 disapointment when i first played it as it doesnt have as gooder gameplay. The puzzles that were 
 in Episode 1 were not particulary challenging nor were the battles. If you had played Halflife 
 2 it was also quite predictable what will happen as you move further into the game - This games 
 is the weakest link in the Half Life 2 series and gets a 6/10
  
  Episode 2 is the newest episode and is the main game of the orange box 
  Yet again it combines 
 puzzle with intense battle , however the story in Episode two becomes a lot more about Gordon Freeman's 
 (The character you play) and Alyx Vance's (A sort of side kick) relationship , as they spend almost 
 the whole game together and Alyx shows her feelings for gordon in many witty and subtle ways. This 
 game is a lot better than Episode 2 and shows promis for the Third episode ! I give this game a 
 9.5.10
  
  Portal is my favourite game out of this box ! It combines puzzles and humour in a very effective 
 way . The puzzle is placing portals in the right place so that energy balls go into power slots 
 , or making your way across a room with barriers stopping you from walking there. Even placing 
 cubes on pressure pads can be challenging as entity shields vaporise them if you walk through. 
 
  The humour is given across by GladOs , who is a robot that speaks to you as you make your way through 
 the game . GladOs says lines such as "If you feel thirsty feel free to pass out" and "Do you remember 
 when you thought i was going to kill you , and you were like NOOOO and i was like haha only joking". 
 These lines that you probably dont find funny now are put into the game effectively and give the 
 game a feel that no other has had!
  This is one of the best games i have EVER played so i give it a 10/10 
  
  Finally we come to 
 Team Fortress 2 . I have only been waiting 10 years for this game and am glad it is here! This 
 is a fun an light hearted online game with lots of different objective modes. The modes are "Capture 
 point" "Capture the Flag" and "Push modes". These are the one point of this game that let me down 
 . I used to love playing the maps well and badlands (Newly released) with Capture the flag and i 
 feel disapointed that these are now capture point maps. These maps really suited capture the flag 
 and the original TF still gets my vote. However if you are new to TF you wont know any different 
 and may enjoy this . But if you used to play TF you may be disapointed or even happy with this 
 change ! There is also a new Stats system which is great , it gives time played as each class and 
 highest kills gained playing as that class , along with many other stats , this is a really good 
 addition to this game
  Overall TF2 is a good game with a few minor floors such as gameplay giltches and unfair classes 
 . I have decided to give this game a 7.5/10
  
  
  So is it worth buying the Orange box ........... Hell yeah 
  
  The games are all good , with 
 only a few criticisms , i would say its well worth it especially for 24.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 : The Orange Box offers the gamer an experience they will never forget. It expands 
 from the cult classic original Half Life, which meant it had a massive job to do if it was to live 
 up to the anticipation. And it delivered.
  
  It throws you into a rapidly devleloping and gripping storyline, which often gives a sense of urgency 
 or desperation which significatly adds to the experience. As Gordan Freeman, you are subjected 
 to a fast paced and terrifying experince, fighting your way through hostile city streets and buildings, 
 through sewer systems and twisted reserch facilities. 
  
  The lighting, sound and physics engine create a unique atmosphere ranging from lush beautifal woodlands 
 and waterfalls, to dark monster infested abandoned buildings. Flickering lights and well timed 
 sound effecfts add to a feeling of terror, and you'll quite often find yourself either jumping 
 out of your skin or running around shooting in blind panic.
  
  The game is deep and involving and you feel totally immersed. The series had a lot to live up to 
 and delivered in grand style. A truly epic game that has rightly got a place in history as one 
 of the all time greats.
  
  When Barney throws down that crowbar to you at the start of HL2, all the memories of HL1 and the 
 possiblities ahead come flooding into your mind, and the hairs on the back of your neck stand on 
 end. Breathtaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: countstex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  We waited a long time for Episode Two to come along, however it's wait has allowed the additionals 
 of the orange box to grow and upon release i dare say it had been overshadowed by both Team Fortress 
 and portal. 
  Team Fortress is everything you could have hoped for in a follow up to a rather well respected 
 multiplayer game from the original Half-Life days, with some of the most sumptious looking graphics. 
 It is just plain fun to play and you'll find many hours spec with a ridiculous smile on your face.
 
  Portal, whilst short on inital playthorugh, is a truely excellent and well crafted piece of entertainment. 
 It's hard to describe the feeling of playing the game so you really should just get out there and 
 play it.
  HL2EP2 is a very nice continuation of the saga, nothing too surprising in there, but a solid bit 
 of gameplay none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dementedpancake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 ep3...
  AWESOME!!!!
  The game has progressed outdoors making the environments large and expansive which games just don't 
 do.
  The graphics are sick and the game-play is brilliant.
  The AI are genius and the physics are the best.
  particle effects to die for.
  I hope that 
 the ending of the series isn't a letdown or else i will run to the nearest traintracks and throw 
 myself into the path of a incoming train.
  I recon that half-life games are so great that you just get sucked so far in that you don't remember 
 you actually are living in 2008 and aren't going around killing combine and zombie in the future.
 
  i want to know the end of the series so bad i would kill... just kidding... or am i?
  If you make levels in any engine you should know that half-life 2 ep3 is a masterpeice on all accounts. 
 I want to work at VALVe the game has taken that much influence over me.
  Brill.
  WOW!
  Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsukasagoeth
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is, in a word, fun. In a sentence, it's an incredible bundle throwing together several 
 classics with the best new game I've played this year.
  
  I'll skip over the Half-Life part of the Box, because Half-Life 2 and Episode One haven't gotten 
 any different since I played them a year or more ago, though I applaud Valve's decision to give 
 people new to the Half-Life series one purchase that catches them up quickly. As far as Episode 
 Two, honest admission here: I haven't actually played it yet. I've had so much fun with Team Fortress 
 2 and Portal that I've yet to venture into that part of the Box. So, on to the games I have played:
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is fun. I absolutely love the comical exaggerations of the characters, and the 
 gameplay is a barrel of laughs. My only gripe is the rather small range of maps to choose from, 
 but I can live with that.
  
  The game I've had the most fun with, though, is definitely Portal. Portal is absolutely freakin' 
 incredible. The portal gun gameplay mechanic is such a brilliant innovation, and it's made the 
 game a ton of fun for me. Also, the characters, or rather character, charmed me with her personality. 
 I don't really see the player character as a character as much as a blank slate, but GLaDOS is 
 such a witty character with a dose of dark humor that really adds color to the blank white walls 
 of the Aperture Science Enrichment Facility. While all of the Orange Box is entertaining, if I 
 had to choose one game from it to recommend to someone looking for a game that's just plain fun, 
 I would definitely recommend Portal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box has five games: Portal, Team Fortress Two, Half-Life Two: Episode One and Two, and 
 Half-Life Two. With five wonderful games, you can't go wrong with the fifty dollars you would spend 
 on it.
  
  If you've ever played the Counter Strike series from Valve, then you will be very familiar with 
 Team Fortress Two. It is a very fun multi-player game because so many people are on it and there 
 are plenty of maps. I am sure Valve will keep adding maps too!
  
  Half-Life Two: Episode Two continues the Half-Life Two episode trilogy with the second installment. 
 It is a wonderful first person shooter. If you enjoyed the Half-Life games, you will LOVE this 
 one because it serves well with its predecessors.
  
  Portal is the most interesting First-Person shooting game I have ever played. If you have ever 
 watched the "Cube" movies, then Portal might come to your mind. There are no enemies in this game, 
 just puzzle solving using your portal gun. GLaDOS is the only interactive counterpart that is in 
 the game. The game somewhat has a storyline to it because after you beat all of the rooms, you 
 get cake! I really want to finish the game to get the cake. This game is amazing, you will be pleased 
 because GLaDOS has a sense of humor.
  
  One of the best things about the Orange Box is that you don't need a super-computer to play, but 
 have a fair amount of RAM memory. You can't go wrong with the Orange Box, it has so many wonderful 
 games. You must try it out because you probably will like at least one of the games the Orange 
 Box has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Bob_UK
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box. It's orange and it's a box. It's a box and it's orange. OK, enough of that - onto 
 the opinionated review!
  
  The Orange Box contains five games in one box. These five games will be listed now, in chronological 
 order, Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 
 2.
  
  Let's start off with Half-Life 2. Brilliant. Immersive. Worth the long wait. It won over 35 Game 
 of the Year awards for sheer brilliance. Half-Life 2 sees you becoming Gordon Freeman again in 
 a deprived city in an enslaved Earth. The Combine have enslaved many races and Earth has been taken 
 and its resources are becoming very low. Half-Life 2 is a must-buy and not just because I told 
 you who you are and what you've done, but because of the simple fact that it is a bloody brilliant 
 game.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One. Not one of my favourites, yet not one of my hated games (Call of Duty 
 3, Stranglehold, Red Steel and others) . You are Gordon Freeman once again in a rush to save yourself 
 and the lives of the ones you care about because the city you are in is about to blow - and you 
 have got to get the freaking hell out of there. Episode One is worth a purchase if you like action-oriented 
 games.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two. Damn good game. I simply love it. From the humour to the action to the 
 oh my God this is a good game. It continues the complicated yet interesting story of Half-Life 
 and you reprise your role as Gordon Freeman. Worth a purchase simply because of your ignorance 
 if you don't.
  
  Portal. Funny game. Yet sadistic in a weird way. Fun puzzles from a first-person perspective and 
 the humour made me chuckle with delight. I cannot wait for the next Portal game.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Funny game yet again. This is the multiplayer component of the Orange Box. There 
 are 9 different pre-made classes to choose from. These are: Scout, Soldier, Demoman, Sniper, Spy, 
 Heavy, Medic, Engineer and the mad Pyro. These classes are balanced and have their pros and cons. 
 This game (and Episode Two and Portal) track your stats and you can review what you've done well. 
 Good multiplayer and on every server I've been on, we have always worked together as a team and 
 this game is a good game simply because it encourages teamwork.
  
  There are achievements for the PC for Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2. You don't get points 
 but it appears on your Steam Community page.
  
  Whew! With all of that typed I need a rest. Buy the Orange Box! You won't regret it unless your 
 a very negative person! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I missed the bus on FPS games years ago. The jerky and blocky 3D animation made me sick to my stomach, 
 and for that reason, I took a pass on the genre for well over a decade. Well, all that changed 
 a few month ago, when I discovered the smooth graphics of modern FPSes didn't cause me that problem. 
 Since then, I've been playing them like crazy, and none has provided quite as much satisfaction 
 as The Orange Box.
  
  Like I said, I haven't played any FPS games until recently, so Half Life 2 was all new to me. Having 
 recently played Crysis, I found the linear gameplay a little restrictive and frustrating at times, 
 but the action was great, and, once I got the hang of it, the mix of fighting and solving little 
 puzzles was quite entertaining.
  
  The story in HL2 is a bit thin, as many have noted, but it becomes clearer as you progress into 
 the Episodes, especially Episode Two, which could be the best of the three games. The characterization 
 is great, and the voice acting is superb. Moments of humor keep the game from getting too bogged 
 down or oppressive, and overall the trilogy is a fun romp through a devastated post-apocalyptic 
 world.
  
  Portal is a brilliant game. Using a gun to make connecting portals, and learning the mechanics 
 behind their use, is extremely gratifying, and I was having a blast playing around with the concept. 
 The voice of the AI guiding you through the game is also quite funny, as well as creepy, as are 
 the voices of the turrets you'll find scattered about. The graphics are also very clean and detailed.
 
  
  It's a shame the game is so short, but I think the developers were mainly trying to create a tutorial 
 on how to use the portal gun. I'm pretty sure such a great concept will be seeing further application 
 in later games, perhaps integrated into a full-blown true shooter somewhere down the line. Episode 
 Three, anyone? This is the kind of game that my dad could even get into, and he is the classic 
 grumpy old man.
  
  Finally, although I thought HL2 and Portal were great, and I was quite addicted to them until I 
 finished, I think Team Fortress 2 might be the best part of the package, just because it has near 
 infinite replay value, and the human element adds so much unpredictability to the game.
  
  It's basically an online multiplayer shooter, with two teams competing for territories, control 
 points, or trying to capture the flag. The fact that there are nine classes adds so much replayability, 
 and the fact that they all have their uses keeps thing interesting. I love being able to play a 
 soldier and get into the trenches, blowing up everything I see, and then, five minutes later in 
 the same game, becoming a spy and trying to sneak into the enemy base. The whole game is a huge 
 adrenaline rush, and has been providing me with a ton of entertainment. The graphics and audio 
 are also top notch here, with great voice work and crisp sound effects throughout.
  
  It's quite possible that, had the Orange Box never existed, I would've gladly paid $49.99 for any 
 of the the parts of this compilation. However, getting the entire package for that price makes 
 for exceptional value, and I highly recommend it to anyone that enjoys FPSes.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Audio: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  A welcomed revival of "Half-Life 2" with two sequels, and two other games: "Team Fortress 2" and 
 a new, revolutionary game called "Portal".
  
  I'm only going to talk here about "Portal". I have already written a review on "Half-Life 2" at:
 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2/player_review. html? id=182449. 
  
  Portal starts in a futuristic gymnasium where we appear as a female athlete with spring heeled 
 trainers. We are going to have to solve a series of physical and mental puzzles that involve "portals" 
 which are dynamic gateways into other parts of the building. This a research project that is being 
 supervised by a female computer, so during the whole game we are being observed and evaluated by 
 this computer.
  
  It starts with some instructions about safety, and we see these "saftey at work" style signs everywhere 
 which are part of the game's iconography. The inital puzzles are simple and the computer seems 
 also to be testing us psychologically. We get the impression that it is a psychological, as well 
 as a "physical & mental agility" experiment.
  
  As the game progresses, we are given more and more control over the creation, deletion and use 
 of portals with a special gun, that looks a bit liek the gravity gun in Half-Life 2, only cooler. 
 The computer continues with its psychological tricks, which includes the promise of some light 
 refreshment at the end of the experiment in the form of a "cake". The puzzles get harder and more 
 dangerous, and you don't know whether the computer is lying or not, or whether you're allowed to 
 go behind the scenes, and so on. Are there rules, or not? Or is the only rule that there are no 
 rules? Is the computer serious or is it all part of the experiment.
  
  As the game develops so does your relationship with the computer, which turns out to be a passive 
 aggressive computer that is in fact negative towards you but it tries to hide it. All this is very 
 humorous, by the way.
  
  The physics of the game literally leap into a new dimension. Although the world of portals is not 
 one to be found in reality, it is modelled as it would be if it existed in reality. In other words, 
 the physics makes sense but is a little twisted. For example, you can make "in" portals and "out" 
 portals. If you put an "in" portal on the floor and its corresponding "out" portal on a wall, when 
 you jump through the portal in floor you come flying feet first horizontally out of the "out" portal 
 on the wall, upon which gravity then pulls you down, in a trajectory manner.
  
  You can have of fun with this, and with practice it adds an entirely new dimension to gaming. If 
 there had been a mission builder, or a multiplayer possibility, I would not have been able to leave 
 this game alone! But given this game's success, I think we'll be seeing more games from Valve featuring 
 the portal gun and portal physics in the not to distant future..
  
  Oh, a review of this game would not be complete without a mention of the song at the end which 
 the computer sings to you. A huge success ;-) 
  
  And remember, the cake is a lie. Or is it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardnexus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I don't understand why Gamespot gave all HL2 related products 90 or higher ranking except 
 episode 1. As a matter of fact, a lot people gave HL2 good reviews. I won't say it's a bad game 
 but when you're a costumer, you always compare similar merchandise and make a judgment whether 
 it's a good purchase or not and this is the area where I don't understand. 
  
  Half-Life 2 isn't that great. It's unfair to say so since we're talking about a 5 year gap. But 
 in the graphic, art, and detail perspective, FarCry easily outshines HL2. 
  
  I guess Half-Life 2 franchise is so old. The unfairness to compare episode one and two with modern 
 FPS games may carry over. However, on the same token, COD4 makes episode 2 like a product from 
 armature. Since review isn't about COD4, I won't describe how great COD4 is but the choice is clear. 
 I feel purchasing episode 2 equals to waste my money. 
  
  So how's the overall of the Orange box? I believe fair is one of the most important elements in 
 a good review. To review Orange box, you can't just based on episode 2 because it comes with 5 
 games. 
  
  The only thing that I agree with Gamespot and other 5 star reviews is the Team Fortress 2. Valve 
 makes a phenomenal job to remodel its classic master piece. The art, characters, game design, sound.... 
 Everything elements in this game is next to none. I would definitely spend over $10 for this game. 
 ($49.99/5) 
  
  Portal. It's an interesting puzzle solving game in FPS style. Good idea but I won't spend $10 for 
 that. I might spend $7 for a cell-phone version if available but not $10 running on my 22" screen 
 where I want to see some serious actions. 
  
  Episode 1 & 2. Like I previously stated. They are no where near their competition. And Episode 
 1 is simply a rip-off. I guess this is the point where Valve made the decision not to sell Episode 
 2 as a stand alone product like Episode 1 after so may HL die-hard fans got pissed. Is it a good 
 value? I guess I would spend $20 for both Episodes. 
  
  Finally HL2. Well, a lot people like it. If you say $10 for that even after I played and I don't 
 really like that much, I probably still would buy it. 
  
  Conclusion: Orange box is no doubt a box with excellent value. But the only game that really stands 
 out is TF2. So if you're looking for bargain, it's an excellent buy. But don't fall into that trap 
 too often since that's the tactic marketers love to use to sell those less wanted products. If 
 you just simply searching for the best FPS game, spend your money on Bioshock, COD4 or Crysis. 
 The comparison between Half-life 2 and those games is like watching Joe vs. Pro. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyre0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  Ill review this game in sections:
  First on the chopping block is Portal, this is probably the most creative game since Wetrix for 
 the '64. Believe it or not Portal actually has a storyline and a plot, its not just a straight 
 up strategy game, and the ending credits has a very humorous song attached to it. Youll just have 
 to buy it and see for yourself. All around I give Portal a 9.3.
  Next is Team Fortress 2, this game didnt play all that well on my PC and it still has minor problems 
 with the bandwidth it consumes and such things as that. All technical problems aside it still manages 
 to have fierce multiplayer around every corner. It controls nicely and again I have minor problems 
 with the graphics and shading effects. All-in-all I give it an 8.7.
  Now for Half-Life 2. I had to tone down the Graphics as low as they could go and hamper the shading 
 a bit nut this game is amazing. Never before have I played a game as immersive and interactive 
 as Half-Life 2. It has the general feeling of any FPS out their and the deep story fit for a king, 
 but ther is something else that adds to this amazing experience, substance. Half-Life 2, Episode 
 1 and Half-Life 2 Episode 2 rarely ever repeat themselves in terms of gameplay. It always adds 
 something new to each chapter, be it a new vehicle, a new weapon or restricting you from walking 
 on the sand due to insane Antlions. I had a lot of graphical and technical issues with all the 
 Half-Lifes. In case you have crappy computer like I do then Ill tell you which games where the 
 worst in terms of issues: 
  Half-Life 2 gave me alot of Graphical problems so I turned the graphics as low as they could go 
 and then everything was fine and dandy, from then on the framerate was good and the physics superb. 
 Episode One was the same as Half-Life 2 but shorter and so I didnt really have time to notice the 
 graphical problems, but Ep. 1 didnt give me any technical problems. Half-Life 2 Episode 2 gave 
 me horrible trouble with particle effects. I the beginning you go in a cave (dont worry no spoilers 
 here) and instead of it sowing up dark and spooky like it should have the walls all glowed, nearly 
 blinding and that ruined that part of the game for me. Fortunately once you come out of the cave 
 you dont spend too much time in caves again, like I said Substance. Problems aside Half-Life 2 
 gets a perfect 10, yeah I just gave it a 10.
  Episode One gets a solid 9
  and Half-Life 2: Episode 2 gets an 8.5, because of the graphical problems.
  
  Recommendation: 
 Get up go to Walmart and buy this game, either for Xbox 360 or the PC, it doesnt matter the Orange 
 Box is just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  
  Before I begin to review this title, I would like to say a few words about the widely known STEAM. 
 Over a 2 months period that I owned this game steam has found a number of ways to annoy me. Here 
 are some:
  1. So you go to a local store and buy this game, turns out it's encrypted by steam. Usually this 
 is no problem at all (and it wasn't in my case) , but what if you have no internet access and bought 
 the orange box to play only HL2 and episodes? PC games cannot be returned once opened.. Sux for 
 you, doesn't it? 
  2. F*****g resource hog, slowed the after-logon loading time of my high-end comp by 5 seconds, 
 just imagine what would it do to a $400 old dell!!!
  3. My favorite one - steam related glitches. I had 3 that could not be fixed unless all steam related 
 s*! t is reinstalled. Strangely enough ALL occurred after auto-updates... Most recent one has drained 
 the last drop of my patience. I had all best TF2 servers saved to favorites, about 20 of them, 
 never played anywhere except those 20 servers. After auto-update of fortress 2, attempt to connect 
 to anything from my fav. list resulted in error message, while any regular server (about 400 of 
 'em) connected with no problem. Steam support contact info CAN NOT BE FOUND, anywhere.. there is 
 no way I'm reinstalling all 12GB of that $*! t, again. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, HL is debatably the greatest FPS sequel ever created, but one thing is obvious, 
 it is being gradually ruined by barely-functioning, frequently glitching steam. 
  
  
  Now, The ORANGE BOX
  
  Half-Life 2: ... has been reviewed enough, best game of 2004 =9.7/10=
 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One: ... has 3 hours of game play, not much to review =7/10=
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two: step in the right direction, much better then Episode 1. Good story, 
 full 8 hours of game play, improved graphics, almost all buildings can be reduced to logs of firewood. 
 Some new ideas for weapons have been added and freeman's car no longer sux. A few new characters 
 have been added (and few old ones died) . Overall a great game, but still can't match the success 
 of original Half-Life 2. Game play: 9.8/10 Graphics: 9/10 Sound: 9/10.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Highly addictive. Cradle of all class-based shooters. Many classes make this fun, 
 since any class can be countered with another class. Many servers can be found, you will never 
 have trouble finding a game. On the other hand, lack of maps shows some laziness on creator's side, 
 only 6 official maps at time of release????? Modded maps easily fixed that, after about 2 months 
 I had about 30 maps total in maps list. (No mods on 360, so that's not too good) . Some humor (especially 
 what the characters say) also keeps things from getting boring. Overall highly recommend this. 
 Game play: 9/10 Graphics: 7/10 Sound: 7/10
  
  
  Portal: Brilliant. How nice it is to see a game that's so unique. Keeps you thinking that there 
 are still some people with unique ideas out there. Game was developed by someone with a good sense 
 of humor, as some jokes you hear are actually good. Game play 10/10 Graphics 8.5/10 Sound 10/10
 
  
  
  Conclusion: if for some reason you still don't have the orange box, get it! Right now! It's worth 
 your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Seriously I hate really short detail-less reviews. But theres no point in even trying here.
  
  If your reading this your either bored or you want to confirm that yes the game is really that 
 good, or your thinking about buying it.
  
  Time to stop thinking.
  
  Odds are near 100% you already know what Half Life and Half Life 2 are well this awesome box comes 
 like Half Life 2 / HL2 Episode 1 and Episode 2. This already is a huge value as Half life 2 is 
 about 15 hours and each episode is geared twoards 5 hours.
  
  Also included in the orange box is Portal, a little puzzle player that is the rage of gamers around 
 the world, and unexpected super hit, and diservidly so, its an awesome, hillarious, super fun to 
 play FPS-style puzzle solver where you shoot portals to solve puzzles. Its very short really only 
 about 3 hours BUT when the game is over it isnt over as there are more challenges to face.
  
  And Last but not least is Team Fortress 2. An online only team-class based FPS. Its got a unquie 
 style, great balance between classes, quick wit and quicker action. Honestly it might not appeal 
 to everyone because it doesnt take itself seriously at all, but most people will probably just 
 enjoy that aspect. Its fun and fast and easy to get into quick blasting action.
  
  All of these games added together would score about 45 points out of 50... so I think that easily 
 makes the Orange Box as a whole a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps not as innovative in game play terms as one would expect, but in terms of fun and immersion, 
 valve gives us a master class in first person shooter, exceeding there previous two halflife titles 
 episode 2 feels more rooted to the original half life prior to half life 2 yet at the same time 
 very much half life 2.
  
  
  
  It's about the closest thing to a computer game movie, other games have try 'd, for example metal 
 gear solid, but it got bogged down by juvenile pretension phycho babble trying to be clever for 
 it's own good, lacking game play and trying to be a movie way to hard, half life 2: episode 2, 
 feels like a movie but at the same time it still feels like a game, the characters have character, 
 you become emotionally vested in them, the story while still ambiguous and somewhat cryptic is 
 explored and unraveled more so than ever, including the mysterious gman, it also steers the player 
 on to the were the game is heading for episode 3 underneath it all, it's still at it's core, a 
 dam fine game, crates, vents, bang bang , it's what your use to, but done with such craftsmanship, 
 that it's head and shoulders above the rest, you can complain about the length, sure, but I go 
 with the old saying quility over..
  
  This is the best first person shooter I have played in a while, probably since the original half 
 life, I'd highly recommend you run to the shops and play through it, Loved every moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhack555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Wow! five games in one? what a deal. These were my first thoughts when I originally heard about 
 the Orange box. That was until I played it and realized it was five amazing games in one. Not one 
 of the five games included in the orange box dissapointed me, ranging from the fun immersive story 
 line of the half life 2 sequels, to the immersive puzzle solving (oddly humerous) fun Portal. Portal 
 offered a new kind of gameplay that allowed the player to actually think about how to beat it. 
 With most first person shooters, the players thought complexity is "well maybe If I run here, I 
 wont get shot as many times". In portal, it makes think much more. With instant death lurking around 
 everycorner, There is only one right answer. The excitement and gratification also gained from 
 completeing the game on it's hardest difficulty is also right up there with gears of war and its 
 insane setting. The only difference, is you come out of it really feeling smarter (but who knows 
 if you really are or not?)
  
  The sequels to the famed Half Life series also opened up a whole new appreciation for the game 
 allowing players to venture deeper into the terrifying wolrd as Doctor Gordon Freeman, Slaying 
 bad guy after bad guy. With its immersive plot, you never want to put down the controller dying 
 to see whats next. Over all, nothing has really changed for the single player cmapaign. Overall 
 it is an amazing story and could have quite possibly been compromised with a change in controller 
 scheme. 
  
  Beyond portal and Half Life was Team Fortress. A funky, 50's look a Multiplayer Madness. Team fortress 
 gave a fresh new look at class based multiplayer. The variety between classes allowed for everyone 
 to feel like they were really playing a role in the fight. Even if they didn't get a single kill, 
 they may have been a medic making sure everyone lasted during the fight. Or they could have been 
 an engineer, building turrets to protect major control points. I loved the inability to pick up 
 different weapons making sure that players stayed in their respective roles. This kept the game 
 moving as everyone continually changes their roles within the game. Overall, Everyone should appreciate 
 this new and different look on Multiplayer games. This gameset is one which everyone should because 
 it is at an afforcable price and provides five amzing games worth of intense and immersive Gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  this game pack is sooooo cool, ok half life 2 is 2004 but its one of the best games ever!!!!, episode1 
 and 2 are great but quite short though it doesnt matter because there awsome just like half life 
 2 is. team fortress 2 is one of the best multiplayer games ever, portal is really short like 3-4 
 hours but awsome!!! ok ill start with half life 2. 
  
  half life 2 as you know was awarded one of the best games of 2004,
  it was quite a long game 
 and very fun to play, the voice acting was awsome
  and it was sooooo fun to kill the combine in so many ways such as....... blowing em up with a rocket 
 or....... getting antlions to eat them. etc
  it was like 15 hours long which is pretty long for a fps.
  
  episode1 was to short like 5 hours 
 but was still awsome like the part when your in the car park shooting the heck outta zombies the 
 game also has a new bad guy called a zombine, a zombie combine lol anyway its still got all the 
 bad guys apart from the ant guard. the acting is still awsome like allways.
  
  episode 2...... awsome!!!! better than half life 2 episode 1 thats for sure for starters its longer 
 like 8 hours you get a dodge charger thats sooooo cool
  more types of bad guys yay!!!!! you have the hunter there quite nasty too!!! then you have more 
 types of antlion and the antlion guard is back!!! it has better graphics than the last ones including 
 motion blur!!! the acting is still awsome. also it doesnt end so prepare for episode 3. even though 
 it will most likely come out in 2009 at x mas.
  
  team fortress 2 this is the best multiplayer game of all time!!!!!! you got 9 classes spy, soilder, 
 engineer, heavy, sniper, demoman, medic, scout, pyro. all of em are awsome!!! you have heaps of 
 differant maps and new gamemodes, you can play hours and hours and never get bored.
  
  portal is game of the year 2007 even though its 3-4 hours!!!!! but its funny really funny and it 
 has the best credits ever and even the credits are funny too. its really weird somtimes like you 
 shoot a portal in the roof above you and then shoot one under you and you'll kepp falling forever 
 seeing yourself!!!!!!! unless u move. 
  
  
  overall the orange box is worth the money and is easily 100/10 but gamespot only goes to 10/10 
 so i have to give it 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladewyrm89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was amazing, a great collection of games, all flawlessly created. I can't wait 
 for episode 3 to complete the arc. My only complain is the load screens on half life 2 but it only 
 happens during down times and it is a minor nit pick compared to the rest of the game is i can't 
 recommend highly enough. The game is completely immersive, action packed, sometimes scarier than 
 any horror game i've ever played and you grow attached to the characters, BUY THIS GAME!! 
  The first game, half life 2 is a great game with a compelling story. The graphics are extremely 
 expressive and the dialog is very believable. Environments just like the acting is very immersive 
 and believable. The length of the game is great but feels like it ends too soon, thank god for 
 the expansions.
  Episode one is almost disappointingly short but the game play is solid and it provides crucial 
 character and story development and gives you more of what you loved about the first game.
  Episode 2 is longer lived than 1 and introduces some pretty cool new enemies, most noticeably the 
 hunters, which tip, HIT WITH A CAR! It ends with a great and touching cliff hanger that leaves 
 me waiting with great anticipation for episode 3*cross fingers for 360 release*.
  My only peeves about these 3 games is the load screens, which are short and never happen during 
 action but these short pauses would be better if gone. This is understandable though considering 
 the physics, graphics and sprawling environments of the game. The second is hardly even worth mentioning 
 but a character is introduced in the 2nd episode in a slightly jarring way but you get over it 
 very quickly and he soon just become one of the cast. NIETHER OF THESE THINGS SHOULD STOP YOU FROM 
 BUYING THE GAME!!!
  Portal is flawless. perfect game for what it was supposed to be, a short, great puzzler that is 
 like nothing done before. Also this game is hilarious! You will never look at cake the same way 
 again and you will find a new friend in valves weighted companion cube. Even if you don't buy the 
 box, purchase this off of steam, you owe it to yourself to at least try this game and experience 
 the most revolutionary game experience in years.
  Finally there is Team fortress 2, i had never played team fortress one but the second one is one 
 of my favorite online games. The 9 classes are balanced out with amazing precision and the incredibles 
 esque graphics give the game a unique and fun feeling. The whole nemesis concept where if you are 
 killed 5 times by the same person they become your nemesis gives the game an extra level of fun 
 when seeking revenge. The game keeps track of all your stats and tells you when you have come close 
 to or have previously outdone yourself in the certain class. there are only a few maps and game 
 types which you think would become boring or repetitive but the class system keeps things fresh 
 and different. Because the box lax the half life multiplayer half life 2 death match this is a 
 welcomed addition to the collection which gives players that online itch they need it scratch.
 
  All in all i highly recommend the orange box if you like fps's and if you liked half life 1, this 
 is simply a must buy, I hope you'll enjoy it as much as i did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Do you really need to read our opinion on this?
  
  Look at it. Just look at it.
  
  Everyone loves the set to death. Everyone plays the set to death. A stack of games, well worth 
 the price twice over, and you're not playing them because you're too busy reading my review. Look, 
 HL2 was off the charts, HL2: E1 and HL2: E2 go along and continue on that path, TF2 could be a game 
 entirely by itself in the awesomeness department, and last, but definitely not least, Portal stands 
 head and shoulders above most of the games that have come out in the past 5 years at least.
  
  All great looking games, all great sounding games, all well polished games, all that it's cracked 
 up to be and more. The only reason we're not giving this game a 10 is because we're waiting for 
 a time when the video game actually cooks, cleans, and tells us how special we are. The only reason 
 we're giving it a 9.5 is because it only goes up in increments of .5. So there you go...
  
  You got all you needed to know. It's an amazing stack of games.
  
  There.
  
  Now go get 
 it and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Alright, first thing I need to get out of the way is that I love Valve. Half-Life 2 is one of my 
 favorite games ever, and Valve continue to impress with their new Steam updates that are making 
 it seem more and more like a free PC version of Xbox Live. They have never failed to impress with 
 any game they've made, even though they haven't made a ton of them. Half-Life remains, at least 
 in my opinion, the most intelligent and well-crafted FPS franchise around, with a history of being 
 a large influence on other developers with the invention of first-person in-game cut scenes and 
 real-time physics. And so here we are with The Orange Box, another repackaged edition of Half-Life 
 2, only this time Half-Life is not alone. The package also includes Team Fortress 2 and Portal, 
 not to mention the latest installment of the Half-Life 2 episodes. So do any of these offerings 
 fall flat? Short answer: No.
  
  Long answer:
  
  The first of many blessings that The Orange Box provides us is that it gives many gamers a new 
 chance to finally discover what the fuss was about over three years ago when HL2 first released. 
 The physics engine is certainly still very functional in comparison to current offerings since 
 most games still don't put quite as much emphasis on physics as this game did in 2004. There are 
 plenty of puzzles that revolve around the still-awesome gravity gun and you have to really think 
 in places. The variety of the game keeps you interested from beginning to end and the whole thing 
 is very well-paced. As fun as it is to re-review a game I gave a perfect 10 to a long time ago, 
 it's probably time to move on to the newer offerings
  
  Such as the episodic content that was included in the package for said game. Episode One takes 
 the events of the first game's finale a lot further and tells you exactly what happens right afterwards, 
 and I won't spoil anything for you, but episode one doesn't go much farther than that. It's still 
 really cool how it elevates the action to a whole new level in some places and really seems to 
 push the action levels to the limituntil you play Episode Two. Episode Two adds a number of new 
 scenarios, like being inside an ant lion cave and fighting mini-striders in a large open forest. 
 This episode's events feel a lot bigger and cooler than what came before it, and ends on a much 
 more nail-biting cliffhanger as well, so for me the wait for more Half-Life 2 is even worse than 
 ever. The Half-Life 2 portions of The Orange Box will certainly take up a very big chunk of your 
 play time with this game if you've never played them before as all of the parts of it together 
 equal almost a 20 hour long single player experience on normal. However, if you've played HL2 and 
 Episode One before, then Episode Two will only be able to keep you busy for about 4 hours.
  
  Half-Life isn't the only thing Valve stuffed into this big colorful box, though. Let's talk 
 about Team Fortress 2. Team Fortress 2 is the sequel to a very old mod created from the original 
 Half-Life's engine. TF2 is multiplayer only, and class-based, but it nonetheless has a personality 
 showing through every pore of its design. The matches are colorful and chaotic with all sorts of 
 different classes running around the screen doing their own thing. The extreme attention to detail 
 in the balancing makes it a much more interesting class-based game than most, as it doesn't fall 
 into the trap of having one class being ultimately better than the rest. Everyone has their own 
 favorite that suits their style of playing. I like to use snipers, scouts, and heavies myself. 
 This game is also probably the only instance there has ever been of a multiplayer only game actually 
 being hilarious. The game just has an insane quirkiness and personality that isn't seen often in 
 other online games, which is what makes it unique.
  
  Now on to the main event. Portal is probably the single most popular reason for most people to 
 buy this game. It's not hard to see why, Portal is mad fun with its unique level design, awesome 
 (one song) soundtrack, and the most hilarious dialogue in a puzzle game or a shooter, ever. Portal 
 is smart, witty, and most importantly, fun. It may be easy, it may be incredibly short, but nothing 
 can stop this game from being as awesome as it is. The user-created content potential is definitely 
 here as well. Maybe they can rescue companion cube while they're at it
  
  Visually the game is, obviously, a mixed bag. With Half-Life 2, anyone expecting their mind to 
 be blown by amazing high def visuals will probably be disappointed, but they deserve to be because 
 they're too stupid to realize that the game is three years old. Half-Life 2 was an amazing technical 
 marvel when it first came out, enough to make me almost piss my pants when I first popped it in 
 my disc drive. By today's standards it definitely looks aged, but it's still easy on the eyes, 
 especially in Episode One and Two which have improved textures, more lighting effects and better-looking 
 facial detail. Portal is purposefully plain-looking; a sinister environment where you're constantly 
 wondering what's going on behind those occasional glass observation windows that are seemingly 
 empty. The visuals are very accomplished in Portal, and Team Fortress 2 gives the most impressive 
 visual presentation with its bright, colorful cartoon graphics that add a great effect to the game's 
 humor and chaos. Nothing here will blow you away visually, but at least it all runs well, even 
 on very old PC's. On my old machine that broke about a month ago, Episode Two, Team Fortress 2, 
 and Portal all looked great and ran at a very steady frame-rate with no glitches or crashes.
  
  If you think the awesomeness of The Orange Box stops at gameplay and graphics, you're dead 
 wrong. And stupid. Every sound effect, every piece of dialogue, every piece of music in the game 
 is suited perfectly to its purpose, and it's quite brilliant how you instantly recognize a lot 
 of sounds that go across all three games, because they're that memorable, even if they are somewhat 
 old. The dialogue is superb in all three games, from the impressively believable acting in Half-Life 
 2, to the hilarious and also memorable GLaDOS computer voice, and the unique and hilariously exaggerated 
 sound clips from Team Fortress 2, every game on the disc has superior sound clips. The soundtracks 
 range from heavy techno in Half-Life 2, to ambient sound and more heavy techno in Portal (and the 
 amazingly catchy end credits song) , and the instrumental music in TF2 that sounds like a cross 
 between the soundtrack from The Incredibles and a James Bond movie. It's hard to come by a game 
 that has such memorable sound, let alone five on one disc. More proof that Valve excels at everything.
 
  
  Trying to figure out whether you'll get your money's worth in The Orange Box shouldn't even be 
 an issue. Every game in the Orange Box is suited to about the same demographic, so if you like 
 Half-Life 2, then you're bound to like Team Fortress 2, and vice versa. And everybody loves Portal. 
 The only variable is whether or not you already own or have played through Half-Life 2 and Episode 
 One, in which case you still have Episode Two to jog through, then Portal, then hours of Team Fortress 
 2 which has a lot of replay-ability due to how the game-play changes with each new class. The kind 
 of value you're getting from The Orange Box isn't common in this industry, so it would be in your 
 best interest to pick it up. Unless you'd like to see someone you love get hurt. Nah I'm just kidding. 
 Or am I?
  
  The Orange Box is a fantastic bundle for any gamer who likes first-person games, and the type of 
 quality presented in these games is not only impressive, it's downright rare. Both multiplayer 
 and single player, you're getting plenty of value with all of these games combined. The only drawback 
 is that Half-Life 2 still isn't a finished story arc because Episode Three has yet to come out, 
 plus the majority of Half-Life 2 is old news. Team Fortress 2 has only 8 maps each tied to a specific 
 game mode so there isn't much room for variety, and Portal is criminally short. Each game leaves 
 you wanting more. And you get it, just not more of the same. You get different games instead, and 
 while more of the same is good, more of different is also good. Good vs. good? Good wins. Go Valve!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  I have never rated a game the full 10. Check my previous reviews (I dare thee!) but with the finest 
 gaming deals in history, introducing a humourous, mind bending puzzler, a fantastic online experience 
 and three atmospheric games from the masterful Half Life series, the Orange Box evidently tops 
 all other competitors for Game O 2007 in my opinion.
  
  Half Life 2: Ropey glitches flaw a decent experience, however this was in 2004 and was seen as 
 superb graphics which, admittedly, to this day still impress yours truly. The gameplay is a first 
 person shooter and by fighting the Combine and the alien forces out there, the game has a superb 
 plot coupled with a fun, interactive shooter with a lengthy lifespan. The other two Episodes coming 
 with the game are shorter yet are just as good in terms of gameplay and even better with graphical 
 enhancements to produce an immersive, beautiful gaming world.
  
  Portal: A welcome change to blasting the blood out of villians and aliens, Portal introduces a 
 decent variety in the package and stands out as a game with memorable soundbites with an attractive 
 setting and some challenging puzzles where the gamer must use their brain and not their trigger 
 happy fingers to get through the game. Evidently, this is not everyone's cup of tea but if you 
 stand by it and attempt to complete it. The game could be a fine experience and certainly is the 
 most challening game in terms of brainpower, for myself.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Obviously will be overshadowed by the excellant Halo and Call of Duty online spells 
 in the latest installements of the respective series, but Team Fortress 2 adds an importance of 
 character classes, teamwork and wit to enable a flowing, memorable online gaming experience which 
 does appeal to Orange Box users, such as myself, with classy cell-shaded presentation and an addictive 
 gaming community.
  
  Two words of advice: Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon_freman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  what a shooting game. you can see the physics on all of the game places. i just can say it this game 
 is real no is more than real and you never tired from it. i am iranian boy you know in tehran is 
 not any body who doesent play the half life2. and all of us love it strongly. do you know why? ok, go 
 and run half life and see, you will understand my feeling. you can see the best using of parallax 
 mapping, displacement mapping and you can see the future shading level in this game and enjoy from 
 it. we thanks to half life for the all of the enjoying moments that it give us. just half life 
 and just valve software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Great climatic game - Half-Life 2. It's my favourite game ever (but im waiting for pack with Mario 
 Galaxy now :P) . East, communism and this pathetic climate... This game rox! Portal - a lot of fun 
 (19 first levels is just tutorial, to challenges and advanced rooms. And best in whole box - Portal 
 Song... Yeah, text in this rulez! And best multiplayer game in whole world (no, not shooter, this 
 game is something like... Doing dinner with friend? Really, you must work in team, not just shoot 
 :P) . All games runs on Source. It isn't bad engine... Yeah, old (actually 4 years) , but every game 
 look on Source great... Realisic Half Life, Black-and-White Portal and comic-styled Team Fortress 
 2. HDR is just great... 2Fort in Team Fortress 2 look unbelieveable... All in little, beauty Steam 
 (yeah, it isn't Wii, but Black look good too...) . In sum: You have great, climatic game, best graphic 
 for every computer and a lot of fun in multiplayer...
  
  Great pack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  Solid visuals, great art design on all fronts, great game design. A perfect combination of innovation, 
 and Revolutionary design blended with tried and true formulas to create a experience everyone can 
 love. Episode 2 is fantastic and a great stepping stone in the trilogy. portal is perfect, and 
 TF2 is the freshest face i've ever seen in online gaming.
  
  THE BAD
  portal is short, but perfect so who cares, episode 2 has some annoying hallmarks of the series, 
 say dropping stuff in radioactive go and using is as stepping stones while being attacked by zombies, 
 the see saw puzzle. puzzles are no good if we've done them before, especially more than once already. 
 Team fortress has limited level design, Industry and agriculture are the only visual themes present, 
 they fit well with the character models and general design of the game but still feel limited.
 
  
  THE RANT (i'm gonna just go on and one without periods to break up the action, just kidding (sorta) .)
 
  
  WOW, ok so i bought the orange box, and beat the two single player games over two days, i may be 
 a dunce but portal took me almost five hours, episode 2 took about 5-6, same length as episode 
 1. all in all i found over 10 hours of single player content witch is good considering how perfect 
 nearly every second is. that being said i do have some problems, only with episode 2 really. so 
 the story has no real revelations the more you know the more stupid questions you have, kinda similar 
 to lost in style here, so if you don't like lost or heroes (as awesome as lost is) you may not like 
 the story telling of half life even though it has been the best story driven shooter in the industry 
 for like ten years. the gameplay of episode 2 in general is rich especially when compared to titles 
 like halo3 and assassins creed. but in comparison to previous half life titles there is some recycled 
 material, sure we've fought strider's and that isn't really at all the same here I'm not complaining 
 about that the strider battles in this game make the end of halo3 look worse than i had originally 
 realized. the strider battles are perfectly glorious in there own right and are so realized in 
 this game that simply typing about them means i have to go replay the explosive finale of the title 
 again. no I'm complaining about the ridiculously familiar puzzles, seesaw anyone? you can't reuse 
 puzzles especially if we've already used them more than once. valve you need to stop harking on 
 the physics engine and evolve the titles a little bit more. the hunters were a great addition but 
 really them and the play along with a alien section were the only new material of note here. settings 
 may change but ultimately gameplay at the core is half life 2, as such i don't think the episodes 
 will feel finished till the portal and episode stories wind together. witch they should eventually. 
 currently though the episodes still feel like stepping stones to the eventual half-life 3. i got 
 to laugh cause half life 2 episode 2 is built on a engine that came out the same year as halo 2 
 but it still looks worlds better than halo3 does. some will argue against me, remarking, "but halo 
 3 has more ridiculous bloom and lots of shiny armor on aliens". i know things look pretty in halo 
 but the game world looks more real in half life. character models in half life look better than 
 the cinematic character models for halo 3 and animate perfectly. the game world also has a gritty 
 feel that is absent from halo3 and a physics model that would make any bungie employee cry. so 
 aside from having a sweat longer and better quality single player offering, the orange box also 
 offers up a multiplayer unlike anything out there. sure there have been online shooters with classes 
 and levels but this online shooter is so polished it makes a blizzard game look really rough in 
 comparison. the art design and humor set this one apart i feel like I'm constantly playing through 
 a goofy machima thanks to the wonky sounds voice work, taunts, and character models. this game 
 isn't cell shaded, it's running on the same engine as episode 2 and portal but they changed the 
 rendering settings. there are gonna be stupidly hardcore fools out there complaining that there 
 are no grenades and that you can't poison as a medic, and do a dozen other things but at the end 
 of the day what they did at valve was craft a minimalist accessible experience. yes it's easy to 
 play and it's still deep, just because nades are gone doesn't make it a worse game it makes it 
 more focused nades weren't necessary. by trimming the fat as valve did every thing present in the 
 game is perfect, from how the pyro's flamethrower belches fire to his fire axe to the soldiers 
 rocket launcher to the heavies chain gun to the spies double jump, to the spies cloak and invisibility, 
 every facet of this game is perfect. this title offers every game in the half life 2 library but 
 omits counter strike source, and Day of Defeat source. but more importantly the omission of half 
 life 1 means you don't get the back story, maybe valve is waiting for the black mesa mod to finish, 
 but i still think no console gamer will understand who the g-man is and why black mesa is important 
 without the original title. the last hour of episode 2 is gaming perfection and should be a model 
 for every shooter our there since so many game fudge there ending. this game would be perfect but 
 sound is rough in some areas, sure some nostalgic sounds from half life 1 remain but they still 
 sound like Cr@p, valve can move on from the original now, save nostalgic sounds for the multiplayer 
 please. weapons in half life 2 have been a subject of controversy some are classic the shotgun 
 is still straight out of the original and packs a mean punch, but many of the more fun weapons 
 are in short supply of ammo like the crossbow with radioactive bolts. or the magnum pistol. I'm 
 tired of the smg thanks.
  
  
  THE BREAK DOWN
  GRAPHICS
  this game packs a solid punch, the game is fully realized thanks to good animations and solid art 
 design.
  9.5
  GAMEPLAY
  still one of the best series in terms of gameplay and immersive story telling, character models 
 in here are rubbing elbows with the fellas from mass effect. puzzles for episode 2 are always great 
 but the caliber or puzzles in portal more than make up for it.
  9.5
  SOUND
  probably the weakest part of the game, though voice work is flawless, some of the sound mixing, 
 music and weapons still have vanilla caliber, picking up health is still annoyingly loud as is 
 armor.
  8.5
  VALUE
  one of the single best buys of the season. if you live on the edge with very little money in your 
 gaming budget this season you owe yourself a little orange box the caliber of the single player 
 mixed with the online offer something you should miss, and will last you a long while.
  10
  TILT
  probably my favorite franchise ever, and one of my favorites from last year. a perfect 
 game to me.
  10
  OVERALL
  this and call of duty 4 offer the most complete gaming experiences on the market currently.
  
 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  What's not to like? The game, or games, that is "The Orange Box" are all fantastic and worthy of 
 high honors in their own rights. It is almost impossible to review OB as a single game however, 
 so let me break it down into its three components, Half Life 2 plus Episodes 1 & 2, Portal, and 
 Team Fortress 2.
  
  The OB packs in Half Life 2 and Episode 1 along with the new expansion to the HL story line, Episode 
 2. For those who haven't dived into the immersive FPS experience that is HL2, then this is as good 
 of an excuse to get into it as you'll ever get. For those that already have the first two installments, 
 Valve has released "The Black Box" which leaves out the original HL2 and Ep1.
  
  Although the graphics in HL2 and Ep1 may be dated by now, they are still quite impressive. The 
 game play is as fresh as ever, especially with the gravity gun and its ability to turn almost anything 
 into a weapon. But since HL2 and Ep1 aren't new games, I'll just leave it at that.
  
  Now, Episode 2 is another wonderful experience that continues where Ep1 left off. The gameplay 
 is just as one would expect from the Half Life franchise, fast paced, frantic at times, and amazingly 
 fun with the gravity gun. However, it is still not as deep as some of the modern FPS games like 
 Bioshock and Crysis. The updated Source engine is also showing its age in the shadow of Crysis 
 and such which can handle much more physics calculations, render much prettier graphics, etc.
 
  
  Speaking of graphics, Episode 2's visuals are better than those of HL2 and Ep1. However, it still 
 can't compare to other modern classics like I mentioned before. On the other hand, it won't make 
 you feel like you're playing a two year old game.
  
  Additionally, the game is a bit longer than the woefully short Ep1 which is a plus but won't take 
 more than a few hours to complete.
  
  Next, Portal, the game worthy of game of the year alone in my opinion. For those who haven't been 
 enlightened by is innovativeness, it is a FPS/puzzler hybrid.
  
  In it, you take a portal gun through a series of stages and ultimately use it to escape from a 
 testing-facility-gone-wrong scenario. To do so, you must solve puzzles by getting to unreachable 
 places, toppling turrets, changing the trajectory of energy balls, placing blocks on floor buttons, 
 etc. with the help of your portal gun, the computer AI guiding you through the stages, and physical 
 forces such as gravity and momentum.
  
  Not only does portal test your thinking abilities but is strains your reflexes as well. Can you 
 jump through the portal before the platform slides under you and fall into a pit of acid? How well 
 can you time the button press to open a door to let the energy ball through? All in all, Portal 
 is a fresh getaway from the action packed FPS games of our era and would be awesome of its innovative 
 and challenging game play could make it into a future Valve game. HL3 perhaps? :D
  
  Last but not least, is Team Fortress 2. This game has seemingly been in production for years since 
 TF Classic. However, the wait is finally over and what the finished product is is a classy, fast 
 paced, and almost cute multiplayer shooter. Fans of Clancy and tactical shooters need not apply, 
 but CS and Unreal lovers will find hours of immense fun in this game. The gameplay is not much 
 deep and is exactly what you'd expect from a game bearing the Team Fortress name. Simple pick a 
 class and use your weapons to obliterate the other team. Point, click, and kill is all you need 
 to do. There are some gametype varieties but seriously, just keep moving, click the mouse, pay 
 attention to your health, and you're set.
  
  Phew, that's about it for The Orange Box. If you don't have it yet, I strongly suggest you get 
 it... now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComradeWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I started playing Team Fortress 2 I loved it. One excellent trait about this game is 
 that it's player classes are so unique and good for a purpose for the cause to win the game. There, 
 in total, are nine specialized classes: 
  1. Pyro, 2. Engineer, 3. Scout, 4. Medic, 5. Sniper, 6. Heavy, 7. Demoman, 
  8. Spy, 9. Soldier. 
 The game really has two specific game modes right now, Intelligence Capture, and Point Capture. 
 Intelligence Capture is basically the same thing as Capture the Flag (CTF) except you have a briefcase 
 that has papers falling out of it to capture. The levels and strategic positioning in these levels 
 are critical for success. As for the Point Capture game mode, there will averagely be from 5-1 
 point to capture within these maps. The maps start you off with your base (also can be taken) , 
 and then starting neutral points in between, say for example there was a map with 5 capture points 
 not including your main base, if Red has captured all 5 neutral points it will lock every point, 
 therefore protecting it from capture, except the closest one for Blue to capture. (Remember this 
 was only an example) . Now I need to wrap this review up, I hope you consider buying this game (the 
 best one to buy is for the PC) , as the 'Classification' says: "Instant classic". Enjoy it mates. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downward_sanity
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box, at first, looks like a great deal. It has five games in one, how could you possibly 
 lose? Well, it has a bunch of games you've already played. So we have Half-Life 2, with Episode 
 1 & 2, Team Fortress 2, and Portal. Well, first off, Half-Life 2 came out in 2004, which already 
 cost $50. Episode 1 has also been previously released, in 2006, but I'm unaware of the cost. Episode 
 2, the first new game! What a concept. Except, it's not a full game, it doesn't have say, 8 hours 
 of game play that games should have. Team Fortress 2, a multiplayer action game. Well, if that's 
 all you want to do, that's fine, play this for hours on end. Then we have Portal. Oh yes, the game 
 everyone says is great. Well, why is it so great? It can't be because it has a whole lot of game 
 play, more than 2 hours of that and your previous meal would be on the floor, or your monitor. 
 Original? No, I remember using portals in Prey. Ok, so there must be another game mechanic that 
 makes it great. Well, what? So, if you haven't played Half-Life 2, and really want to, maybe this 
 is the game for you. But all-in-all, I think it's just a way for Valve to get a little more money 
 out of everyone's pockets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedihalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Even though I already own Half Life 2 and Episode 1 this was still worth buying. I have yet to 
 play Episode 2 and Team Fortress 2 but both look fantastic. Shamefully it has been Portal and Peggle 
 that have kept me so occupied that I havent gotten round to playing the other 2 games. 
  
  Portal in fun and innovative and highly playable, once completing the 19 missions you have time 
 to go back and perfect each task unlocking specilist maps and bonuses, increasing the challenge 
 rating without losing any of the fun. The entire game is very funny and the voice of the computerised 
 "helper" is quite sinister.
  
  Peggle is fun and reminds me of the old arcade classic Arkanoid, it can be addictive but unfortunatly 
 it is only a short game and is over way too quickly! You do have the opportunity to purchase the 
 longer version, I would say its not that addictive though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lefliesoopreem2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box can be thought of as a Swiss Army Knife for games: there will always be a tool in 
 there that can cope with any situation. If you want an adventure, for whatever reason, then the 
 Half-life 2 saga would be in the works for you. If you had a bad day and came home really cheesed 
 off, Team Fortress 2 might be a good way to blow of stress. If life sucked for you and you're feeling 
 depressed, then Portal will definitely help to put a smile on your face.
  
  As a whole, the Orange Box is difficult to evaluate, as it is comprised of so many independent 
 and totally different parts, but individually judged, the process is much easier:
  
  First to be graded will be Half-Life 2: Episode 2.
  
  After Gordon and Alyx's daring escape 
 from City 17, there was a bright flash, and then...?
  
  Angry at being so suddenly cut off, some gamers tore at their monitors and yelled for a definite 
 ending to manifest itself, but like the rest, they had to wait for the release of Half-Life 2: 
 Episode 2. I am sorry to say, but like its predecessor, there will be no definite end in Episode 
 2 for them either. That is not to say, however, that this is a terrible game. Oh no, far from it! 
 Episode 2 is a much more relaxed game than its previous installment, as there it is not the relentless 
 flood of zombies and Combine that Episode 1 was. Instead, the action is more interspersed with 
 puzzles and Easter-Egg hunts popping up at ideal times, giving the player a chance to take a break 
 between the many intensive firefights in the game.
  
  Like in Episode One, Valve manages to keep things fresh by throwing in a little comic relief now 
 and then, mainly through the inclusion of hidden dialog between NPCs when they think you aren't 
 looking. I won't ruin the joke for those who haven't seen it yet, but for those who know what I'm 
 talking about : AR3 (the little whiteboard demonstration of how the Magnusson Devices work was 
 also really cute) .
  
  Veterans of the series will notice that Episode 2 feels a lot more airy than the stuffy corridors 
 of the Citadel and the underground tunnels of Episode 1. A lot of action takes place outside now, 
 with beautifully rendered environments all running at the very reasonable price of 60 FPS. 
  
  The next member of the Orange Box is Portal. Portal is quite an interesting program. The most 
 distinct and recognizable feature of this game is the inclusion of the Portal Gun. It looks like 
 some weird, white grub with black mandibles that shoot out Blue and Orange portals that allow you 
 to traverse seemingly impassable obstacles. As GLaDOS, the AI personality that acts as both your 
 mentor and tormentor, puts it, "There's a hole in the sky, through which things can fly". 
  
  Speaking of GLaDOS, it would be worthy to note the humor packed into Portal. All jokes are 
 served in an official, deadpan monotone and range from subtly morbid, "Remember, the Aperture Science 
 'Bring Your Daughter to Work Day' is the perfect time to have her tested", to overtly whimsical, 
 "Wheeeee...." Then, of course, there is the enigmatical cake and the faithful Weighted Companion 
 Cube.
  
  As almost nothing like it has ever been done before (Narbacular Drop) , this game will offer a very 
 surprising and intriguing mode of play that will make even veteran puzzle gamers pause to think 
 for a moment to cope with the twisted perspectives that having a portal gun creates. Nothing is 
 too hard, however, and each puzzle will take a while to complete, but not so long as to frustrate 
 you. It's just an amazing piece of work that will have you wondering why no one else has thought 
 of this before, and regretting the fact that great games like this haven't come sooner.
  
  Last on the list is Team Fortress 2. Like Half-Life 2 shipped with Counter-Strike: Source instead 
 of a Half-Life 2 Deathmatch game, the Orange Box also ships with its own unique multiplayer counterpart. 
 Team Fortress 2 is a welcome break from the bleak picture painted by the hardcore realism warsims, 
 such as Call of Duty 4 or Crysis (don't get me wrong, they're still terrific games) . Watching a 
 match of TF2 is almost like watching a kiddy CGI film, except there's also all the blood and livers 
 and spleens and stomachs and severed heads and dismembered torsos bouncing around as well. Each 
 class is rendered with loving care and outrageous proportions, with the Engineer class having huge 
 hands, befitting of one that often has to use his fingers, the Heavy having a humongous chest with 
 a relatively tiny head and spindly legs, as one could expect of a guy who relies on brute force 
 and moves very slowly. Another nice touch that Valve has added is the inclusion of class and weapon-specific 
 taunts. With the press of a button, you can make the engineer dance a jig or the Demoman take a 
 swig from his beer bottle in celebration of your latest kill. It does involve some risk, of course, 
 as you can easily be shot while taunting, but it's very much worth it. 
  
  It cannot be possibly stated in a mere review on how great the Orange Box is, but the message should 
 be clear enough: The Orange Box friggin' OWNS. The entire Half-Life 2 series, along with Portal 
 and Team Fortress 2, should be more than enough to keep you satisfied with your purchase for a 
 very, very long time. If I have been too subtle, then my message is here, in capital letters:
 
  
  BUY THE ORANGE BOX, BUY THE ORANGE BOX, BUY THE ORANGE BOX.
  
  Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjap00
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's very likely that The Orange Box's name and presentation may mislead many gamers into thinking, 
 "Forget that; I'm sure it's just a compilation of five short, half-assed games." When they choose 
 the option of not buying this package, they will soon realize what they're missing out on.
  
  The five games in the box can make one overwhelmed, but if you're having trouble deciding on 
 which one to play first, it's going to have to be Portal. This innovative puzzle game seems like 
 an average first-person-shooter, but it's really something that's very unique. You (the lab rat) 
 are given the "Handheld Portal Device" in order to complete a series of tests in an unknown location. 
 A mysterious, and absolutely hilarious toward the end, computer AI voice leads you through these 
 tests and eventually tries to kill you, like all of the other past test subjects. With the Portal 
 gun, you shoot two different portals and if you walk through either one, you'll automatically end 
 up at the end of the opposite one. Sounds simplistic? Well, the first few levels tend to "warm 
 you up" for this whole excersize, but the levels later on will rely on the use of physics, like 
 momentum, gravity, speed- the works in order to push your brains to the limit. When you reach the 
 exit of each level, you'll probably feel very satisfied with your hard work of thought. Portal 
 also introduces a few now-classic characters such as the innocent Weighted Companion Cube, as well 
 as GLaDOS, the computerized guide and antogonist of the game's plot and gameplay.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the long-awaited class-based multiplayer shooter. It's been nearly a decade 
 since we've been patiently waiting for this gem, but boy, it has sure paid off. With characters 
 of such personality, like the Heavy Weapons Guy, the Pyro, the Spy, and a whole lot more, the game 
 is very likeable. Instead of a realistic and/or militaristic approach to the game's graphics and 
 gameplay, the game has been given a real cartoon-like, sometimes stereotypical, look and feel to 
 it. That's does not mean that the game's visuals are too goofy or anything; there are still some 
 neat tidbits of lighting effects done here and there, like the perfect shines on the Heavy's minigun 
 barrel, as well as other little graphical notices. As well as the visuals, the character animation 
 is simply spot-on. If you hover over each of the classes in the class selection screen, each character 
 has their own introductory animation. The movements look incredibly convincing, not to mention 
 the superb facial animations. As far as gameplay, all of TF2's aspects feel really balanced and 
 fair, making this one of the most addictive and just plain fun online shooters I've ever played.
 
  
  When I bought The Orange Box, I was completely new to Half-Life. I played through Half-Life 2 once 
 and learned that Valve surely knows how to revolutionize the first-person-shooter genre. With outstandly 
 diverse gameplay, I can see why this has become such an amazing experience. The graphics are still 
 a great sight to see, even though this game originally came out in 2004. Valve's Source engine 
 still maintains to make the physics in HL2 look very realistic, making the Gravity Gun a blast 
 to play around with. Although it's a bit difficult for me to explain the cunning story (and I will 
 not go into too much detail since it's a very interesting plot to ponder on about) of the Half-Life 
 2 saga, it starts out a bit unanswered within the original HL2 game. That's where the "Episodes" 
 come in. HL2: Episode One reveals a bit more about your sidekick female friend, Alyx Vance, as 
 well as a few other intriguing characters, like the Gman. Alyx is an AI controlled model who seriously 
 knows how to whoop Combine (your alien enemies) ass. Even though it's not very lengthy, Half-Life 
 2: Episode One manages to keep you entertained and excited with its terrific gameplay, and besides, 
 you can tackle Half-Life 2: Episode Two. 
  
  In HL2: Episode Two, the Source engine just keeps on getting better. The HDR lighting looks fantastic 
 as ever, and the shadows of each map add to the atmospheric environment of no matter where you 
 are. Like the original Half-Life 2, Episode Two brings back vehicles, primarily a modified recycled 
 car. Driving this thing can be pretty cool at times, so long as you don't get stuck in frustrating 
 corners. Also like Half-Life 2, there are new hidden appearances of the mysterious Gman lurking 
 among the levels of the game. Spotting this strange guy can be a real cool experience, possibly 
 even sending an odd chill down your spine. Even though there aren't any new weapons or anything 
 like such, the gameplay has still improved on some parts which gradually make the game more thrilling 
 than the last two, causing this to be one the most exciting of the Half-Life universe.
  
  All of these five terrific games are an incredible experience to try out, and if you doubt at least 
 one of these fine games, you're still getting more bang for your buck if you find interest in the 
 rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolt_tloj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  The Source engine has been clearly improved form the last episode, and it is just great. But... 
 the story in episode 1 was horrible and i was a little tensioned about this one... and it is also 
 great, i mean the story.
  
  Portal has a good story and great action, dynamics, ideas, colors, atmosphere, sound, and the funniest 
 boss out there. The humor in portal is probably one of the reasons for which i loved this game... 
 and you definitely should play.
  
  Team Fortress is pretty but it is the bad thing in the box. I just don't like it.
  
  All in 
 all it is the a good game, a very good game, you need to play this game before episode 3 of Half-Life 
 2.
  
  I wait for the "Black box" or how will they name the next box in the series... it is out yet... 
 but now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game wishing that there was a way to get only episode 2, and none of the other things 
 that were thrown into the package. well, now i'm glad they didn't have a way, because this would 
 have deprived me of some of the other exceptionall content included in the orange box. for this 
 review i'll start at the begginning. for my reviews of half - life 2 and episode 1, you can see 
 my reviews of those games on my profile. Episode 2, while fun, wasn't quite the same for me as 
 half life 2 itself. it was at times slow moving, while at other times very fast and intense. the 
 upgrades to the engine do look nice though. my main guff with the game is my raging hate of the 
 new enemy's included in the game; hunters. i won't spoil them for those who have yet to play the 
 game. they just really pissed me off. now on to the reall stars of the show: portal and team fortress 
 2. portal was the game that kept my brain active throughout the holidays. fun puzzles, "trippy" 
 according to my friends, this game is an all around winner. the last 2 puzzles are very difficult, 
 and i have yet to beat them, but i'm sure the ending will be brilliant. Team Fortress 2 brings 
 a welcome break the the frustration often experienced in online play. as a beginner to online games, 
 i found my home with the heavy class, although there is something for everyone in this one. it's 
 great all around even though there aren't as many maps as in other games. overall, i would recommend 
 this to any one who is a fan of the series, has yet to try it, or in general enjoys killing and 
 puzzles. well that was a crappy ending to my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnoflife3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  i dont know why any fps fan would not buy the game. first reason that it has five games. you might 
 be thinking these 5 totally awsome game must be like $250.00 or somethin. its not its the price 
 of 1 game. aech game has unique graphics. half life2 has a realistic yet unrealistic somewhat cartoonish 
 graphics. portal is a mostly realistic type and my personal favoutite is tf2 with its cartoonish 
 type graphics. overall the graphics are great
  gameplay-gameplay of half life2 series is normal where u hav a gun and go shoot monsters or something. portal 
 is probably th first most unique most intresting fps puzzle game. it was most fun to play. team fortress 
 2 is my fasavourite, the game is a multiplayer based game with different atasks to do depending 
 on the serve ru pick. its bacikly red vs blue. in some missions u secure bases while the other just 
 duke it out and see which team gets more kills.
  this game has everything from an action adventurous fps, a puzzle game and even a online multiplayer 
 game and the best of its kind.
  id recomend this game to all players since u get 5 games for the price of 1 and also u dont need 
 a very powerful pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well i have a previous review of HL2 and my stance has not changed if you like shooters go buy 
 this game its simple. portal is one of the most creative puzzle games and has great humor in it. 
 HL2 Ep. 2 was absolutely amazing and well TF2 is one of the best multiplayer games i have EVER 
 played. And now that this sucker is on consoles as well this time around there is no reason for 
 anyone not to play this game unless you just own a Wii and well then i just feel sad for you if 
 thats all you have. So go buy this, go, shoo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealDuffi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  'The Orange Box' is perhaps one of the best gaming values to invest your money into, as it brings 
 some of the better games we have seen in the few years. Such games as ;
  
  - Half Life 2 (included with the latest two expansions, Episode 1 and Episode 
  2)
  - Portal
 
  - Team Fortress 2
  
  Praised by reviewing sides, these games make one hell of a box that comes at a surprisingly cheap 
 price. 
  
  My main focus in this review will be Portal, as it is the freshest addition to this box. 
  
 
  Portal is a unique experience, both in an gameplay, and history perspective. The concept of Portal 
 is simple: You shoot two Portals, which connects to each other. A blue, and an orange portal. 
 
  
  Shoot a blue portal in one side of the wall, and an orange at the opposite site. Now, they're active, 
 and walking into the blue portal will make you end up outside the orange portal. Really simple.
 
  However, the game does not make use of such simple puzzles only. You will use gravity, platforms, 
 energy balls, and lastly everyone beloved Companion Cube. 
  
  The puzzles get's tenser and more challenging as you progress, like most other games in the same 
 genre. The puzzles will make you think, without proving too much of an challenge. 
  This means Portal can be played in a relaxed mood, and makes the game more enjoyable.
  
  What 
 really enchances the experience of Portal is the sarcastic computer voice that will follow you 
 through the game; GlaDos. 
  Not only will she help you through the initial challenges, she will also mock and manipulate with 
 you (by promising you delicious, moist cake if you complete her challenges) . As you progress into 
 the game, she get's meaner and starts slinging the most excellent sarcastic remarks.
  
  That's why Portal is considered one of the most humorous games to date, which isn't exactly wrong. 
 You will be enjoying her company in the game. 
  
  When you complete Portal, a new series of challenges and tougher (very, very tough) levels will 
 be available for your leisure. Besides that, achievements can be gained, which add's considerable 
 re-play value.
  
  Portal's graphics are stunning. You'll embark deep into some clinical lab rooms, but will still 
 glee at the impressive details. Likewise, the sound is good along with the sound the portals make.
 
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is a great package of games you shouldn't miss. 
  
  Everything from humor, to first-person shooter greatness, to a excellent multiplayer game with 
 an impressive fan-base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: Half Life 2 Epi 2 wasnt all that great but TF2 and Portal was great. they finally made 
 the characters more balanced than b4. Also Portal has a unique gameplay. Able to teleport through 
 portals. But the gameplay could be frustrating.
  
  Sound 9: Sound quality is great. Especially TF2 characters' voices.
  
  Graphics 9: Love the 
 graphics especially the ragdoll efffect. Fun to watch ppl twist and turn in funny ways.
  
  Overall: This game is great! The controls are easy. Gameplay is fun. Sound is alright and graphics 
 are fantastic. (Sorry I ddint write much i dont have much to say......) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, there is no such thing as a game offering more bang for your buck than The Orange Box 
 collection. You are getting not one, not two, not even three, but FIVE AAA titles for $50, excluding 
 the tax. That is $10 per game. Where else can you get five AAA games for $10, outside of checking 
 the used bins at Gamestop and picking up games that are three years old? This review will focus 
 on the three new games in the collection: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. I am sure that 
 anyone interested in The Orange Box has likely played the original Half-Life 2 and Episode One. 
 
  
  First up is Episode Two. If you have played Episode One then you will know what to expect here. 
 Episode Two does not change the basic Half-Life formula in any way, but it offers a continuation 
 of the story. Again, there is little to say here about the gameplay as it is the same as past Half-Life 
 games, though this certainly isn't a bad thing.
  
  Episode Two starts seconds after where Episode One left off, with Gordon and Alyx still fleeing 
 from City 17 and working their way across the countryside to bring the data they found in Episode 
 One to everyone at the White Forest resistance base. It features everything we have come to expect 
 from Half-Life: Excellent voice acting, lovable characters, outstanding sound design, solid gameplay, 
 and graphics that still manage to look fantastic some three years after the original Half-Life 
 2. As with the past Half-Life games, the game picks up towards the end to such an extent that you 
 can't stop until you finish. The ending also features perhaps the most emotional scene in the Half-Life 
 2 story so far. Luckily, Episode Two is also several hours longer than Episode One, which was disappointing 
 because it was over before you realized it. 
  
  Next up we have Portal, which was a surprise hit for me. At first, it was Episode Two that really 
 made me want The Orange Box with Team Fortress 2 being a fun bonus. However, after playing Portal 
 I must say that it is perhaps the best puzzle game of 2007. In Portal, you must navigate through 
 a series of tests using the "portal gun." You can create two different portals, one orange, one 
 blue. They are both connected, meaning that a huge part of the puzzles involves using the portals 
 to reach certain places. There is also some mild science involved with certain game mechanics, 
 like how forward momentum is sustained while traveling through the portal. None of the puzzles 
 are particularly hard so long as you remember the game's different mechanics, although they are 
 all very interesting and well designed. 
  
  Another huge plus towards the game is GLaDOS, the rogue AI directing the player. Almost every single 
 line of dialogue that comes out of GLaDOS' mouth, figuratively speaking, is full of dark humor, 
 meaning you will laugh more during the course of Portal than in most modern comedy movies. You 
 will likely find yourself going slowly through the final moments of the game despite the time limit 
 just to hear everything GLaDOS has to say. The only true point against Portal is length. If you 
 are clever, you can easily get through the whole game in less than three hours your first time. 
 
  
  Finally, we have Team Fortress 2. The finally also signifies the lengthy development time and several 
 redesigns this game has gone through. I can't fully say if it was truly worth the wait, however 
 Team Fortress 2 does offer a fun and addictive multiplayer experience with an active community 
 of modders supplementing the handful of maps included in the game. Not everyone will like the cartoony 
 and exaggerated graphics in a day where most gamers feel that a game looks terrible if you can't 
 see realistic drips of sweat and every pimple on someone's face, but oh well. The exaggerated graphics 
 style fits the equally exaggerated gameplay and '60s "evil genius/spy" feel of the game.
  
  In Team Fortress 2 you have 9 different classes to choose from, each one offering a completely 
 different style of play. Some secondary weapons are recycled between the classes, but the primary 
 weapons and extra abilities always make the class feel different from another one. Even still, 
 each class manages to be balanced. No one class feels like it totally outclasses all the others, 
 though some can feel more annoying than others. It should also be noted that Team Fortress 2, as 
 the name implies, is all about teamwork. So if you can't work well with others than maybe getting 
 The Orange Box for Team Fortress 2 might be a bad idea. 
  
  And there you have it, what could possibly be the best deal you will ever see from 2007. While 
 each game in The Orange Box might not be the greatest game ever individually, I think The Orange 
 Box deserves a 10 for giving you five AAA games for the price of one, three of which are brand 
 new. If you like Half-Life, this is a must buy. If you have never played Half-Life 2, this is a 
 must buy. You just can't beat this deal. Any cheaper and Valve would have been giving us the games 
 inside The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Note: please keep in mind that I am reviewing the PS3 version, though all versions are essentially 
 the same.
  When I first started out with the O range Box I decided that Portal would be my first, as I played 
 through it I developed a new respect for puzzle games, it was challenging, funny and no two sequences 
 were alike. And the ending was pure brilliance, and it was never to easy.
  After finishing Portal I headed straight for Half Life2, as I was too young to remember the story 
 behind the first game i never got it on PC. I have to say it really grew on me, the weapons, though 
 seemingly overused in many other games, had a great feel to them, and even though you could carry 
 all of them at once, ammo was scarce enough to make sure it was never too easy. It was challenging 
 and greatly satisfying.
  I have just recently started Episode one, and unfortunately it hasn't blown me away like the its 
 predeccesor did, at least in terms of a first impression, but as I said I have only recently started 
 it.
  So what brings the orange box down? Loading times, as simple as that, there are far too many of 
 them, opening menu: loading, select game: loading, Load save: loading, beginning game from the 
 save point: loading, checkpoint: loading, death: loading. It's all to much, and these aren't short 
 loads either, many can be very slow and go on for far longer than a normal load up should. Despite 
 the loading screens the game (or games) are still top notch, otherthings that stop it from acheiving 
 perfection, well for one two of the games are from 2005, and episode 2 isn't that far ahead of 
 them in terms of graphics, though the excellent physics engine makes up for that, it truly is ahead 
 of its time and is up there with Crysis in terms of real life physics. Also I have noticed when 
 playing Half Life 2 that when you do get a squad (be they human or ant-lion) are incredibly stupid, 
 they never take cover and tend to get in your way constantly, as much as I like a human shield 
 I would rather have some extra guns, humans are the most annoying because they don't attack in 
 close quarters so they are likely to stay in your way even longer.
  Other than these problems the games included in the Orange Box are really fantastic, can't wait 
 for episode 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the Orange box I knew it wasn't a bad deal. I went out to the shop and 
 bought it almost immediately. 
  
  ==INSTALLATION==
  Started installing the game ... well, found a lot of problems. First, the "Instalation Manual" 
 was telling me to open folders and files that don't exist, and when I tried to install the game, 
 Steam would try to DOWNLOAD the whole thing (13 GB) , so I have to search the internet and find 
 out a bug that if you click 'reinstall' at Steam's Setup screen, the software would eventually 
 install from the disks. And it did ! The progress bar goes foward as it should, then the "Insert 
 Disk 2" message. I insert the disk 2, click on OK and Steam crashes. Tried it again later and it 
 crashed again. So I installed DISK 1 of the orange box and I actually downloaded the other half 
 of the game from Steam, which took me almost the entire day to do.
  
   
  As you all heard, the portal game is just innovative. It's fun, it's challenging and the computerized 
 female voice is always making a bunch of jokes about you and the environment The graphics are good, 
 sound is, well, uh, there isn't a lot of sound for Portal, but whatever ...
  
  
  Of course, we also get all these 3 classics in a box. The games are all great, the story, the music 
 ... You really feel like inside an sci-fi movie, which is, by the way, a really cool feeling ;)
 
  
   
  The game is great, addictive gameplay and LOTS of classes for you to choose from, cartoonish-looking 
 graphics and sound, overall GREAT game. I just think Valve went a little bit too hard on the blood 
 and gore, the game is a bit too violent and that may scare your parent's a bit unless you get a 
 No Blood patch.
  
   
  Woa, man (Or Ms./Mrs.) , it's 5 great games for one box ! Do not hesitate, it's a good deal and 
 unless you already owe some of these games seperatedly... well still buy it, since you will save 
 a lot more money after all. Just remember... you may have a tough install, specially who has never 
 used STEAM before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  5 games for the price of one. Sounds like something you'd hear on a 3am infomercial, doesn't it? 
 Well, the Orange Box is anything but 5 variations of tetris. It's one of the best deals, ever. 
 The classic Half-Life 2 and its two episodes, the innovative Portal and the addicting and long-awaited 
 Team Fortress 2 are here for you, and you only need to drop 50 bucks for all of them. It doesn't 
 matter if you don't have a vested interest in shooters, there's something for everyone here. You'd 
 have to be retarded to not get it.
  
  If you're trying to catch up on the Half-Life saga, the Orange Box is here. The 2004 shooter classic, 
 Half-Life 2, is here for you. With that is Episode One (released in 2006) , as it continues the 
 story. And even though it's decidedly the weakest part in the episodic trilogy, it's still a worthy 
 game on its own right. Also included is the new Episode Two, which is quite simply, one of the 
 best shooters this year and one of the best games this year. Episode Two picks up right after where 
 One ended. Gordon and Alyx are now outside of the city, and are trying to send some critical data 
 to Eli and friends.
  
  Episode Two does everything to keep you compelled throughout, and it certainly succeeds. The pacing 
 is top-notch -- for every combat sequence, there's something different; may it be a puzzle, story 
 sequence, or something else entirely. Everything in the game is compelling, every single thing 
 you do is fun, every single accomplishment rewarding. It also pushes the story forward, and proves 
 that Valve is sure of where to take the story, something Half-Life 2 and Episode One lacked. The 
 Source engine's also received a ton of upgrades, as now it's able to pump out much more natural 
 outdoor environments with vivid details. Dynamic shadows and motion blur drop by, only adding to 
 its visual prowess. The new cinematic physics give some of the scripted physic experiences some 
 serious punch. Just watch the first bridge to crumble to see why.
  
  It's only 5-6 hours long, but the practically mandatory commentary mode demands a second playthrough. 
 And maybe another because this game's so awesome. It truly feels like you're playing a nice chunk 
 of Half-Life 3, unlike Episode One, which felt like an extension of Half-Life 2. Episode Two's 
 the best part of the Orange Box, no contest.
  
  If you're looking for something more cerebral, Portal is your friend. It's also one of the most 
 innovative games in in years. Portal has you complete puzzle after puzzle, progressing through 
 one sterile room after another by utilizing portals to get to where you need to go. Can't reach 
 the high wall? Create a portal up there and a another portal down on where you're standing and 
 whoa, you're where you want to be! That's really just a basic example, you're going to have utilize 
 momentum in a lot of the puzzles which requires you to fling yourself ridiculously far distances. 
 Portal practically revolutionizes the way you move in a gameworld.
  
  Not only that, but Portal is hilarious. The monotone AI, GLaDOS, guides you along the way, giving 
 you fun tidbits or hints that'll make you literally laugh out loud. The game has a twisted sense 
 of humor, using death as a source of much of its laughs. The back story also proves to be twisted, 
 you'll uncover the past as you progress, and the atmosphere becomes more and more unsettling as 
 a result. And yet, it still brings on the humor. Portal's world is extremely unique in feel, it's 
 truly something you haven't felt in videogames in a long time. All of this connects to the Half-Life 
 universe in plenty of ways, making the Orange Box more cohesive than it should be (which is good) . 
 The single-player shouldn't take you more than 3-4 hours, but the commentary demands another playthrough. 
 Advanced and timed challenges will tickle your brain for many hours more. Portal's the best part 
 of the Orange Box, no contest.
  
  The Half-Life 2 saga and Portal should keep you busy, but the game that'll make you glued to the 
 screen for months and even years is Team Fortress 2. The long-awaited, often-delayed sequel to 
 Team Fortress Classic, comes with the Orange Box. It's totally worth the wait. If you've been living 
 under a rock for 15 years (or wasn't even born) , Team Fortress was first a Quake mod that eventually 
 moved over to Half-Life's engine. It's one of the first multiplayer games to utilize a class system. 
 It's also gave the world 2fort. The 2fort.
  
  The sequel's gotten a substantial overhaul in balance, everything has been changed so that teamwork 
 becomes essential. A balanced, communicative and diverse team will most likely result in victory. 
 Team Fortress 2 puts an emphasis on "Team". Grenades are given to only the demoman, which makes 
 it practically impossible for anyone to nade their way as a one-man army, something that was possible 
 in Team Fortress Classic. Teamwork is absolutely essential in Team Fortress 2, voice chat is almost 
 mandatory for victory, as it requires a ton of coordination to net an easy victory. It's an incredibly 
 addicting game once the coordination sets in, and time seem to go a lot faster. You won't be able 
 to stop. Team Fortress 2 will suck you in its vortex of fun.
  
  As much of a gameplay change there is, the visuals have received the biggest overhaul. The game 
 uses a The Incredibles-esque look, and it's gorgeous. You couldn't ask for more perfection that 
 Team Fortress 2's visuals. There's just so much personality in the game, each class has their own 
 unique body proportions and taunts that are animated in such a way that it might as well be a CGI 
 movie. This cartooney style works well with the over-the-top violence because, let's face it, a 
 gib explosion's funny, no matter who you are. The commentary that comes with Team Fortress 2 is 
 also quite informative and compelling, just like Portal's and Episode Two's. Team Fortress 2's 
 the best part of the Orange Box, no contest.
  
  There you have it, five incredible games for the price of one. Each game is the best reason to 
 get the box, if that makes any sense. Each one is distinct in visual style, gameplay and general 
 feel. The Half-Life 2 saga offers one of the best single-player shooter experiences ever, Portal's 
 a nice breath of fresh air, and you won't be able to claw your way out of Team Fortress 2's hole 
 once you're addicted. Each game has eye-popping graphics, with Half-Life 2 being the weak link. 
 Fair, considering it's 3 years old. Portal's sterile environments are strangely attractive, Episode 
 Two's grand vistas will make your jaw drop and Team Fortress 2's distinct style will disable your 
 blink function. Each is also flawless aurally, Portal with the hilarious AI voice, Team Fortress 
 2 with its hilarious quips from each class and the fantastic announcer, and the spot-on performances 
 backed by spotless writing in Half-Life 2 and its episodic continuations.
  
  Valve accomplishes a lot of things with the Orange Box. It proves that the Source engine is capable 
 and flexible, shown by Episode Two's gorgeous vistas and character models and Team Fortress 2's 
 one-of-a-kind art style, respectively. It also proves that Valve is a company that stresses quality, 
 no matter how many delays it takes. And finally, Valve will probably be a household name, the Box 
 is hitting consoles. The Orange Box is the perfect package, for any gamer. Buy it. Now. Valve's 
 taken their sweet time with each game in the Box, and man was it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongobbo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box goes beyond the edges of value and game play time. I got this game along with Super 
 Mario Galaxy and Metroid Prime 34 at Christmas, and I haven't played either of them yet. It includes 
 Half Life 2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, Half Life 2 Episode 2, Team Fortress 2, and Portal. All of 
 these are outstanding games, which I would have paid full price for separately, but got in one 
 box. This game is the best deal out there in the world!
  Half Life 2 is one of the greatest games of all time. It puts you in the eyes of Gordon Freeman, 
 and takes you through his trials that he goes through. There are countless hours of fun gaming 
 in this game, where you shoot and hack your enemies through the whole game. There is almost no 
 stop to the fast paced world of Half Life 2 in all three of them, plus, there are no cut scenes 
 except for the beginning and end. You stay in 1st person the whole time, which saves you from being 
 confused and strained when switching between views.
  Portal is probably the best game in the set, which combines challenge games with first person shooters. 
 You wake up in Aperture Science Labs and are given a series of rooms to complete tasks in using 
 the portal gun. There are also challenges that make you do a level in a short amount of time, short 
 number of steps, or few portals. These challenges are very tricky and require a lot of thinking. 
 
  Team Fortress 2 is the Multiplayer part of the package, which takes characters with different abilities 
 and pits them together in an all-out online war. The 9 different classes of characters allow for 
 very diverse game play and takes multiplayer shooters to a new dimension. The graphics may be cartoonish, 
 but the action is not held back at all. 
  In all, Orange box takes 5 magnificent games, and puts them together in a single pack. This is 
 a must buy for the first person shooter lover, and anyone could find something they like in this.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBart2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  It's really hard to find anything to complain about with this package. Portal, Episode 2 and Team 
 Fortress 2 are all a blast. 
  Episode 2 is a great continuation of the Half Life saga. Unlike Episode 1 there are several significant 
 events that occur, advancing the story. It will still leave you with more questions than answers 
 but it definitely ups the level of intrigue. Once again the production value is wonderful. The 
 soundtrack is great and kicks in as the action picks up making it feel like a top notch action 
 movie.
  Portal is an innovative puzzle game that will make you think but remains extremely fun. While it's 
 play time is fairly short, you'll probably want to play through it again or play through one of 
 the bonus modes you unlock upon finishing the campaign.
  Team Fortress 2 has a bit of a learning curve but it's very fun. It's unique in both it's graphical 
 style and class based game play. Unlike other class based games I've played, there are no useless 
 classes but each class has a glaring weakness that can be exploited.
  For anyone who hasn't played Half Life 2 or Episode 1 the value of this package multiplies 10 fold. 
 For those that already have Half Life 2 and Episode 1, Valve has now made it possible to gift these 
 two games through steam. All you have to do is get a friend to download steam on their computer. 
 
  It's such a great value that despite the graphics engine beginning to show its age I'm giving it 
 a 10. 
  By the way, contrary to a previous review, the games can be installed from the DVD. I installed 
 from the DVD and it took at the most 15 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goombac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2, episode one and episode two are truly amazing and are full of small puzzles, action 
 and has a great storyline. Being Gordan Freeman never gets old, even after almost a decade. However 
 I am glad to finally get out of City 17 and actually make some progress on the escape. It's too 
 bad about the character who dies, but I won't ruin anything for people who haven't played it. You'll 
 just have to play it to find out. And yet after so long the G-Man is still as mysterious as ever 
 which just makes the wait for Episode Three even suckier. Portal is really good and will keep you 
 going for hours! The puzzles are very addicting and you can go through them so many times and still 
 have fun. GLaDOS is probably the best part about which is very surprising. The only downside to 
 portal is that it's way too short. Just a word of advice to thos who haven't played The Orange 
 Box yet, I advise you play Portal before Episode Two because Portal is mentioned (sort of) in ep. 
 2. Team Fortress 2 surprised me the most because I didnt actually want it, but playing all the 
 different classes is so cool and more importantly fun! The new art also bothered me, but I got 
 over it really quickly. Just need more capture the flag maps! ctf2_fort is really starting to annoy 
 me lol. Overall, The Orange Box is definately worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  The orange box has something for everyone half life 2, episodes 1 and 2 portal and team fortress 
 all for a relatively low price it only cost me 25 new great deal 
  
  Even if you already own half life 2 this set is still worth getting i already had the game of the 
 year edition of half life 2 but both episodes portal and team fortress still made it worth buying 
 
  
  Episode 1 i would have to say is the most disappointing of the lot, not because its a poor game 
 infact its very good and more action orientated than half life 2, but its just too short i finished 
 it in under 5 hours i'm not a hardcore gamer, it ended when it was getting to the most intense 
 part luckily episode 2 very quickly makes up for episode 1's short comings as it literally continues 
 minutes after episode 1 ended. The story in episode 2 is very developed at comes together excellently 
 at the end but still leaving it open for an episode 3 making more of an individual game.
  
  Portal is pure comic genius and really takes advantage of the havoc physics engine in the game. 
 its a puzzle game but its very engaging and fun to play, the random comments from Glados are bound 
 to make you smile at least once in the game. Its not a serious game but requires some out-the-box 
 thinking with the puzzles but you can have fun and be creative with the portal gun
  
  Team Fortress 2 is my favourite out the 5 its purely online and the characters you can play are 
 very well made and humorous as they can all contribute to your team in one way or another. The 
 game has a dark sense of humour with the gore and taunts your characters have and its Pixar look 
 to the graphics it is a very addictive game to play and can guarantee many hours of fun online 
 to new players of online and old.
  
  The orange box is one of the best deals of the year it gave me many hours of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvz12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best or should I say this package of great games 
  well first 
  Episode two 
  the include some new effects like blur and new textures and they looks great... 
 
  The story is one of the best and i think maybe is going to be the best of the three episodes 
 
  the end is great it makes you feel what the character could be feeling 
  for me is 10 
  
  Portal 
  
  GREAT maybe some people dont like this one, and we all know because they are 
 stupid, is bloddy great and makes you think for a while, and is not just and game, is related to 
 half life, is appear in the episode two 
  i think all this inteligence game is going to be incorporated on half life episode three or half 
 life 3 i do not know maybe but another 10
  
  and
  the multiplayer one team Fortrees is fun and makes you swicth and relax from the other to games 
 and you spend a good time playing is think a 9.5 is ok for this one 
  
  but valve are great and i hope they keep working like this 
  
  HALF LIFE THE BEST GAME EVER 
 
  
  gears of war?? Halo??? Resident Evil??? Tom raider??? Final Fantasy??? hahahaha 
  some stupid people thinks those games are great maybe they should buy a good pc hahaha 
  
  
 HALF LIFE RULES 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Valve is a legendary developer, responsible for the ground-breaking Half-life series and several 
 other games. Their previous full game, Half-life 2, won more than thirty game of the year awards 
 and has been globally recognized for its advances in story-telling, action, physics, and character 
 animation. Since then, they've been pumping out episodic content, furthering the story of Gordon 
 Freeman's struggle against the menace, the Combine. Their latest installment, Half-life 2 Episode 
 2, comes packaged in the Orange Box, a collection of five of the greatest games released in the 
 past few years.
  
  The Orange Box comes with Half-life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Portal, and the long-awaited Team 
 Fortress 2.
  
  Half-life 2 and its subsequent episodes are all single-player FPSs. They continue the Half-life 
 saga, and have the player view the world through the eyes of protagonist Gordon Freeman. He is 
 initially dropped into the middle of a train station, and the player goes through a feeling of 
 gradual discovery and understanding as he witnesses City 17, its human inhabitants under the constant 
 watch of the Combine, an alien alliance which crushed Earth in the Seven Hour War. Like all oppressive 
 regimes, a hidden resistance movement exists. Gordon is quickly thrown back into the fight for 
 humanity's freedom and survival. Along the way, he meets some well-developed characters and fights 
 varied Combine forces and transplanted alien wild-life. Half-life 2 is more of a thinking man's 
 shooter, relying less on intense violence, and more on appealing story-telling and problem-solving 
 gameplay. The entire game is told through the eyes of Gordan, meaning that you don't know anymore 
 than the character you're playing does. It's a very simple, yet refreshing take on story-telling 
 in shooters. Half-life 2 is a classic, and I highly recommend it to FPS players who haven't had 
 a chance to play it.
  
  The Episodes which the Orange Box contains continue the story right where Half-life 2 drops off. 
 You fight your way out of the slowly-collapsing Citadel along with your partner, Alyx Vance, to 
 escape the city before it explodes. You help out escaping rebel forces and slowly increase the 
 distance between yourself and the Citadel. The gameplay is standard Half-life 2 fare, meaning you 
 get to carry a wide variety of weapons along with the Gravity Gun, which allows you to manipulate 
 and use the many physicalized objects found throughout Half-life 2's world in combat and problem-solving. 
 Your partner, Alyx Vance, is a competent companion, actually helping you out in combat and voicing 
 hints whenever you get stuck with a puzzle. She's more realistic than pretty much any other video 
 game character, and you'll find yourself caring about what happens to her and the rest of your 
 friends.
  
  Episode 2 is the first real new game that Valve included in the Orange Box. It details Gordon and 
 Alyx's journey towards the rebel White Forest base in an attempt to warn them and provide the scientists 
 there with crucial information to defending Earth against another impending massive Combine invasion. 
 The game design is much less linear than previous entries in the series, as the environments usually 
 take place in the forest and large industrial complexes overrun with zombies and headcrabs. You 
 fight your way through grand environments, soon obtaining a modified sports car which proves just 
 as useful to you as any of your weapons or companions. The story-telling and action in Episode 
 2 is noticeably tighter and better presented than in Episode 1 or even the classic Half-life 2. 
 It is shorter than the original game, but that's well-explained by the episodic focus that Valve 
 has put on the series. It really is a quality game, and the concluding battle is one of the best 
 I've seen in the past few years. There are moments which will make you angry and relieved, and 
 one which can shock even the most diehard of Half-life fans. Episode 2 proves that the Half-life 
 series is one of the best and well-presented in all of video game history.
  
  But wait, that's not all! There's also a little game called Portal. You find yourself in the middle 
 of a test course in a top secret scientific facility in possession of one of the most innovative 
 "weapons" seen in a video game since Valve's own Gravity gun. The Portal gun allows the player 
 to create two portals in walls and ceilings that enable him to travel from place to place instantly. 
 This opens up the possibility for some innovative mind-bending puzzles as original as those initially 
 seen in Tetris, released so many years ago. The rooms get progressively harder and harder, encouraging 
 the player to use momentum and the Source engine's trademark physics to progress. In typical Valve 
 fashion, you only see what your character sees and as a result are quite confused and isolated 
 when the game starts off. Your character is constantly advised and talked to by a strange AI named 
 GLADOs, who is in charge of the facility and the tests. Her attitude is hilarious, making jokes 
 and references which can persuade even the most serious gamers to crack a smile. Portal is short, 
 but the gameplay and puzzle opportunities it offers more than make up for the length.
  
  Rounding out the entire package is Team Fortress 2, the sequel to the legendary multiplayer mod. 
 The gameplay is team-based class action, and its all packaged in this nice stylized presentation 
 reminiscent of Pixar's Incredibles. Each of the classes, Medic, Soldier, Heavy Weapons Guy, etc, 
 is extremely well balanced, allowing some classes to play off one another's strengths for maximum 
 flexibility on the battlefield. For example, a Medic can "link" himself to a Heavy Weapons guy, 
 making him an invincible juggernaut. Soldiers are designed to rocket-jump to high places, and the 
 Spy has some hilarious tricks for concealing himself and assassinating opponents. There are only 
 a few maps, but they are as balanced as those in any other quality shooter. Also, on the PC, the 
 mod community has already released a plethora of custom maps, insuring that this game will stay 
 on your hard drive for years to come.
  
  All five games use an enhanced version of the Source engine, and while it doesn't have all the 
 fancy features that games like Crysis or Unreal Tournament 3 do, it runs extremely well and can 
 scale down to five-year old systems, meaning nearly everybody can play.
  
  Across versions, it is obvious that the PC version is superior, as Valve has and will be a primarily 
 PC developer. Content and graphics-wise, the 360 version is similar but suffers in that it can't 
 take advantage of all the quality mods and custom-made maps that PC users can access for free. 
 The PS3 version is slightly less-polished than the rest, with some frame-rate issues and graphics 
 problems, but manages to remain as one of the best games on that platform.
  
  The Orange Box's value is unprecedented in video gaming history, offering five quality games oozing 
 with innovation and quality presentation. Valve has outdone itself again with a package like none 
 other released this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a package released by Valve, which gives you everything you will need for 50 
 bucks.
  
  The first game I played through was Portal. You're a test subject in this puzzle-like environment, 
 while a computer talks to you, GLaDOS, saying everything is alright, with some humorous comments 
 thrown around here and there. This game is very amusing, and should keep you busy for the 3 hours 
 it takes to beat it. If this game was able to last a lot longer, maybe custom map maker or something 
 along those lines, it would be a lot better, but the game is too short.
  
  Episode 2 was great. It had many aspects in it that kept you thinking as you went on, and it always 
 keeps you interested. But, this just goes to show that Episode 1 was rushed.
  
  The best bang out of this package has to be Team Fortress 2. TF2 is one of the best online shooters 
 I have played in awhile. With 9 classes to play, anyone can adapt and play there style, whether 
 you like to sneak around as a spy, or charge into a crowd and set everyone on fire as a pyro. TF2 
 is a shooter anyone can pick up and play. This game is highly addictive, but there has been no 
 content added. Many players have become bored with the main maps. Although there is custom maps, 
 only a few of them are good enough to play. One you should check out though is Turbine_V3, great 
 map.
  
  The Orange Box is what FPS players were asking for, and it answered the call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  OK, I've already reviewed all of the games included in the Orange Box- but how do these games fare 
 when they are taken together in this one box? The result is unquestionably one of the best deals 
 in gaming history- this is one deal you don't want to miss!
  
  The Orange Box holds an impressive ammount of games- 5 games total. There is Half-life 2 and its 
 two new episodes, the excellent puzzle game Portal, and Team Fortress 2. To see what I thought 
 of each game- you can go to my respective reviews below:
  
  Half-life 2 review:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2/player_review. html? id=483799
  
  Episode 1 review:
 
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2aftermath/player_review. html? id=534166
  
  Episode 2 review:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2episodetwo/player_review. html? id=534240
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 review:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/teamfortress2boa/player_review. html? id=534675&om_act=convert&om_clk=gsreaderreviews&tag=readerreviews; continue;3
 
  
  Portal review:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/portal/player_review. html? id=534442
  
  All matters considered- these games do have their little and sometimes major flaws, but when 
 brought together- they make for a tremendous ammount of value that will take you quite some time 
 to play through. This is one of the best deals in gaming history- and anyone looking for a deal 
 like this cannot miss the Orange Box.
  
  Pros: Portal is excellent. Team Fortress 2 rocks. The Half-life 2 games are all high-quality shooters.
 
  
  Cons: The Half-life 2 games are the weak link here- for they suffer from the most flaws out of 
 all the games in the Orange Box.
  
  Recommendable for: Love shooters? What are you waiting for then? Love puzzle games? The Orange 
 box has something for you! Want hectic online action? Team Fortress 2 has you covered! Anyone looking 
 for a great deal should buy the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is without competition. Everyone agress here, but there are a few issues that need 
 to be addressed.
  
  While you will be hard pressed to ever find a better bargain or even a better multiplayer experience, 
 The Orange Box and all its glory has a few hairline scratches on its surface that damage its otherwise 
 perfect form.
  
  Half Life 2 and all it's expansions are great. Nobody has made a better shooter than this, and 
 it deserves to be commended.
  
  The scratches I was talking about is with Portal and Team Fortress 2.
  
  While Portal is no 
 doubt the most innovative PC game this year, it just didn't shine as much as I would have liked. 
 GlaDOS was great, the whole experience was amazing. But I couldn't help but notice a lack of polish 
 overall. There could have been more conversation, and the a few puzzles looked lazy and didn't 
 make sense.
  
  In Team Fortress 2 (my favorite game of all time) , there was much to enjoy. But everyone couldn't 
 wait for more maps. After more than 100 hours on this, I can't help but get impatient at it.
  
  But hey, those are just my complaints. I would recommend this to any gamer over anything else. 
 Nothing is perfect, andit still gets a 10 for value alone. So don't mind me. Get out and buy this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  To any long time fan of the half-life series or any steam user, the orange box has been highly 
 anticipated. Boasting 5 games on two dvd fors 50 bucks you get a lot of varity, and a great experience 
 overall.
  
  Heres the gist of each individual game that makes up the orange box:
  
  Half-Life 2: Overall Score 9/10: To most owners of the orange box this is somthing that will not 
 be new, so I won't spend long on it. Half-Life 2 back in 2004 was one of the greatest shooters 
 of its time (if not the greatest) . It featured groundbreaking physics, the best looking graphics 
 engine of its time, and rock-solid shooting action. Even today its a great experience, and will 
 run solid on most computers.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1: Overall Score 8/10: I could't make it through this one (partially cuz the 
 source soundbug kept locking up my computer) but the game felt a little tired. It wasn't nearly 
 as diverse as the original was (3 chapters or so was just the citidel) And on top of that it was 
 playing out to be very short.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2: Score N/A
  
  Portal: Score 9.5/10: I absolutely loved portal, for one its original, features some great puzzles, 
 doesn't feel at all dragged out, and features some dark humor, and a great ending. Though most 
 users will find it on the short side, I think if any longer it would have just grown repetitive 
 and boring.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Score 8.5/10: Team Fortress 2 I haven't spent a whole lot of time with yet, but 
 it looks like a fairly enjoyable online shooting experience. The classes are diverse and the maps 
 seem to provide opportunites for each. I feel the game, however, suffers from the lack of some 
 more traditional weapons (no standard machine gun) . Never the less, a solid experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is great and totally fun. For Half-Life 2, Episode one, and episode two, portal, 
 and team fortress, they're all great and fun. People though who already played HL2 and HL2 Episode 
 one may find those games in the Orange Box either less appealing or exciting . Half-Life 2 has 
 the best graphics of all the five games though Portal and Team Fortress 2 has also nice graphics. 
 There are a few ocational hitches on the games graphics though they're rare. The frame rate is 
 occationally smooth though it may slow down at times especially on HL2, Episode 1, and Episode 
 2. The sounds and musics of the game are great. Again, you get to hear most of it in Half-Life 
 2 though Portal and TF2 has also nice sounds and music.
  
  Both the Xbox 360 and PC versions of the game (which I have) doesn't have any differences. The 
 only difference is The Orange Box performance is better on the PC if your computer can completely 
 handle it.
  
  There's certainly five great games on the Orange Box. Each are both fun and amazing. Overall, The 
 Orange Box is completely great pack of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Many game people criticized Valve for selling all of these games together. You have a bunch of 
 different games, why not sell them seperately? Turns out those doubters were wrong, dead wrong. 
 This is one of the best deals out there, so many good games for the price of one!! Half Life 2, 
 one of the best games that I have everr played, along with Episodes One and Two? That alone is 
 worth $50 in my mind. But no, Valve went the extra mile and included not only Portal, a surprisingly 
 addicting game, but Team Fortress Two, the long awaited sequel that is very fun. The games, though 
 unrelated, actually go well together. This is the best package of the year by far. If you have 
 access to this deal, get it. But be warned, if you get this game for a console and you don't have 
 that consoles online feature, then you will not be able to enjoy Team Fortress two, seeing as it 
 is only a system link and online game, no single player. But thats just one game, and besides, 
 even without it, it's still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armednlnja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Buying this game could be the best decision I ever made. Probaly, Im not sure. I just got dis game 
 last week so yeah.
  
  Well let's start off of half life 2. I nevered played hl2 but i have played the multiplayer component 
 and it's great. Whened I played hlf 2 it was even better. It's the best single player campaign 
 I've ever played.
  
  I dont know about hl 2 episode 1,2 I didn't play them yet but i know it's gonna even be better 
 then the oringinal hl2
  
  Now portal. its the best puzzle, most weirdest and most funniest game period. This game is just 
 fun for almost everyone. (a little short thoguh but you'll never get tired of it. 
  
  TF2 is 
  i dont know how descibe it but 
 its awsome like i said. There so much classes to choose from that it will take time to find wuts 
 ur fav class. 
  theres a little humor in the game. each player has a melee attk like the demo man has a glass to 
 wack at someones head.
  
  grahics and sound is awsome. Top notch. This game will last u a VERY looooooong time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgrah1827
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  The orange box is a very excellent collection for those who love the Half-Life series. I was at 
 first distraught by having to pay for the box set even though I already had Half-Life 2 and ep.1. 
 But then I passed it on to people who have never played and now they are part of the fold. 
  
  Episode 2 is an excellent addition to the story. I love the fact that Valve really worked on 
 character development. It keeps you on the edge of your seat and has fantastic visuals. The downside 
 is that its short but its just an episode and the ending pissed me off. I want more damn it!!!
 
  
  Portal is a total blast of game and has some of the most memorable moments out of all the games 
 in the box. Gamers will be quoting that game for years. The cake is a lie!!! 
  
  Tf2 is my true love. I played the original for years and this newer version has almost everything 
 the original had plus beautiful graphics. I say almost cause I miss the grenades from the original 
 such as the engies emp grenades. The game is highly addictive and so far the other players in the 
 game are a lot of fun. If you like team based games that is high in energy this is definetly worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerf66
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  this game as 5 games in it for only 60 bucks. half life 2, half life episode 1, half life episode 
 2, portal and team fortress 2. i love this game so much everyone says how halo rocks but they haven't 
 played this yet if they did they would realize how much halo sucks. the graphics are amazing in 
 this game but sadly crysis 
  graphics are better. the orange box has team fortress 2 on it a game weve been waiting for about 
 7 years and has finally came out and is amazing with an awesome cartoon look to it. and portal 
 a puzzle game thats challenging and very fun and was one of my favorite game in the box. Then theres 
 half life 2
  the newest one on here is half life episode 2 where you are stuck in the forest of city 17and theres 
 new enemies, and i think the new forest environment is great.
  So this game pretty much kicks ass and you should definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red9900
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  its a highly addictive game with awesome puzzles in the Portal game its a good game that is worth 
 playing it. Half life 2 is the best fps game I have ever played it's a fun and has a great story 
 line it is worth playing. Team Fortress 2 is a great fps multiplayer with great style of drawing 
 it's real fun to play. The orange box is a great way to sell 5 of the best games around for a very 
 cheap price it has very good games in it so its worth playing so I highly recommend this game :) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerLordz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I think that The Orange Box is a all-right game in many ways but it just dosent seem to reach my 
 level of gaming
  The graphics are all-right but in Portal they just stink
  The gameplay is good but repetitive and i mean repetitive.
  The soundtrack is excellent i have 
 nothing wrong with that
  the 1 thing that annoys me though is that most of the games are all boring.
  I truly never cared 
 for the half-life series but again that is just my opinion.
  I love how this game includes more then the bargain though.
  4 games in 1 for $50 not bad.
 
  The game feels old though.
  I dosent feel like 2007 it feels like 2002 which to me is kind of boring.
  I didnt really care 
 for half-life but the Orange Box is meant for the bargain and a good treat for half-life fans!
 
  i also think that if Half-Life makes more of the series that its more fun because it just dosent 
 seem entertaining.
  I myself and my friends agree that this game can get extremely boring 
  but a good treat who enjoy the half-life series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  I can't remember the last time I bought a game and after buying it just knew that it was never 
 going to get old. The Orange Box is definitely just that kind of package. Included are Half-Life 
 2, HL:2 Episode 1 &amp; 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2. Team Fortress 2 alone is worth the sticker 
 price. In case you didn't know, Half-Life is one of the most spectacular shooters of all time. 
 The original won Game of the Year from several sites and the second Half-Life did only better. 
 If you haven't played it yet, just buy Orange Box and thank me later.
  
  Half-Life 2 and the 2 episodes altogether amount to about 50 hours of single-player fun. They are 
 story driven and deep. You will get sucked into the great visual and audio experience and fall 
 in love with the storyline almost right away. There are many weapons you will acquire and all of 
 them have their pros and cons. Nothing beats shooting a hot molten rod from a crossbow and seeing 
 it pierce through a guy and stick him to a wall. The game has an incredible physics engine that 
 was one of the first.
  
  Portal is a puzzle game based on the source engine that will take you between 3 to 4 hours to complete. 
 It will start off with gradually introducing you to the game-play mechanics and then will let you 
 loose. Along the way you will be accompanied by the robot that will speak to you through the speakers. 
 You'll soon realize that this puzzle game actually has a storyline. By the end of the game, you 
 won't even realize what happened and will be presented with a fantastic ending.
  
  Team Fortress 2, simply put, is one of the best online shooters ever made. The first Team Fortress 
 was a very popular team based game that had several classes all with specific strengths and weaknesses. 
 They took full use of this concept and perfected it this time around. There are 9 classes which 
 have 3 sets of 3 divided into 3 categories: offensive, defensive and support. All 9 classes take 
 a lot of time to perfect but take no time to enjoy. It is always fun being able to complement your 
 team with a different class every few minutes depending on the circumstances.
  
  This is one game you don't want to miss. All 5 games deserve 2 thumbs up and altogether are worth 
 may more. If single-player isn't for you, Half-Life 2 multi-player and Team Fortress 2 have quite 
 the longevity. Team Fortress 2 is a very fun game that you don't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The orange box offers 3 types of gameplay that anybody can enjoy. Portal is a fast paced 
 puzzle game that uses a portal gun to create entrances thro walls and other objects. Team Fortress 
 2 offers slow paced, tatical team online shooter. Run around with your team and complete the objectives 
 and slaughter the other team. Half Life 2: Episode 2 is fast, run and gun style gameplay. Kill this 
 kill that go to the next place. continue the story. yay.
  
  Sound: The sound in all 3 games is great. from the scottish yelling grenadier to the lieeng about 
 cake robotic voice the sound is spectatular. The guns sound great and realistic and the voice acting 
 is superb to any other game on the markket
  
  Graphics-Graphics in all 3 games are crazy! They are very high quality and are just great eye candy. 
 everything is shiny and realistic looking. espically in full HDR. Enviroments are amazing and face 
 textures and realistic.
  
  The Good-everything Is Awesome
  The Bad-Nothing
  TheUgly-Nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Your saving money by buying this, now i have Hl2 and HL2: Episode one to give away to a friend. 
 Maybe if the whiners had friends and didn't live off ther Mum they wouldn't complain so much.
 
  
  On with the review! Team Fortress 2, its got great graphics, its a violent movie that you and your 
 teammates control! A movie about killing each other, capturing suit cases and points! You should 
 find some roles that suit you great, if your like me you'll build a turret and spend all match 
 whacking away at it, going paranoid and hitting anyone that comes near!
  
  Moving onto Portal.
  
  Portal, the only game without anyone but yourself to kill (Machines 
 dont count) . I found this a refreshing game to play, and extremely funny. Perhaps it could of been 
 abit harder but never the less it was very fun. The advanced maps will keep you busy for quite 
 abit after the main game, but chances are you'll want to hear the sick humour again.
  
  Moving onto Half Life 2.
  
  Do i need to explain? Its great, some simply puzzles, easy shooting 
 and a lovely story line with great characters.
  
  Moving onto Half life 2: Episode one.
  
  Its very very short, alot of fun action and has some great story moments, but i would prefer 
 it to be longer.
  
  Moving onto Half life 2: Episode two.
  
  Focusing on action and story rather than length, it improves upon all the previos Half Life games 
 and even adds alittle more length than Episode 1. My problem is i cant get into the story when 
 its over so soon. When i reached the end i was left thinking What do i care if x happaned to x, 
 i only just met them. To summarise, buy it, its great, you'll save money, you wont buy another 
 game for months! Your saving money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogrebushi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Great games, 5 games to be exact. 
  Halflife 2 , episode 1 and episode 2, the last being actually new and a great play along the vein 
 of the two titles preceding it. All three to me haven't been my main focus of this most excellent 
 box. Though each in its own right are good addicting games. 
  The first new item is portal, which if you havent already seen has spun off a number of meme's 
 , but beyond that is a damn fun game by itself. A little bit thriller and a lot of puzzle make 
 this an interesting experience. The purpose using, a pair of connecting portals shot from your 
 portal gun to move around the map just the fact that what would be seen from one portal is the 
 picture in another is of great fun. Just always remember "the cake is a lie"
  The part of this box I have found myself being drawn into the most, with its addictiveness is Team 
 Fortress 2, all i can tell those that have been pushed away but its cartoon look and mild map changes 
 from original. Give it a chance, it will draw you in, keep you addicted and in the end you'll start 
 enjoying the looks of the characters in your ability to quickly determine what it is and how best 
 to avoid its assault. Personally i have been spending too much of my free time sitting on 24/7 
 2_fort servers.
  
  Also one thing of note don't fret if you already owned halflife 2 and episode 1, valve has been 
 kind enough to let us gift the already owned games to someone else, which in my books made fer 
 a nifty early christmas present.
  
  In closing this has been a game box ive been recommending all my friends to buy, and as a general 
 rule steering them towards the PC version due to the extra server size on Team fortress (more players 
 per side) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I smartened up and played Half Life 2, I've become one of those raving Half Life fanboys, 
 or Valve fanboys whichever way you look at it. To an extent I've been dying for something after 
 I finished Half Life 2, and saw its ending, the king of cliffhanger endings in video gaming. The 
 Orange Box was one of those games I had been keenly keeping a close eye, even back then when it 
 was supposed to be the Black Box, which sounds a lot cooler and made more sense. Knowing Valve's 
 genius, I had no other thought when it came to their groundbraking games, and thought that this 
 was going to be one those games that you must pick up no matter.
  
  I can't possibly see the reasoning behind the Orange Box. The Black Box made sense to me because 
 it had three games that I've never played at one great price. The Orange Box has five games, two 
 of which I've already played, meaning that I, and essentially, more than five plus million other 
 gamers who have already played those two games will feel like this is a huge waste. I don't see 
 the point in "giving away" the ones I already have since for the most part, anyone and everyone 
 that has wanted to play Half Life 2 and its super short sequal has already bought it. I guess Valve 
 decided that it wanted to try it's luck out with console gaming and gave it a good port (ing) , but 
 to some extent, I feel that the logic used in order to get PC veterans to get the Orange Box just 
 doesn't work here.
  
  Putting that aside, if you haven't played Half Life 2 and Episode One, then you might as well skip 
 this paragraph. The three games, Episode Two, Team Fortress 2 and Portal can be seen as the parts 
 compromising one game. You've got a single player (Episode Two) , albeit a short one, a great online 
 multiplayer (Team Fortress 2) , and you've got a mini game/ something we felt we should throw in 
 for the fans. Looking at this way, the Orange Box isn't so much of a deal, but more of a complete 
 package that Valve had to put out. In all aspects this works out phanominally well, and has something 
 for everyone. So what the (explicit) right? Yeah it takes a little bit more than common sense to 
 see past all of the glearing features of this game but in a sense, even though it once again shows 
 Valves prowes in gaming, it should send them a note that this might not, and should not work again.
 
  
  Episode Two is starting to show the age of the Half Life 2 saga. Huh? Yeah I went there. It seems 
 like with the last two "episodic content" release Valve has been trying to jam pack as much of 
 what Half Life 2 had in it, into a five to seven hours of gaming experience. I'm from the school 
 of thought that the zombies pissed the living (explicit) out of me, and to certain extent it made 
 first half of Episode One almost unbearable - yeah I hated Ravenholme to death. Instead of picking 
 up where Episode One left of, Episode Two slows it down again, and I can't seem to get into it; 
 so it has you go around the country side, in a linear fashion, fighting of hordes of chemically 
 infested bunkers, or over run Combine outpost and annoying opponents. The new additions in terms 
 of enemies where frustrating and annoying. I think Valve generally enjoys pissing us off; and don't 
 forget they wanted throw another physics puzzle in it, as if that wasn't annoying the first half 
 dozen times? All in all, Episode Two makes good of what it should have done, and does Episode One 
 one better; however, it's still short as hell, it still has trouble shifting paces, and frankly 
 the graphics engine is showing it's age.
  
  I can't help but some what acknowledge the fact that Valve did a good job, and that they did the 
 best with what they had, even though the story and overall set up features generally not only indicated 
 what the main plot behind Episode Three will be - which I'm sure Valve will do something that only 
 an extremist would - but if you have anything similar to a brain, you can put your money that if 
 Valve wants to finish off the series in the next rendition, that it will have to be at least two, 
 if not three times longer, or that they will be making Half Life 3. Gee I wonder how long that 
 one will take.
  
  Shifting focus, Team Fortress 2 is one of the best multiplayer expiriences of the past decade. 
 Valve put a lot of effort into making something that everyone can enjoy as there seems to be something 
 for even the dumbest kid on the block to do. It also helps that it is a team game. In games like 
 Counter Strike, or even Unreal Tournament, a few great players bunched in with crappy ones could 
 beat a team of all good players, but now that's just not the case. Good teams win, no matter what, 
 those who work together and use strategy can and will win. Five players can't win you the game 
 no matter what you do, if you don't have a strong supporting cast to provide assistance. The maps, 
 few as they might be, are great, and time consuming. I guess the whole idea is to give the fans 
 a taste, and then let them run wild with it. Overall Team Fortress 2 provides a pleasent experience 
 that has something for everyone. I would have liked to have seen a faster gameplay, because the 
 speed of the current game makes it difficult for a team to get a quick break when facing off against 
 another team that is turtling.
  
  The odd part of the Orange Box, was Portal, the game no one knew a thing about or was even looking 
 at. Suffice to say it's a unique experience that must be played. This game shows, I mean literally 
 shows the genius of Valve. They turned a simple premise, something that you thought nothing could 
 be done with and made it one of the most pleasent suprises of the year. Yeah Portal is fun game; 
 it's funny, entertaining, challenging and rewarding - you guessed it, the keys to making a good 
 game. It's an awesome game and my only flack on it, is that it isn't long enough; you could literally 
 finish it in one sitting, but then again you could do the same with Episode Two.
  
  The Orange Box literally has something for everyone, from the Half Life 2 saga, to one of the best 
 online multiplayers to date, to an awesome game that is a must for all, if you've been looking 
 to drop money on a game for the Holiday Season, then this one is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin82
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  All I can say is WOW!!! Team Fortress 2 (TF2) is the best Online FPS ever; it blows Halo 3 and 
 Call of Duty 4 away. I can see this game staying playable for years to come. If you are an FPS 
 fan this game is a must have. TF2 is on the Steam game distribution system which allows for automatic 
 game updates, and a massive online community including an in-game Instant Messenger (Friends List) .
 
  
  The only negative is the name "The Orange Box", should have just called it TF2. 
  
  If you are looking to buy a new game look no further. You get 5 games for the price of one; I would 
 have spent the $49.99 for just TF2. It also rocks on the 360!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm gonna break this down by game:
  
  Portal - All that it looks to be. Incredible fun and amazing concept - not just for puzzle fans 
 but for fans of really just about anything. Awesome 2001: A Space Odyssey-like ending. Mmmm... cake.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 - The best online multiplayer FPS I have ever played - great visual style and a 
 good balance of classes with someone for everyone. Great game modes and maps, and as usual, an 
 abundance of user-created maps to add to the fun.
  
  Half-Life 2, Ep. 1, Ep. 2 - All of them are amazing, and it is all just so well known I think it 
 pretty much speaks for itself.
  
  My only problem with this package is the lack of Half-Life 2: Deathmatch, so all of the great mods 
 can't really be used. Other than that, the best package I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybay723
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  the orange box can keep u playing for a few years straight. It comes with half-life 2, half-life 
 2 episode 1, half-life 2 episode 2, team fortress 2, and portal. Half-life 2 episode 2 continues 
 the story of half-life 2. You find yourself in white forest running away from the combine. Team 
 fortress 2 is a great multiplayer game, their are several classes you can be. The game is cartoonish 
 style. Portal is fun puzzle game that u would like. Half-life 2 and Half-life 2 episode 1 began 
 in city 17, in episode 1 you are escaping city 17 to white forest. This package should keep you 
 busy for a while and this only costs $50, cheaper than buying each one separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_vivek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The orange box was an amazing release from 'Valve', for it's cheapest and most affordable game 
 available in the market today. Releases like this one tempts the people to buy orginal games rather 
 than relying on pirated ones. The Games (Half life 2, Team fortress, Portal) are all relly amazing 
 and mind boggling. Along with this package of 5 games additionally they have provided with another 
 free game that can be downloaded online. as in the case of half life2 , the story continues in 
 the half life 2 ' episode 1' and continues till episode 2. Portal is a mind boggling game ,which 
 is beautifully designed. A Double KUDOS for valve for it's release. I request Valve to do releases 
 like this one in the future.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Not much needs saying, a classic game packed with the intresting portal, and very fun to play TF2, 
 an excellent package that has lots of long term appeal, HL2 episode 2 is another amazing gaming 
 experience, alittle short, but still as intense as ever, regardless of if you ever played the first 
 halflife or not, doing that would just enhance the experience but not essential, as its good enough 
 to stand on its own feet.
  
  looking forward to the final episode,2009? some rumours i read, the finish will hopefully be girpping 
 and entertaining. (am sure it will "o )
  
  Portal not a amazing game, but certainly innovative game, Value is a great company, lots of intresting 
 ideas on display.
  
  TF2 is a really fun game, great cartoonie graphics, not sure weather i like it more than the first 
 one or not, that was a classic game, but its fun, modern and certainly exciteing entertaiment.
 
  
  Great stuff, go out buy it already, or download indiviual games from steam etc.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigidibaldo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great way to sell videogames.. here we have a great compilation of fps like the 
 old half life 2 and half life2 first episode and new great games like Portal ,Team Fortress 2 and 
 half life2 2 episode.. and you can buy this 5 games compilation at the same price of a single game. 
 everyone of this game is an unusual fps in fact you have to think and after you can use your weapons. 
 
  Portal for example takes about 3 or 4 hours but when you finish it you can find new challenge in 
 which you must finish the game following a certain limtit. So in this way you can re-play it several 
 times enjoying it in new ways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is easily the best thing to happen to video gaming in my opinion. The Half Life 
 series continues in another amazing Episode with twists and turns and plots for yet another instalment 
 with Episode 3. The new Portal game is also engaging. An imaginative puzzle FPS that tests your 
 mind. Easily my favorite puzzle game even though I'm not a fan at all of that genre. 
  
  
  Finally, the best part of the Orange Box IMO. TEAM FORTRESS IS BACK!!!!!! Easy to turn on and 
 play, perfect graphical balance of cartoon and detail, all classes now have a unique personality 
 and style, all classes oddly balance out (except them engineers... that's why I have over 20 hours 
 as a spy muahahaha, yeah I sapped your sentry) and the gameplay is just plain fun. If blow'n stuff 
 up ain't your game go medic and imunize a heavy to storm a fort, don't want to get shot at on the 
 frontline? Go spy (w00t) and use your common sense to trick the enemy into thinking you're on their 
 team.
  
  All in all this is the best video game package that I have ever known. The best part is due to 
 the Orange Box's success maybe now other developers will get the hint and create more bundles like 
 it.
  
  I recommend Orange Box to you. Whoever you are, I don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  As you know, this little beauty comes with 5 games all in one box. Yeah, you heard me, 5 games 
 for the price of one.
  When I read reviews like this myself, I always stop and wonder if these great reviews are just 
 sales pitches. I guarantee you, I'm just an honest joe with a low end computer, running these games 
 on their lowest settings.
  It's not the developer's fault my computer is crappy, though. To their credit, the visuals are 
 simply amazing, even on the low settings, and that's saying something. Every action the characters 
 make is well scripted and looks as though a real human would when moving.
  So far, I'm about half way through the first half life portion, and all I can say is that this 
 is one of the most invigorating story lines I've come across in a while. It's not so much the depth 
 as the execution within the game. You REALLY feel like you're running for your life, that these 
 soldiers are trying to kill you. In all honesty, the AI is extremely well crafted and you will 
 need strategy to win, or you will die in seconds.
  I've noticed quite a few influences in this game, such as the book 1984, the movie series tremors, 
 and dawn of the dead. The developers definitely used these influences well, and implemented them 
 seamlessly into the game to make a familiar yet fresh experience.
  I have yet to get into Half-Life Ep. 1 or 2, but I assume they will play similarly, since they 
 use the same engine.
  Onto Portal.
  Okay, it's hard to describe this one. By itself, this wouldn't have been much of a game, but since 
 it's packaged with two other great series of games, it fits well. The physics and crafty puzzles 
 are well made. They never make you feel stupid or end up being too simple, which is quite an achievement 
 for a puzzle game. The dry humor is pretty refreshing, and the ending is memorable. All in all, 
 you won't regret playing this, if only for the laughs it'll give you. The ending song=best end 
 theme ever. Agreed, Gamespot.
  Team Fortress:
  Well, to start off, I tried this and didn't care for the style of play very much... BUT.... Aside 
 from personal preference, it had great graphics and the online multiplayer didn't hitch up a bit. 
 It was pretty balanced and the classes were all pretty different and useful. As I said though, 
 not my cup of tea.
  
  Overall:
  This is a great value. If you've never played Half-Life before, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easykill_astari
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  the orange box will make you happy for multiple reasons , 1 of them being that it will give you 
 5 great games for the price of 1 thats been out on the market for some time ! 
  
  The main games of the pack are portal , Team Fortress 2 , and Half Life episode 2 !
  
  lets 
 start whit portal : Portal is a puzzle FPS , You get these portal that you shoot from a gun , that 
 about all there is to say about portal , what im saying sound really dumb .. but it is really just 
 a super game , id say even a 1 of a kind !
  
  Team fortress 2 : Its the long awayted child from TFC ! Its been 9 years in the making , and its 
 good , you chose from 9 classes at start , there is the Pyro ( Flametrower guy ) , the heavy ( 
 Hes the one you want in little rooms , hell clear the room whit is massive gun ) , and lots of 
 others like the demoman ( He as 3 different ''bomb'' that you throw out of his gun and explode 
 , 1 explodes after 5 seconds and the other one sticks to wall and roof and blow when you want )
 
  
  Finaly ! Episode 2 ! I really have nothing to say about im .. hes just as fun as all the half lifes 
 , and he brings new answers to the story ! He also brings new question and thats just plain frustrating 
 
  
  But dont worry ! these frustating new question are overwhelmed by this great game combo whell worth 
 the 40 bucks ! 
  
  There is also half life 2 , and Half life 2 episode 1 in the box , Making it just even better ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 and Half Life 2 Episode 1. Most people buying the Orange Box for PC probably own both 
 of these already, but at least you can gift them to a friend if they haven't played them yet. If 
 you don't own them already well than you get an even better deal out of the Orange Box
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2: The continuation of the Half Life series, it has the return of some of the 
 driving sequences, that I was not a big fan of in Half Life 2. There are some new and exciting 
 enemies to fight, and the game looks great, the HRD lighting in the source engine keeps it right 
 up on top for great graphics engines.
  
  Portal: Sort of a Tech demo for the portal gun that may or may not make an appearance in a future 
 Half Life game. Portal is probably the most innovative and fun component of the Orange box. Unfortunately 
 it's over in around 3 hours though, but the End credit song is hilarious.
  
  Team fortress 2: The multiplayer component of the Orange Box is a very fun team based shooter. 
 It features nice cell shaded (cartoon like) look to it. There are several character classes to 
 choose from and they all seem fairly balanced. There are a couple of game modes, and about 6 maps. 
 While this doesn't seem like much, the game is fun and you can play for hours without getting bored.
 
  
  There's something for every PC gamer to do with the Orange box, if you own Half Life 2 and Episode 
 1 already, big deal! You save close to $20.00 buying the orange box, over buying Episode 2, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2 separate on steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraivyne
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  The reviews have been said and done, if you check everywhere you will see the massive acclaim that 
 "The Orange Box" is receiving.
  
  The package include 5 astounding games than any gamer would be dumbfounded without.
  
  This 
 is what you get inside the box:
  
  Half Life 2 
  Half Life 2: Episode 1
  Half Life 2: Episode 2
  Portal
  Team Fortress 2
  
  Now we all know about Half Life 2 and 
 Episode 1.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2 is a great improvement over Episode 1 and shows significant improvements 
 in the game engine.
  
  Portal.... You have to try portal to understand what an insane yet completely satisfying game it 
 is. The physics in this game just make it worth the price tag alone, only thing I can really complain 
 about is, how long do we have to wait for a sequel?
  
  Now to the multiplayer aspect, Team Fortress 2.
  It has been a long time since I have played 
 a game that is as balanced and fun to play as TF2. It doesn't matter what class you play, you will 
 have a great time, whether its setting people on fire with the pyro or bonking someone over the 
 head with the scouts baseball bat, everyone will find something to enjoy in this game.
  
  All I can say is: Please go out, get off your lazy ass and get this game! If you still cannot be 
 bothered then head over to Steam and buy it of there.
  
  Either way you gotta try this amazing package!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knut_The_Noob
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  ok i make three reviews, first hl2 ep2: it's cool like hl2 but yeah it's like hl2 only short, no 
 new weapons no new graphic, if you've hl2 don't buy hl2 ep2, but that don't means to dont buy the 
 orange box, so hl2 ep2 gets 8,0.
  then portal: it's revoulutionary BUT very short BUT there are downloadavle maps, and some of them 
 are real fun, and its kind of fun to play with the portals. So it gets 8.5
  
  AND KNOW THE BEST OF THE BEST, HERE COMES TF2!!!!!!!
  ok tf2 has such a funny graphic and such 
 cool classes and every class is balanced and it's cool to play with friends, because sometimes 
 there are so funny things that just keep laughing in an onlineshooter, that unbelievable and it's 
 perfect for clans. so theres no bad things, if someone says there are only 6 maps, he dont played 
 it there are about 20 maps now.
  SO it gets 10 from 10.
  so go and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  System: Dell XPS 410
  Duel Core E6600
  2gb RAM
  Nvidia 640 mb 8800 GTS
  
  Now that's better. After playing Crisis and stuttering through the game in DX9 mode with low resolution 
 and settings, it is a so refreshing to play Half-Life 2: Episode 2 with full 1920 x 1200 resolution 
 and fully maxed out settings and still average 60 FPS. It was smooth as silk and looked great.
 
  
  The Orange Box is a great package and value. These comments only reflect Half-Life: Episode Two. 
 
  
  The story proceeded right where it left off and it was easy to remember the previous events. Although, 
 again, it seemed very short, what was there was very well developed, optimized and fast paced. 
 A few new weapons were thrown into the mix and they were great along with some new menacing characters.
 
  
  The graphics on HL2: E2, were great. I even think they were better than Crysis. But, remember, I 
 had to run Crysis on low resolution with most of the settings on low or medium. I couldn't even 
 run it in DX10 mode. So, it didn't surprise me that HL2: E2 looked better since I was able to fully 
 max out the settings.
  
  Sound was also top notch. The only criticism I have in the sound department is that when it's in 
 the final stages of re-loading a level or save point, the sound annoyingly stutters for a good 
 ten to fifteen seconds unit it is fully loaded. Then it is fine.
  
  Gameplay is perfect, in my opinion. It's very intuitive and very easy to pick-up from previous 
 episodes. 
  
  The only aspect to the story that I felt was a little repetitive was the last level with the Striders 
 and the Hunters. After about ten of them, I was itching to move on to something else. I understand 
 the purpose of bombarding Freeman and making the level more difficult, but a little more variety 
 would've been welcome. 
  
  What worries me about the episodic plan of HL2 is how long it is taking to release these supportive 
 episodes. We should've been through all three by now, but it looks as if it will likely be another 
 year or so before we see the third installment. 
  
  I give Half-Life 2: Episode Two, 9 out of 10. Keep 'em comin'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mar_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Since there are 5 games I'm gonna do them in 5 short reviews. 
  
  Half Life 2: Well this was the first time I have ever played Half Life 2, I knew it was an extraordinary 
 game but i didnt realize how much. Its amazing with the story taking just over 15 hours on medium 
 it was hard to stop playing, i was so impressed with the art design and it still looks good for 
 a couple year old game, this game is very amazing and it is a great.
  
  Score- 9.5
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1- This is a fun game but is defiantly the weakest in the series and the box 
 , it still is fun but it doesn't add to the series that much. I still had fun with it and i enjoyed 
 it very much i just think that it could have been a bit longer (took me just over 6 hours) and 
 could have a bit better story, none the less its still a very fun game.
  
  Score- 8.0
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2- Now this is a huge improvement to Ep1. The story is just amazing and 
 makes you want more. The Hunters are very fun to fight with Alyx. It was still short (bout 7 hours) . 
 The graphics have gotten a boost which makes it look spectacular. The achievements are very fun 
 and this is just an amazing game. Probably the best in the HL2 series.
  
  Score-9.5
  
  Portal- Now this is the game that took me by surprise. It is just wonderful, it has a great atmosphere 
 and hilarious dialog. The puzzles are amazing and the ending is cool, you keep hearing "The Cake 
 is a Lie" which makes you want to find out what is it so it keeps you at the edge of your seat 
 the whole time. This is truly a fascinating game
  
  Score- 9.5
  
  Team Fortress 2- This is an awesome game, it is a very good multi player game which basically completes 
 the orange box. It very fun with friends and just with random people around the world. The classes 
 are unique and have different advantages which makes the game very intense. I'm still having lots 
 of fun with this game. 
  
  Score-9.0
  
  So in conclusion this could possibly be the best deal in gaming history. All the games are great 
 and i would probably buy them all separate. Valve has truly made a gem here that has a little bit 
 for everyone, which makes this indescribable These games are great but in one box makes them amazing 
 so i give this 9.5/10 just because it is such a great deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is great and worth every penny and every penny you spend on it is a deal.
  
  I the BOX you get 5 (yes 5) amazing games. (Half-Life 2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, Half Life 2 Episode 
 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2) OMG wow amazing. 
  
  First off, the graphic are amazing. It's no Crysis but it's pretty good. Half Life's have barely 
 changed but there good, Portal is just really good looking, and TF2 is very.... Different.... BUT 
 i love it!
  
  The gameplay for every game is addictive and you'll never want to put it down and if you do to 
 go to sleep or somthing, you'll be dreaming about getting up and playing it. Half-Life 2 is, as 
 it always has been the BEST GAME EVER MADE Eps. 1 is a short but still fun. Eps. 1 sticks out like 
 a sore thumb. Eps. 2 is actually the best of them all. It is non-linear which is a relief. It is 
 so cinamatic to like you feel as if your in a firefight or like a bridge is colapsing or a house 
 blowing up it's just amazing.
  
  Storyline should be familiar to gamers because it has been imatated alot. A physicist turn underground 
 resistance hero. Maybe it hasn't been remade exactaly like that but simalar.
  
  I expect to see this game outselling Halo 3.... Maybe not with all those so called Halo fans....
 
  
  
  
  
  Buy The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  With Valve, it's not the quality of the game that you're usually worried about, it's when it's 
 going to actually release. After the year delay of Half Life 2, Valve has been more tightly lipped 
 about any talk of possible release dates until they know they can achieve it and this has seemed 
 to work for the past two releases since Half Life 2 including Episode One and now The Orange Box 
 which released on October 10th of 2007. Without question, The Orange Box has to be the most bang 
 for your buck when it comes to actual content, but does the quality hold up throughout the entire 
 package or falter because of the amount of gameplay that the developers wanted to provide and having 
 their ambitions stretch too much?
  
  The Orange Box is unique in and of itself because it actually is five games in one. Two of which 
 were released earlier, being Half Life 2 and Episode One and three new entries including Episode 
 Two, which furthers the story from the first episode, Team Fortress 2 which brings the fun multiplayer 
 gameplay first created by members of the modding community and puts Valve's quality touches on 
 it, and of course, there's the much talked about Portal, which is a unique puzzle solving game 
 that you'll be scratching your head over for moments on end trying to figure everything.. Although 
 it seems like these might be fillers to bulk up the overall content of the package, those of you 
 who've played either game, will already know that that these are quality games that can easily 
 be replayed because of their fun gameplay and puzzle solving experiences and they just round out 
 the entire Half Life collection to date. Meaning that if you've never played Half Life 2 before, 
 you'd be somewhat lost just purchasing The Orange Box and starting from scratch from Episode 2. 
 If you'd like a review of Half Life 2, you can refer to my previous review of the game because 
 this review will cover everything except that part of the overall package. 
  
  Whether you want to further your experiences in the Half Life universe with the episodic content, 
 team up and blast your way through the highly polished multiplayer gameplay of Team Fortress 2 
 or have some fun tooling around in Valve's new puzzle solver Portal, you'll know that your hands 
 will be full for quite a few hours with The Orange Box. Beginning with Episode One, a continuation 
 directly after the events that ended Half Life 2, you'll be driven through multiple chapters that 
 will further the story that's continually be praised by multiple gaming sites and fans alike. We 
 all knew there was going to be some sort of expansion because of the cliff hanger ending that left 
 everyone sitting at their computers screaming multiple obscenities over Valve's decision to leave 
 the ending up in the air like that, but fear not, because now you'll be able to further the story 
 of Gordon Freeman and his crowbar. I'm not going to ruin the story for you, but as you probably 
 already know, you're once again left with another ending that'll leave you wanting more. Most of 
 your time throughout the first episode, you'll be in the company of Alyx Vance and even her artificial 
 intelligence is executed well over the course of the game with her pathfinding and ability to help 
 you in a gun battle. On your way to the ending, you'll be pressed with multiple gun battles and 
 puzzles that you'll have to solve to progress through the episode's chapters. These puzzles are 
 somewhat challenging but border fun more than skill when dealing with the amazing physics engine 
 that accompanies Valve's games. Much like the previous installment, there won't necessarily be 
 different levels of the game, there are points where it tells you that a new chapter has begun, 
 but you won't be leaving one level for another because it's one large seamless experience. Much 
 like its predecessor, Episode One has periodic moments where it stops you and loads up the next 
 area, but you won't be waiting for minutes on end like most shooters. These are just small intervals 
 Valve uses to make the gameplaying experience flow from beginning to end and it works perfectly. 
 Now, it's not a nonlinear experience and the path you'll be following is usually easy to navigate, 
 but the flow of the game never ceases and the other elements of the game, including the intuitive 
 artificial intelligence, the puzzle solving, and many different weapons will keep each playing 
 experience its own each time through. Because it is just an episode, it won't take you too long 
 to complete. A couple nights of gaming should take you from the beginning to the end easily. And 
 many people have complained about the length, but this is episodic content. It's not a full blown 
 game which, most shooters nowadays, would only take 8-12 hours; instead, Episode One will probably 
 last you 4-6 hours which is respectable when compared with an average shooter. The nice part about 
 Episode One is that the overall story has been done quite well and the polish just shines. 
  
  Episode Two is much of the same and only seems to make the Source Engine shine as it gets older. 
 It's difficult to understand why more developers don't license Source because of its abilities 
 shown to date. Even though the engine is a few years old, it still is comparative to games of today 
 on the highest graphical settings. Now, compared to Crysis, it may seem older looking, but to be 
 truthful, what game doesn't look ancient to Crytek's new engine and we're not here to compare the 
 two games in any way shape or form, the Source engine still shines because of what it's able to 
 do. And with the addition of Episode Two, Valve only proves the capabilities of Source even more. 
 Taking cue from end of Episode One, you once again embark upon an episodic experience that furthers 
 your story of Gordon Freeman, alongside Alyx as you make your way ever closer to finding Alyx's 
 father at the resistance outpost outside of City 17. During this episode, you'll be making your 
 way through mineshafts, large expanses of outdoor terrain and to speed you along, you'll be able 
 to drive a car, if you can call it that. It's half of a car's body with an engine on front to make 
 it go. These expanded driving sequences break up the many gun battles along the way creating an 
 overall pleasing sequence of events making the entire story flow till it's once again cliff hanger 
 ending. Valve seems to certainly know what they're doing when it comes to ending and making the 
 player wanting more, that's for sure. But they also know how to make a quality story that you actually 
 want to progress to see what's next, to see how Gordon Freeman can help save the world once again. 
 The gameplay is engaging and entertaining leading up to the climatic battle against multiple striders 
 trying to save the last refuge of the resistance. Sequences like this are what build Valve's reputation 
 as a game developer who strives to make quality games. Although another episode like its predecessor, 
 Episode Two is longer than the first and builds on each parts of gameplay from its previous installment 
 and leaves you wonder what will happen next, not only with the overall storyline, but with what 
 Valve can do next with the Source Engine.
  
  Onto Portal, which has be one of the most fun past times because of what's possible with this new 
 component of Valve's. Something that seems quite simple to do, but hasn't been done in a game to 
 date. The ability to make a 'portal' on wall A, and another on wall B; then to be able to walk 
 through wall A and come out of wall B. That simple, but yet quite fun as you exploit the possibilities 
 of what can be done with this new tool. To showcase this new form of play, Valve created nineteen 
 uniquely style levels helping to figure out the full potential of this new component with every 
 new level becoming increasingly hard making you hone your skills in problem solving and speed. 
 But not only that, but Valve also created somewhat of a story behind it, if you could call it that. 
 You're lead throughout each level by a computer voice which informs you of new obstacles or sometimes 
 helpful hints to achieve your next goal. The computer's comments and the story become somewhat 
 humorous throughout the many different levels and you'll find yourself laughing at your computer 
 screen when it's all over and done with. Sadly though, the nineteen levels of Portal don't take 
 that long once you get the hang of it, but included are some advanced puzzles and timed puzzles 
 that are pretty much some of the nineteen levels you've already completed, but on a harder scale. 
 Such as platforms that have been taken out or less material to work with throughout the stages 
 like blocks for buttons. And of course, I assume you know the challenges behind the timed trials. 
 Although it may be the longest component of The Orange Box package, it definitely provides quite 
 a bit of fun to mess around with whether you're dropping blocks from the ceilings onto tripod gunners 
 from a room away or pole vaulting yourself across a toxic-filled chasm; this is definitely a product 
 where you get what you want out of it. It's exciting to think about the possibilities that can 
 be created from the fan community in the coming months and years with this new portal tool.
  
  And onto the last piece of the package, Team Fortress2, sequel to a fan created mod for the 
 original id Software game Quake to entertain fans on a multiplayer level of gameplay with different 
 classes and team-oriented based games. Valve took this fan created mod and gave it the polish and 
 shine it deserves. Artistically different from any previous Valve development, Team Fortress 2 
 takes its cues straight from the original and fans will appreciate this. Textures, environment, 
 and character models border a cartoon style while blowing your character into chunks keeps the 
 overall content mature in the sense that this isn't supposed to replicate your Saturday mornings 
 of Looney Tunes. The guys who created the first Team fortress were actually hired onto the Valve 
 staff and part of the team to create the sequel and it shows. With a team-oriented style of gameplay 
 where you can choose from nine different classes of characters, Team Fortress 2 has you rely on 
 your teammates to achieve a victory each match. The different classes include: Scout, Soldier, 
 Pyro, Demoman, Engineer, Medic, Sniper, Spy, and the Heavy. All of these classes have their strengths 
 and weaknesses in a multiplayer session which whether you're disguising yourself as the opponent 
 when playing the spy, taking out enemies from long range as the sniper, or even trying to spend 
 as much time as you can healing your teammates as they try to complete the different objectives 
 of each map. Each individual has a part to play in the overall objective and each time you die, 
 you can switch to a different class to try something new and the game keeps your stats as you play 
 to see how well you do with each class you try. These stats can be quite helpful when trying to 
 compare your different playing styles throughout each map. There are six maps in the game that 
 have their own objective whether it's capture the flag, territory control, or another type, and 
 each make use of their perspective levels utilizing the design and environments quite well. One 
 of the only downsides to Team Fortress 2 is the amount of multiplayer maps and the fact that there 
 is only one capture the flag map. One map, named Hydro, is unique, in the way that it's set up 
 into different quadrants where there are multiple sections that you must battle through first before 
 you're able to control your opponent's control sentry virtually making this one multiplayer map 
 seem like six maps. Even though, out of the box, Team Fortress 2 doesn't seem that huge because 
 of the amount of maps, the amount of classes and different playing styles makes up for this and 
 you can rest assure that fans and mod community members will be making new maps with Source soon 
 enough. The only downside might be that they probably won't show the same polish and quality as 
 Valve's map, but hey, they're free right? Can't argue with that?
  
  Since the game also shipped for the Xbox 360, The Orange Box for the pc has achievements that you 
 attain much like any of the thousand achievements on Xbox Live. Although you don't necessarily 
 get anything from completing these achievements, there are something to strive for when going through 
 the different games in the Orange Box, because these achievements are not only for Team Fortress 
 2 and this only adds to the replay value of the games in this package. To add to that, you can 
 also listen to developer commentary on the different levels and games once you've completed the 
 different levels throughout each which can be intriguing after you've spent time trying to figure 
 out a puzzle in Portal or winning a mass gun battle throughout one of the episodes. These features 
 add to the game in subtle ways where they're not exactly the most exciting addition, but they're 
 there when you need to fill some time in between gaming fixes. And a nice feature that's apart 
 of every game developed by Valve is the ability to play the game without a disc in the disc tray. 
 Some may argue that you can always apply NO-CD/DVD cracks to achieve this freedom and you can, 
 but it's a bit to work with whenever you have to update the game. With Valve, you have the Steam 
 Engine that keeps all of your games up-to-date at all times giving you the ability to play any 
 one when you want. 
  
  Another thing to mention about The Orange Box is the overall sound. Environments and people come 
 alive with the musical score and voice acting tells the story that Valve wants portrayed through 
 their games almost perfectly. As you travel throughout the different areas within the world, wildlife 
 and nature itself comes alive across your speakers, and when you go into a large gun battle sequence, 
 the music will pick up with some techno flare as you try to outgun your opponents. These sequences 
 of music and environment flow together seamlessly much like the entire game. Voice acting in both 
 of the episodes and Portal is stellar like it was when Half Life 2 first came out three years ago. 
 There are no characters that seem over dramatic and it never sounds too forced upon you as the 
 conversations flow around you. One thing to note though is that when you're in a conversation, 
 if you turn your player around and happen to not be facing the speaker, their voice volume will 
 go dramatically down. While this doesn't sound bad on paper, imagine yourself in the heat of battle 
 and Alyx or another NPC is giving you directions on how to proceed and you're running away from 
 some enemies trying to find cover, and you can barely hear them and then in turn have to find them 
 and face them and have them speak again to get the instructions. And while the instructions you 
 receive throughout the game won't be necessarily game-stopping, it's just unfortunate to know that 
 you 'have' to fully face them to hear what's being said.
  
  So, with all of these positives, are there reasons you may not enjoy The Orange Box? Well, one 
 could argue that Episode One, Two, and the puzzle game Portal are short, or that Team Fortress 
 2 doesn't have enough maps, but you have to consider the overall package, being The Orange Box. 
 This package, at the same price as one game by itself, includes five different games and although 
 the episodes may be shorter, Half Life 2 is definitely a full blown game by itself, and Portal 
 and Team Fortress 2 more than make up the price of admission by themselves. While the game still 
 stands up to most others graphically, you still see spots where textures seemed meshed together 
 in certain spots and the Source Engine is beginning to show some of its age, but it has aged well. 
 And you can't help but marvel over what Valve has done with the artistic design of Team Fortress 
 2 giving it its own look and feel.
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is one of the best purchases you can make because of the amount of content 
 that's inside and not just content, but quality content. You get the award winning Half Life 2, 
 plus the two following episodes that progress the story even further, a new style of gameplay from 
 Portal which one can only imagine where the community will take its abilities, and finally Team 
 Fortress 2, a multiplayer team-oriented experience where the different classes actually matter 
 in the overall gameplaying experience. You'd be hard pressed to have never heard of the Half Life 
 series, but if you haven't had the chance to play it, treat yourself and get The Orange Box. First 
 person shooter fans will see the quality and time that Valve took in creating each component of 
 this package in the first few hours and will then be able to play for unlimited amounts of hours 
 when dealing with the thousands of fan created games based off of the Source Engine. Who knows, 
 maybe one day the creation you make from the Source Engine will spark enough attention from Valve 
 where you could potentially gain a career.
  
  Gameplay 10
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Story/Plot 9
  Replay Value 10
  Stability 9
  Multiplayer 9
  Overall 9.34
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daydestroyer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  5 games for $50? Come on you have to get that. Its even by Valve! This great deal comes with 5 
 games, Half-Life 2 (amazing FPS with a solid story)
  Portal (A FPP puzzle game that actually makes you think) All Half-Life 2 episodes (continuation 
 of Half-Life 2) and Team fortress 2 (One of the best Multiplayer game you can get.) I'll do a short 
 review on the 2 new titles in The Orange Box.
  
  
  Lets start with TF2. First of all it looks great. Seems like a Pixar movie on crack. But since 
 the graphics arn't iinsanely good looking or too detailed, and... that means lag free! Well you'll 
 get no lag 97.5% of the time. But at the same time look great. The gameplay is well balanced and 
 so are the bases (fortresses) they seem to be separated by Blu and Red. And designed with Hot and 
 cold colors. Like the red base would be a barn and the Blu would be industrial.
  There are many classes to choose from with there own personalities. There's bound to be at least 
 ONE you'll love. Also there is no "High Score" system. Or top player I should say. Instead, your 
 competing against yourself. Like a personal high score. 
  
  Portal is a brilliant puzzle game that really makes you think. And not too SUPER DUPER HARD like 
 Mist. But some puzzles may take DAYS to figure out until you go, Ooooh! Ah ha so thats what I 
 do!"
  The game makes you use a portal gun. You'll be doing 'tests' that would otherwise be impossible 
 without it. So you shoot a blue portal, then shoot the orange one somewhere. When you go in the 
 blue one, you pop out of the orange.
  The main bad thing about it is... length. It was short, but worth it. Plus at the end you get cake 
 :) yummy!!! as well as bonus levels to keep you busy for a long time. The robot speaker is also 
 fun to be with. Constantly making you want to give up.
  one of the main negatives is that when you get this, and you dont own HL: DM or CS: S. you wont eb 
 able to play some great mods. Like S mod or Garry's mod etc. but thats jsut to let you know.
  Buy this or... THESE... 5 games now. Its worth the buy and best of all instead of a black case... 
 It's orange... cooooooool.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geekhippie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  I have a midrange comp, and this game worked the first time out of the box. The Steam engine has 
 updated the games in the Orange Box several times, and, once again, I have had no problems with 
 playing any of the games. This is quite refreshing since there seems to be many bugs in the initial 
 offerring of some big titles that have come out recently.
  
  Episode 2 expands the story nicely, and I am already waiting for Episode 3. 
  Portal is fun to 
 play, and can get fairly tough at the end. Team Fortress 2 is a blast to play, and I don't really 
 like multiplayer as a rule.
  
  Overall, the Orange Box is a great value that works great, looks great, and all the games in it 
 are fun to play. What more could a PC gamer ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkpraveenp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Great value for money. Great collection. In India, this Orange Box sells for Rs. 999/- (got it 
 in Bangalore) . Typically games in India are selling between Rs. 699/- to 2500+ including console 
 games. Gears of War for PC is selling for Rs. 1169/-. 
  
  For some one looking for a great game with a lot of play time then this is the perfect collection. 
 Having the original half life 2 as part of this package makes this package complete. The portal 
 game is some thing new and especiallly worth it if you are into puzzles. If only clicking to fire, 
 then Half life 2, with the two episodes are more than sufficient to justify the price.
  
  Hopefully we will get similar releases for other series like Unreal (Unreal 2 + Tournament) , etc... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacredShotgun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  There comes along a game every once in a while that takes the industry completely by surprise and 
 exceeds expectations. One of those games was half-life 2. To include the entire series so far (Minus 
 the original Half-Life) alone would be an opportunity that simply can't be missed, especially if 
 it's one of those games that somehow slipped by you. It doesn't do anything drastically new (Apart 
 from one legendary gun) . It's not the most innovative game. It's just an incredibly well designed 
 game with a compelling and imaginative story. So many great moments of gaming have been credited 
 to Half-Life that it has obtained legendary status among PC gamers alike. It's an incredible and 
 thought provoking journey form start to finished. Team Fortress I found to be the "Extra" of the 
 included games. It defitely has it's charms and is often quite hilarious to play. Carefull attention 
 has been assured to finely balance all the classes to ensure you don't get left out just because 
 you think being a spy is awesome. However, I found the entertainment short-lived as about 15 minutes 
 with each class and I grew bored of the games atempt to fresh with every match. Never the less 
 it's worth a look and maybe you just might like it, maybe even a lot. Portal, on the other hand 
 is probably the most iconic games in recent times. From the cake to the song it's one of those 
 experiences you don't ever forget. Worth a playthrough just for the humor but the game just sucks 
 you in and doesn't let go. A masterpiece in every sense, just over too soon. All in all the Orange 
 Box is a absolute steal and carries a few surprises to the party as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjmf97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I love what valve did with "The Orange Box." 
  The in-game physics behind Portal are amazing. While the game is short it was a ton of fun. I do 
 however think it was sort of a trial for Valve. It seems they were testing the waters with this 
 game to see what feedback they would receive. In my opinion they will use "Portal-like" features 
 in future games and I hope they do. I can't say much about Episode 2 as I don't dabble with those 
 games as much as do with the fps and Steam/Valve multiplayers like Counter-Strike: Source and Team 
 Fotress 2. 
  Team Fortress was a grand slam for me. I love the cartoony design and smooth, favorable game play. 
 I can spend hours enjoying this game without a minute of boredom. Team Fortress 2 tops my online 
 gaming play as for now and is definitely in my top 10 of favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is an incredible deal, a package that is chock full of great source games that I 
 can honestly say you would be a fool to miss.
  
  Episode 2- Half Life 2 Episode 2 gets right most of what Episode 1 got wrong. It ramps up the pace, 
 and quits recycling content, as the Episode 1 did. The source engine is also improved in this iteration, 
 and although it is starting to age, it bears it well. In short, Episode 2 is a cinematic adrenaline 
 rush, and it really expands on Half Life in an original way. 
  
  Team Fortress 2- this long overdue and much loved game is a blast, class based warfare on a smaller 
 scale than battlefield, which is nice. The game is very stylized and cartoonish, which I think 
 is nice, because not only does it feel like a game, but it's hilarious to look at. Even if you 
 die, chances are, you'll be chuckling. There are 9 classes in total, and because of that diversity, 
 the game play really feels varied. Overall, Team Fortress 2 is a very solid class based shooter 
 on source that will be enjoyed for many years to come
  
  Portal- Perhaps the best thing about the Orange Box is Portal, a short but sweet 3d puzzle game 
 in the 1st person, with and unforgettable sense of humor.... and cake. The game is really incredible, 
 and I expect to see this portal technology used in Half Life 2: Episode 3. This is really a game 
 that everyone must experience.
  
  If that isn't enough, valve also throws in Half Life 2 and Episode 1... for those who haven't played 
 :)
  The Orange Box is an unbelievable package that everyone on any console can appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_big_fp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Right - there's nothing I can say that hasn't already been said for this amazing package of video 
 gaming master-piecery.
  
  Just buy it.
  
  There isn't a single better way of spending half a day's wages. Ever.
  
  It's better value 
 than food, and it'll last a helluva lot longer, too! Every element of the set is extraordinary. 
 It shames other game production studios in terms of innovation, depth, replay vaule and for sheer 
 vaule for money it's unbelievable.
  
  I'm a life-long addict of TF2 now, and there are still 4 more games for me to investigate - I can't 
 believe how lucky I was to pre-order this game and buy it for 20!! I've won the lottery!
  
  It's a 100% total no-brainer.
  
  You can't spend your gaming budget more wisely.
  
 
  Buy it!
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tode
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Thanksgiving Day. I have 3 out of 4 items to be thankful for. Greenbay whipped the Lions, Dallas 
 whipped the Jets, Thanksgiving Dinner was great. #4, I finally broke down and purchased "The Orange 
 Box". 
  Graphics great, Frame Rate great, Alyx was her lovely sexy self but from that point on it was "I've 
 been here and done this all before", only then it was still reasonably fresh. Lot of puzzles for 
 such a short game. The new transportation was ridiculous. A stripped down GTO is still a car and 
 not a tank. The dune buggies and air boat in the past made sense for their environment. Shame on 
 Steam/Valve. Shame on me for buying into the pkg.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sefirat
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Everyone of us heard about Half Life. Everyone about us heard about Half Life 2. And this review 
 is not for this people :)
  
  For the remember - the greatest FPP shooter in history have been released with two add-ons (Episodes 
 1&2) with awesome logic game called Portal and with kick_your_mind multiplayer shooter Team Fortress 
 2.
  
  Half Life 2 and its Episodes: intriguing plot, great graphic and cool soundtrack. In these three 
 words you have everything you have to know. And in my next word you will be known everything about 
 this game: BUY IT :)
  
  Portal is a logic game in which you must travel to a core of mysterious industrial place. You will 
 be armored in "Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device" - gun making holes on walls, grounds and 
 anything else by which you can teleport to another hole. It's sounds weird but your labyrinth will 
 be blown up :)
  
  Team Fortress is not-another-one-multi-shooter. It's the one and the only multi shooter with crazy 
 mechanics of gameplay and comic-graphic. Owh, just see gallery from this title, marvelous :)
  
  Great, great and once again: great Box! Orange Box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejavuman22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I have always wanted to play these games. I really have. There have been only two things that have 
 hindered me. 1. I only recently got an internet connection (Steam still sucks!) 2. I am a cheap 
 bastard. I just couldn't bring myself to pay for part of a game (which is what the episodic content 
 is to me) , but when I heard of the orange box, and all that came with it, I finally jumped on the 
 bandwagon. The price tag was more than worth it. I'm a little surprised they didn't try to sell 
 them in tins or something and tack on another 10 or 15 bucks like when they released half life 
 2. In short, I am overall impressed with how the game flows, and I especially loved the new car 
 in episode 2, but it would be nice if they tried to tone down the presence of Steam. It sucks out 
 some of the fun when you have to wait so long just to get into the game. I have great hopes for 
 the final episode, but I hope they get it out a bit sooner than the last two.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Largo2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I have been playing HL from the start. When I heard the news that HL2 would be delivered via "episodic" 
 content, I was sceptical; it sounded as if Valve did not know where to go with the story and worse, 
 that they wanted more money it. When episode 2 launched with the original HL2, and HL2 episode 
 1, and 2 other games I was sure that Valve tried to justify the higher price tag of a regular game 
 while pushing for episode 2.
  
  Boy was I wrong.
  
  Episode 2 Review:
  
  Let me clear up something out of the way first: HL2 episode 2 is the best the serie has to offer 
 yet. Period.
  
  The plot is extremely well paced and the action relentless. 
  
  One of my main concern (which is shared by many) about HL2 is that it raised more questions than 
 provided answers. With episode 2, we now seem to move in a clearer direction. It helps that the 
 story and acting is top of the line. - - I have not encountered one movie this year that rivals 
 the plot of episode 2: it is that good - - 
  
  Although there are no new weapons, in my view this is not a drawback because there are already 
 plenty of well designed weaponry and the gravity gun is as fun to play as ever. 
  
  One of the strong point of episode 2 is that it does not rely on auto-aiming as much as in previous 
 HL games. Without spoiling anything, there will be some instances when aiming near a target and 
 pressing the mouse button as fast as possible simply wont do. This is especially true near the 
 end of the game.
  
  Graphics and sounds are still among the best. I always liked the way the character looks more human 
 than any other games with the source engine and the 3D effects are sometimes stunning. The best 
 part is that unlike most of the games this fall, you do not need a high-end to very high-end machine 
 to run it nicely. A 3-year-old GPU/CPU would do. The same cannot be said about recent games such 
 as Call of Duty 4, Bioshock and Crysis.
  
  All in all, episode 2 is challenging, fast-paced, gorgeous and fun to play. I cannot wait for episode 
 3 now.
  
  
  Portal, Team Fortress 2 review:
  
  I bought this package for episode 2, but I will comment very briefly on the other games:
  
 
  These add-on games are great as well. Although I am not a fan of puzzle games, I find refreshing 
 to play it in 3D in portal. Some might like it more than episode 2, in my view only if they never 
 played the serie before. That is why I guess Valve included the previous HL2 games in this package.
 
  
  As for Team Fortress, I am impress by the graphics and the teamplay. However, being a Battlefield 
 2 fan, I find it disappointing that the population is limited to 32. I also find annoying the fact 
 that defense is encouraged that sometimes you simply die to quickly. It is a fun game nonetheless, 
 but I still prefer BF2.
  
  Summary:
  All in all, the value of this package is incredible. It is in my view derived from the EXCELLENT 
 episode 2. Valve could have tried to justify a lower-quality episode 2 by adding other good games, 
 but they resisted. Episode 2 and therefore the Orange Box is all you need and more this fall.
 
  
  - Martin L., Toronto, ON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo4400
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  the orange box is the best game pac in the world yet another perfect title with action puzlez and 
 mutiplayer madness it is all run on valves amazing phisics engine and is a one of a kind game to 
 have a portal gun, gravity gun, and more amazing wepons tools and characters
  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
  BUY IT
  it rules
 
  it is the buest multyplayer game since halo and counter strike with death action and funny stuff 
 TF2 is the most addicting ultyplayer game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  What a fantastic addition to the series. The game just gets better and better. At first I was skeptical 
 of this "episode" approach, as a way for the the company to make more money and just string the 
 players along. I was afraid the value just wouldn't be there. This episode proved me wrong. 
  
  While the graphics and sounds are really very good what impressed me so much with this series 
 is the story line and dialog. Very immersive. I can't wait until episode three now. So many games 
 have great potential but sacrifice the story line for action, this game does a masterful job at 
 combining both. (no pun intended "combine")
  
  I have to admit the fight with the striders near the end made me swear quite a bit, that was very 
 challenging but I made it through with a huge sense of accomplishment. 
  
  Very well done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LunarFlame
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't bought this game yet, what rock have you been hiding under? I say game, I should 
 say games. For the price of a single game, you get five of some of the best PC games ever made. 
 Half Life 2 with Episodes One and Two included (although it might have been nice if they let you 
 jump from one to the other without having to go back to the main screen, but that's being extremely 
 picky) , Portal, and Team Fortress 2. It would be hard to review this collection as a whole, beyond 
 saying it is the exact sum of its parts: one of the best game collections ever. That said...
  
  Half Life 2: Its exactly as you remember it, a great FPS with an engaging storyline that's 
 extremely fun to play. It's somewhat strange to say, but I enjoyed the vehicle levels even more 
 than the rest of the game (spare playing around with the Gravity Gun in Ravenholme and City 17's 
 control tower) . There really isn't much more to say here: Valve fans have already played all three 
 episodes, and it would seem odd to rehash their reviews. Suffice to say, if you haven't bought 
 any of Half Life, you can't go wrong with the Orange Box.
  
  Portal: This game... pretty much defies any sort of logic that could be used to describe it, suffice 
 to say that by and large you can take your physics book and throw it out and the window, and that's 
 what makes this game so much fun. The basis of the game (for those who haven't heard of it before) 
 is that you play a test subject for Aperture Science, a competitor for DoD funds with Black Mesa, 
 who is forced to jump from great heights, fling herself through space, ad avoid being shot to death 
 by extremely cute turrets who don't hate or blame you when you kill them. Portal is extremely innovative, 
 both in the idea of how games work, but also what makes games fun. Portal's gun will not cause 
 the death of myriad subjects, it will merely allow you to play with physics in such a way that 
 makes you wish you paid more attention when your professor explained the nature of gravity and 
 velocity. The only thing Portal has against it is its length: its only about 20 or so levels long, 
 with only one boss fight (although that fight is extremely entertaining) and leaves you begging 
 for more. The good news is that the game also comes with challenge levels (such as completing a 
 level using less than a certain number of portals) and time challenges, as well as achievements 
 (even for PC gamers) , such as falling 30,000 feet.
  
  Team Fortress 2: After beating both Half Life and Portal, you'll likely use what remains of your 
 lifetime playing Team Fortress 2 until TF3 comes out. The game is supremely balanced, where no 
 side or class ever has any extreme advantage over another (assuming you play on a map without mods, 
 although some mods can be extremely entertaining) . Sometimes I get a little frustrated with people 
 who are great snipers, or spies who manage to sneak up to my turret and make it explode, but that's 
 part of what makes the game so much fun. The only real problem with TF2 is the number of maps: 
 a total of 6. While variability is great, we can hope that Valve releases some sort of map pack 
 or TF collection, but for now, six will do.
  
  Overall, the Orange Box is a collection of some of the greatest games in the history of gaming. 
 Even though the length of the games comes somewhat as a disappointment, the collection as a whole 
 is more than worth your money and time, and knowing Valve, will probably get better as time goes 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  To reveiw this game I am going to break it down to each game, however I am going to group half-life 
 2 along with episode 1 and 2 since the episodes are just an extension to the story.
  
  Half-life 2, episode1 and 2: "9.5"
  If you have already played half-life 2 this is a great chance 
 to play it again to refresh your memory. Great story and great game play with new puzzles across 
 the series. The graphics are only slightly improved in each episode. Half-life 2 will take you 
 about 15 hours, episode 1 will take about 4 hours, and episode 2 will take about 6 hours giving 
 you 25 hours of gameplay. This in itself was worth the $50. The graphics are very good and do not 
 require the best video card to play unless you want to max everything out but even then my 8800 
 gts 640mb was easily well over 60 fps. After you are done with it, you can't wait to play episode 
 3 to see what happens next. One of the greatest games ever made.
  
  Portal: "8"
  This is a very original puzzle first person game in which you need to use physics to figure out 
 how to get to the next section. The game will take you about 5 hours, maybe less if you are really 
 good. More if you get stuck. The game is kinda funny and entertaining to watch as a female voice 
 robot will talk and annoy you through the journey. 
  
  Team Fortress 2: "8"
  I was disappointed with the end result. Yes the cartoon graphics are good and it offers great "team" 
 play. Even if you suck at killing people, you can play defense or be an engineer, spy, etc. There 
 is more than one way to help your team out, so you don't have to worry if you are not a good marksman. 
 However, there are only 6 maps. There is no offline play to practice or get familiar with the controls 
 (no instructions either) . Also, the gameplay just didn't seem very smooth like most shooters. Unreal, 
 Halo 3, COD4 all have a great feel to the game, but this game just doesn't feel fluid to me. Very 
 hard to describe. Also, there is nothing to play for? Some upgrades or leveling up or something 
 would have been nice. This was the weakest link in the orange box in my opinion.
  
  Overall I give the Orange box a 9. With all the games you will easily spend over 30 hours if not 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna_remix_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Unless you really hate all types of FPS adventures, you will absolutely love The Orange Box. I 
 mean its 5 games all in one package! (HL2, HL2: E1, HL2: E2, Portal, TF2) . And there is a game for 
 every type of gamer.
  If you haven't experienced the Half Life 2 Series already, this is the time!
  
  Even today, 
 Half Life 2 still is considered one of my favorite games, and it still holds against the newest 
 shooters. Physics based puzzles, awesome story, and a variety of weapons make this game a sure 
 10/10.
  Half Life Episode 1 and 2 only expand on this experience, but are unfortunately signifigantly shorter 
 than the original game. (What do you expect?)
  
  Portal satisfies the puzzle cracking wiz inside all of us. With breathtaking visuals and an even 
 better script (You will be giggling all over the place) , this will keep you entertained for every 
 minute of the sadly short game. The level design is fantastic, and some will get you extremely 
 frustrated. Even though I beat the game in less than 2 hours, I had spent about 30 minutess on 
 just one of the levels.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is for those multiplayer deathmatch junkies (my favorite part of the Orange Box) . 
 Its class based system is very entertaining. You got a variety of classes, each unique and generally 
 unseen in other games. For example, as a spy you can disguise yourself as a enemy unit and backstab 
 people behind enemy lines, while the pyro uses the flamethrower to do Damage Over Time. It is addictively 
 fun, even though those damn Heavy+Medic combos can really piss you off. Self Stat tracking inspires 
 you to work even harder, but I wish there was an overall ranking. Like there is seen in BF2142.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Half Life 2's graphics may be dated, but they still are up to today's caliber.
  Episode 1 and 
 2 improve upon the graphics, so people with modern cards can experience such things as HDR. (High 
 Dynamic Range, i believe)
  Portal's graphics, although simple, are still very impressive, and are extremely immersing to the 
 experience.
  TF2's cel-shaded style is one of the best parts of the game, and is a visual masterpiece.
  
 
  Sound: 9/10
  Not much to say about the sound.
  Good all around.
  
  Value: 12/10
  There is no way around it. This is a MUST BUY. I have no clue why you are reading this review, 
 you should be out buying it right now! It is 5 games in one! 
  (If you have already have played HL2 and Epi 1, I would say that it is a 8/10, as Portal is very 
 short, Epi 2 is short [4-5 hours I think] , and it depends on how many hours you can squeeze out 
 of TF2.
  
  Tilt: 10
  If you haven't played HL2 before and you like any type of FPS, you have to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-soap
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the best game deal out ever. 5 Brilliant (albeit individually short) games for 
 the price of one. The Half-Life 2 series covers old and new ground in style and keeps you entertained 
 the whole way with great dialogue, AI and graphics. I actually found my self taping along to the 
 sound track during a hectic action sequence. If you have played Half-Life 2 and ep 1 before then 
 the box does loose some of its value but thats where portal and Team fortress come in. Portal is 
 wonderful, but short. Hopefully there will be an episode 1 or extra map packs in the future. And 
 finally, Team Fortress 2. I would have bought the Orange box if it only contained this one game. 
 The learning curve is as steep or as shallow as you want it to be, as every class is easy to pick 
 up but hard to master. The graphics fit with the characters in the game and all have hilarious 
 emotes and sayings, my favorite is the muffled flamethrowing pyro and the BRITISH sniper. Servers 
 are plentiful and players are generally friendly as the game focuses on team play rather then lone 
 guns. Sounds are sometimes taken from HL2 but it is hard to notice when you have rockets and minigun 
 fire flying amid roaring battle cries and exploding team mates. Wonderful. There are also Achievements 
 on PC for all the games which adds an element of fun, (as some are very challenging.) To end, Orange 
 box should be in everyones house along side running water and electricity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam72
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  After playing Half-Life too and following episodes, everything else seemed fade to me. That's why 
 I recommend that you never buy orange box. lol... And i'm almost serious. This game has an incredible 
 storyline, innovative gameplay (I'm mainly talking about the gravity gun) and good graphics. Storyline 
 and voice acting was so good that i almost cried at the end of episode two. I mean it. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the never ending part of the box. The best thing about it is how it is well 
 balanced. Every class has it's weak points. For example, scouts can't pass a sentry gun guarded 
 area (sentry guns are built by engineers) while engineers must fear spies that can disable their 
 sentry gun then backstab them. The learning curve is fast, but some may find it boring to always 
 get killed in the beginning. Don't worry, it doesnt lasts long. Oh and by the way, there are more 
 than 6 maps. Other maps are being added, TFC had tons and tons of maps.
  
  Portal is the "omg-it's-already-finished" part of the box. It's really fun , but it wouldnt make 
 a good buy by itself. It's still innovative and very, very funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldrenean
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short, since there are already 175 other reviews just on Gamespot, and I'm sure 
 you've heard more than you need to about the Orange Box. If you're honestly still not sure whether 
 you should buy it, then I'll give you some advice; Don't even bother reading the rest of the review. 
 If you have a capable PC, load up Steam right now and start it downloading. If you're one of the 
 unwashed XBox mass, I guess you can go buy it... but trust me, you'll regret it when you're trying 
 to get gold medal scores on the Portal challenges, or when you have to take down three massive 
 Striders while Hunters swarm over you. So, on with the review.
  
  As I said, I'm sure you've heard all about the humor and brilliant gameplay in Portal, the cartoonish 
 graphics in TF2 and the spot-on pacing of Episode 2. Instead of rehashing all that, I'll just share 
 with you some of my favorite moments with the Orange Box, because that's really what makes Valve 
 games so great; the little touches that, when you notice them, validate the hellish firefight you've 
 just survived, or make you chuckle. The ending of Portal honestly made me happy for the next couple 
 of days; the brilliant ending song is on my MP3 player. 
  
  Somehow the geniuses at Valve managed not only to make Episode 2 and Portal into pieces of well-oiled 
 gaming machinery, clicking along at a perfect pace, but even TF2 has some amazing moments, which 
 is quite hard to do with the chaos and unpredictable nature of a multiplayer game. You'll bask 
 in a warm glow of accomplishment when you capture the C point on Gravelpit as a scout in Overtime, 
 grabbing victory out from under the noses of the Red Team. Being a Heavy and having your medic 
 buddy make you invincible with Ubercharge right as half the enemy team runs around the corner; 
 the artistic style of the game accentuates the hilarity of seeing the confident Sodiers and Pyros 
 charge at you, then backpedal in terror as your minigun starts to spin up and you gain that impenetrable 
 team-colored glow. As the gibs start to fly and you rack up heaps of kills, your Slavic mountain 
 of a character will start to laugh maniacally as he's covered in the blood of his enemies. And 
 then five seconds later you fall unceremoniously on your face. In shock, you wonder what killed 
 you, and then, perfectly timed, the camera snaps to and freezes on the masked visage of an enemy 
 spy in the middle of taunting your corpse and that of your faithful medic. It's things like this 
 that elevate the Orange Box above the level of most games.
  Episode 2 has them as well; the climactic battle against something like 15 striders comes to mind. 
 Portal is chock-full of them, from the darkly chipper taunts of GLaDOS to the somehow lovable Weighted 
 Companion Cube that, with no dialogue, animation, or indeed life, manages to be more personable 
 and well-characterized than, to pick at random, any of the characters from Jericho.
  So, final thoughts, The Orange Box is utterly amazing. There is no excuse, excluding outright poverty, 
 for not owning this masterpiece of a collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteDragonES
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off on saying that I had never bought Half-life 2 or Episode One, so I am writing 
 this review in the eyes of someone who hasn't previously owned the games.
  
  Half-life 2
  I had heard this game was good, but I never got around to buying it... until now.... and I must say 
 that this is a very well-made game. The sound is great, the graphics are still nice to look at, 
 the game play isn't just a click-fest, there are plenty of times where you have to think to survive 
 and progress. That is one thing I like about the Half-life series, the puzzles. I like having a 
 break from the action and can sit back and think for a minute. Loved the story, I had to read up 
 on the original Half-life to get what had happened to the world, and I liked the questions left 
 unanswered because it means they will likely make more games to finish the story. Overall, I really 
 enjoyed this game.
  
  Half-life 2: Episode One
  I enjoyed it very much, I liked not being alone the whole time. Just more of Half-life 2, which 
 is good. Same general look and feel. There are new enemies, which is nice. I don't know much to 
 say about it other than I liked it as I did Half-life 2.
  
  Half-life 2: Episode Two
  This one made me mad..... because now I have to wait for the the third episode. It ended in a way 
 that makes me want to continue on with these characters. Fantastic job on this one. New enemies 
 to fight alongside your old friend. Same as the previous in terms of gameplay, though your flashlight 
 won't turn off because you are running, if you played the previous games you know what I mean. 
 Nice sound as always and improved graphics. Excellent addition to the series.
  
  Portal
  Very interesting game and surprisingly good story. I just expected it to be a puzzle game with 
 no story and you just solve puzzles, but I was wrong. Fun puzzles, great sound, graphics, and general 
 feel. Quite a bit of humor, too. A very memorable ending, which surprised me again. Well done Valve.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2
  Addicting. Unique art style that is cartoony, but not so much that it doesn't look good. Great 
 sound. The gameplay is unique to each class, so you have to use different strategies depending 
 on what you are. I can't really explain why this game is fun, I guess you have to try it out on 
 your own.
  
  Overall, the Orange Box is a fantastic deal that you just can't go wrong with. Even if you had 
 already purchased Half-life 2 and Episode One, you are still getting three new games for fifty 
 bucks. To me it's a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warren55555
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it seemed like a great bargain. It is. I had never played Half Life 
 2, so all the games were new to me. If you do not own Half Life 2, go buy this game. And I am not 
 even a huge fan of FPS.
  
  So why did I give this game an 8.0? For two reasons:
  1) Horrible support.
  2) Horrible authentication.
  
  Here is the long version if you are 
 really interested:
  
  1) About half way through the game, it started to crash. I tried rebooting my machine, but I couldn't 
 continue playing. So I tried to contact support. It is clear the way they have things setup on 
 their website, that they really don't want you to contact them. But I finally managed to request 
 help by filling out a form.
  
  It took them 12 days to get back to me, and what they sent me was a list of links to articles about 
 crashes. Couldn't that be automatically sent immediately? And shouldn't I be able to get help in 
 less than 2 weeks?
  
  The problem went away on its own. I think that the problem was related to a Steam update, since 
 Steam updated right before the problem started happening. When I logged on a few days later, it 
 updated again, and the problem was gone.
  
  Imagine how long it would have taken me to get this problem resolved if it hadn't gone away? 2 
 weeks for the automated e-mail, then another 2 weeks for the first human response, then another 
 2 weeks for the first competent response? I think the game would have gone in the trash.
  
  2) Steam authentication sucks. I am an independent software developer who is very sympathetic to 
 piracy problems. I don't mind doing a little to help these developers try to crack down on piracy. 
 But requiring authentication every time I play the game? Come on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, this is as great of value as it is of fun. HL2 and Ep1 are currently out and will 
 not be reviewed here because that has been done. I will say that the package is great whether you 
 have HL2 and Ep1 or not.
  
  First off is episode 2, now ep1 was a good game although with the shortness of it and no real unique 
 gameplay moments, it was not perfect. Ep2 improves on that a great deal. there are great improvements 
 on the source engine that are noticeable if playing the game at high settings. This game does something 
 that ep1 did not do, introduce new characters and point the game in a different direction. Much 
 of the game is spent with a alien (forget the name) who is there to help you after alyx has been 
 incompacitated. Fighting antlions is much of the game, which is fun, but can drag on. You'll eventually 
 get alyx back in the fight and go through a very fun and long car sequence where you fight a new 
 enemy, the hunter. 
  
  Great gamplay and Graphics, right balance of puzzle solving, shooting, and achievements.
  
 
  Portal is the next game in this extrordinary package. This is a game like no other and that alone 
 makes it worth while. You basicly (but not easily) use a portal weapon to find a way to exit 19 
 stages that are linear, but have great replay value. Some levels are actually quite long and challenging. 
 After the game is completed, there is an advanced puzzle mode and challenge mode, each worth your 
 time and brain power :) , not to mention achievements.
  
  Last is Team Fortress 2, a multiplayer only game that uses artstyle instead of realistic graphics 
 and comes out looking beautiful. You basically have various classes with different abilities, being 
 able to change class after each death to respond to playing conditions. I am not a great MP fan, 
 but TF2 has taken some of my life :)
  
  This package should not be overlooked and although you may not love all of the games, the package 
 is a perfect collection of unforgetable titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  By now whoever is reading all these reviews knows all about the value of the Orange Box. Episode 
 2, even though short, moves along what I consider the 2nd Best Sci-Fiction story of all time (sorry 
 Star Wars is #1) . The game is short and should be played on the "Hard" Difficulty to make it a 
 bit longer. The final sequence is amazing and one of the hardest in Half-Life game design. The 
 source engine is getting older, but funny how it still looks AWESOME. Beyond virtual reality, I 
 don't know how much more you can improve the engines in circulation now a days. To me "Source" 
 is still very relevant and up to date. So to cure the need for wanting more Half-Life, Valve threw 
 us a bone and entertained us with Portal. Forget Solitaire, now I fire up Portal if I need to burn 
 some time in the PC with a thinking Puzzle. Finally, after playing TF 2, I uninstalled HL2: Deathmatch, 
 this is a hilarious experience and true team effort is required to play. Some of the maps in TF 
 2 get old really quick. I know the community will come up with some cool maps soon. All in all 
 the best game buy of the year. Get ready, the end of the Half-Life story is around the corner. 
 I can't wait to kick some combine "advisor'" ass. I hate them know more than the sith's in Star 
 Wars!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gate131966
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Computer games are a funny old thing. One moment you can be spending all your time bemoaning how 
 episodes are a failure and how Valve has failed to make the episodic method work from a storytelling 
 viewpoint and then you can get bumped back onto your ass  proven wrong in a single game.
  
  In fact, just yesterday was I moaning and whinging to a fellow journalist about how episodic 
 gaming wasn't really working and how ironic it is that Half-Life 2 was acclaimed for its deep and 
 original story when, in reality, the twists were fairly obvious and the story was never fully explained.
 
  
  And today, I beg forgiveness.
  
  Episode Two is awesome. Awesomely awesome. Having literally just finished playing it, I'm still 
 on the edge of my seat and I can still feel my hunched shoulders burning like molten glass from 
 the tension of pushing through another instalment of Gordon Freeman's adventure.
  I'll come right out and tell you now, throwing myself nakedly (not an image I needed while drinking 
 my morning coffee - Ed.) before you  episodic gaming is awesome. The Orange Box was worth the 
 delay. I'm going to give Half-Life 2: Episode Two a ten out of ten score. Let me tell you why, 
 in a completely honest and spoiler-free review of the facts.
  
  Unforeseen Consequences
  Okay, before we go anywhere, I'll just say that this review is going to assume you've already played 
 Half-Life, Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode One. It doesn't assume you've played Portal though, 
 so don't worry about spoilers unless you are stupid enough to jump in and start the series from 
 Episode Two. Got that?
  
  Good, now we can begin. 
  As Half-Life 2: Episode One closed, Gordon and Alyx (yes, MS Office, I have spelt that correctly 
 actually) were escaping from City 17. They'd apparently toppled the Citadel, home of the Combine 
 advisors. Doctor Breen had escaped into a host body via a portal, the suppression field was down 
 and the Combine found themselves off-guard for the first time ever.
  
  Gordon and Alyx had teamed up, Gordon apparently free from the grip of the mysterious G-Man, and 
 helped Barney shuttle as many citizens as they could out of the city before they left themselves 
 on the last train. The Citadel finally fell and a shockwave reached out towards our two heroes. 
 Doom couldn't have been more impending than if John Carmack was about to pounce on them - this 
 is where Episode One faded out.
  
  And this is where Episode Two fades in...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shafrox
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing episode 2. Words cannot describe how this game has made me feel. My heart 
 with satisfaction after playing this. Episode 2 is absolutely amazing. It carries the story line 
 very well. There was never a dull moment in this episode. Im sure everyone who played this has 
 fallen in love with all the character. I feel like im actually inside a movie when I play this 
 game. Bravo Valve for an excellent job done once again.
  
  The game played really performed well in my low end rig. I was able to play this smoothly on my 
 x1600xt and Athlon64 3000+ with 1280*1024 resolution and almost all details set to high (except 
 AA set to 2x) . Even though the texture quality is not as good as recent games, the gameplay will 
 blow all those negative points to pieces. I was pretty hyped up about Crysis before playing this. 
 But now i feel, Crysis will never be as fulfilling as this game.
  
  I haven't really tried out Portal and TF2 yet. Im sure those will be as good as this. Cant wait 
 for Episode 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Episode 2 is indeed another fun installment. It is just short and there is no reason to do it again. 
 Now that I have that out of the way I can talk about the multiplayer portion, Team fortress 2. 
 But being a an anti social gametard like I am I don't really do multiplayer online, all I will 
 say about TF2 is that it is very pretty and peoples limbs often fly off. Now portal was something 
 that I wasn't expecting to like much but it's clever puzzles and amazingly dark humour gave me 
 the most fun I have had on a game in a long time. It really is quite special and witty, but like 
 all games nowadays it is over too soon. Also in the bundle are the original HL2 and episode 1 which 
 valve kindly gave me the option of passing on to a friend for free considering I already own them, 
 but unfortunately I have no friends or at least no friends who aren't suitabely geeky enough to 
 have already played them. I could go on but playing this bundle has left me hungry for cake. Go 
 play portal if you haven't already, the other parts are forgettable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Oh my God!
  The Great G is back
  It is plain addictive.
  It sucks you in.
  Episode 2 is one of the best FPS games of recent years. It has a very unique personality , very 
 good story line ( lots of questions answered) .
  From start till end (If you can call it an end) HL: E2 shows you how to tell a story from the perspective 
 of a modern day hero, you will feel right at home with the game play and environments ( which i 
 say looks very pretty and atmospheric and totally different from the environments we have seen 
 in the series) .
  New addition of Magnusson Device and Muscle Car is very welcome, along with those eerie Hunters, 
 whom try to catch you even in house, and are very difficult foes. Settings of the game lets you 
 play with our favorite Gravity Gun , in fact it seems that developers have made sure that the players 
 rely too much on gravity gun , so that they can remove all the other weapons from the game in future 
 (who Knows) . During the course of time , you will definitely fall in love with characters of the 
 game, as it bounds you too tightly with NPC's and story.
  Only one problem in this game, it is too short. and keeping in account, how the game sucks you 
 in, it feels too short, but very adrenaline pumping ride.
  Another G for you guyz/galz.
  GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbswordfish8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Most of its just old stuff with better graphics (Half Life 1 &amp; 2, Episode 1) , but you still 
 get 3 brand new games: Episode 2, Team Fortress 2, and Portal. Episode 2's graphics are as good 
 as Next Generation, Team Fortress 2 plays great online, and Portal puts your minds to the test 
 with Portal Gun. Its the best deal in a while: $60 for all these games. Buy it. I give the Orange 
 Box an 9.7 so you can know to buy it, and on the way to Gamespot, why don't you pick yourself up 
 some Orange Soda. Sitt down play this game, and then change the chanel to watch Kenan &amp; Kel 
 on Nogin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcelloz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I waited a long time for this box to arrive... I bought Half-life2 the second it came available, 
 and bought the orange box with discount a month before release. At that time I finally could play 
 episode 1 which is also included in the box. After waiting for so long I played to finish in about 
 8 hours straight and it was nice to emerge once again in city 17.
  
  Now the orange box has been delivered, I played episode 2 with a lot of fun and completed it within 
 10 hours or so. Some fights were memorable and I will remember them for a long time coming, which 
 what this is all about of course, that you have a great experience. I also played a lot of TF2 
 which is a lot of fun due to the unique style and characters. Finally, Portal is a nice puzzle 
 game that I hope will have some rol in the 3rd episode. Really a lot of worth for your bucks :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a pure fun FPS that has your standard array of great guns to gleefully kill with 
 and a fun gravity gun. Sure, it's a copy/paste of the classic Doom system, and the game elements 
 are way overdone in today's PC world, but it's still a good time. Sadly, the 2 player coop has 
 gone the way of the dodo, and it's something I would like to see more in story-based FPS's.
  
  But that's just one game. Throw in an extra 4 and you have a superb value. The multiplayer 
 Team Fortress was needed and Portal is interesting in it's own right. In a time where software 
 companies expect you to pay $50 for a crap game that gives about 5 hours of gameplay, and the Orange 
 Box seems all the better.
  
  The major drawback? Steam's terrible, terrible interface. I felt my life oozing away as I stared 
 at the  then became angry as giant ads for different games 
 obnoxiously splashed across my screen -- and all I wanted to do was start the game. Because of that, 
 I can't ever give Steam/Valve better than a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLiTZv3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Yes it is. This is the 'One' box. With 5 legendary games, Orange Box is not only a great deal, 
 but more like a great 'steal'. Too bad I cant give more than 10, otherwise I would give it a 20 
 out of 10.
  
  Half-life2: Nothing to say about this game cause we all know that this is the greatest FPS game 
 ever in the history of mankind. Don't call yourself gamer if you never played this game before.
 
  
  Half-Life2 Episode1: Well, the first episode was a little bit weak comparing to the awesomeness 
 of HL2, but you know when there is a Half-Life in the name and there is a company called Valve, 
 nothing can go wrong.
  
  Half-Life2 Episode 2:
  
  The saga continues in the Episode 2, and oh boy, what an episode it is! It feels so complete in 
 all the way. The story in this Episode is awesome, I mean legendary. The outskirts of city 17 is 
 well put. The atmosphere was great. And there are so much varieties in each level designing in 
 this episode. I think Alyx is the most realistic girl in game universe. She feels so real!! Thanks 
 to source engine and valve, of course.
  
  Portal:
  
  Ok, who wants a cake? Yes, we all do. And Apreture Science enrichment center provides the excellent 
 cake with great dark humor.
  Seriously, the game is a bit short but it is awesome in every way. And speaking of short, the story 
 is short but you can get more puzzle solving and gameplay from user created maps. So its not short 
 at all.....
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Oh, what can I say.....'teh' most awesome MP in this year. Sure. MP game of the year? Hell yeah 
 again. The game is beautiful, with the cel-shaded graphics and cool animation, the game is superb. 
 To me, CSS and DODS just lost to this baby. And I'll play it over any previous MP games.
  There are 9 classes, as you may know already. And the game is greatly balanced. And its really 
 tough to balance a FAST-PACE FPS games with 9 classes on each team. And Valve did it.
  Its hilarious, awesomely funny. And you never gonna feel bore playing this game, never ever!
 
  I just found my next MP for over a year.
  
  All in all, Orange box is a must buy for any PC gamer. If you have a PC, then get it. If you have 
 a 360 then get it on 360. If you have both, get it on both! If you have none, then also get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realmjumper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  If you're sitting here still reading my text after you're done go to the store or steampowered. com 
 and buy the game. That's all there is to say really but I will go on.
  
  The orange box is not jsut a game, it's 5 sublime games. Half Life 2 is a single player experience 
 that shouldn't be missed. Episode 1 and 2 further extend the storyline with awesome acting and 
 action sequences.
  
  Portal is so unique and has an ending so cool, it makes you say hell yeah this is revolutionary. 
 Way to go for those students at Digipen who are not working at Valve.
  
  Teamfortress 2 is great but it could use some grenades for those pesky sentury guns. However custom 
 maps have already started popping up as well as a tournament here at Gamespot. It's a great game 
 and the best multiplayer to be had from the orange box. The characters and voices along with the 
 animations just make this something really special. In conclusion it's a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  In 2004, Valve released a long overdue sequel to the fantastic 1998 game Half-Life with the aptly 
 titled Half-Life 2. Since then, Valve has been releasing small expansion packs in a vague attempt 
 to try Episodic Content, which made other companies try episodic content and either succeeding 
 (Telltale Games's Sam and Max games) or failing miserably (Ritual Entertainment's SiN Episodes, 
 in which the developer ended up being bought out by a casual games company) . While the idea backfired 
 on Valve (as Half-Life 2: Episode Two was supposed to come out Christmas of 2006) , they eventually 
 took the nearly-year-long delay and put it to good use. And decided to throw in two more games 
 as well.
  
  But Valve decided to also cash in on the opportunity of their three new games and two of their 
 older ones, and sell five games at once for an impressive $50. The Orange Box is undeniably a good 
 deal ($10 per game, $12 if you're buying the console iterations) , but how does each individual 
 game hold up?
  Half-Life 2
  (Please note: Since its release in 2004, Half-Life 2 has been released in several different bundles, 
 some of which contain different games. For instance, my copy came with Counter-Strike: Source and, 
 later, Half-Life 2: Deathmatch. Some later bundles replace CS: S with Half-Life: Source, or even 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One. For the sake of this review, I'm only covering Half-Life 2 in this section.)
 
  
  Half-Life 2 takes place several years after the events of Half-Life. Once again, you play as the 
 bespectacled, bearded, silent protagonist Gordon Freeman. Freeman has been dropped into a strange 
 dystopian 1984-esque location known as City 17, ruled by a malevolent dictator, Dr. Breen. Eventually 
 you find out that you're a fugitive on the run from Breen's troops, which are ran by an alien force 
 known as the Combine. It gets a little more in-depth as you progress, but that's how the beginning 
 goes.
  
  Like in every other first-person shooter, you're still shooting dudes in the face like in Half-Life, 
 this time replacing marines with cops with strange face masks; but in Half-Life 2, there are some 
 new wrinkles. Valve decided to make good use of the (then) new Source engine technology to flex 
 that physics muscle. A lot of items in the world have physics, and a handful of puzzles in the 
 game require you to use physics to solve it. It's a nice twist, and it's good that a game uses 
 Havok physics for some meaningful use instead of it being fluff like in Doom 3.
  
  Half-Life 2 also features a squad system, but it's not as complex as other tactical games such 
 as SWAT or Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six. By default, you press C to send your squad where your crosshair 
 is pointed, then press C twice for them to regroup with you. And sometimes it works. However, other 
 times you have to constantly hit the key for them to acknowledge where you want them to go. Worst 
 off, if you're trying to have them scout ahead for you, half the time they'll all of a sudden come 
 BACK to you when you didn't ask them to. It's frustrating at times, and becomes more frustrating 
 at some segments when you're trying to flank enemies; instead of them going the other end in a 
 surprise maneuver, they end up following you. The concept was sound, but it really should have 
 been fleshed out beforehand.
  
  The game itself also features vehicles. Gordon can drive an airboat in one chapter and a buggy 
 in a later chapter. These ease the monotony of the shooting, but the problem is that sometimes 
 they can get very lengthy (especially the buggy levels) and can end up being boring, which is not 
 necessarily good.
  
  In 2004, Half-Life 2 was absolutely a gorgeous game, with large, expansive locations, and it still 
 looks good today, but it looks a little bit dated now compared to its episodic follow-ups. Compared 
 to Half-Life, character models now look more human and less like underground hermits who haven't 
 seen the sun in years. The rest of the physical items around the game's landscape vary from being 
 somewhat blurry (like the Airboat) to very high quality (such as ammo boxes) . The inconsistency 
 becomes a bit weird, as it appears Valve put more effort in the graphical quality of some things 
 compared to others.
  
  Sound-wise, the game doesn't disappoint. Most of the weapons have a distinct punch like before, 
 and no weapon sounds very weak. Voice acting in the game is marvelously done. While the same actors 
 who voice the scientists, Barney and the G-Man from Half-Life return in the sequel, Half-Life 2 
 also has famous actors like Robert Guillaume, Louis Gossett, Jr.; Michelle Forbes and Robert Culp 
 voicing characters in the game. All the characters show extremely strong emotion, and a lot of 
 effort was put into the voice acting, which, in a narrative-heavy game like this, is crucial.
 
  
  While some of the music from Half-Life return in the sequel, Half-Life 2 does feature new music 
 which fits the mostly dystopian atmosphere of City 17 and other locations. Some of it does tend 
 to blend into the game's ambient sounds at times, which isn't necessarily bad, it just makes it 
 sound stronger. It's unusual, but if it fits, you can't go wrong with it.
  
  There's no bonus features or any extras you get for beating the game, but with the length of it, 
 which is about 10-16 hours, and that depends whether or not you speed through it or take your time; 
 it's more than enough for it. Even if it wasn't packaged in The Orange Box, I'd recommend Half-Life 
 2 to anybody who's a fan of the first person shooter genre. Just make sure you play Half-Life first 
 to get a better idea on what the story is like.
  
  Pros: Great story, nice amount of action, exceptional voice acting and music.
  Cons: Graphics 
 aren't quite up to snuff in areas, airboat and driving segments sometimes feel a bit too long.
 
  Half-Life 2: Episode One
  (Please note: Much like Half-Life 2, Episode One has been in a handful of different bundles. Like 
 before, this section only covers Episode One.)
  
  Episode One is Valve's first effort at episodic content. Realizing that they could make small expansions 
 at low prices every year so that people wouldn't have to wait ten years for Half-Life 3, this in 
 their eyes could've been a good money-maker and make episodic gaming take off. Well, sometimes 
 bad luck just happens and you fall down a stairwell, because Episode One is one of the weaker efforts 
 of the Half-Life franchise, next to maybe Half-Life: Blue Shift.
  
  After the events of Half-Life 2, Gordon Freeman and Alyx Vance had been mysteriously moved from 
 the then-imploding Citadel at the end of Half-Life 2, and now were somehow outside it. Stranded 
 too close to dangerous territory, Gordon and Alyx must delay the eventual destruction of City 17 
 long enough to escape out of harm's way.
  
  Valve decided to use Episode One as a way to experiment a bit with elements and see if they stuck 
 (which they would later do again in Episode Two) , and their experiment for this expansion was working 
 with an AI partner throughout most of the game. While Half-Life 2 had some half-decent A. I. (that 
 somehow decided to rubberband with you when you didn't want it to) , this may bring horrible flashbacks 
 of having to lead around AI characters in games like Daikatana. Well fret not, reader; as Alyx 
 has good AI in this one. She will be able to defend herself, attack when she sees threats, and 
 be able to point things out at crucial moments.
  
  For instance, one chapter makes you go through an underground area that has become severely darkened. 
 She asks you to turn on your flashlight so she can attack enemies. It's incredibly smart and shows 
 that you're not gonna have much problems with her as she is VERY helpful in certain situations.
 
  
  Now, the other problem with having a sidekick tag-along is likability. If the person's an annoying 
 twit, you'd rather have them meet the receiving end of your shotgun than having to hear them complain, 
 but that never happens in Episode One. Since Alyx always had a sense of emotion with her character 
 which was shown frequently throughout the course of Half-Life 2, she will convey emotion in ways 
 I usually do not experience in video games. If she feels remorse, you'll feel the same way. She'll 
 try to be funny and you may chuckle at a line or two. It's enough to show Valve put good thought 
 into her as an ally, and it perfectly works.
  
  But enough praise about the game. The game looks a bit more stunning than Half-Life 2, where there's 
 loads of darkened orange environments. This is also the first major game by Valve to use high-dynamic 
 range rendering for outdoor areas. You'll see bloom and light reflections on the sky and everything. 
 While it's a bit exaggerated at points, it's done very well, and at times, fits the mood. Models 
 and everything else graphically, however, seems the same as the 2004 game that preceded it, and 
 when this came out in 2006, that kinda meant that it was showing its age, which isn't good. Despite 
 there are a few locations that SEEM new, most of them are new locations with the same skin as levels 
 in Half-Life 2, which makes this look like a fan-made mod than a new game.
  
  However, the sound is great. There's new music, which is just as atmospheric and moody as in Half-Life 
 2, and there's no recycled music bits this time around. Voice acting is just as solid as it is 
 in Half-Life 2, so there's no point going further there.
  
  Now, I have one other gripe with this game. Usually if an expansion pack of this sort comes out, 
 you usually expect new weapons, enemies and locations. It does have new locations and enemies (which 
 I'll get to in a bit) , but there are zero new weapons in Episode One. In fact, the weapon loadout 
 is a bit weird in this one: You start out with the gravity gun from Half-Life 2, and work your 
 way to grabbing most of the other weapons in a strange order, and the crowbar ends up being one 
 of the LAST weapons you get. Until you get the damn thing, you're stuck shooting at supply crates 
 or hurling them with the gravity gun, which is wasteful ammo-wise and counter-intuitive.
  
  There are two new enemies in this one: A headcrab zombie combine soldier (or zombine as affectionately 
 called by Alyx) and a stalker, a creepy alien monster that looks like a malnourished human with 
 stubs for legs and a laser beam on its frickin' head. These are a nice addition to the enemy arsenal 
 of Half-Life 2's universe.
  
  I could see where Valve was going with this expansion pack, but it didn't work. Despite it's episodic 
 content, this game is, in essence, a renaming of expansion pack that was released at a budget-label 
 price ($20) to see if it stuck. The game takes 3-4 hours to beat (4-5 if you take in the commentary 
 system that's also in three of the other Orange Box games, introduced in Half-Life 2: The Lost 
 Coast) , and while it's a worthwhile addition to the Orange Box family, on its own, it's a bit of 
 a disappointment. Thankfully Valve learned what worked and what didn't work and put that to the 
 test in Episode Two.
  
  Pros: Good AI for Alyx, great interaction with her, decent locations, commentary system.
  Cons: 
 Somewhat too short for an episode, not much new in terms of content.
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two
  
  Episode Two was originally supposed to come out about six months 
 after Episode One, back when Valve had a vague idea what they were gonna do with episodic content. 
 While that fell flat, the delay ended up working to their advantage, as Episode Two is basically 
 Valve's apology for the somewhat shallow first episodic offering.
  
  Taking place mere hours after Episode One, Episode Two once again features Gordon Freeman, now 
 out of City 17, and trying to reunite with his allies down at a place called White Forest. Once 
 again, you work with Alyx Vance, your partner in Episode One, however she is not tagging along 
 with you the whole game this time. Something unfortunate happens to her (NOTE: this is the closest 
 I can describe it in this review without actually spoiling it) , and there are 1-2 chapters where 
 you separate from her and work solo or with other allies. It's an interesting change, as Episode 
 One had Alyx by your side through all but two very small puzzle segments. Throughout other parts 
 of the game, you team up with a Vortigaunt or other friendly characters. I don't mind the companionship, 
 but sometimes they end up being occasional thorns-in-your-side and become more of a hindrance than 
 a help. To be honest, there are never enough times where you go through an area solo, and that's 
 something I liked in Half-Life 2 as it felt like a back-to-basics way of getting through, much 
 like the first game.
  
  Most of the game takes place in a car, and they're kinda like Half-Life 2's buggy segments. Thankfully 
 Valve learned from previous mistakes and decided to ease the monotony of it, as most of the time 
 you will be out of the vehicle and doing a lot of other things before you head back into the vehicle. 
 Plus they've thrown in a few extra things you can go for if you want to get you out of the car 
 much more.
  
  Once again, Valve decided to make good use of retroactive continuity and re-introduce a character 
 previously not mentioned in Half-Life. You encounter a new character called Dr. Magnusson who's 
 a very arrogant scientist that gets annoyed by the most pettiest of things. You'll learn to hate 
 his guts after the first few encounters with him. Magnusson is another one of those introducing 
 a new character and saying (s) he worked at Black Mesa concepts that Valve just loves using so 
 much (SEE: Kleiner, Issac; Mossman, Judith; Vance, Eli) , but if it advances the story, it isn't 
 that major. I wonder if we'll ever see any characters from Half-Life: Opposing Force or Blue Shift 
 in future games? I wouldn't mind seeing Otis come back...
  
  Would you have ever expected to see Episode Two take place mostly in forest and cave environments? 
 It's a bit of a refreshing change compared to the city-like areas of Episode One, And they look 
 relatively believable. Character models also got a minor facelift this time around: Most of the 
 characters seem to look better and makes it look more up to the times rather than the somewhat-dated 
 looking models used previously in Episode One. For instance, Vortigaunts now look more slimier 
 than in the earlier games, forgoing the more brownish skin. Blood in this game is also very noticeable 
 than it was previously, and reminds me of how it looked back in Half-Life, and it oddly fits with 
 the rest of the atmosphere.
  
  Episode Two also features a few cosmetic changes for your heads-up display: Flashlights are no 
 longer binded to the same power your sprinting and oxygen is, it's now separate. Every time you 
 pick up ammo for a gun, it'll point out to you which gun you picked up ammo for. It's nice that 
 they brought these little quirks in, it makes it easier for new players. Now if only they had thought 
 of these sooner...
  
  Like before, the voice acting for all the characters is top-notch, even for the new characters. 
 But oddly enough, the Vortigaunts somehow were able to shift their pitch in voice as they sound 
 different from their counterparts in Half-Life 2 and Episode One. It's not a jarring change, but 
 the new voice works.
  
  Episode Two is significantly longer than Episode One is by a few hours, and with the achievements 
 system and commentary system that's even present in the PC version, it will last you a long time. 
 This game tugs at the heart strings a bit, as it gives you many moments of shock and suspense, 
 something I rarely experience in a video game. Especially the ending.
  
  When you get down to it, Valve making Episode Two the way it ended up being was their apology for 
 the shortness and game-lacking entertainment of Episode One. It definitely makes me anticipate 
 Episode Three much more, and that's coming out next year. This game is definitely worth the purchase 
 of The Orange Box.
  
  Pros: Great story, good voice acting, interesting locations, commentary and achievement system.
 
  Cons: Game is still a bit short, ending is a cliffhanger.
  Team Fortress 2
  
  Team Fortress 2 lives up with the ranks of Daikatana and Duke Nukem Forever as games that have 
 been through development hell. Originally slated to be released in 1999, the game was to take a 
 more tactical action approach, and even feature commanders. After having a hard time getting that 
 idea to work and making Half-Life 2 on the side, they decided give it a few years. The end result 
 is Valve deciding to stick to old-school Team Fortress but with a new look and feel. After 8 years 
 of development, is it the game we've been waiting for?
  
  Team Fortress 2 keeps the nine classes from classic Team Fortress, and all of them have been modified 
 in a way so that each class is usable in combat. The classes are the agile scout, the well-rounded 
 soldier, a powerful offensive pyro, an explosive demolition man, the always-lovable Heavy, the 
 resourceful engineer, the effective medic, the long-range sniper and the sneaky spy. Each class 
 has a distinct perk, such as the scout's agility but the weakest player and the heavy's absorption 
 of damage but is the slowest of the 9.
  
  Other items such as Engineers building items like sentries and Spies changing outfits has been 
 completely streamlined this time. In Team Fortress Classic, to do those, you had to select it from 
 a menu, and periodically check to make sure everything's right (such as the sentry facing in the 
 direction it needs to be) . That's no longer the case, and it makes everything easy and fun to play.
 
  
  Team Fortress has always been reliant on varied game modes: Traditional capture-the-flag, control 
 points and many many other game modes (mostly made by the community) . Team Fortress 2, as of this 
 writing, comes with six maps: The classic 2fort, dustbowl and well from Team Fortress Classic return, 
 as well as new maps Gravel Pit, Hydro, and Granary. Most of these (save for 2fort and Hydro) are 
 all control point maps, and require one team to capture certain control points on a map while the 
 other team defends. All six maps are made very well and are balanced, however there's a problem 
 with that: it's only six maps. For a PC multiplayer-based shooter, that is unbearably low. Compared 
 to other multiplayer-based games like Battlefield 2, that's way too small and ends up getting into 
 repetition. But we'll probably see more maps (and game modes) arrive in the coming months. And 
 with all the classes in the game, that lessens the monotony a bit.
  
  One thing I remember hearing about when this game was developed was that grenades, something that 
 had been a Team Fortress staple, had been omitted in Team Fortress 2. I had feared the worst as 
 the gameplay might not be as fun, but when you look at it, it's an improvement. Gone are the days 
 where you rush through an area and get pelted with 15 grenades. Gone are the days when you'd unexpectedly 
 get killed by an enemy's grenade because he primed it before his death. It makes the game more 
 of a strategic shooter instead of relying on pure luck most of the time.
  
  As opposed to Counter-Strike: Source or Day of Defeat: Source, where those games tried to aim for 
 a realistic look, Team Fortress 2 aims more for a cartoony approach likened to modern day CG movies. 
 The style perfectly fits, as it brings more of an exaggerated 1960's mod style. Everything looks 
 exceptional as it uses a special shading technique for models called phong shading, which is 
 used to great effect to make the cartoon style fit. The particle effects are also shown to great 
 effect here, as explosions, fire, smoke and other effects look absolutely gorgeous and make the 
 style fit in even more.
  
  Sound is also very unique. Each and every class has a distinct look and style, to the Brooklyn-sounding 
 Scout to the German-sounding Medic (which I swear sounds like the Germans from Day of Defeat: Source) , 
 but others like the Sniper and Demoman seem to be a bit out of place. Perhaps it's because their 
 voice isn't pronounced well in the models or something, it just sounds weird to me. Also, the female 
 announcer that calls out items like how much time's left among others just doesn't click and sounds 
 too odd. Perhaps a male voice would've worked instead.
  
  Team Fortress 2 also features the commentary system that's also in Half-Life 2: Episode One, Episode 
 Two and Portal, but here it makes less sense. Only three of the six maps have commentary, and most 
 of the nodes cover the design process of the game itself instead of the map in question. It's nice, 
 but unlike the singleplayer games that use this where it actually makes you curious, it makes this 
 seem a bit tacked on here.
  
  In addition, the game uses the achievements system like in Episode Two and Portal, and most of 
 them are relatively simple and won't take much time to do, but some of them are sheer luck (such 
 as getting 10 kills with one sentry gun as an Engineer) while others are too easy (Get 25,000 heal 
 points as a Medic, for instance) . Team Fortress 2 also has a stats system, where you can see your 
 progress with certain classes and maps, and when you're playing, the game will inform you if you 
 got close to breaking your record with something, tying it, or breaking it. Such as kills, buildings 
 destroyed, kill assists, etc. For the stats and ranking whores like me, it works great, but sometimes 
 there's the occasional bug. However, if you want, you may also reset your stats if you wish to 
 start fresh.
  
  While there's not much content with only six maps, the 9 different classes will definitely minimize 
 the repetition of the game. And of course, expect to see the community make custom maps in the 
 same style. After all that, Team Fortress 2 is a a very balanced and fun multiplayer shooter. All 
 I ask from Valve: remake Hunted, please!
  
  Pros: Varied styles of play, exceptional balancing between classes, good voice acting, stats system.
 
  Cons: Only six maps, some voice acting seems off.
  Portal
  
  Portal is undoubtedly the strangest and yet quirkiest game in the entire package. It was originally 
 based on a game called Narbacular Drop, made by a bunch of Digipen students who ended up being 
 hired by Valve to make a similar game for the Source engine.
  
  You play as a female character named Chell (which isn't mentioned in game) who is inside this testing 
 chamber at Aperture Science corporation, and you get to test portal technology. Eventually you 
 acquire the portal gun, where you can make portals for yourself. As you progress further in the 
 testing chambers, you realize the place isn't all what it's cracked up to be.
  
  It's a first-person puzzle game. Yeah, you would think that first-person and puzzle game wouldn't 
 go together, but Valve was somehow able to do so and succeed with Portal. Most of the puzzles require 
 you to get a box on a button, or to activate catchers with pulse balls strewn around the world, 
 or even do complex timing puzzles where shooting the Portal at the right time is a difference between 
 making it to your destination and ending up in a liquid death pit.
  
  Graphically, the game relies (at least when it begins) a squeaky-clean aesthetic, with places feeling 
 like a futuristic test lab of sorts. Even though it recycles a few elements from Half-Life 2 (mainly 
 the pulse balls) , they fit into the game's atmosphere.
  
  Speaking of the atmosphere, when you play through Portal, you hear this character by the name of 
 GlaDOS, who is the quirkiest, most amusing and at times downright creepiest person you'll hear 
 from. You hear her voice throughout the entirety of the game, it oddly fits with the cold atmosphere.
 
  
  The game was written mostly by Erik Wolpaw and Chet Faliszek, writers and creators of the now-defunct 
 Old Man Murray website, which was known for its offbeat humor at the gaming industry. There is 
 other sound in the game, but it's mostly very quiet and not noticeable, which, in a puzzle game, 
 is recommended but not required. Portal also features a mix of quirky techno music and ambient 
 tracks that are reminiscent of Half-Life 2. There's also an entertaining and quirky song at the 
 end of the game that was masterfully written.
  
  However, while I give this a lot of praise, the one thing that hurts Portal is its length. It's 
 incredibly short, lasting about 3 hours. It's strange, because the way the game is delivered implies 
 that it's supposed to be longer, but they just truncated it for time purposes. It's sad, really, 
 because when you go through it, you never really expect it to end that abruptly.
  
  Besides extra challenges on six of the levels, where you can go through a harder version of the 
 level, or try to beat the level in fewest portals or fastest time, there is not much replay value. 
 But the game itself is so entertaining, that it will definitely warrant a few more times playing 
 through the game.
  
  Like all the new games, Portal comes with the same commentary system like in three of the other 
 Orange Box games. It's a nice look into the design process, but an overwhelming majority are basically 
 We originally had the puzzle this way, but testers were succeeding in a way we didn't want them 
 to, so we changed it, but that's not necessarily bad. It just shows they took thought into each 
 of the puzzles, despite the length.
  
  Portal is the quirkiest game of the whole Orange Box, but with its somewhat short length and little 
 bonuses, it ends up being a disappointment. However, that doesn't mean it's bad, it's that I wished 
 there was just... more to it. Let's hope the community can easily solve that.
  
  Pros: The whole portal concept, amusing voice acting and writing, creative puzzles
  Cons: Game 
 is too short, not much in terms of extras.
  Conclusion
  
  The Orange Box is worth your money. All $50 (or $60) of it. Five fantastic games that will give 
 you hours upon hours of gameplay. Valve definitely put a lot of work into the three new games, 
 and if you haven't experienced the Half-Life 2 saga at this point, now would be a good a time as 
 any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantraddish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Episode 2 is just more HL2. Well paced, highly refined, first person action and puzzle solving 
 with just enough story to keep you involved. Not much new to the game play, but that's why it's 
 Episode 2, not Half-Life 3. Short: 2-4 hours.
  
  Portal advertised itself to be a new kind of puzzle game and it does that brilliantly. It gets 
 extra credit for dry, dark, wittiness that I found laugh out loud funny. Most fun I've had playing 
 a game in a long time. Again short: 2-4 hours.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a highly refined multi-player game with game mechanics that don't grossly favor 
 the elite players. There's an advantage to being good and being smart in this game, but it's not 
 so exaggerated that a casual player can't function. Class variety is a blast and the style of this 
 game is a hoot. Lots of replay value here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Three years ago, i was a victim that once bought a HL2 and i started wondering, why is the chapter 
 of this game had became shorten? Did i miss out any fee which i have to pay for the full version 
 of HL2 games? Suddenly my scenes telling me that i just got riped!! I couldn't believe they would 
 did something like that to the Half Life Fans by dividing the game into many chapter and limited 
 their gamers for the benefit of full enjoyment which they use to have. I knew this day would have 
 come and i just got a smack on my face by the orange box which display in the retail store. ( I 
 wonder would they came out a lame idea of a name called the Golden Box or the Sliver Box in the 
 near future?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoUDarthBob
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Valve has always pushed the competition to its edge. Half Life revolutionized the first person 
 shooting genre and presented its story and action in a way that gave players constant incentive 
 to continue playing. Steam created a new era of buying games online easily. Now they have offered 
 five incredible games for 10 dollars each. I'd like to state that in this review, I won't mention 
 Half Life 2 or Episode 1 aside from this: Half Life 2 is the most intuitive first person shooter 
 ever created, and episode one is a satisfactory continuation of the original. I'll touch a bit 
 more on the whole HL2 series in a bit.
  
  First, the new games. Portal is a game that appeals to many outside of the traditional FPS target-market, 
 but it gives those who are indulged in the HL2 story a great thrill as well. A first person puzzle 
 game, Portal puts the player in control of Chell, a woman test subject in the abandoned Aperture 
 Science laboratory under the surveillance of the omnipresent, highly sarcastic GLADoS AI. Portal 
 sets the player through a number of training missions, some of which are very challenging but never 
 impossible. The player then unravels clues about Aperture Science's role in the HL2 universe as 
 she navigates through the lab and escapes a gruesome fate. Despite having only two characters and 
 one who doesn't talk, Portal is hilarious as GLADoS' dialogue is deftly written. The gameplay is 
 unusual for a first person view. There is no HUD aside from the reticule, no health, and no ammo. 
 These aspects greatly add to Valve's tradition of total immersion. No cutscenes here as usual. 
 Having the player in complete control is a huge touch to keeping a player in a game and also adds 
 to the emotion of completing or failing a task. The portal gun may not be as epic as the gravity 
 gun, but it is a truly fresh concept. Its uses to navigate, unlock doors and defeat sentry turrets 
 is an experience to its own. Portal can be completed in one devoted sitting, but it is incredibly 
 satisfying. I recommend playing it first out of the Orange Box because its small but crucial storyline 
 benefits that of Episode 2 tremendously. Bonus levels are unlocked upon completion, which are the 
 sole replay value if not that of hearing the GLADoS lines again.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a testament to Valve's sole purpose of providing fun games. Their development 
 strategy can be questioned for huge delays, but the reviews say it for themselves. The audio commentary 
 features on their newer releases show how important developing on the opinions of independent play 
 testers reveals Valve's dedication to quality above all else. TF2 has come a long way from its 
 earliest incarnation, and thank god that the nine years were well spent. TF2 is fast and easy to 
 pick up, but it always provides new fun in each round. The nine classes make a choice intimidating, 
 but each is balanced well and contributes to the scenario in its own ways. The hardest class to 
 learn how to play on a basic level is the spy and even it can be learned in a small number of games. 
 The removal of basic grenades from all classes adds importance to the demoman's indirect fire and 
 further balances gameplay. The graphic style of TF2 is unique as it is not quite cell shaded but 
 still wonderfully stylized. Strangely, the game is a lot more gory than one would expect, but gory 
 in a black humor sense. With only 6 maps in TF2, Valve made sure that each was unique and had something 
 new to offer. A few maps change dynamically over the course of a game, making it always something 
 unexpected before a game is loaded. The most consistent map is 2fort, a reincarnation of a TFC 
 map, for those who wish to play a more familiar game each time. In all, TF2 is a fun multiplayer 
 experience that is fast to pick up. While it isn't as maticulous as Counter Strike, TF2 is just 
 pure fun. The developer commentary really allows a player to notice the subtleties that make the 
 game so great. It is a shame that this commentary isn't available on the original HL2. Half Life 
 2 and Episode 1 are included in the Orange Box, a great addition to those who for one reason or 
 another are three years late in buying such a great game. For those who already own them, free 
 gift passes are given so one can send the game to another Steam account at no charge. Episode 2 
 continues the HL2 story by adding a new outdoors-based setting. Although its vast areas are not 
 as expansive as other games, it is a nice change of pace from the sometimes claustrophobic areas 
 of City 17. Strangely enough, a large portion of the game is presented in the underground antlion 
 nest, but the return to the outside is made that much sweeter. While still a linear game, there 
 are more less linear puzzles in Episode 2, and a dynamic final battle that is always different 
 upon replaying it. The new enemy Combine Hunters are as formidable as a Strider and are much less 
 predictable. The new protagonist Dr. Magnusson is a foil to Dr. Kleiner, but his presence enhances 
 the overall dynamic between the main characters and his voice acting is equally impressive. While 
 the story of Episode 1 was somewhat bare, Episode 2 is thick with plot developments and chilling 
 moments. Valve's dedication to immersion is stronger than ever, and the game features the familiar 
 train motif in the opening, but with some new twists. The Source engine is pushed to its limits 
 this time around with many new physics effects that make the game seem less scripted when it actually 
 still is. The Orange Box cannot be passed up. With a multitude of single player games and undeniable 
 fun in Team Fortress 2, it just doesn't make sense to not own this collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  At first, I was just angry. All I wanted was Episode2, not the orange box. What set me in this 
 angry state was that I already owned HalfLife 2 and Episode1 and didn't feel like paying the money 
 to buy them again. However, it's a great deal. Out of five games in the box, I was getting three 
 new games for the price of one. Woot!
  
  It's amazing. My first inclination was to play Episode2 after getting the Orange Box. I couldn't 
 wait to see what happened. I'm still amazed. The game has lost none of its potency and appeal and 
 continues to outdo itself time and time again. Recently, I've been playing Halo 3 and thought, 
 eh this is pretty good, but in comparison to HalfLife, Halo is lame. For plot, gameplay and everything! 
 I can't really find faults in this chapter of the HalfLife saga. It was very unique. Unlike this 
 website, I didn't mind the long vehicle rides, and I never did. I think it adds environment to 
 the game. I found it interesting that the Combine plays a smaller direct role in this game too, 
 where in the previous two installments they were always in your face. A good relief. You really 
 only catch up with them near the end after fighting through a game of droves of zombies and antlions. 
 There are some amazing environments and mini-adventures throughout. I'm tempted to play it all 
 again, right from the beginning of black mesa!
  
  I then played Portals. It made me dizzy, but WOW! The physics in that game are pretty freaking 
 revolutionary! You have to keep in mind a sort of fourth dimensional thinking, and, for example, 
 how jumping through a portal effects your forward momentum out of another... or how it doesn't... 
 It's not easy, either. You might be able to get through the main story line in about three hours, 
 but the challenge chambers are life consuming- trying to figure out how to use only two portals 
 when you need six to get out. Amazing. Plus, there's a sense of humor throughout revolving around 
 the idea of cake as a reward and a computer voice that guides/ tries to murder/ mocks you everywhere 
 you go. The turrets were funny too. They like to activate, shoot at you, and if you make it out 
 of sight they ask Are you still there? It's a great blend of mind bending puzzles and humor.
  
  Lastly is Team Fortress 2. As unique as the other titles of this game, TF2 provides the potential 
 play forever... As a clever MPFPS the possibilities and match-ups are endless. You get a wide selection 
 of classes to play all with different roles and abilities, some defensive, some offensive, and 
 some simply specialized. You play a class based upon which role you want to play in the battle. 
 You can change at anytime or given any need of your team. I've just got into it, but so far the 
 Engineer is my favorite. The entire game, with no exceptions, has achievements you can unlock. 
 This imitates the popular XBOX fad that so widely is sought after. I don't think there's anything 
 you get out of these achievements though, except maybe bragging rights, but they do keep you coming 
 back to the games to play certain parts over again or play a new class or a different challenge 
 ect... Overall, I couldn't be happier with this box. It's worth every penny. I'm glad it took longer 
 to release than expected (by a lot) because it made it all the more better to play. I suggest this 
 to anyone who is a fan of a solid FPS and has a sense of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was an amazing experience
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 was also an amazing experience
  Half Life 2: Episode 2 was absolutely 
 stunning.
  
  But both episodes are way too short.
  
  Episode 2 was VERY intense to the fact that I was on the edge of my seat almost the whole time. 
 Also, the atmosphere and new enemies freaked me out to the fullest content (especially the bugs 
 that shoot poison at you and the all new hunters... ahhhh)
  
  To put the Half Life 2 masterpiece into words is very hard to do. The storyline is so good that 
 it is like you are in a Film (that is a total of around 40 hours (if you arent too good at the 
 game)
  
  I would recommend this game to EVERYONE. just take in mind not the shortness of the episodes but 
 the INTENSITY of the episodes all packed into a small time zone.
  
  GREAT GAME (s)
  
  All get a 10 in my record 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PISTOL_IS_GOD
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Well guys, all I can say is wow! This is not what you would normally expect from a value package, 
 you are getting about 7 games with this (counting EP1 + EP2 etc.) all for 39USD! Valve took a chance 
 with this one, and succeeded.
  
  ------
  ------
  
  Team Fortress 2
  SCORE: 9.5
  ---
  HL2
  SCORE:9.5
  ---
  PORTAL
  SCORE: 10
  ---
  PEGGLE EXTREME
  SCORE: 8.5
 
  
  ------
  ------
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.5
  
  Folks, you cannot beat the value and fun of this package. I will go as far to say that this is 
 Valve's greatest idea yet. Team Fortress 2 &gt; Counterstrike, that is all I have to say about 
 that.
  
  NOTE: All scores are personal opinion, not an average by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Steam, Valves digital video game distribution system, is the most important thing to happen to 
 PC gaming since the advent of graphics cards. Besides providing a more direct link between developer 
 and consumer, Steam has helped realize the possibility of episodic gaming. Though they dont quite 
 have the timing down just yet, Valve has been able to shift its focus from large, ambitious projects 
 to smaller, more daring titles. With The Orange Box, Valve has bundled four of these episodic games 
  three new, one old  together with Half-Life 2, and has created a product with a volume of content 
 matched only by its creativity.
  
  Everything about The Orange Box is fresh and surprising, from the imagination on display in the 
 games included, to the unexpected Steam Community features. The Orange Box is a title that inspires 
 hyperbole. And actually deserves it. Simply put: The Orange Box is the greatest gaming compilation 
 in the history of the medium.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two is perhaps the most anticipated game in the collection. It begins immediately 
 where Episode One left off, finally leaving City 17 behind in favor of subterranean antlion hives 
 and the wide, open riverbeds of White Forest. The more natural settings are a welcome change of 
 pace after two games dominated by urban environments, and instill the series with a newfound sense 
 of originality, even though the Source engine is now three years old. It still looks as fantastic 
 as ever, though, even on relatively ancient PCs, and improvements to the engine's particle and 
 lighting systems, as well as some improved key character models, allow it to really shine.
  
  More than just another pretty face, Episode Two proves that Valve is unmatched in the video 
 game arena when it comes to pacing. Epic combat events are offset by smaller encounters and quiet, 
 solitary moments, while a clearly defined final objective drives the action forward. Gameplay is 
 equally varied, with plenty of physics-based puzzles and environmental obstacles to overcome between 
 firefights. Vehicles return in Episode 2, with Alyx and Gordon spending about half of the game 
 in possession of a beatup muscle car. While it has no weapons of its own, it comes equipped with 
 a radar display detailing the locations of hidden weapon caches, adding some non-linearity and 
 rewarding exploration to the game. Valve has greatly refined their vehicle controls since Half-Life 
 2s release. Gordons new ride is much more responsive than his buggy or hovercraft ever were; 
 using this new vehicle feels empowering rather than limiting.
  
  Episode Two is the most story-heavy Half-Life game to date. Non-interactive cutscenes and lengthy 
 conversations are spread throughout the experience with careful attention to pacing, always leaving 
 you thirsty for the next story event, but never fatigued from too much storytelling. At this point, 
 Valve really knows how to do Half-Life well, and Episode Two is handily the best game to bear the 
 name yet. Playing through the game takes about five hours, and by the time you reach the games 
 stunning finale, youll be chomping at the bit for Episode Three. Heres hoping we see it before 
 2009.
  
  Thankfully, The Orange Box contains many other goodies to keep you entertained until then. Developed 
 by the same group behind Narbacular Drop  the teams senior DigiPen project  Portal incorporates 
 all of the elements found in the original game, building on this foundation to create one of the 
 most memorable gaming experiences in recent memory. Armed only with the Aperture Science Handheld 
 Portal Device  a weapon capable of producing blue or orange portals by pressing the left or right 
 mouse button, respectively  you must overcome a series of increasingly difficult, brain-bending 
 puzzles. By placing portals on a floor, wall, or ceiling, you can enter one portal and instantly 
 exit the other. Portals arent teleporters, however; they are doorways. As such, you can carry 
 objects through the openings or use them to transport materials too dangerous for you to handle 
 directly. Momentum is also preserved through a portals threshold, leading to some especially dizzying 
 (and fun) puzzles in which you must use precisely placed portals to fling yourself across otherwise 
 untraversable pits.
  
  The game plays out through a series of puzzle-laden test chambers that stretch the possibilities 
 of this portal mechanic to its limit. It begins slowly, teaching basic mechanics before handing 
 you direct control of the portals themselves. Up until the end, the game continues to introduce 
 new elements, forcing you to rethink the possibilities of the portals or execute complex maneuvers 
 in rapid succession. The game is always challenging, but never frustrating, layering seemingly 
 simple procedures into intricate tests of skill. Portal may only be three hours long, but advanced 
 maps that rearrange previously completed test chambers and extremely difficult challenges that 
 place strict limits on the number of portals you can use, steps you can take, or the overall time 
 will keep you busy for many hours after the amusing credit sequence.
  
  Youre not entirely alone in Aperture Sciences sparse test chambers. Besides a loveable companion 
 cube, the snarky, sarcastic female AI GLaDOS provides her running commentary on your progress. 
 She gives life to the otherwise sterile environments, and her clever quips act as additional reward 
 for a job well done, playing at the beginning and end of each test chamber. The writing in Portal 
 is genuinely excellent; GLaDOS dialogue is simultaneous laugh-out-loud funny and uncomfortably 
 unnerving. Like Half-Life, much of the storytelling is relegated to the gameworld itself rather 
 than expository cinematics, and before games end, Portal connects to the Half-Life universe, and 
 Episode 2 in particular, in an interesting way.
  
  Hopefully this isnt the last Portal game we see. Despite its short playtime, Portal alone is worth 
 the price of The Orange Box, standing out as the most uniquely interesting title in a package saturated 
 with excellence. An innovative, mind-altering experience, Portal will leave your head aching and 
 your palms sweating. Combined with the full force of Half-Life 2 and its first two episodes, Portal 
 and The Orange Box makes for a meaty single player experience, but youll spend just as much time, 
 if not more, with the games multiplayer component.
  
  Just as Half-Life 2 originally shipped with an updated version of Counter-Strike, so does The Orange 
 Box come bundled with a greatly refined sequel to Team Fortress Classic. Team Fortress 2 is a game 
 whose development has taken on an almost mythic quality. The game has been in development since 
 1998, and many thought it would join the ranks of Duke Nukem Forever as much-hyped vaporware. Bearing 
 little resemblance to the ultra-realistic military shooter Valve first announced, Team Fortress 
 2 lives up to its massive hype and delivers a satisfying multiplayer experience.
  
  Streamlined and simplified, the game hasnt traded accessibility for the richness that made the 
 original so engrossing. Individually, each of the nine classes is easy to pick up and play, but 
 mastering their strengths and weaknesses, and learning how best to apply their unique abilities 
 to best benefit your team, takes time. Regardless of your playstyle, however, youll find a class 
 (or nine) that aligns with your tastes. The engineer is a great defense class, able to build powerful 
 automated turrets and teleporters to transport members of your team to the frontlines more quickly; 
 the flamethrower-wielding pyro lacks range but excels at close quarters combat and ambushing players 
 around corners; and the medic is a master healer able to build up invincibility charges that he 
 can apply to other players, to name but a third of the games playable roster.
  
  Besides offering a unique play experience, each character also sports a distinct personality: the 
 sniper is a suave Australian hunter, the demoman a drunken Scotsman. All of Team Fortress 2 oozes 
 character. Set in a timeless, over-the-top spy fiction, the game takes visual cues from Normal 
 Rockwell and other mid-20th century artists, utilizing a toon-shading effect that creates sharp 
 contrasts between light and dark. Besides the distinct visuals, the game also utilizes a dynamic 
 dialogue system, allowing characters to react to in-game events with no input from the player. 
 The net sum of these parts is a game with a distinctive visual style and a great deal of charisma. 
 Team Fortress 2 has a welcoming charm that makes killing fun again.
  
  Initially, Team Fortress 2s speed and frantic nature comes off as sheer, uncontrollable chaos. 
 But the more you play it, the slower the game seems to become. Theres a great deal of depth hidden 
 behind a veil of seemingly chaotic ruckus, and once you take the time to learn the workings of 
 the game, Team Fortress 2 makes for an incredibly rewarding diversion. Each class represents a 
 separate, infinite learning curving. Like many online games these days, Team Fortress 2 includes 
 an exhaustive stat-tracking feature, but here your statistics are only compared against your own. 
 As you play the game, you see yourself getting better and have the numbers to back up your assumptions; 
 the game becomes as much about besting your own accomplishments as beating your opponents. Even 
 ignoring such a thorough stat-tracking system completely, Team Fortress 2 is remarkably replayable, 
 and offers enough depth and variety to keep you glued to your mouse and keyboard for months.
  
  In addition to the five games included in the package, The Orange Box also includes a host 
 of meta features. Steam Community features such as achievements for all three of the new games 
 and a universal friends list adds a tremendous amount of replayability to the games. Seeing your 
 friends hop into Team Fortress 2 will have you follow suite, leaving Episode Two achievement chasing 
 for another day. All of the episodic content, Episode One included, come with impressive commentary 
 modes, providing interesting insight into the development process behind each of these great games.
 
  
  Even if you already own Half-Life 2 and Episode One, The Orange Box is a necessary purchase. Portal, 
 Episode Two, and Team Fortress 2 alone represent a wealth of content unmatched in any other first-person 
 shooter. For those lucky few new to Half-Life 2 or new to the series in general, The Orange Box 
 allows you to play through the first three entries in the Half-Life 2 saga with no years-long interruption. 
 Sure, the improvements to the Xbox 360 version of Half-Life 2 arent present on the PC, and Valve 
 could have thrown in the original Half-Life and had the entire series so far included in a single 
 package, but the simple fact is that, all hyperbole aside, The Orange Box is one of the greatest, 
 most content-rich games ever produced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  The Great:
  Portal. The most original game I've played on the PC, and one of the most original experiences 
 I've had in any medium. If you look at the individual parts of Portal, you won't find anything 
 unique. It's the combination of level design, dialogue, presentation, humor and near-perfect learning 
 curve that creates a unique experience. Basically a puzzle game with an intriguing story and sly 
 humor that turns nasty in a second. Fantastic! The final credits alone are worth it. Love it, love 
 it, love it! Something to show those doubters of gaming to prove that they're wrong. The Good:
 
  Where to start? Episode 2 is a great return to form after the fun but kind of mediocre Ep. 1. 
 Outdoor levels are nicely done, and the overall artistic design is still well-nigh peerless. The 
 hunters are a real challenge: aggressive, at times unpredictable, always tenacious - these new 
 enemies are truly annoying, which is meant as a compliment. In terms of story and presentation, 
 Episode 2 should serve as a humbling reminder to Crytek's upcoming play a dumb but powerful grunt 
 and take on derivative aliens simulation called Crysis that emotional involvement is what it takes 
 to get people hooked. And speaking of emotion: the ending of Episode 2 was, to me, gut-churning 
 and horrific. I've rarely been moved to this extent by a computer game. I hope Episode 3 will not 
 be long in coming.
  Team Fortress 2 is funny and fast, for someone (like me) who doesn't really see the point in most 
 multiplayer titles it's quite a breeze. The cartoonish style is a big part of the experience and 
 is a courageous step away from the current fixation on realism in gaming. You can spend a lot of 
 time with TF2 before you actually master the different characters and the well-constructed maps. 
 Be sure to find a server with people who are team players, otherwise you'll just run around, shoot 
 a little, and get shot more often than not. But that's a flaw almost all multiplayer titles have.
 
  
  The Bad:
  The graphics are no longer up to date (some textures look like they've been directly imported from 
 HL1, which serves as a painful albeit impressive reminder that, at the core of HL's engine still 
 lies the original Quake engine) .
  Having to pay for HL2 and Episode 1 AGAIN leaves a bitter after-taste. What happened to the black 
 box? Some small parts of Ep2 go on too long (the mines! the bugs!) . TF2 only has two modes and 
 6 maps. Keep it coming, Valve. The Ugly:
  The box design looks like it was done by someone's 5-year-old sister. To quote no one lives forever: 
 whose idea was it to paint these damn crates ORANGE? What genius thought THAT up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  What's there is to say about the Orange Box other than that it is awesome. If you do not like the 
 Orange Box, you have to be mentally ill.
  
  I, for one, have been waiting for Team Fortress 2 for quite a while now. Now that it is out, I 
 have been thoroughly entertained and will be for quite some time. Portal is an innovative game 
 and I like the way Valve have added Aperture Science into the Half-Life story. On to Episode Two, 
 it too is epic. With stunning graphics and the good old game play, I am fully looking forward to 
 Episode Three, as it will so totally be kick ass, seriously. Oh, I forgot to mention that it's 
 a total bargain to buy the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexp987
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  5 games in a box which costs the same as 1 game
  previous games of the series included if you missed them
  great multiplayer moments on TFT2
 
  hilarious and challenging moments on Portal
  great general gaming experience playing through the Half Life 2 series
  
  The bad:
  no compensation 
 for having already bought Half Life 2 and EP1 (ability to give the copy to someone else's steam 
 account rather than refund)
  
  Overall Score: 9.8/10
  
  Extra comments:
  hearing the developers' commentary allows the gamer to find out new and interesting things about 
 the game and the games industry (whether it be voice acting or graphical development) .
  
  ability to create and download mod maps for portal seems a likely future thus extending the life 
 of the game
  
  N. B. Though I have put the time spent playing between 20 to 40 hours the package can last a lot 
 longer, especially if you have not completed Half Life 2 and Episode 1 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somethingsaurus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  People I know say it's five games in one package -- I say one game, two expansions, and two ever-so-sexy 
 mods. That's the kind of jerk I am, I make babies cry and all-sorts.
  
  Inside the Orange Box you will find the game Half-life 2, which is an absolutely jawsome game. 
 So jawsome it earns the right to be associated with Street Sharks lingo. In addition to Half-life 
 2 you get both of the episodic expansions, Episode One and Two. But that's not all, oh no! You 
 also get Portal, and Team Fortress 2!!!
  
  -----------------------
  
  Portal is a completely stand-alone piece of sex that has nothing to do with Half-life 2 at all. 
 I still call it a mod, however, because I'm a jerk. A jerk with no friends and poor hygiene.
  
  In Portal you play as a test subject, named... I forgot, and who cares anyway. How you became 
 a test subject is unknown, I like to assume you were lured in by the offer of cake. Your goal is 
 to solve puzzles to move on to the next puzzle [OMG spoiler] and then, later, to escape the facility 
 for cake, freedom, or whatever, same thing. [/OMG spoiler]
  
  Portal is great fun and has an awesome sense of humour, if not way too easy. If you don't laugh 
 or at least smile during your play-through you're probably dead inside, or maybe a Martian. I'm 
 not saying you're bad entity, but I hear Martians hate chocolate and eat kittens and vote Green 
 Party.
  
  -----------------------
  
  Team Fortress 2 is also stand-alone, also very sexual, and I'm still a jerk for calling it a mod. 
 There's a pattern emerging about my jerk-ness, and my sexual attraction to games... it's a good 
 pattern, indeed!
  
  Team Fortress is a team-based First Person Shooter which involves a class-system, with different 
 classes to preform different roles. There are different modes of play, mostly standard with all 
 online FPS, as far as I know.
  
  Er, um... well, to be honest, I suck at Team Fortress 2. I die more often than I have sexual thoughts 
 about games, which is a lot of dying, apparently. Yet I still enjoy this game immensely, I'm sure 
 those I've teamed with disagree.
  Team Fortress, like Portal, has a sense of humour, and I like that in a game. The game felt balanced 
 to me, which is important for a class-based game. Unfortunately, for most of the time I played, 
 I felt as though it was very much solo-effort rather than a team game. I'm sure It'll be grand 
 for playing with friends, clans, and such though.
  
  I should point out I'm not much of an online-gamer, hence the sucking part. Actually I suck offline, 
 too. But that's private sucking, and none of your business, pervert.
  
  -----------------------
  
  Episode Two is a fine piece of a... Episode Two is a rather enjoyable 
 episodic-expansion to Half-Life 2, following the story on from Episode One. I don't really want 
 to mention what's going on, as it could spoil Episode One for those who have yet to play it. Which 
 isn't many, I assume.
  
  In Episode Two you'll find yourself back in the role of the quiet, handsome, and generally awesome 
 Gordon Freeman. By handsome I meant something totally different that doesn't make me look gay Y'know, 
 like rugged hero, with dreamy eyes... or something.
  But anyway, yes, Episode Two is good fun, the puzzles are no more of a challenge than the ones 
 in Half-Life 2, and often are repeat puzzles. It's definitely more about killing and story progression 
 than working your brain out.
  I really love the way you only get to see the story from Gordon's perspective through-out the series. 
 It really let's you understand how he must feel about his situation. It also leaves so much open 
 for speculation, and general madness. I really love it. I'm about to cry happy-tears.
  
  -----------------------
  
  Trying to review so much [new] content, and keep it informative 
 (JOKE) , interesting, and short enough for the tl; dr it crowd is hard work, and I failed. As such 
 here's a summary:
  
  I love the Orange Box, every bit of it. Though I already own Half-Life 2 and Episode One I think 
 it's still very much worth every penny, but would have preferred the Black Box Retail. Seeing as 
 I like to own a disk, buying the individual games via Steam isn't something that appeals to me. 
 But may do so for you... if you're crazy and burn money for fun since it's more expensive than 
 the Orange Box, you crazy money burning fools! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box have finally arrived on the Xbox 360 and PC. There is not a real difference between 
 the two versions. If you have a modern pc you going to want to save ten dollars and get it for 
 the pc. There are five games that come with toe Orbage Box. Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode One, 
 Half-Life 2 Episode Two, Team Fotress Two, and Portal. Thats alot of games for your buck. The Half-Life 
 2 series is probley the best part of the box. You are Gordon Freeman and you have been sent to 
 a City 17. Its a city thats controlled by a alien military force called the combine. You have been 
 sent to take down the combine and set earth to its normal stage. Im not going to tell you the parts 
 that goes on in the half-life series. It's better if you witness it your self. Team Fotress 2 is 
 the multiplayer part of the box. This game is not a multiplayer that hasn't been witness before 
 becuase they did something special. The graphics is fun to look at becuase it has this cartoonish 
 look in it that just make it fun. Portal is a first person strategy that is fun to play but you 
 wont be spending most of the time in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist19
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  It's completely amazing what is included in The Orange Box. Not only does it have HL2: EP.2, Team 
 Fortress 2, and Portal, but also includes the original HL2 and HL2: EP.1. I was stunned when I found 
 out how much it included, and I thought I would have to purchase HL2: EP.1 so it was a great deal 
 for me. Gaming wise this is a must for any fan of a good FPS, also great for those puzzle lovers 
 in the world because this orange box has got BOTH! All the Half-Life games in the package are great. 
 Of course you should play them in the right order to get the full feel of the game and what is 
 happening so far in the series. Of course if you already own HL2 and EP.1 then you don't have to 
 worry, but i'll get into that later. As for the other games, Portal is a great mind bender. Going 
 through the you must solve puzzles using portals. Who doesn't want to be able to shoot a portal 
 in the ceiling, than a portal at your feet and just keep on falling just cause you can. The graphics 
 are great and it's just fun jumping through portals. Sometimes it can get confusing, but after 
 playing for a couple of hours you'll be a pro. TF:2 is also a great multiplayer game. The graphics 
 aren't like what you usually see today, actually are cartoonish, but appropiate for the game play. 
 There are many classes to chose from, from an engineer to build turrets to a pyro who burns anything 
 that moves, i'm sure you'll a special someone to be in the game. So if you feel like robbing valve, 
 then The Orange Box is for you, because like i said, it's a steal. As for if you already own some 
 of the games contains, no problem, steam actually has a nifty feature where you can give the extra 
 copies of those games you already own like HL2, and give them to someone else over the Steam community. 
 In the end theirs nothing you can lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalonKarrde88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  There are few games that offer the quality that is present in each one of the games that come in 
 the Orange Box. For those that have never played any of the Half-Life games, getting all the current 
 ones is a great deal for only $50 - less than what it costs to get one iteration of the Halo series. 
 For those that have followed the chronicles of Gordon Freeman through the years, Portal, Team Fortress 
 2, and Episode 2 make it worth the money anyway.
  
  My pick of the five (or really, three) is definitely Portal - although it is short, it is deliciously 
 short - in such a way that it does not break a brilliant concept by extending it past its prime. 
 The last level leads you on a merry chase and culminates in a thrilling (and hilarious) battle, 
 followed by what are the best credits in that last five years, without a doubt. Although the first 
 time through the game isn't too hard, coming back and trying some of the advanced levels and bonus 
 challenges will try even those that consider themselves intellectual gamers. It ends, of course, 
 but it's an ending that leaves a pleasant feeling in you - almost like the aftertaste of cake, 
 if you will.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is an excellent continuation of the Half-Life series. The graphics have 
 been updated, and although they probably won't blow anyone's mind away, they don't look dated - 
 an achievement for an engine built in 2004. The storyline progresses smoothly, with its fair share 
 of tense moments and heart-pounding battles. The score is excellently done, always adding to the 
 mood rather than distracting players from the game. The finale is epic as promised, involving striders, 
 hunters, a stripped down Camero, and a lot of explosions. Although the gameplay itself hasn't changed, 
 more of a great concept is as better than a shabby new one.
  
  Finally, we have Team Fortress 2. Given the history behind Half-Life and its connection to good 
 multiplayer games (Counterstrike, Day of Defeat, Team Fortress Classic - even though they all started 
 out as mods) you should expect nothing but the best, and the best it is. While this won't tear 
 away the fans of ultrarealism that play America's Army because it's sponsored by the U. S. Army, 
 this offering of the Orange Box will pretty much tug in any other multiplayer shooter gamer. It 
 has something for everything - the sniper for those that adore Counterstrike's AWP, the Heavy for 
 those that like lugging around a machine gun, a scout for those Unreal Tournament players that 
 don't stop moving, or even the medic, for the precious few that enjoy healing others. Most importantly, 
 it mixes a lot of gameplay into a gigantic smorgasbord of fun - with unique personalities behind 
 the characters, hilarious taunts, and a nice kill cam so you always know why you died (and hopefully 
 don't repeat your mistakes) . Competitive leagues like cevo and CAL have already added it to their 
 list of games; it's a great multiplayer game because it's fun to watch and play.
  
  Given that Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 have both been reviewed numerous times, I won't do that here. 
 However, I would like to note a couple things that I don't know if too many other reviewers have 
 picked up on.
  
  The first is achievements. The replay value added to the game by adding side objectives that give 
 you achievements when you complete them is an excellent touch. Good job, you beat the game. But 
 did you take the gnome from the start of the game to the end? How about beating that level in Portal 
 with four portals instead of eleven? It's good you got that opposing sniper in 2fort, but you're 
 still a long way from getting 25 headshots, aren't you? The achievements are varied in both objective 
 and difficulty, ranging from simply completing the game to doing insane feats that require expert 
 tracking, hunting, and shooting skills. They're icing on a great cake that can double the replay 
 value of the game.
  
  The other feature of the Orange Box first debuted on the tech demo Half-Life 2: Lost Coast. It 
 was called developer commentary, and it's a great treat for anyone remotely interested in the design 
 and production of these games. In each game, the developer commentaries remark on the design of 
 the map, the technology that goes into it, and the overall production process. A varied and in 
 depth look into how games are made is not something that comes standard these days, which is why 
 it's more impressive that Valve has chosen to share with us these pearls of thought.
  
  A release like The Orange Box restores my faith in games. In an industry where the average joe 
 will shell out $50 for a few days of mediocre gameplay, The Orange Box will gives us months, at 
 the least, of excellent story, gameplay, and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Let us get one thing out of the way right away. If you have not played Half-Life 2 and Episode 
 1 yet, then by all means, go out and buy this package. It is a big compilation and the core game 
 is one of the finest first person shooters ever made. Three years after its release, Half-Life 
 2 is still an excellent game. However, I cannot believe that most of the people reading this review 
 fall into this category. If you are just looking to play one or two of the new pieces in this package, 
 then it is not worth buying. The Orange Box is bloatware at its worst. It is a transparent attempt 
 to milk more money out of fans of the Half-Life series by bundling Episode 2 with a three year 
 old game and some extras and declaring it to be a great deal. Judging by the inflated review scores 
 that I am seeing everywhere across the world and the internet, it appears to have worked. If you 
 are a newcomer to this franchise, then by all means, jump right in with this box. However, if you 
 are like me and just looking to continue the next chapter of the story, then this review is for 
 you.
  
  The Orange Box has been billed as five games in one, which is patently ridiculous. Episode 2 
 offers only four or five hours of gameplay, and Portal is a tech demo that offers a paltry two 
 hours of gameplay. The only part of the package that could stand alone as a game is Half-Life 2. 
 There is nothing else in the package that would be worth paying $20 for (except for maybe Team 
 Fortress 2 if you love multiplayer first person shooters) .
  
  It makes me scratch my head when I see everybody going crazy over a compilation pack as if it is 
 some kind of new and revolutionary idea. The Orange Box is no different from the Neverwinter Nights 
 compilation packs or the Battle Chest compilations that Blizzard publishes for games like Starcraft 
 and Diablo. When placed alongside the compilation packs that always come out for popular games, 
 there is nothing remotely special about The Orange Box. It just goes to show you what publicity, 
 hype, and advertising dollars on major review sites can do for you.
  
  The fantastic savings that this box supposedly offers you are an enigma. Episode 2 costs $30 on 
 its own. Portal costs $20. Both of these games are overpriced. Episode 2 is worth spending maybe 
 $15, and Portal is worth about $10. have played free demos that last almost as long as Portal. 
 Its only two hours long (maybe less) . Dont fall for the psychological trick that Orange Box is 
 a great deal because the overpriced individual parts will cost more to buy than the package.
  
  Its too bad that Episode 2 wasnt offered ala carte at a better price, because on its own, 
 its pretty good, albeit very short. Ditto for Portal, which is ridiculously short, but excellent 
 while it lasts. If you are a newcomer to the Half-Life 2 series, then the Orange Box is a great 
 buy. However, if you are just looking to enjoy the next chapter of Half-Life 2, then wait unil 
 the price on Steam comes down. After playing content-packed games like Bioshock and S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 this year, I cannot give The Orange Box a stronger game than a 6.5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Now I play TF2 more than anything, and I didn't really ever think that I would even try it. It 
 is so fun! This is the most fun online team based PVP game I have ever played. The graphics are 
 so cool as well as the theme. It is a lot of fun to be able to play different classes rather than 
 just a solider like in most other games like this.
  Portal is completely amazing. It is really quite revolutionary. You have to try it for yourself. 
 Finally, Episode 2 is a masterpeice like all the other Halflife games. This is a must buy package! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbranko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Not much left to say about HL2EP2 but that the HL2 series is one of the best PC computer games 
 ever... period.
  
  What really amazed me is the Portal. There is so much fun in trying to solve puzzles without actually 
 having to shoot something or somebody, and yes you can take it at a pace that suites you. Well 
 except at the end. After Tetris, Sokoban and similar it was hard to believe that there would be 
 any new ideas that will earn the classic status in the puzzle genre... and the Portal is the one. 
 One thing that I would like to see is the level editor so we can create and share our ideas. Oh 
 and yes, the end of the game reminded me of Raid Over Moscow!!! Does anyone knows what I'm talking 
 about? Boy I'm old... :D
  
  Conclusion: The Orange Box is the perfect gift for the upcomming holiday season if nothing from 
 you to yourself ;-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minus_273
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I havent even gotten into half life 2, but between team fortress and portal this is one amazing 
 collection of games. Portal is an incredibly funny, innovative and challenging game that is a serious 
 contender for game of the year. Thats not the type of thing one would expect from what is essentially 
 a student project. I got sucked into this game completely and ended up spending an entire sunday 
 afternoon finishing the game. This coming from someone who doesnt even play shooters and tends 
 to stick to JRPGS. Portal is not a twitchy game it requires thinking and careful play. That is 
 what sucked this RPG player into playing a first person game. The best way to describe portal is 
 as just the puzzles in zelda dungeons except without any enemies and an innovative new weapon. 
 I would actually love to see the portal gun type of weapon in the next zelda. I fell that it would 
 be quite at home in that game. Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all, a couple of thoughts in general about The Orange Box . It runs on new version of 
 Source engine and it has never looked better. New particles, cinematic physics, improved facial 
 animation, dynamic shadows and more. At the same time it's so amazingly optimized that even low-end 
 systems can easily handle this. There are commentaries for every new game (and Ep1) and achievements 
 which are Steam version of Xbox Live feature. It really adds to the gameplay a little bit more 
 motivation especially in multiplayer. But let's look at The Orange Box by its contents.
  
  Half-life 2
  
  What really can I say about HL2 three years after its release? It's probably 
 the best game ever made for personal computers, period. You don't need recommendation on this one 
 because it's an ultimate classic which still plays great no matter how many times you finish it.
 
  
  Half-life 2: Episode One
  
  Gameplay-wise it's even better than HL2 . The only problem is that it's very, very short and leaves 
 you desperately craving for more. Episode One is a great, intense shooter but it doesn't bring 
 much new stuff to the series. It's all about co-op with AI-controlled Alyx throughout the entire 
 game and that mechanism is surprisingly well executed. It's a game you can't miss but after you 
 finish playing it go ASAP and play Episode Two because that, that is what brings the new quality 
 to HL series.
  
  Half-life 2: Episode Two
  
  The second installment in the trilogy of sequels to HL2 . Fans have been waiting for it more than 
 a year. Waiting to find out what has happened to Gordon and Alyx after the spectacular cliffhanger 
 finale of Episode One . Without spoiling anything it turns out that somehow you managed to survive 
 the crash. Surprising, isn't it? Your new objective is to get to the White Forest but that of course 
 won't be easy. Combine forces are all after you. They deployed new deadly force which is the creature 
 called Hunter. Except Hunter there a few new enemies worth mentioning and one of then is antlion 
 worker. Quite a nasty monster and a very intelligent one. Again there are no new weapons but the 
 current arsenal is really all you need. There is however one kind of weapon that you can use with 
 your gravity gun and I'm talking about strider buster which is great fun. There is also new car 
 and couple of riding sequences which are in fact more interesting that those from HL2. For me Half-life 
 has always been a combination of great, intense gameplay with outstanding storyline, and that's 
 what Episode Two can bu summed up with. It features some of the best fights in the series at the 
 same time delivering absolutely enthralling story with a shocking ending. If you're looking for 
 the best oh my God moment of the year just play Episode Two . It's the best installment in HL series 
 to date and one hell of a teaser of what's to come in Episode Three .
  
  Portal
  
  This is quite a strange game. It starts like a little innocent title and ends like a grand masterpiece 
 (sort of) . You take control of quite attractive young woman Chell. You wake up in a strange place 
 and basically your goal is to go through sequence of 19 test chambers with use of Aperture Science 
 Handheld Portal Device also referred to as portal gun. The only other character that you will have 
 any contact with is GLaDOS, an AI entity. So, Portal is a puzzle game where you can create two 
 portals one being the entrance and the second one being the exit. It's up to you what you're gonna 
 do with it. The game is better than I expected it to be. It's totally hilarious. It's probably 
 the funniest thing I've seen in a long time. That would be enough reason to play it but of course 
 there's more. Core of the game are all these mind bending puzzles but after beating the main game 
 you unlock advanced maps, and you may take challenges. Like in all three new games in The Orange 
 Box compilation there is also commentary feature and achievements to unlock. There is also an option 
 to import custom maps, so it turns out that Portal although fairly short, has a lot of replay value. 
 Just play it, you will love it.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  After nine years of development hell Valve finally released their sequel to the grand daddy of 
 team-based multiplayer games Team Fortress . Expectations of the TF community were obviously very 
 high but personally I have never played the original TF so I won't be comparing these two games 
 with each other. Actually I was never really into team-based mp games so I wasn't necessarily excited 
 when Valve announced that TF2 will be a multiplayer component for The Orange Box . Well, now after 
 playing it for some time I'm totally addicted. There are nine classes in the game and currently 
 three game modes: capture the flag, or rather should be capture the intelligence because that is 
 what players of both teams are after; control point; and territorial control. There are only six 
 maps but that's fine for now, all of them are very well designed and play great. Classes are well 
 balanced with their advantages and disadvantages and there's something for every gamestyle that 
 one prefers. Cartoonish graphics with great art style fit the game perfectly. This is the best 
 online mp shooter I've ever played, no matter if it's Counter-Strike , no matter if it's Unreal 
 Tournament , you name it, Team Fortress 2 beats them all. This game alone is worth this fifty bucks 
 that Valve wants for the entire Orange Box so grab your copy and play it immediately.
  
  Peggle Extreme
  
  A nice little bonus. The Orange Box themed 10-level edition of PopCap Games' 
 Peggle Deluxe is a fun game to play between a session in TF2, busting striders in Ep2 and solving 
 puzzles in Portal . It's nothing that much special, just a little addition to show you how much 
 fun you can get with Peggle Deluxe .
  
  
  So, concluding, The Orange Box contains two classics HL2 and Ep1 , Episode Two - an instant game 
 of the year, Portal - something you've never experienced before on your PC... nor Xbox360 I'm sure, 
 and Team Fortress 2 - multiplayer game that will steal your private life. Don't hesitate, just 
 buy it right away, it's worth spending your last cent, penny or whatever currency you have in your 
 country, because you don't pay for just a video game, you pay for great value and an outstanding 
 achievement in not just games but entertainment generally and perhaps should I say... in art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adele1476
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game and I would highly recommend it. I would like to add a word of warning 
 about this though.
  The game installs through the steam network, for those of you that don''t know what this is it 
 is an online system that means that you need to be connected to the internet to install the game, 
 from all the reviews I have seen if this is mentioned then it is not made clearly enough for people, 
 which is why I am giving the warning now.
  Once the games have installed and you have waited for all five games to install to 100% then you 
 don't for normal gameplay need to be logged onto the internet.
  Once the games have installed then you can play as normal, I thought I would mention this though 
 as if you haven't got an internet connection then unfortunately this game would be useless to you. 
 It does mention this on the back of the box but in all honesty how many people scrutinise this 
 before they buy a game.
  Read the other reviews though for how good the actual games are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerith65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  It is without any hesitation that I can say that Half-Life 2 is one of the greatest games of all 
 time. But what makes Orange Box so great? Is it just another game packing things together to get 
 people to buy it? Or is it actually worth getting?
  
  These questions are all easily answerable. But it doesn't take somebody explaining it to get the 
 point across. All these games in this collection speak for themselves, and quite loudly.
  
  Lets start with Half-Life 2 (HL2) . HL2 won over 35 awards for best game of the year and more.. 
 completely dominating anything that came out back in 2004. Rightly so, it deserves the appraise 
 it has been given. The gameplay is smooth and feels just right. The animations and voice overs 
 flow nicely, and the story does a good job at getting you involved in the overall story. The Combine 
 are an alien race controlling the planet. The people of earth have been put into refugee camps 
 and forced to work. You are Gordan Freeman, a scientist who is eventually wrapped up into the massive 
 plot. On your journey's you'll meet lots of key characters who's actions push the story in certain 
 directions. Alyx Vance, Dr. Kleiner, and Eli. These are the 3 main characters giving you your main 
 objectives throughout the game. The story follows a pretty linear path, most locations, especially 
 ones inside, usually consist of one path through a specific building and a variety of puzzles throughout. 
 Outdoor areas are probably going to be more favorable to people who like open-ended places. The 
 outside locales are usually pretty big with multiple ways of getting to the end and progressing 
 to the next part of the story. You'll plow your way through tons of enemies with all the standards 
 of guns, shotguns, pistols, automatic weapons, nothing you haven't seen before. The main attraction 
 of this game is once you get a few hours in and are rewarded with the Zero-Point Energy Field Manipulator 
 AKA: The Gravity gun. You can essentially play the entire game just lifting things up and using 
 them as weapons. All this type of gameplay continues until the end of the story. Saying that doesn't 
 make the story or gameplay any less exciting, albeit the story does end dramatically, and not to 
 mention at the worst moment, leaving it abruptly open for the sequels. It could probably win the 
 award for best cliffhanger too. You can only complain so much about that now though, what with 
 having the next two parts at your disposal immediately following the first game because of The 
 Orange Box. Episode 1 starts exactly where Half-Life 2 left you hanging, same with Episode 2 with 
 1. Episode 1 Continues your travels as Gordon Freeman with Alyx Vance. Your whole objective of 
 this episode is to shut down control of the citadel, the massive tower you can see throughout you 
 journey in Half-Life 2, also the main base of the Combine forces. You'll complete many different 
 objectives and even meet up with rebellion forces, and get to do a lot of Combine ass kicking. 
 At the ending we are yet again left with another cliff hanger. These cliff hangers are pretty bad.. 
 stopping at major plot points that you've worked so hard to get to. But thats okay again because 
 you have orange box and can jump right into the next episode. Episode 2 is probably the strongest 
 single-player asset to the orange box compilation. As it has the most story-driven experience, 
 and by now your attachment to the characters is probably at it's peak. Still with Alyx Vance, you're 
 objectives remain to seek safety with friendly faces and help them, also to seek a way in destroying 
 the Combine super portal from the rift created from the huge explosion. Episode 2 is the best the 
 half-life series has ever been. The progression of the story seems perfect, and the events and 
 puzzles don't seem at all tedious.. that is unless you've been playing the entire series straight. 
 Which I did, in one weekend. This Episode focuses more on action then puzzles though. There's also 
 a lot of traveling by car. It gives you a real sense of the destruction cause by the alien forces. 
 It's also good to see a new change in scenery. The forest details are amazing. It's fun to get 
 out of the destroyed city look, and into something different.
  
  Now Portal. Portal is.. well.. if I said it was an add on I wouldn't be giving it enough credit. 
 Portal is truly an amazing game. The game is hilarious, which is very rare to find in games, and 
 completely unique. Nothing has ever been done like this before, but it's been done here, and it's 
 been done right. The whole objective is to complete Floors or tests. Each floor has different puzzles 
 to complete, and at the end of it all you'll find another elevator to the next floor and puzzles. 
 But the entire game is based upon physics and portals. Using your gun you can create a blue with 
 left click, and an orange with right. You have to use both for the functions of the portals to 
 work.. and when you do you can walk right through one, out the other. It's quite a mind-boggling 
 experience at times. You'll find that sometimes you can feel like quite an idiot after you've found 
 out what to do, which makes for some good laughs.... or frustrations. If this game wasn't included 
 in the package, I would still insist paying full price for this game.. thats how innovative and 
 good it actually is.
  
  Finally we come to the multiplayer aspect of the package. Team-Fortress 2 is probably the main 
 attractor for some. It's the next big Multiplayer game from the people who bring you Counter-Strike 
 and Day of Defeat. This time, you pick a specific class from a list, granting you their special 
 abilities. The game forces you to work more as a team because each class is specialized in only 
 one thing.. making the idea of one man army completely inane. The game caters to your playing style 
 because you can choose whatever you want to play as at the time. If your style of play changes, 
 then you can easily just switch classes at the press of a button, and spawn again to continue the 
 fight. IF you're a CS Fan this game can play a lot like it if you want it to, you can easily just 
 pick soldier or sniper from the class list and plow your way through opponents. Or for the metal-gear 
 or splinter cell fans.. you can choose spy and sneak behind enemy lines disguised as the opposing 
 team members, and take them out with a backstab or sabotage their electronic devices and turrets. 
 The game is flexible, and will definitely have a class for everyones playing style. All in all 
 the Orange Box is a fantastic compilation of games. It has something for anyone remotely interested 
 in any First Person Shooting games, and you should definitely own this great package. Especially 
 If you don't own any of the Half-life series. Pick this game up and give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2upmoon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all, getting 5 games for the price is extremely worth it. That should be enough right 
 there for you to purchase the game. Half Life 2: Episode Two is an amazing addition to the half 
 life series and although they said it would take longer to beat than the last one, i beat it all 
 the way through in 4 and a half hours. Regardless, it was a great game. Portal is revolutionary 
 and a great test for your mind. Team Fortress 2 is a hoot with a not so different feel than Team 
 Fortress Classic. Its almost as though your playing the exact same game just a little souped up. 
 Team Fortress 2 was not really worth the hype but I was glad it came with the Orange Box. I wish 
 my friends weren't cheapskates and they would buy the game but they wont so its not so much fun 
 to play online all the time anymore with people you dont know because there is not much to brag 
 about. Oh well! The Orange Box is an awesome addition to my collection and the only game I would 
 trade it for is Super Smash Brothers Brawl for the Wii. So that is saying something! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoylentGreen183
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Let me first say that I play a lot of game, a lot. I found Episode 2 to be very boring. Maybe it 
 is just me, but I'm so bored with the series in general. HL2 and each episode are just the same 
 thing over and over. TF2 isn't so bad, but multi-player frag fests bore me. Most of the time the 
 experience is just a bunch of people running around with little to no organization.
  
  Portal on the other hand was new, interesting, and most of all fun. If there was an award for best 
 end-game credits Portal would win hands down; if only Portal lasted longer than a few hours.
  
  I know there are a lot of HL fans out there, clearly gamespot is one of them, but my personal 
 opinion is that your money would be better spent on Jericho, or Hellgate London (the beta - not 
 the demo - was awesome) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazziey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well The Orange Box is out in AUS and who doesnt have it? It's one of the best games and its the 
 best deal in videogame history it's the complete package with HL2, HL2 Episode 1 and the latest 
 additon in Episode 2. There is also TF2 a multiplayer based shooter and Portal a puzzle fps game. 
 Seriously you'll never grow tired of it theres always something to do whether its shooting up some 
 bad dudes in Half Life or capturing the enemys intel in TF2. It also comes with peggle extreme 
 which is a puzzle game and half life 2 :lost coast which is a 15minute tech demo. I strongly recommend 
 this to anyone that likes FPS or is a HL fan. This is clearly this best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vance_009
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  With New games that require so much of your pc it's; hard for the avgerage pc gamer to find a new 
 good game. I must say if you do not have a pc to run a game like Crysis the Orange Box is for you.
 
  
  If you are one out out of five who don't have Half Life 2 for what ever reason why; this is the 
 time to pick it up. Half life 2 is just not one game you have the two other new gameplayt items 
 with it. Also if you are like me that likes Half live but do not want to spend $20 for five hours 
 of gameplay. this is also a good way to see what is going on.
  
  The first true of the three; Half Life 2 was made in 2004 and it shows. The good is your pc can 
 run it; the bad is it's not going to look is good as new games today. What is lacks in video it 
 makes up in gameplay and sound. The physic in this game is more then a rag-doll to other games. 
 the voice overs is just like a movie and the music is something to help you in battle. Overall 
 Half life 2 is a good 20 hours of gameplay and a game you will not forget.
  
  The counterparts ep: 1 and ep: 2 are short but is good with the story. EP: 1 is all leading up 
 to ep: 2 so their is not as much gameplay more story. You can say that Ep: 1 is like a first chapter 
 of a book. do not expect alot of action. Ep: 2 is all about action; to the first hunter, to the 
 last stryder. it is still short compare to Half Life 2 but the two games as one will give you about 
 10 hours of gameplay.
  
  TF:2 is the multplayer of the Orange box and I must say its fun to past the time with. But what 
 kills it is the lack of maps and the maps that is in the game play out the same way. After time 
 you could play the maps bilnd.
  
  Portal is a short little puzzle game that will mess with your brain, in a good way. the things 
 that you half to do is smiple but takes a little brain power to do. Overall it is a little getaway 
 from will the First Person Shouters in this box.
  
  Over all three game is something that is a good way for a old pc to have some life into it. I must 
 say with my old pc and now moving more to Xbox 360 ; this is a good game for the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipershot527
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The orange box features everything you could want for shooting games in one handy box. With all 
 three half life 2 games, There are hours and hours of game play with improved graphics and functionality. 
 Put in the new Team Fortress it adds a multi player aspect that is excellent. With it's cartoony 
 off the wall but still amazing graphics and extremely addictive game play it adds a whole new aspect 
 to the half life 2 games in general. Then there is portal, an all new game from half life 2. Although 
 it is technically a puzzle game, the whole thing is done like a FPS. I have never played anything 
 like it before and personally i liked this game the best out of all of them. The puzzles and scenarios 
 were increasingly difficult through the game and even the story line was kinda fun to get into. 
 With an added dash of comedy it just made for a very spectacular game to add to the mix and top 
 the whole thing off. Even though i think it was pretty much supposed to be just a bonus i thought 
 it was the most fun. All together the orange box is a fantastic buy that no PC gamer should pass 
 up. It had everything a FPS player would want and more. It exceeded my expectations in every way 
 and with the great replay value I'm sure I will be playing it at least on and off for a very very 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikalai_88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  What I don't get is why the Orange Box is being proclaimed like some sort of amazing value pack. 
 Yes there is Half-Life 2 that clocks in at about 15 hours but it is hard to be a PC gamer and not 
 have played it. You could gift it, but the only people that I know who have, again, not played 
 it are the ones with non gaming computers that are four years old and will probably have to run 
 it on low, in 640x480 with 20fps.
  
  For me what came with it was Episode 1 (4 hours) , Episode 2 (5 hours) and Portal (3 hours) In total 
 there is about 12 hours of SP that I have not played through already (until I bought it) . There 
 is also a multiplayer component in Team Fortress 2 wich comes with six maps and two game types. 
 All this to me; the 12 hours single player and the multiplayer component, are what I would expect 
 in an FPS game and don't view it as some amazing value when it is very standard.
  
  What makes the value seem good is that all these things together are cheaper than you can buy through 
 Steam and that you get a
  lot of little things that are big enough to be consider their own (small) games with different 
 playstyles giving you variety but not necessary value.
  
  Other than that I think the games are great, especially Portal and Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacticalShado
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I want to tell everyone that even if your not a fan of Valve and the Half-Life series, 
 this game is still a great deal. Now with the orange box you get three games and two expansions. 
 The expansions themselves should really be game but for fact they are expansions.
  
  Now the first game that you should really play is Half-Life 2. Again some people dislike the series 
 but it is an intriguing game. Half-Life started out with its first game which was not as good as 
 people had hoped for. Then Half-Life 2 came out which was one of the greatest games made by Valve. 
 In itself, Half-Life 2 can be a long game that has a lot of fun packed all in one disc. That game 
 can keep you occupied for many hours to come. The expansions just make it better and better. They 
 help the story line go more in depth and improve the graphics with each expansion. Overall Half-life 
 2 and the expansions are reason enough to get this game.
  
  After you are done with your Half-Life cravings, you can work your mind by playing Portal. Portal 
 is just the game that shows the humor of Valve along with the crazy side. Portal is a very short 
 game in which you can beat it in about 3-4 hours depending how fast you pick it up. It is a much 
 more difficult puzzle game than people think. However, even though it being short, you can definitely 
 have a blast with it. Through out the game there are many challenges that will often stump you 
 and maybe even frustrate you. Even after you beat the game there are more missions you can do that 
 have a harder range of difficulties. This game is an excellent bonus to The Orange Box.
  
  Finally we have Team Fortress 2. The game is the sequel the Team Fortress if you haven't already 
 figured that out. Team Fortress 2 is a huge multi-player game with loads of options to choose from. 
 You have an array of different classes to choose from such as Medic, Scout, Spy, Heavy, Demo man, 
 Engineer, Solider, etc. These classes are just a few to name while there are many more to find 
 out about. However with such heavy packed graphical game in The Orange Box, some people may exclude 
 Team Fortress 2 from their graphics collection. It is a shell shaded game that is still intriguing. 
 Despite the graphics, this game is a heavy multi-player based game so be prepared to help your 
 team and rely on them. It is just the game to keep you occupied till the end of November or till 
 you start planing your Holiday presents.
  
  The Orange Box is a great value pack that has many exciting games to play. The games you get with 
 this are just hard to top. It is a great addition to any PC Gamer's arsenal of games. Even if you 
 are not a fan of Valve and their series, you should at least look into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  So the most complete HL collection has finally come and it ROCKS!! Portal, the shortest single 
 player from The Orange Box is kind of weird, but very interesting and surely will use your brain 
 a little :) So, yeah it requires a litler more resources than HL2 and Ep1, but the thing with HL 
 is that you have your console and set it to work on some lower parameters too :) For more info 
 about that, visit the forums. It wouldn't have worked on mine if i hadn't heard about that sollution, 
 and it was very annoying cause HL2 and Ep1 worked fine. Anyway, the story in Ep2 is really interesting 
 and you can get quite dragged into it. It's the most thrilling HL up to date. It's short, but not 
 as short as Ep1 so it's a good thing, but contextual it's better than HL2 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stuart_019
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I couldnt wait for this to come out but i completed within a day (only ep2 as i played the others 
 when they came out) but it was worth it and now playing it with the developers comments. Portals 
 i didnt think there was a storyline to it as i had read that it was only a puzzle sovling game 
 but you really have to think out side the box to get though some of the levels in a way you didnt 
 think was possable at first glance. TF2 its an ok game havent played it much but looks to be just 
 a get together and nothing more but thats how i feel about it but i do admit BUY this game pc,360 
 or PS3 just buy it and be glad to have something that won awards everytime they brought out a new 
 halflife.
  
  Scorpion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Yeah. Buy it now.
  
  Ep 2 - loads of good scenes, plot and character development, departure from indoor environments. 
 Portal - you have a gun that shoots portals! funny too. Bit short. TF2 - you can be a fat russian 
 with a large gun who shouts 'cry some moar' or if you are an Australian sniper you can say 'thanks 
 for standing still wanker'. Pwnage.
  
  
  And with Half life 2 and episode 1, you are getting 2 other games so you know whats going on.
 
  
  This is probably one of the best games ever. Oh, and you might be put off by STEAM, Valve's distribution 
 system.
  DON'T BE! In its first year, yes, it was buggy and crashy, but now its pretty much perfect. Good 
 server browser, you can buy your games off it, and best of all it will update your games without 
 you having to go to a website, trying to download a large file which ends up being corrupted... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  HL2: Episode 2 is the game I was most looking forward to in the orange box, I wanted more of the 
 characters and more of the existing solid gameplay. I was satisfied in all areas, mostly in the 
 action part of things. A few sequences, notably with the Antlions seemed influenced by the elevator 
 sequence in episode 1. Alyx is back and sticks around with you for a fair bit of the game, she 
 behaves much like in Episode 1 but it seemed far less intimate between you and her as the game 
 doesnt feature the dark areas seen in the last episode. The game introduces a few new enemies. 
 The Hunter is an annoying son of a, hes fast, packs a mean and visually distracting attack and 
 takes a serious beating, its best to use heavy objects against this guy. Acid spitting Antlions 
 offer a different spin in the Antlion caves, they will actively try to keep a distance between 
 you and them, moving back, flying away and harassing you. The grubs in the caves are not enemies 
 but they provide health when stepped on or shot. Parts of the game with you and Alyx driving could 
 be similar to Highway 17 only it feels much more compact. Vortigaunts underwent a pretty nice upgrade, 
 they now appear very leathery and clearly the most updated of all the characters although some 
 others get nice tweaks. The gameplay is much the same as in the previous games, only its a combination 
 of what we saw in Episode 1 and HL2 to spice it up. G-man returns and reveals a bit more during 
 one dramatic sequence that I wont spoil. Magnusson is the best character in this episode with 
 much use of sarcasm and even mentions the microwave incident. Barney however is absent and not 
 even mentioned, but is said to return. The game manages pacing well as usual, it has a few simple 
 puzzles and it reveals a bit about the story that Im sure we will see more of in episode 3. The 
 game ends the most dramatically of all the Half-Life games, so dont miss it.
  
  Portal is a simple game, but its a confusing trip. Two portals that are linked can be placed on 
 surfaces to enable one to navigate a huge rat maze of puzzles. You are gently guided though various 
 moves that you can use later on in more complex ways, the last few of the normal puzzles are lengthy. 
 The advanced maps are really tough, changing the originals to really get you thinking. The challenge 
 maps entice you to complete the same puzzles in the least time, least steps or least portals. This 
 section I found challenging most of all, trying to complete long puzzles in barely a few steps 
 was just too frustrating for me. Luckily the game saves often, when you do a short sequence it 
 will save after jumps rather than making you repeat whole puzzles. The game isnt as sterile as 
 it sounds, the nice little turrets talk to you and the announcer lady makes many jokes. It might 
 sound weird but this game has a very good ending, perhaps because I was expecting just a series 
 of puzzles. After the end you get a very funny song that makes it worth completing.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the final new game in this pack but this one is all multiplayer. The basic classes 
 and concepts are retained from TFC and the previous fortress games. Many features have been cut, 
 some classes are dramatically different in function. There are no grenades apart from the demoman, 
 and this actually helps the gameplay from become a nade spam fest. The medic is now much less offensive 
 in battle, hes a support class to heal others and with enough healing he, and his healee, become 
 invincible for a short time. The spy is downright annoying as not only can he disguise, he can 
 go invisible for a short. The scout is a deadly close combat character, but he can only take so 
 much damage. The game only ships with six maps, but its not a really bad thing as one behaves quite 
 differently each time. I would have preferred more ctf maps, but control point maps arent as bad 
 as they sound. Valve will release more maps in the future, it will probably be up to 10 this time 
 next year. The most important thing to note about this game is how the game was designed to be 
 funny. The taunts, the live commentary by the characters as they observe various things, the gibs 
 and the announcers attitude all keep the funny style of TFC but greatly extend it so you can have 
 fun even when you lose. Im not a huge fan of critical hits, but they are probably included to 
 help new players a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Whereas most gaming compilations these days consist of nothing but arcade-era classics, a single 
 package whose oldest game was released in 2004 is an anomaly in the 2007 market. Consider that 
 three entirely new, unreleased products come with that instant classic, and the asking price of 
 $60 is almost too good to be true. Non-believers be damned: The Orange Box offers more first-person 
 shooter goodness than most people will know what to do with, especially if theyre new to the excellent 
 Half-Life 2 series.
  
  The feature attractions of the package are Valves coup de gr&acirc; ce of the FPS genre: Half-Life 
 2 and its two expansions Episode One and Episode Two (the latter of which was previously unreleased) . 
 Between the three games, the entire up-to-date Half-Life 2 saga could take up to 25 hours to complete.
 
  
  Despite showing its graphical age, Half-Life 2 still provides more compelling narrative, characters, 
 and atmosphere than even the most recent shooters. At times unnerving and almost always believable, 
 the burnt-out world of Half-Life 2 must be liberated from the grip of the other-worldly Combine 
 army and a host of mutated alien creatures.
  
  Shooters typically dont incorporate much puzzle solving, but Half-Life 2 has built its reputation 
 on it. The difficulty of the puzzles ranges from piece-of-cake to so frustrating that players may 
 surrender altogether and consult on online guide just to progress. Sometimes, the solutions to 
 the puzzles are communicated through the environment, though the effectiveness of such hints is 
 usually suspect. As a result, completing a puzzle doesnt create a sense of accomplishment, but 
 one of relief; nearly half of the game consists of puzzle-solving sections, so bouts of frustration 
 are bound to ensue.
  
  Its physics engine, while mostly pre-scripted when required to solve environmental puzzles, allows 
 players to get creative with the world around them. Manipulating the world around Freeman becomes 
 a cinch with the gravity gun, a weapon that uses anything not already bolted to the floor as ammo. 
 Theoretically, once Freeman acquires the gravity gun, players can win firefights without using 
 any of the otherwise conventional weaponry (pistols, shotguns, etc.) .
  
  The non-shooter portion of the package, Portal, is tough to describe, yet effortless to proclaim 
 its excellence. Here, players control only one weapon: a gun that can create two portals (entry 
 and exit) on surfaces. The entire game is a series timing and momentum-based puzzles, though all 
 of them can be completed in as little as 3 hours depending on how quickly players figure them out.
 
  
  The most surprising aspect of Portal, and the one that makes the experience so memorable, is the 
 writing. While the player controls a human test subject, an AI-controlled announcer informs the 
 player of such useful bits of information as the device being more valuable than the organs and 
 combined incomes of everyone in her hometown and Android Hell being a real place. The dialogue 
 is hilarious nonsense, and it says something about other games that try to be funny that this tiny 
 puzzle game provides more genuine humor than most games can dream of.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer component of the compilation, Team Fortress 2, is so addicting and fun 
 that it could have been sold separately at the same asking price for the entire Orange Box. Its 
 class-based, so each class has unique weapons and attributes catered to certain roles. Engineers 
 build auto-turrets for defense, Spies disguise as the enemy for backstabs, Pyros ambush groups 
 of enemies with the flamethrower, Scouts outrun enemy fire to reach objective points the list 
 goes on. The only types of goals here involve capturing intelligence (flag) and control points, 
 forcing players to work cohesively and making TF2 live up to its name.
  
  While numerous multiplayer shooters offer fake intergalactic bloodsport premises or feint ties 
 to the single player story, TF2 revels in the never-ending conflict of red team vs. blue team by 
 injecting silliness and humor into the action. Pixar films like The Incredibles clearly inspired 
 the graphical style, with humorous sound bytes and music to match. Each class is its own stylized 
 caricature: Medic = German mad scientist, Sniper = Aussie outback hunter, and Demoman = drunken 
 Scotsman, just to name a few. Words dont do the game justice; its almost impossible not to crack 
 a smile while watching Valves Meet the ______ trailers, much less while playing the game itself.
 
  
  Each version of Orange Box is a steal regardless of platform, but those with capable PCs will have 
 access to the preferred version. With the 360 version, Half-Life 2 sports improved lighting, but 
 each game runs at a locked 30 frames-per-second, and Team Fortress 2 only supports 16 players instead 
 of 24. Also, TF2 currently suffers from severe lag issues on Xbox Live and comes with just the 
 6 official maps from Valve.
  
  However, 360 owners who have yet to experience Half-Life 2 no longer have any excuses and should 
 pick up Orange Box ASAP. Valve has offered all forms of shooter fans the most high-quality gaming 
 that $60 can buy. Its almost unfair to other developers who cant even hope to compete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all, no, these games are not at all total crap if you'd assume that from reading the little 
 intro, but they are highly overrated nonetheless.
  
  There's a small catch to this though. I am writing this review from the perspective of already 
 owning Episode 1 and Half-life 2. Still, that doesn't cover the entire gap between my review and 
 Gamespot's when it comes to score.
  
  Yes, 50$ doesn't seem that much for this box, but without Half-life 2 and Episode 1 it would probably 
 cost the same. In fact, just go to the Steam shop and find out for yourself that these games are 
 more expensive when you buy them separately. So yeah, people with Half-life 2 and Episode 1 will 
 most likely end up having 2 copies if they're clever . Which still kinda feels like getting screwed 
 no matter which way you turn it... I also desperately wonder why all the magazines out there don't 
 review these games as separate games. Because really ... they are all separate games, except for 
 maybe Half-life 2 and Episode 1, but hey.. aren't those games reviewed already???? Yeah, thought 
 so. Episode 2 is new, so I can see why one would want to review that one. I can't see why nobody 
 is reviewing the game as the 5-hour stand-alone that it's actually is... Yes, the Half-life2 story 
 goes on, but don't all expansions get a separate review over here? Even the 'short' ones? 5 hours 
 is longer than Episode 1 and that one got a separate review, so why not these games.
  
  Anyways, my first impression with this box is really good. Except for Half-life 2 and Episode 1, 
 which I already own and do not consider a very valuable addition since I've already played them, 
 it's not likely this box will give you a lot of playtime though. Half-life 2 Episode 2 is still 
 a very short expansion with just over 5 hours of playtime, Portal is about 3 hours, perhaps a bit 
 more if you're having difficulties with some puzzles, but effective playtime won't be long for 
 sure. Team Fortress 2, albeit a multiplayer game, has the same problem. You don't get many maps 
 to play on and there are many other games waiting to be released that are ten-times more worthy 
 of your money offering much more game modes, more levels and generally just more and better things. 
 The stylized look of TF2 may be a let down for some too, I personally didn't care too much since 
 it's looking funny and acceptable, but it's also pretty evident that the Half-life2 engine isn't 
 all that up to date anymore... same goes for Episode 2, even in DX10 mode. Don't expect a revamp 
 in graphics in the original Half-life 2 either.. or at least, you won't really notice it.
  
  All in all, Episode 2 does a good job at continuing the story and gives you generally just 
 more of the same within the Half-life universe, but it does lack the wow-factor Half-life 2 once 
 had. This mostly has to do with the fact that it plays just like Half-life 2 adding no new weapons 
 or gameplay related things at all. You do encounter some new enemies, but nothing to get too excited 
 about. Most of it.. you've probably already seen, but in a different form. So yeah, Episode 2 really 
 lacks when it comes to innovation and new stuff. It does do a better job at giving physics-based 
 puzzles and there will be more of them too, but with a playtime of little over 5 hours it's not 
 the best value for money, not even in the Orange Box with 'the others'.
  
  Portal is a really cool game, but only because of the portal gameplay. Spawning portals and figuring 
 out a puzzle is very satisfying, but the levels are horrible. Way too sterile and not at all very 
 exciting to look at. The later levels are better, but still. This game won't impress you with it's 
 play time either, as I've mentioned before it's close to 3 hours or so granted you've got some 
 brains. ;) Don't worry though, most of the puzzles aren't really that hard and sometimes you've 
 just have to try different things out, especially the first few puzzles when you're still in the 
 getting used to-phase.
  
  Well, I've got to wrap this up, since I can't write about this forever. But really... if magazines 
 would have the guts to review these games separately, there's no way they would have given 90+ 
 scores. These games aren't bad, but putting mediocre to good games in one box doesn't make them 
 excellent all of a sudden. Again... Gamespot and co. shouldn't review this as if it's one product. 
 A different team worked of each of these games, two of them are expansions and one isn't even situated 
 in the Half-life universe.
  
  Doesn't make much sense to me.
  
  Playtime is mediocre and graphics are showing signs of age, not just the look of things, but we've 
 seen better animations in other games by now. If you don't own any of these games, I'd still say 
 this product isn't worth more than 80 in score, but it would be worth it's money in that case. 
 In my case it definitely isn't worth the money though. Knowing there are a lot of people who already 
 own Half-life 2, I'd say, pick you're favorite and buy it separately. Episode 2 would be a good 
 choice in my humble opinion, because it's probably the most entertaining of this box.... eventhough 
 it's more of the same. Team Fortress 2 isn't a great game when it comes to balance by the way, 
 so I wouldn't recommend that one that much just yet and total amount of maps is downright insulting.
 
  
  By the way, I often read people saying : The Orange Box gives you 5 games for the price of one. 
 Actually, this is not true. It gives you 1 game and a couple of extras. Both Portal and Team Fortress 
 2 can't be consider full games at all considering both what they offer in content as what they 
 offer in gameplay time. Team Fortress 2 isn't a game that will get you hooked and makes you spend 
 hours and hours on the servers either.
  
  I can see why Valve is putting all of this in one box... probably because it simply wouldn't sell 
 nearly that much if all those products were sold and reviewed separately only. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksparow
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  FH SJKLJNGSERJBM IPSRJ JDNGJO SEAR KLZDGIO SJKBO [ASR IKPZDj GIPSJKVBOPSDJ GIPzsdm OPG JzsdopG JKSDL; GJASEOPGJK 
 AWERPGJK OPGJK SEOPGJ OPEGJ OPAWJ GAOPFJ OPAWJFOPawJ FAWJ FAWPJ FOPAWJK FOPAJK FGO [AWEK ] O [TGWOPGJ 
 ERUIGH AWEOPIGE4UGSEJGIOSEGIASE UOPWE FGIPWEYHGWEJ IOAWEJFGOP EQWJ OIQjop t DRLGEROJG KPERJERIO 
 JDTIOUJ HIODRJ HIODRJ GIPERJG IOPWJGIOWEJGIOEJGRJG ASE JKGIOWEJG WEIJHGIOKE SJIOT GJWEIOPGJ SEIOGJ 
 IOSGJ IOSEGH IOSEGUISERJH GUIORJHGIO DRH GIO JGUIO SRHGUIOP IOGSDRUIOG HSERIOGH UOER JHGIOPAERH 
 GIOSEH GUIOEIOEH IOSEJH GU SEHGIOSEH G HSEIOGH SEUIOGHIOASERYTGU9AWEYFG HASERUIGH UIG89ERY TJ GSEUI 
 GHUOSEGH UOSEGH UIOPEHG UOSEH GUI SHRGUOSEH UOGSEH UGHSEU GHSEUIGH SEUGH UIEH GIODRJHIOSUJHJ IOSDTJ 
 HIOSDJHIO O HUIORH JRAIOG JARIOG HASRGH UIAERH GUIOERH GIOARJ DIO ADRIOJ G MSBNGJKDRGIODRJ GHIODJRTHIODR 
 UIASDRHUIFG HASEGH HG FG UI QW4GEWEG JIOG IOERGJ AERI GIOPAWHFGIOEHGIOASEH GIODRJH IOPERJH IOPDRJH 
 GHIORAEJH IOASDRJ HIO ADRJHIO JRIO GHJRIORJO GRUIO HERJ H 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McPwned
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, since there are three new games, this shall be a three-part review. And the bonus of Half-Life 
 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode 1 earns it a couple extra points. GO TEAM VENTURE!
  
  1) Half-Life 2: Episode 2 [Score: 88]
  
  Now, maybe it was the delays leading to a rather long 
 time spent waiting for this game, or some other unthought-of factor, but Episode 2 just didn't 
 meet my expectations. The level design and plot felt distinctly like Half-Life, but gameplay was 
 just not as exciting as HL2 or Episode 1. And the ending really bugged me, too - it was far too 
 abrupt, compared to HL2 (even though it ended literally mid-explosion) or Episode 1's. The reason 
 for this was the lack of feeling that I had accomplished a big task (like preventing Administrator 
 Breen's escape or getting the hell out of City 17 after retrieving super-secret Combine data) . 
 Sure, I had protected a missile that stopped the annihilation of the human race, but the [INSERT 
 MAJOR PLOT SPOILER HERE THAT MAY OR MAY NOT INVOLVE SOMETHING MAJOR] at the end felt like any catharsis 
 I had previously, was stolen away. At any rate, the game was fun, but not fun enough to warrant 
 the wait.
  
  2) Team Fortress 2 [Score: 94]
  
  The granddaddy of class-based FPS's is back! Or, so I've been told. I have never actually played 
 the original Team Fortress. Regardless, this is the FPS I have been waiting for. Why? It combines 
 unique classes (from the minigun-wielding heavy to the turret-building engineer) , no-nonsense gameplay 
 (there are no real unfair tactics or classes, unlike in, say, Battlefield 2 *cough* grenade launchers 
 *cough*) , and enough variety in all aspects to keep the game going for some time. The number of 
 maps is somewhat limited for now, so I hope more are released eventually. This game is definitely 
 worth a look by any fan of the FPS.
  
  3) Portal [Score: 95]
  
  Easily the funniest game I have ever played, and one of the most fun puzzlers. Go out and buy this. 
 No, I'm not even kidding. Either buy the whole Orange Box or download Portal off Steam. What are 
 you waiting for? Do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I loved HalfLife 2 and played it several times. But Episode 1 was way too short and re-used lots 
 of textures from the original game. Episode 2 is a bit better but it STILL feels like a rehash 
 of Half-Life 2. Valve calling it an episode doesnt excuse the utter sameness of the gameplay. TeamFortress 
 is worth the $$ only if you like multiplayer. If you do, the game is a lot of fun to play. the 
 character animations are truly hilarious. Personally, my interest in this part of the game is nearly 
 zero but I can see why some on-line gamers would love it for a month or 2.
  
  Portal is a short but fun puzzle-game. Its very well-made and absolutely worth 20 bucks if you 
 like 3D puzzle games.
  
  I cannot slap a 9 score and Editor's Choice on the Orange Box like gamespot did. Valve shold have 
 had all 3 episodes completed in 12 months time like they originally said and then get to work on 
 making Half Life 3. There's nothing wrong with any of these games, but too much of it feels like 
 re-packaged ideas and repackaged content to merit anything more than a solid 8 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jg51_Spinne
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY AND STORY: Half Life 2 started off on a bad footing. The only things innovative about 
 HL2 were the gravity gun and facial animations. Unfortunately, the lifespan of the 'wow factor', 
 when it comes to facial animations, is very short. The gravity gun was nice, but it was completely 
 misused. For the majority of the time that one has the GG, it is used to solve physics puzzles 
 that are, quite frankly, boring. Perhaps this is because I study Physics, and maybe non-Physicists 
 actually find them compelling, but I just don't. The worst thing was that the gameplay was linear 
 - shoot some combine, run to new area, solve physics puzzle, repeat. None of that has changed much 
 at all. The HL story is boring. I don't expect to find screenplay Oscar level storylines in videogames, 
 but FarCry has a good story line because of how unapologetically cheesy it is. FarCry is like a 
 classic 80s/90s muscle movie in that says - you're here to be entertained, don't take things too 
 seriously and just have a good time. HL2 tries to be cerebral, but putting in some BS about a MIT 
 physicist who uses pseudo-science big-words just isn't fun because I can see right through it and 
 all it gets out of me is a big 'yawn'. It's the same as when someone in StarTrek yells, They're 
 hitting us with 10 Megadynes of energy! . The dyne is a unit of force, not energy and 10 million 
 dynes make a Newton, so the StarTrek writer just shot himself in the foot right there. I feel the 
 exact same way about HL2. GRAPHICS: The graphics engine is pretty, but it isn't outstanding. Every 
 game that aspires to greatness needs something visually to give it its USP. That certain something 
 has to have a big big impact on the gameplay to make it more than just eyecandy. Doom3 had its 
 lighting, FarCry the foliage and draw distance. HL2 has no such thing. SOUND: HL2 and the followups 
 have decent sound., It isn't outstanding, but it's good enough to get the job done. Doom3 does 
 make better use of sound. HL2 uses the soundscape as a backdrop whereas Doom3 uses sound to creep 
 the player out. SUMMARY: FarCry wins hands down when it comes to gameplay and story. HL2 is average 
 while Doom3 is a DidNotFinish because it's more of a tech demo than a game.
  FarCry and Doom3 tie for graphics and visuals. Hl2 gets an average score here.
  Doom3 has the 
 best sound while both HL2 and FarCry are about average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingtim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Episode 2: Outstanding, just a shame it's so short. The story carrys on v. well BUT: I HATE CLIFFHANGER 
 ENDINGS!! we'd better not have to wait so long for episode 3!! Portal: Very clever and entertaining: 
 the voice/computer thing on it and the ending are so funny! PLAY THIS GAME! it would be nice if 
 vale added a combat element to it as well, not just puzzles though. All the multiplayer bits are 
 every bit as good as you'd expect.
  Episode 2: Outstanding, just a shame it's so short. The story carrys on v. well BUT: I HATE CLIFFHANGER 
 ENDINGS!! we'd better not have to wait so long for episode 3!! Portal: Very clever and entertaining: 
 the voice/computer thing on it and the ending are so funny! PLAY THIS GAME! it would be nice if 
 vale added a combat element to it as well, not just puzzles though. All the multiplayer bits are 
 every bit as good as you'd expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prototype-Jack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  for anyone who already has HL2 &amp; ep1 its a bit of a disapointment, as that only leaves 3 of 
 the 5 games in the box. ep2 is very short, i think even shorter than ep 1. I finished ep2 in 2 
 sittings, still a good game, graphics are better, story line is good, but if HL2 is a full game 
 that cost 50 and lasted 15-20 hours why is the eposides half the price and less than a third the 
 length.
  the bonus to all this is that portal is in the box. revelation!!! an absolute classic! the only 
 dissapointment is it is over way too early. valve pleeeeeeeeeeeeeese make a sequal!!!!!
  team fortress will make up for the short games as you will absorb hours &amp; hours of game play. 
 seriously, where did the time go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HmmBrd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the half-life series and a few of the mods, but this part the series was WORTH 
 the wait, especially running it with a GeForce 8800GTX compared to my old ATI 800GTO2. The Graphics 
 were awesome, sounds were excellent. I recommend a high end machine to take advantage of this great 
 master piece. Portal is also a great mind twister, has a pretty good story line, loved it! It's 
 money well spent even though I had HL2 &amp; HL2: EP1. My bro was happy to receive the gift... LOL 
 Hoping to see what HL2: EP3 will bring us graphic wise especially with DirectX 10. Can't wait to 
 hear when the next episode is coming... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarillos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The temptation was to play portal out of the box, but a poor game experience there worried me. 
 In other words, play portal and be dissapointed ... then BAD GAME. Shallow, but fitting within 
 my IQ parameters.
  
  I played the Episode 2 1st given I had just replayed HL2 and Episode 1 in antipation. I'll agree 
 with those that came before me, excellent. And when played in order, Episode one was like those 
 early episodes of Fresh Prince of Bel Air where you could see Will Smith mouthing the lines of 
 the other characters. The show was still funny, just early on it looked too canned. The end sequence 
 was heart pounding at the harder setting I chose. But memorable. Without a doubt, it was like playing 
 a great SciFi movie. It took me four days to complete with after work play and a weekend in between. 
 Probably a good 20 hours. Team Fortress 2 is hilarious in a cry myself to sleep while rocking myself 
 back in force hugging my knees in my tidy whitees. (Great line I read in PC Gamer once) . It is 
 simple to learn, complex to master ... jerks ... but I can see I'll play more. I am wondering how 
 it will stack up against BF2142 in play time. I am still seeing 200 active servers on BF2142 during 
 weekdays and over 400 on weekends. But right now it seems TF 2 is still light on participation. 
 Not engaging enough? Dunno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  To sum it up as briefly as possible...
  
  Half Life 2, Episode One and Two make for some of the best single-player FPS experience that one 
 can have, and has gone a long way to redefine how a game story can be told.
  
  Portal will expand your mind more than dropping acid with the bush twins. The story behind it is 
 that it was made by a group of students at Digipen, and was their class project to show off at 
 a show and tell session to game companies. Gabe Newell being so impressed, hired the whole group 
 on the spot. After playing the game, it's easy to see why this is the case.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is one of those games that can just bring a smile to your face. The graphical presentation 
 is the closest I've seen any game come to real-time rendering a Pixar movie (in this case, The 
 Incredibles had a lot of influence apparently) . And you don't have to be the best shooter in the 
 world to still make a difference and win games. This game much more than Countersuck ever could, 
 enforces teamwork and rewards you handsomely for it.
  
  On the great face of it, it doesn't matter so much whether to get it on Xbox 360 or on Steam. If 
 your computer is strong enough, save $10, get it off Steam. If you've already a group who want 
 to play it on Xbox Live, get the 360 version. You really can't go wrong either way, and that's 
 a big part of what makes this such a brilliant package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masanhueza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Where the hell would you find 5 awesome games like this in one pack and with a price so cheap that 
 you want to laught at the face of the seller. Well that`s what you`ll feel when you get the orange 
 box. the 3 nw adition to the collection are great, some may say thar episode two and portal are 
 short games and they`d be right, but the games are so fun that you can`t feel disapointed at the 
 end. Source engine still kicks so the graphics still look good. Sounds and voice acting are great 
 and for the gameplay, well I think I already tell everything. This is a pack that you can`t miss 
 to get. Half Life still is the best game saga ever created and Valve proves once again that, when 
 they say they are working hard on a game, they do mean it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disengage0060
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2; This is one of the best games of all time. If you are complaining because this game 
 comes with the package stop. I've beaten this game over 5 times. Its good and worth many plays 
 through. Half-Life 2: Episode 1; Although a bit brief, still adds extra game play to Half-Life 
 2. Sure it didn't show any new secrets or anything, but tell me as you are riding on the train 
 you weren't wondering, "Oh my god! What happens now?" It was a cliff-hanger and it was put there 
 for that reason.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2; With an updated source engine, a fresh coat of paint and a new cinematic 
 physics system, this episode is well worth it. Progressing the very interesting storyline, and 
 adding some twists and questions along the way, this episode will have forum-goers as well as casual 
 players asking questions and creating crazy theories. Along with Episode 1, this one is set in 
 place to be a cliff-hanger as well. Plus, the tie in with Portal is key.
  
  Portal; This game is not only innovative but far surpasses the game PREY, which got a 7.5 for a 
 full $60 stand alone game. The odd humor and fast-paced puzzles will have you playing again and 
 again. Not to mention the bonus challenges will have you shooting, flying, falling, and dying for 
 even longer.
  
  Team Fortress 2; This game provides a new approach to class-based multi-player. Its comic style 
 art, which many were skeptical about at first, further advances the enjoy-ability of this new classic. 
 Not only is this game hours of fun to play, but also makes the player think strategically, and 
 tactically. Instead of running in with a Heavy, have a medic follow you around. Just watch out 
 for those damn spies.
  
  The Good * Portal is an amazing combination of thought-provoking game play and a terrific sense 
 of humor * Outstanding sound across all five games * You won't be finished with everything on the 
 disc anytime soon.
  
  The Bad (But certainly not enough to lower the score .5) * Playing through all three Half-Life 
 2 games in succession makes Episode One stand out as a relatively weak link.
  
  Just because Halo 3 got a 9.5 doesn't mean that any other game in history can't get above that. 
 The Orange Box gives you 5 games for the price of one.
  
  All in all this game is a triumph. I am making a note here: HUGE SUCCESS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  We all know that Valve has used a lot of time developing the Orange Box, and frankly I didn't care 
 that much about the game finally being released. But Valve really knows what they're doing. The 
 box contains Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 
 2. First off all Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 are excellent, and the original being one of the greatest 
 games of all time. Then comes Episode 2:
  
  The game is nothing but breathtaking. Continuing where Episode 1 left of, we see Freeman and Alyx 
 heading towards white forest on a train away from City 17. The storytelling is excellent, much 
 because of a fantastic dialogue, and once again fantastic facial expressions. You'll practically 
 fall in love with Alyx, showing as much warmth and personality as a real human being. And then 
 there's the action. The game has got a lot of it, and some scenes are among the most memorable 
 action sequences in recent years. What makes them so amazing is how well everything blends together. 
 For example every time the music kicks in it feels insane. They don't use music all of the time 
 so when it comes in it has such an impact that right there and then it's the perfect game!! I'm 
 happy to say that it's longer than Episode 1, and all in all it's a definitive must experience 
 for shooter fans. Then there's Portal, which is this mind bending puzzle game that's very refreshing 
 and fun. You play this dame that's running through this test program. There are 19 tests where 
 the goal is to finish certain tasks using only your newly acclaimed portal gun. There isn't much 
 to say about this game cause you really have to play through it for yourself to fully understand 
 why Portal is such a great game. But I just have to say, the ending was breathtaking!!
  
  Review of Team Fortress 2 will follow shortly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marlu28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Orange Box this the the best collection of games what I saw. We will find such games in the set 
 how Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2. 
 Episode 2 is this on what I waited and be not disappointed. I can recommend this set which they 
 did not play in HL2 yet (I hope that such people are not here) . The graphics is on the high level. 
 I am also in the set the game THE PORTAL. This is logical game which a lot of good fun will assure 
 on long winter evenings. I hope that Valve will make such games farther. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Orange Box contains original Half Life 2 , Half Life 2 Episode One , Brand New - Half Life 2 Episode 
 Two , Portal and Team Fortess 2 . The P. C version of Orange Box is much cheap compared to the deal 
 of awesome games we getting . Half Life 2 Episode Two's story starts from where Episode One finished 
 . Mr. Gordon Freeman is back in action against combines for humanity . Alyx Vance is there to assist 
 him as usual with her beloved companion DOG . A new breed of enemy is introduced in the game called 
 Hunters . As usual Gordon gets his share of arsenals to blast his way out amongst enemy territory. 
 Plus he gets to ride a new car called muscle car . Plus a new character is shown in Episode Two 
 , Dr . Magnusson whose invented new weapon called Magnusson Device rocks . The gameplay is bit 
 lenghty than Episode one but its exciting at every step. The game has advanced over Half Life 2 
 in its graphics department . The HDR visual effects in the game rocks . Soundquality is excellent. 
 Voiceacting , storyline , characters , AI of the game rocks . Portal is new kind of gaming experience 
 .It is a single player campaign game .Portal has tons of puzzles in first person mode . With your 
 Portal device you can manipulate your surroundings , complete puzzles and finally make your way 
 out . Its graphics / visuals , soundquality , theme rocks . Team Fortess 2 is back after a very 
 long time but came much adavanced .It is a class based multiplayer game . You have to join and 
 battle teams with wildly varying player classes like flame throwing Pyro , heavy weapons Guy , 
 etc . It features a all new multiplayer mode . Its a super fun online game . It is very colourful 
 game with great visuals , soundquality and weapons . Half Life 2 as we know is Action Game Of The 
 year (2004) , and it is followed by Half Life 2 Episode One . One of the best things in Orange 
 Box P. C version ( Episode Two, Portal, Team Fortess 2 only ) is you can unlock variety of acheivements 
 ( same as in Xbox 360 games ) . Plus the new Steam Community keeps tabs of your gameplay hours 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkin_parker92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game pack included Half Life 2, HL2 Episode One, HL2 Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 
 2. One of the most anticipated title was Episode 2 which is the sequeal to the previous expansion 
 pack Episode One. The sequel was just simply awesome. Its storyline is supreb and very intersting 
 like the previous ones. Portal was another title that was sorta been excited of. In Portal, the 
 player can create a teleportation hole and the exit hole with a gun similar to the gravity gun 
 in Half Life. The idea and the concepts were new and fresh, however, it could of been a bit longer. 
 There were only 19 missions available; obivously, the missions gets harder everytime and you gotta 
 use creativity and critical thinkin in order to get through the levels. Finally onto Team Fortress 
 2. It is a comical online multiplayer FPS. The loading of the game was pretty slow but the game 
 play was very very smooth. The unit selection is various from heavy gunners to guys who carry flame 
 throwers, snipers, and even spies who can stealth through the enemy territory. Despite the fact 
 that it is very cartoon-ish, the voices and the animation is very funny and again, new like Portal. 
 The Orange Box was a VERY VERY COOL AND INNOVATING GAME. It is a definate must buy for people who 
 wants play Half life 2 Episode Two, or even people who never had any touch on the Half Life 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp_coder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Well, i am a Massive S. T. E. A. M hater but you know what? I don't care if this game has steam! Yes 
 that is how good this game is. I Was plunged into the amazing adventures of Gordon freemen, and 
 plunged out again 4.6 hours later :) . But don't take me wrong, that is a good time for an episode, 
 because some people just don't seem to realize what episode means. It means that the game will 
 be shorter, but it will be cheaper and it will be released more frequently. Well i was simply blown 
 back by EP.2 and now its onto Portal. now as Yhatze Said, Let me stick forks in my eyes if i ever 
 say this again..... portal is the most fun you will have with your PC, until they make a force-feedback 
 Cod- piece . well that about sums up portal;) well onto the worst game out the lot, Team Fortress 
 2. dont take me wrong im sure TF2 kicks some proper A$$ but i just HATE Multiplayer games to the 
 bone. Dont ask me why but i just really hat multiplayer games. sorry, but its true. TF2 is probably 
 a perfect game for the drooling retards who sit in their bedroom while everyone else is out having 
 sex with girls! So to conclude, the Orange Box is a definate Buy. And just to everyone else who 
 Knows that i sometimes pirate crap games, let this be known..... i had a chance to pirate this, 
 but i DID NOT!!!!!!!!! :) Oh and By The Way, i miss the old Gamespot rating system. where you could 
 choose the graphics, and stuff. the rating system now, is just **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_klein
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game is THAT good. I am very hard on games, so I don't make this judgement lightly. You know 
 what, forget about TF2 and Half life, because portals alone is the best game you are going to see 
 this year. Yes it's short, and yes it wasn't super challenging, but it was so fun and new and extremely 
 well executed that you should seriously consider what you are going to do with your next 60 bucks. 
 Food? Come on! Orange Box... there you go! HL2 and TF2 are also amazing and should be considered 
 the icing and the sprinkles on the cake. Oh my god. Cake!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machockey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Pick up your crowbar the time has come again.... viva la revolution
  
  i, like many others, am no rookie to the half life universe. i have played though the labs of black 
 messa, battled the streets of city 17, and returned to stop the reactor at the cittidell, but this 
 package is so phenominal that it simply cannot be neglected any longer. 
  
  Now seeing as many of you may not be as familiar with the half life world as i am, allow me captivate 
 you and set the mood of the hl universe. in the original halflife you are a scientist in Arizona 
 by the name of Professor Freeman. While working at a scientific lab known as black messa, you and 
 a group of scientists make the mistake of opening a portal, and allowing the alien life form of 
 the combine to enter earth. we also are introduced to the mysterious G-man, and are contracted 
 by him for "big things" 
  
  just down the road in the series of hl. hl2 brings us to an undisclosed European city known as 
 city 17 (probably paris... the french are sooo weak) . here we fight the combine through the city 
 and country side. it would appear as if you were mankinds last hope. in this instalment we also 
 meet the amazing character of alyx... you WILL LOVE her. it is this instalment where we try to 
 bring down the heart of the combine known as the citidell. 
  
  in hl2 ep 1 we have the mission of venturing back into the citidell to stop a nuclear like reaction 
 that would surely kill us. after failing to shut it off and just slow down the reaction we hop 
 a train out of the city to save our asses. However you dont exactly get out in time...........
 
  
  STORY
  this is where we are left out for HL ep 2. your train is in shambles and you pick up your gravity 
 gun and go. hl2 episode 2 gives more story and answers more questions than the previous 3 games 
 combined. the best part is is that i learn SOOO much about the world. the cinematic quality of 
 this game is second to none and we are introduced to two new enemies. while it does indeed raise 
 its fair share of new questions, i am confident they will be answered successfully in the next 
 instalment.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  the game play is unmatched buy any game to date. the pacing of the game is another thing that no 
 other developer can touch. from firefight, to puzzle, to important character dialouge the games 
 pace is brilliant. the introduction of the hunters come through in a terrific fashion. from the 
 first meeting you are taught to fear and detest this threat. they are fun to fight and keep you 
 challanged. P. S. when two are fighting you its amazingly fun. when the game play is said and done 
 we are left with in my mind 3 of the greatest video gaming experiences i have ever had, including 
 the best firefight ever. the main battles i am refering too are just so much god damn fun!
  
  Graphics 
  the graphics are beautiful. pump the resolution up, and let the smooth and steady 
 frames come flying at you. the game is as fluid as the flow of urine on a night of heavy drinking. 
 with all bells and whistles on my 8800gtx never shuddered. the addition of motion blur is beautiful.. 
 the lighting effects also seem to be improved.
  
  Sound
  the sound is also something that shines so brightly. the voice acting and facial animations are 
 unparalleled. you will love the character
  you fight with and i would say this primarily is due to the phenominal sound acting. other than 
 that, guns sound great. explosions, strider's, hunters... its all there for an excellent sounding 
 game. when all is said and done you are left with the most satisfying hl experience to date
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  while the lack of human enemies is strange, (although noted the A. I is 
 drastically improved) the strideres do a wonderful job at introducing new threats and keeping you 
 on your toes. the seven hrs of gameplay feels perfect, not too long not to short. i found myself 
 walking through the door and SPRINTING to my room to play it. this is probably going to be the 
 most fun with a mouse and keyboard you have all year. overall hl2 ep 2: gets a 9.6 / 
  
  i would have no problem paying 50 for this game alone. however considering your given a game that 
 is extremely intelligent, and intuitive in portal. portal is short. but the modding community will 
 love this and so will you once you are given their mods. wait were not done your also given a game 
 that is the best multiplayer experience ive ever had aside from unreal 2004 and call of duty 4. 
 then were talking some serious gaming potential. team fortress 2 is a game that has more of a lasting 
 appeal than counterstrike. so your going to get your money there as well. do yourself a favor buy 
 it... if you haven't had a chance to play hl2 and ep 1... then you even have more fun in hand about 
 20 some more hrs. please buy this game, buy it and love it: and let it love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadiyk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This package bundle is the best thing ive spent $60 on. Half life 2 episode 2 Is so great . From 
 the experience to the stoy plot, the visuals, and AI this game should be the game of the year for 
 2007. (You know that they will come with An episode 3 or somethjng due to the ending, which i cant 
 wait for, dont want to ruin it for those who didn't play yet but its cool)
  
  The Best part of the game is when you launch the game the theme shows a head with a knob turn on 
 the back of the head, throughout the game you are turning these knobs to turn of heat or to put 
 on gas, My point is that this points to a bigger picture throughout the wholke gameing experience. 
 That it litterally turns your knob in your head to think how do i solve any situation puzzling 
 in the game. (Which feels amazing when you figger it out.) Overall it was short but did the job 
 i give this game a 10+
  
  As of portal i beat it under a couple of hours
  I recommend it for those who like to think its pretty neet once you get the hang of it you get 
 to fly through the board really fast the last level is too easy
  portal does have bonus maps which are pretty challanging and start from level 13 portal is cool 
 and very original i give it a 10/10
  As off Team fortress 2 i like MPgames FPS but ill stick to crysis for now and UT3 strictly.
  
 thank you all AK AKA ABE/ maximum abe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toshiof
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Perfect Package!!! Perfect Games!! half-life for me, is the best game of first-person and the story 
 is envolvent. I very happy of buying this game. I recomend for all. The Episode two, i finished 
 in first day, but tell a good story, and ride that car are very amazing. The chalange grows, and 
 i&acute; m look for the third part of that amazing story. But for the third part you need to watch 
 that part becouse in this end, someone die.... and it&acute; s very important.... The other games 
 are very fun, and good to play, but i&acute; m vary fan of half-life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeLyM317
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  First let me start with the price i feel like i got a deal on this from pre-ordering it through 
 steam i ended up just paying $44 for everything. I had a choice to purchase this for pc or x360 
 and i have alway been a half-life and TFC fan and buying this on the 360 just didn't feel right 
 for me this is definitely to me a keyboard and mouse game and i can't imagine trying to play tf2 
 on a controller with all the chaos that can happen in the battle in that game. So i ended up getting 
 it for PC main cause of the need of keyboard and mouse. First let start with episode two another 
 great addition to the series and can't wait till the next episode. My only real problem i had with 
 episode two was how short it is i beat it in 4.5 hours and i was wanting more. Next is Portal, 
 this game is really entertaining and will leave you busy and make you think about your strategy 
 to get to the end of the level. Once again the only real problem is how short it is i beat the 
 entire game in 3.5 hours, but the cool thing is that download other custom maps from sites and 
 try to beat those and i think valve will be releasing some more, i hope they do. Last but not least 
 is my favorite which is TF2, one word can only describe this game is amazing. I can't tell you 
 how many times playing this game online I just get sucked into the battle with the every person 
 in the server in one spot just all out war to defend or capture the point. TF2 is truly one of 
 the best well balanced games i have ever played. I would highly recommend these games, If you buy 
 this for 360 or PC you definitely can't go wrong with this purchase and this collection of games 
 will keep you busy for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The best value out there. Or is it? It's certainly a great package, however if you count the number 
 of hours of original non-online gameplay, it's not what I'd consider extraordinary value, but Half 
 Life 2 Episode 2 &amp; Portal are essentially mini-games rather than full games. The very good 
 news about Half Life 2 Episode 2 is that it is not only twice as long as the feeble Episode 1, 
 it's also twice as packed with classic Half Life moments. In fact, it's nearly as long as some 
 recent full games you might care to mention. There is another little extra that Valve neglect to 
 tell you, in that you can download a free Orange Box themed set of levels of Peggle - the casual 
 gaming equivalent of crack; err, thanks Valve.... I'm not a big online player, as I'm not really 
 into getting verbal abuse off American teenagers who couldn't point to the UK on a map, so I haven't 
 explored Team Fortress 2, which leaves Portal. Hmmm... Many reviewers have been foaming at the 
 mouth and shooting off in their pants about this, but, frankly it's hard to see why. Sure it's 
 good fun and all, but it just feels like a very well done HL2 mod. Good, but hardly essential. 
 HL2 Ep2 is classic HL - great voice acting, great music score, thrilling action sequences, dark 
 apocalyptic mood, although the contrived puzzles are still present, too.
  
  I still get the feeling that Valve haven't quite got the hang of this episodic content malarkey, 
 surely the idea is to release the bits at regular intervals, at a budget price for a bit extra 
 to the game - not have the bits delayed a year, bolstered with sweeteners, and pumped up to full 
 game price? At least this episode of Half Life 2 isn't mickey-takingly short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a amazing package, specially if you never played HL2 before, but even if you 
 have it's still amazing seeing as you can give the games you own already away to friends and still 
 be playing less than what all 3 of the new ones cost seperate. I was expecting a big letdown but 
 it's just totally amazed me and well worth every penny i spent on the box.
  
  Here are my reviews for each game...
  
  Episode 2:
  
  While it doesn't have the same revolutionary 
 feel that Half-Life did but nore did HL2 and it is based on a near 4 year old (due to be released 
 n 2003) engine but surprisingly enough it still doesn't look or feel dated. I'm not sure if this 
 shows how much work Valve put into Source or the fact that since 2004 it's been real lackluster 
 for the FPS genre. What stands out the most about episode 2 and Source Engine is the facial animations 
 and the model details which still are to this day the most detailed and best i've seen until Crysis 
 maybe lol.
  
  The Story obviously moves on from Episode one and even shows you where your going next which i 
 wont spoil for you. I think HL really does have one of the best stories in a FPS and it's told 
 soo well in this games and really makes youc are for the character, for example you still want 
 Alyx and Gordon to kiss lol. Dog is obviously back in this episode and he's great when you see 
 him come back killing a Strider it's fantastic and cinematic. You'll also have the GMAN return 
 and he's a great character you don't know anything about yet.
  
  The level design is fantastic with great pacing from driving to being on foot and then the defensive 
 and offensive missions. The cave levels at the start to the industrial parts and then the open 
 countryside parts all play amazingly and theres not one part you'll hate. I love the new vehicles 
 it's really kool looking and sounding and makes for great drives and soo much better than in previous 
 games.
  
  The weapons are the only part that lets the game down with all of them being soo dated and few 
 of them, most of them still from 1998's HL so you want something new apart from the gravity gun 
 and a revolver. However it doesn't ruin the gameplay but you just want new weapons cause atm they 
 are lame.
  
  This game just offers more gameplay over the previous ones and even adds all the best parts from 
 them and then improves on them with tweaks. How epic it feels aswel is just amazing because they've 
 done soooo well to update source with nice touches like motion blurr.
  
  The graphics still are the best around for FPS games with sooo much detail and fantastic models 
 and just soo many improvements over the previous games. I can't believe how a near 4 year old engine 
 looks sooo good these days and i still have moments when i think WOW and that says somethig for 
 the engine.
  
  The sounds are my fave with great voice overs and sound effects. It's all acted perfectly and no 
 voices become annoying apart from Alyx sometimes when you get out of the car and she keeps telling 
 you to get in. I love all the sound effects that come with the game too and the sirens are my personal 
 fave.
  
  So Episode 2 really suprised me to actually being fantastic after the letdown that was Episode 
 1. It's the best HL game on source by far and some people may say it's too short but it's about 
 6 hours long and thats the same as Bioshock lol.
  
  TF2:
  
  I never liked TFC and i'll make that clear now, i'm not going to offer a nostalgic or elitest opinion 
 and many people are complaining that it's not like TFC and i seem to think it's TF2 and not TFC 
 so if you love the original so much then go and play it. Seems to me that all these people arn't 
 playing it anymore and just lost in their own nostalgia....
  
  With TF2 the first thing you notice is the graphics which offer a really unique look to online 
 FPS games. What's even more great though is all the animations and facial animations which are 
 just really great and you've never seen this kind of depth before in a online FPS. This really 
 comes into it's own when you taunting other players and your standing there releasing all 200 clips 
 with heavy weapons guy and he shouts get behind me doctor i am bullet proof and really brings a 
 sense of immersion. What else is great about them is how they run it all looks real fluid, specially 
 the scout and how he moves in the air.
  
  TF2 has around 9 classes and all of them are fantastic and amazingly balanced, only the Pyro felt 
 underpowered but that's such a easy fix. My personal fave is the demoman, soldier or Heavy Weapons 
 guy because you can just take down sooo many people with them classes. All the servers seem to 
 be FF off and that seems to be for a balacing issues with the Spy Mainly which is a shame to have 
 a class which forces 99% of servers to be this way. The reasons are because a spy can disguise 
 themselves as any enemy and sneak behind them and kill them. With FF off you can shoot all your 
 players to check if they're actually a Spy, if FF was on then it would give them a big advantage.
 
  
  Theres only a handful of maps but it's worth mentioning that some of them have 4/5 different layouts 
 which is really kool. All the maps are great and theres something for everyone however i only myself 
 liked one of them and that was 2fort. I'm sure there will be many more maps in future from Valve 
 and Mappers alike.
  
  All the guns are great in the game and it's all class dependant but if you want to use different 
 weapons then it's sooo easy to change class at anytime which is great. You'll have any weapon you 
 can think of from a flamethrower to a minigun to turrets or granade launchers or my personal fave 
 the Spies pistol.
  
  Achievements are great too on Steam which give you more of a reason to play for longer if they're 
 your kinda thing. I spent lots of time to unlock all of them during beta, it's only a shame that 
 there wasn't any new ones on release and that goes for content too, it's the same as the beta which 
 i didn't expect i thouht there would be more.
  
  So TF2 is a fantastic online FPS and the only fault i could come up with for it is a BIG one, which 
 is a shame. The only problem i have with the game is how easy and accessible it is. It's a fualt 
 because i was already getting like 40 kills to 1 death and with other games like Counter Strike 
 it took me 4 years to be really good at it. So it gets boring fast for me i have no real room to 
 grow my skill in the game and really kills it.
  
  TF2 is a fast and fun online FPS which would be great to be sold on it's own but even better value 
 that it's with the Orange box, this will also be great because it'll have more people playing than 
 it would selling on it's own.
  
  Buy TF2 if you love class based online FPS games. Portal:
  
  So my internet has been down for 
 about a month and because i needed it to activate the games on Steam with the same motherboard 
 i had to wait to play the Orange Box games. All my friends were raving on about how Portal is amazing 
 and funny, so i was hyped up about it but when i played it i wasn't impressed. It's lucky this 
 game was sold with the Orange Box because it wouldn't have done well on it's own as it's only about 
 2 hours long and feels more like a exprimental polished mod rather than a full game.
  
  Don't get me wrong this game has great points like the great graphics and the fantastic sounds. 
 The game has alot of humour in it too but it doesn't really come out till the final level which 
 is a shame. Just what Portal lacks is length and a proper story and level structure because atm 
 it feels too much like a series of small levels until you hit the final one and it opens up. That 
 really sums up the whole game for me, how the last level is really the only good one. I really 
 love all the atmosphere it creates and the computer womans voice that talks to you throughout and 
 has some great sarcasm too but it's just a shame it's sooo short and never picks up till the last 
 level. What i also found weird was how it's dead easy until like around level 11ish and then it 
 suddenly just becomes harder so it has alot of pacing issues.
  
  The sound of the game is fantastic with a great script and music. The credit song at the end is 
 very funny and really really good actually. The graphics are all top notch aswel and even though 
 the source engine was due to be released in 2003 (not released till 2004) it's still looking fantastic 
 and one of the best looking games out there. They really manage to create a experimental atmosphere 
 and really sciencey lol.
  
  So theres not much more to say other than it's a funny game and worth playing as you get it with 
 the orange box. However it's too short and the game doesn't really get good until the last level, 
 maybe these portals however might work their way into HL3 or even episode 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box has to be the best video game deal out there. And the 5 games aren't crappy at all. 
 I'll start with Team-Fortress 2. TF2 is the multiplayer game of these games. It's graphics stand 
 out because they have a very slick cartoon style to them. you can choose from 9 charactors, each 
 have there own roles. When your playing with any of these charactors you can press the X button 
 and the charactor will do some kind of gay dance or move. the game says it's do distract the enemy 
 but really it gets you killed and so these gay moves are simply pointless. Did I mention that you 
 can't move your dude while doing this? But aside from that the game is in tip-top shape. All 3 
 Half-Life games are in The Orange box so that's great, especially if you have never played Half-Life 
 before. If you have well then there is one new one for you - Half-Life 2: Episode 2. The game is 
 great and so are the other Half-Life's. Finally there's Portal, the hardest, most challenging, 
 and fun game on The Orange Box. All you do is run around creating Portal's to find your way to 
 an exit. Sounds stupid right, wrong! For some reason this game get's you pumped up and with some 
 jokes from a Computer Chip Device Voice that of course talks well that makes Portal friggin' rock 
 da house. And so it's time to end this review peacefully. Ahhhh. Nice day right. NO NOT UNTIL YOU 
 GET THE FRICKIN ORANGE BOX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box. How to describe it... I think the best way would be to say its an orange box filled 
 to overflowing with awesome. The awesome, of course, relates to the games that you get in the Orange 
 Box. Half Life 2, Episode 1, AND Episode 2. Portal. Team Fortress 2.
  
  Each one of these games are individually excellent and thrown into a small orange box and sold 
 together for a wicked price (considering you're getting 5 games in 1) and it just about adds up 
 to perfection.
  
  I won't bother going into the details about Half Life 2 or Episode 1, so lets start with Episode 
 2.
  
  Simply put, Episode 2 was the greatest game I have played in years. It captivated me early on, 
 kept me interested and surprised throughout, and I was absolutely blown away by the quality of 
 this game. It has great voice acting, action, suspense, puzzle solving, characters, plot, and PHYSICS! 
 God I love video game physics.
  
  The difficulty level was just right for the game on normal mode. I died a few times here and there 
 from surprises and mistakes, but it was nothing that couldn't be overcome.
  
  Next: Portal. I think the best thing about this game (besides the fact that you can, you know, 
 MAKE PORTALS) is that crazy computer's dialogue throughout the game. It kept me amused and sometimes 
 laughing as I problem-solved my way through the Aperture Science laboratories.
  
  The puzzles start out really easy, but quickly scale themselves to an average to difficult level 
 as you'll have to scratch your head a few times to figure out just what it is you're supposed to 
 do. When you do it, there is a great measure of satisfaction to be had as well.
  
  And last: Team Fortress 2. Personally, I believe this is the weakest link in the Orange Box (which 
 is far from a negative comment mind you, as I still absolutely love this game) . Its a multiplayer 
 only objective-based shoot em up. You can pick from a wide array of classes, and each of them has 
 their own loveable personality and a shocking array of comments and dialogue to be heard.
  
  It plays really well, and I don't consider the limited amount of maps to really be a downside. 
 I'm sure the MOD community will quickly remedy this situation and give us a solid rotation of popular 
 secondary maps to play as well.
  
  It's Orange. It's a box (unless purchased via Steam, in which case its a bunch of 1's and 0's) . 
 It freaking rocks.
  
  Please do yourself a favor and check The Orange Box out. I can almost guarantee you won't be disapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DukeEmu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The title speaks for itself. The game is simply perfect. No great words or important speeches. 
 Play it all if you haven't still seen the game or simply, replay the incredible experience if you 
 already played it in the past. Valve, you're the best! Graphics and sound are probably not the 
 best you can find around now, but the feelings that emanates from gameplay is pure excitement for 
 all the players that lived through City 17 and its incredible surroundings and inhabitants. Fear, 
 hope and surprise are behind every corner, every building and every place you'll pass through during 
 the game. Every character, from companions to monsters, is deep and tri dimensional, not a mere 
 NPC. Dialogs and situations are real, sometime phisycs is a little surreal but still a good complement 
 to gameplay in general. No words can describe the game until YOU play it! Try it, you'll never 
 forget it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdenis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  When i installed this game, i was specting a nice game. In the first 5 minutes of game, i saw for 
 what this game for. It comes for broke. The last expansion, episode 1, were a cool addiction, but 
 less substantial than the legendary Half-Life classic, or the amazing Half-Life 2.
  I thought i was freeman. The controls of the game brings you to the freedon, and the sounds put 
 you on the universe of the game. The graphics are always surpising the most critic player.
  I have no more to say, i think its a perfect game, and very enjoyable. Strongly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spOOoOOn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Firstly an excuse for this short and unelaborate review, I never do this kind of thing but I feel 
 I owe it to promote this gaming bundle as much as I can.
  
  The orange box really took my breath away. You'd expect bundles to entail 1 large realease, and 
 a few lukewarm ones released over a year ago. This is the truely revolutionary part about the orange 
 box: It offers 3 different new games (not to mention HL2, and episode 1 aswell) of completely different 
 concepts and genre's, with the only common traits being they use the same engine and are all FPS'. 
 Absolutely no compromises were made when it comes to quality, each release on it's own would be 
 worth the 50$ (except for portals maybe) .
  
  I'm at a loss of words to properly tell you that if you do not own this package, you really are 
 missing out on the greatest thing in pc FPS history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Yea Valve keeps us waiting sometimes. So does Blizzard. But in the end we are always rewarded well 
 for our patience.
  
  I heard that I could play TF2 early and get the orange box for only $45 if I pre-ordered the Orange 
 Box on Steam. Oooooh boy was I excited. But I knew even then the Orange Box would be something 
 big, and my first all-nighter with TF2 confirmed that.
  
  Any of the three games in the collection could easily stand on their own two feet. But in a collection 
 such as this (and for a price of $45, $50, or $60 on consoles) they are a killer knockout.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Yea it's been a long time. I remember watching the TF2: Brotherhood 
 of Arms videos and thinking... COOL! I CAN'T WAIT! And we waited anyway. My first team based multi-player 
 FPS experience was on TFC back when I had a dial up modem that ran through 50 year old phone cables. 
 Ewwww terrible ping. I instantly fell in love with the game though. From there it went to Counter 
 Strike and then Day of Defeat.
  
  Team Fortress 2 went through a lot of iterations, but it finally returned to the grass roots of 
 what made TFC fun. Some might say that it's the same game, others would say it is bad because they 
 removed grenades (except by the demoman) , but in the end it is a completely different experience, 
 and having no grenades makes each of the classes much more unique. In TFC some servers would limit 
 the number of Heavy Weapons guys and Snipers because everybody would play those classes and either 
 offset the balance or nobody would get anywhere.
  
  The game is very fast paced, and has a little something for everybody who likes multi-player FPS. 
 There is the Scout for people who love to mix it up and pester the slower opponents, Soldier for 
 people who work well with splash damage weapons, Pyro for people who like to just get in your face 
 and burn stuff, Demoman for people who like camping and waiting for their opponents (thats not 
 completely true, a skilled demo can easily play offensive) , Heavy Weapons Guy for all the people 
 who love big guns and spraying bullets all over the place (not a finesse class at all but still 
 loads of fun) , the Engineer for those who like to set up defenses and build stuff, the Sniper for 
 all of you people who get hard on headshots (or if you played the CS map called scoutzknivez ) , 
 Medic for people who love pissing off the other team by keeping your friends alive for long long 
 periods of time, and the Spy for people who love backstabbing and playing head games with the enemy.
 
  
  I find that I love playing ALL the classes in TF2. Some folks might find that they just like sticking 
 to one class, but most people are able to play multiple classes and switch fairly frequently mid 
 game.
  
  The classes have each been given very distinct personalities to go along with their abilities and 
 weapons. These personalities are established by the art direction of the game, the amazing voice 
 overs for the characters, the taunts they use, and the videos Valve has been releasing to promote 
 these characters as individuals.
  
  All in all, TF2 is worth $45 by itself. It is one of the most strategy based FPS games I have ever 
 seen.
  
  Portal:
  
  Oh my God! The people who came up with this idea are genuineness. You say puzzle game? and I say 
 barf but Portal? Wow, it's the best puzzle game I have ever played! I got through the entire game 
 in just 2 hours, but after that there are so many achievements to accomplish, and so many advanced 
 maps and challenges to complete that the game just keeps going and continues to be fun.
  
  The game is seriously under-rated by most people because of the fact that it is puzzle based. But 
 really it is a very engaging game, well worth at least $30 by itself. Half Life 2: Episode 2
  
  Epic game. If you have played the original HL2 or Episode 1 you can expect more of the same 
 type of game play. There are newer (harder) opponents, lots of fun challenges, and some new game 
 play mechanics. I won't give away any of the storyline but in the end you will want VERY BADLY 
 to know what happens next. This game is easily worth $40 by itself.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  What a great deal! I expected to pay $45 for the black box, but instead I got the whole orange 
 box for the same price.
  
  The game will leave you wanting MORE TF2 maps, MORE Portal Puzzles, and MORE Half Life storyline.
 
  
  Forget Halo 3, Crysis, and any games on PS3 (are there any?) Get the orange box and you will be 
 satisfied all the way through Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  I think the professional reviews for this package say it all, but for my part:
  
  Half-Life 2: I bought this game on release and have now played it through to completion four times, 
 so it's inclusion here wasn't really a factor aside from the fact that Valve have given me the 
 option of gifting it to a friend (a terrific innovation and one I'll be making use of) . Easily 
 one of the greatest shooters of all time, and a true pioneer in the areas of character and physics 
 integration, only BioShock has come close to giving me the same quality of experience. It's only 
 flaw is a lack of focus to the story... it's there, and it's a good one, but you have to work too 
 hard to find it.
  
  Episode 1: An excellent follow-up, picking up exactly where HL2 left off and tracking Gordon's 
 escape from the citadel with Alyx in tow. Short, but at least as fun as the main game, and with 
 a tighter narrative. Ep1 took everything good about HL2 and made it better.
  
  Episode 2: So now we come to the first of The Orange Box's new releases, and it's a corker. Slightly 
 longer than Episode 1, it still strangely *feels* shorter. I finished it in two sittings, which 
 is a sign of how hard it is to put down, but for how long we're having to wait for these things, 
 I wish they were more substantial. If Valve were producing this kind of work every six months, 
 I'd be hopelessly addicted (ah well, I am anyway, who am I kidding?) ... but I guess you can't rush 
 game design of this quality and Ep2 really packs it in. Tons of exciting run'n'gun action, loads 
 of amazing set pieces, and a truly brilliant climax. Unfortunately the Source engine is starting 
 to look a bit long in the tooth now; the textures, for example, really need an overhaul close up, 
 and in general the likes of BioShock and Gears of War are starting to leave it behind. Still, you 
 can't beat Source characters and they're still the best in the business; coupled with truly top-class 
 voice acting, it's an unbeatable combination and feeling attached to your friends in the HL2 world 
 is all part of the experience.
  
  Portal: A truly innovative brain-bender of a puzzle game, with a razor-sharp sense of humour which 
 is almost as important as the gameplay. It's a little short, but eminently replayable and a reminder, 
 as if we needed it, that Valve don't shy away from the unusual.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Rapidly taking its place amongst the most popular online shooters, and rightfully 
 so. In theory this has been in development for ten years or so, but the end result is a combination 
 of quirky charm and really furious, no-nonsense action. Class design is just masterful... it's 
 often a completely random choice what I pick when I fancy a change, they're all so much fun to 
 play. I must also salute the 'Meet the...' videos which preceded the game... little vignettes which 
 prove once and for all just how much talent lives at Valve. A full-on, machinima TF2 movie can't 
 be far off.
  
  Overall? You'll never spend your money better than on this package. While any one of the three 
 new games might not quite be worth this price tag on its own (Ep2 being the closest) , getting five 
 games effectively for the price of one, including the complete evolution of one of the greatest 
 games of all time, is not to be missed. Seriously, don't have any doubt. Just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Valve Software's much touted episodic delivery and marketing program has become something of a 
 conundrum; the ideal of Episodic content being that you can deliver high quality games that are 
 of a low financial risk in quick succession of one another. Valve's long time when it's done development 
 philosophy however has made sure that the two former and not the latter of the Episodic structure 
 are made true. Thus we have a solution to appease the market in the wake of Valve's somewhat minor 
 shortcomings in terms of delivery (let's face it, they're pretty damned optimistic) - The Orange 
 Box, a massive collection of Valve's games both new and old, to give you the most value for your 
 money. Seeing how you've all been so patient. And what value it is!
  
  Most of you will know that The Orange Box includes Half-life 2 and it's first subsequent Episode, 
 and they're old news. The three new games of great interest are Half-life 2: Episode Two, Portal 
 and Team Fortress 2. These three new games alone would justify the price tag, but don't take my 
 word for it, just buy the damned thing.
  
  First up is Episode Two: Most people found last year that Episode one was far too short and far 
 too limited in it's gameplay and narrative (when compared to Half-life 2) to justify it's price. 
 In short, PC gamers got duped- the weight of expectation on the second episode has been fairly 
 heavy then.
  So is it better than Episode one? Does it answer any questions about the story?
  
  Yes-it's 
 even better than Half-life 2.
  We have everything we could have wanted from Valve, with the best narrative of the entire series 
 so far, all the varied gameplay of Half-life 2 and then some more, even wilder set pieces, the 
 beastliest vehicle of any game, period, vastly improved visuals and technology, wonderful facial 
 animations, a good challenge (provided you play it on hard, my personal choice) and more D0g! Listing 
 the good things however, as with all Half-life games, does not equal the sum of the experience 
 and you will feel more than just a game. This is an experience that will go down as one of the 
 best in action gaming.
  
  Next up is perhaps the best game of the lot- better than Ep. Two for sure.
  Portal- the titular 
 puzzle game using the revolutionary portal gun, which connects two spaces together with a blue 
 and orange portal. Guiding you along is the bizarre voice of a female who seems to be a computer 
 at the Aperture Science testing labs. Portal takes place in the Half-life universe, and you'll 
 find subtle hints of where the events and characters fit in with the Half-life games, but you really 
 learn more about Portal's story from Episode Two.
  
  The increasingly difficult environmental obstacles that you'll face mean that you will have to 
 think in more inventive ways every time your faced with a new challenge. The first time you learn 
 how to 'fling' is a real head trip.
  I say 'first time' because you will want to play Portal more than once. That's because Portal is 
 a game that will not take you very long to finish, bonus maps and all- 4 hours at the maximum.
 
  But it's just such a unique and addictive game experience that you will want to enjoy at least 
 twice. And the dialog will have you pissing yourself laughing with some of the best dark humor 
 of any game on the shelves today.
  
  Last, and certainly not least is the long-delayed Team Fortress 2.
  9 years I've been waiting 
 for this one, and I'm astounded to say that it's actually been worth it. It's just such a fun and 
 varied multiplayer shooter, I have trouble thinking that anyone could find it repetitive. The grandaddy 
 of class-based shooters brings the classes themselves to the center of the game an stay there as 
 the pillars holding it up- each class is frighteningly well balanced and unique to play, and fun 
 in a different way every time you play. You have the slow but incredibly deadly pyro (good for 
 ambushes) , the Sniper (self explanatory) , the soldier (the offensive all rounder) , the subversive 
 Spy (you will learn to hate enemy spies with a deadly passion) and every body's best friend, the 
 Medic- only to name a mere few of the games 9 classes, and you will find something to suit you 
 whatever you play style, with all the classes having a degree of flexibility in their roles. The 
 time you can spend playing TF2 will only grow as more maps are released, but unfortunately the 
 stock game only comes with a paltry six with only one of them being CTF (the old favorite 2fort) . 
 This is the only complaint I have about the game, but is and understandable shortcoming.
  
  All in all, there is a hell of a lot of fun in here. Five games, 3 new ones and only so much time 
 to play through them again. Bye, I've got a companion cube that needs rescuing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikhilsethi25
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about half life 2 amongst the best games ever made.
  Initially i was a bit skeptical about the games bring broken into episodes especially because ep1 
 was a bit short in length as well as the story.
  i see that valve has seriously improved on that account.
  i must congratulate the person who 
 came up with the idea for the orange box putting all editions of hl2 together in one pack along 
 with two more amazing games. Although i still havnt played portal (will definitely start on it 
 soon) i have heard nothing but good things about that game.
  Hope valve continues the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinterminter
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is an incredible batch of games. The first, Portal, is what everyone says it is- 
 making portals to figure out out puzzles. The humor is very well, the puzzles are clever and sometimes 
 mind bending, and there is actually a little bit of story. I won't tell you anything, except that 
 there is a little twist in the game. HL2: Episode 2 is an outstanding achievement and a welcome 
 addition to the HL franchise. The beginning is rough, but as you go on it gets better and better. 
 It also has a few twists, that you will have to figure out yourself. I warn you, though- you should 
 have a pretty good system if you want to enjoy it. I have C2D and GX2, w/ 2GB Ram to say the least... and 
 it goes at round 30FPS average on High settings w/o AA. It gives me a reason to upgrade! If you 
 like achievements that the 360 have, they include them (but the impact or gain you get out of them 
 are personal) . Team Fortress 2... I haven't really touched it yet, but it's a pretty dang good game 
 so far. HL2 and EP 1 is something you have heard enough already, so I shouldn't have to go into 
 detail about them. It is probably 3 (excluding HL2 &amp; E1) games of 2007, and will be a welcome 
 addition to anyones game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarsimpson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical at first, such rave reviews and all, but no more. The Orange Box delivers 
 as promised, a fully loaded box of fun. All the original Half Life 2 games and the latest awesome 
 new stuff. Graphics are in tune with latest hardware, and software enhancements for Windows. A 
 really good deal from Steam also, allowing you to give your old Half Life 2 games to a friend. 
 That was not expected, but greatly appreciated. Gameplay is smooth, right from the start, not a 
 glitch at all. I think HL2 Episode 2 is the best starting one so far. Very good intro movie, that 
 transitions into immediate gameplay. If your memory is still intact, you can not help but marvel 
 at the gameplay, graphics and game engine changes that have evolved with this game since the original 
 Half Life game. Cudos to the Dev's great addition to the Half Life legacy. Head Crabs unite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Usually I'll play through a whole game and then review it but since this a package with 5 games 
 I'm just reviewing it as a package here. I'll drop some thoughts on the three new games but I'll 
 keep it brief and review them individually later. As a package the Orange Box stands out especially 
 because it's actually a good value. These days PC games seem to be getting more expensive so it's 
 refreshing to find something like this that actually feels like a good deal. Even if you already 
 own Half Life 2 and Episode 1, the three new games alone are worth the package price. In fact, 
 even if you're only interested in 2 of the new games it's still a fair price. Cost aside, it wouldn't 
 be a great value if the games were not great themselves. I already reviewed Half Life 2 and Half 
 Life 2 Episode 1, these are my thoughts so far on the three new games included in the Orange Box:
 
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2 - I've waited over a year for this and I have to say, I'm not disappointed. 
 I'm super impressed with the environments, the new physics puzzles, and the car... that car is 
 sweet. They've done a great job of tweaking the Source engine for the new games and it all plays 
 really well here. Episode 2 looks more detailed, has new enemies, separate flashlight battery, 
 better gamepad support, and achievements which add some more replay value to the classic Half Life 
 2 game play model. The pre-scripted scenes were particularly impressive in this installment. Portal 
 - Had no idea what this game would be and so far I'm not disappointed at all. I don't want to say 
 much about it yet because I'm not done. The puzzles are engaging and although the first ones are 
 really easy the difficulty definitely ramps up, especially towards the end, as you might expect. 
 The visual design is pretty simple but still very impressive like all source engine games.
  
  Team Fortress 2 - Got me back into competitive multi-player; need I say more? The character 
 design, animation and rendering style used in this game make it look spectacular and, maybe more 
 importantly, totally different aswell. I confess to having almost no experience with team based 
 FPS play but this game has me hooked. The extent to which the game play innovates may or may not 
 be that great, all I know is that it's simply 'da bomb'. If you're a PC guy and feeling left out 
 of all the Halo 3 madness, take heart; pick this game up and feel better today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay0012k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  An excellent deal. Even if u have HL2 + EP1.. u still get 3 more new games to enjoy.
  
  As we all know the original HL2 is a masterpiece. Episode 1 is a fairly decent continuation to 
 the original with new weapons and environments. Episode 2 carries on from where Ep1 left off. I 
 personally enjoyed Ep2 a lot more than Ep1 simply cause the storytelling is a bit more compelling. 
 The player easily understands what Dr. Freeman means to the resistance against the combine. Alyx 
 also provides an excellent support in his quest to undo the wrongs from Black Mesa. The gameplay 
 as always with HL2 is good with outstanding visuals that would look good on even a Pentium 3 with 
 voodoo gfx card. All in all a memorable gaming experience.
  
  Portal is a very immersing first person experience and combined with Team Fortress 2 we get 2 excellent 
 games that could keep u engaged for days inspite of finishing HL2 and its episodes. A very good 
 deal from Valve and I recommend this package to every HL2 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Despairity6s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  You can't really review this box as a whole because every title is so different that they all deserve 
 their own review. The Orange Box is an example that many studios should take a solid look at as 
 a template of how to garner customer interest and create a real sense of worth.
  
  Half-Life 2 - A tried and true classic that still stands up to the new releases despite being a 
 few years old. Fantastic graphics, great voice acting, amazingly fast paced action. Worth buying 
 on its own. 6-8 hours
  
  Half-Life 2 Ep. 1 - The weakest of this box set. A great title and definitely worth a play through 
 but lacking in length and actual substance in story. Same engine as Half-Life 2 so more of a continuation 
 of the plot than a try for anything new. 3-5 hours
  
  Half-Life 2 Ep. 2 - A more meat and potatoes sequel where they increase the length of the title 
 and create a greater sense of accomplishment throughout the game. More fast paced shooting with 
 insects, zombies, and commandos. 4-6 hours
  
  Portal - A true gem of a puzzle title, merging humor with a very well made series of puzzles. This 
 is one of the best titles you will play this or next year. Graphics are decent still relying on 
 the source engine. The artistic design is very clean and appropriate for the setting. The only 
 fault is with the player model you will see through portals appearing stiff and simplistic. Voice 
 acting is top notch and the writing will have you playing through multiple times for the enjoyable 
 dialog of the antagonist. Highly highly recommended. 3-4 hours
  
  Team Fortress 2 - A highly stylistic title with a superb art direction. You won't mind being killed 
 when you see the fantastically designed and animated figures up close. The return of gibbing brings 
 back a certain nostalgia. Sounds are fantastically done with the voice acting of all the classes. 
 The action is fast paced and frantic, perfect for those who love twitch game play. The lack of 
 maps are a fault with some people but in all honesty those maps are balanced to a fine point with 
 all classes in mind. Also with PC user created maps can be imported and played on. This title is 
 pure multi-player fun and should be tried by everyone at least once. timeless hours
  
  This collection is a must buy for PC users and 360 users. Not too many other titles can provide 
 the play time for the amount of money you spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sultan2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Portal is something els! totally unique, and it makes you think , than just some kill'em and tear'em 
 all.
  I just played portal and not hl2 ep2 much, I played and finished portal for 3-4 straight hours 
 and that game is just AWESOME, with awesome little story and an amazing weapon , and no killing 
 at all, was one of the best games I ever played, Great ending too guess it had a lot to say gotta 
 finish it one more time.
  HL Ep2 , is really good at start but it gets boring and repeating after while, same weapons is 
 big frustration, and some shaders and materials on small objects need improvement. but gotta admit 
 real time smooth shadows off your flashlight is just amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snosk8r00
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I have to say that half-life 2 and ep1 were polished off even more running ever so smoothly with 
 less errors as of previous releases of the two and episode 2 was absolutely amazing. The great 
 expanses and forestry make you really admire the source engines beauty and scalability. The gameplay, 
 Top notch and IMO better than that of half-life 2 and ep 1. TF2 is also extremely fun and really 
 easy to pick up and play without previous knowledge of the game. It took me about 15 minutes to 
 become familiar with the controls and all the classes, which are all extremely fun to play, no 
 matter how you play them. Portal is also an excellent bonus with the pack introducing fresh new 
 gameplay and features that make u want to rip the portal gun out and stick it in half-life 2 or 
 even garry's mod. All around i have to say this pack is a perfect 10 with no flaws in any department 
 just good all out gaming. I have to agree with TheArcane: This should be a model and example to 
 game designers everywhere. No uber-systems required, no rushed Christmas schedules, no bloated 
 hyped up advertising enterprises followed by a mediocre game. Just no-nonsense, pure, great gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheArcane
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Without a shred of doubt, buying The Orange Box was one of the smartest purchases I've ever done. 
 I bought it even though I already owned HL2 and EP1. And yes, even EP2, TF2 and Portal alone are 
 worth the 45$ I paid for them. Heck, TF2 alone is probably worth that cost. Or EP2! Or Portal! 
 Well, maybe not Portal, but honestly, there's no point to even think about individual prices. Everyone 
 should just buy the entire Box! It's that good!
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2 picks up exactly where Episode 1 ended, and luckily for those whe never 
 played it, it's conveniently included in the Box. Episode 1 of course picks up exactly where Half 
 Life 2 ended, and, again, luckily for those whe never played it, it's conveniently included in 
 the Box. But back to the point, Episode 2 is an excellent chapter in the adventures of Gordon Freeman. 
 It's a lot better than Episode 1, IMO, It has more variety in terms of challenges, environments 
 and enemies. It's just pure distilled fun, with plenty of memorable scenes and battles and never 
 a dull moment. Also unlike EP1, the plot takes quite a few leaps ahead, including some startling 
 revelations and an intriguing setup for Episode 3. The only bad thing I have to say about this 
 game... Well, two things, actually, is that the game could use a new weapon or two by now, just 
 to freshen things up, and that the episode is a little too heavy on zombies and a little too light 
 on combine troops, except for the heavily used new Hunters. But those are small blemishes on an 
 excellent and gripping 6 (for me, at least) hours of refined gameplay that only Valve, it seems, 
 can deliver.
  
  Portal is a great little bonus. While not so difficult (at not the main single player campaign, 
 I haven't tried the advanced challenges yet) as I imagined it to be, it is very innovative, technologically 
 interesting and absolutely hilarious (play it and you'll see what I mean) . The ending is great 
 and memorable and I can't wait until episode 3 is out to see how it all ties in to the Half Life 
 story.
  
  Team Fortress 2, it's just awesome. That's It. It's fun, funny, light-spirited yet very intense. 
 9 classes, completely different gameplay experiences. Teamwork comes naturally, it isn't forced 
 on players, yet everyone quickly understands it's value. The game has never made me frustrated 
 or annoyed, it is very balanced, even being killed by the same turret for the n-th time in a row 
 doesn't make me mad, just encourages me to switch classes or try a different approach. The game 
 is a multiplayer masterpiece. Also noteworthy is the excellent art style which contributes a lot 
 to the games spirit and feel.
  
  Technically, all the games are great. While I suffered from frequent crashes in TF2 while it was 
 in beta, Valve got on top of the problem and now all three work flawlessly. The Source Engine is 
 absolutely phenomenal and I'm getting great performance on a GeForce Go 7400 powered notebook! 
 I imagine that on even slightly more powerful rigs the games run like butter. There are no compromises 
 on the quality as well, all three games bring lots of subtle upgrades to the engine which all look 
 great while keeping very reasonable resource usage.
  
  In short, for the amazing value and uncompromising quality of this product, I cannot rate it any 
 lower than a perfect 10. This should be a model and example to game designers everywhere. No uber-systems 
 required, no rushed Christmas schedules, no bloated hyped up advertising enterprises followed by 
 a mediocre game. Just no-nonsense, pure, great gaming. Are you still reading this? Why are you 
 wasting your time? Just go and buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saftar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  If you havn't gotten your copy i would suggest going out right now and gettting it. Getting all 
 the Half-life seris is amazing. Ive always been a fan of Half-life but never acutally bought it. 
 Now i got all that storyline for such a low cost. Portal is so amazing! It took me 3 hours to beat. 
 Portal is such a revolutionary game. Its mind blowing. Last but not least we have TF2. Ive played 
 BF2 forever, but TF2 has taken the cake. The guys a Valve have done such a good job. The game is 
 spectacular. Some of the classes are unbalanced but im sure the guys at valve will hop on that 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box (PC) Review
  
  Half-Life 2 was a revolutionary game. It showed how far we have advanced... the games physics blew 
 us all away. The game was definetly worth the wait. Now Valve has released the Orange Box.... a 
 compilation of Half-Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, the long awaited Team Fortress 2 and Portal. 
 A compilation like no other. A long single player campaign, two expansion packs, the funnest multiplayer 
 game since counter-strike and Portal, a very innovative first person puzzle game. What else could 
 you ask for?
  
  Pros:
  
  + Great Graphics (Even though half-life is 3 years old it still looks beautiful, episode 1 and 
 2 are also great looking, Team Fortress 2 has a cell-shaded charm to it, and portal looks great 
 as well)
  + Solid Gameplay (The best part of Half-Life is how good it plays, and also great variety. One 
 of the best gameplay experiences you will ever have)
  + Multi-Player (Team Fortress 2 is a great online experience, it may very well be the cell-shaded 
 counter-strike)
  + Innovative (Portal is a great innovative puzzle, although a bit short, its one of the most innovative 
 games)
  + Content (This game is packed with content, hours upon hours upon hours of great and exciting 
 content)
  
  Cons:
  - ... its a compilation... so you have to buy all games at once...
  - No Counter-Strike Source... which would have made this an AAAA game.
  - NO real valid bad things 
 about this game
  
  This is the must have compilation. Packed with innovation, action, story-telling, and the G-Man.
 
  
  Must have game of 2007.
  
  I RECOMMEND THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlgtiby67
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  If you've never played Half-Life, basically you're a video game virgin. You have never truly played 
 a first person shooter (don't give me that halo crap, Half-Life is the root of Halo and every fps 
 that came after it) . But we are here to talk about what is in the Orange box. Don't worry there 
 are no spoilers in here, but we all should know it contains a sequel to one of the best franchises 
 of all time (Half-Life) - Within it contains Half-Life Episode 2, as well as Team Fortress 2, and 
 the newly elegantly created Portal. The reason this game deserves a perfect score is because it 
 is the best deal known to the video game world. Individually they would not necessarily stand out 
 as a perfect score but all of which would be above a 9.
  Half-Life 2 on its own does stand out as a solid 9.5 at minimum, the graphics although appear to 
 be near what it was when the original HL2 came out, is still pretty good looking and now has newly 
 added effects, new physics, and pre-rendering of cataclysmic events that occur throughout the game. 
 The story line is far superior to Episode 1 in every way, finally dots start being connected of 
 what the heck is going on with the G-man, the unresolved storyline that seemed never ending, and 
 a great idea for what we will see in Episode 3. Of course the sound is stunning as always, and 
 the music is the same way. Gameplay, well its a fps, what else is there to say. Valve always does 
 good with an fps, it is Valve of course. New and innovative situations occur that refresh the series, 
 and you have to wonder why it took them so long to think of these, but better late then never. 
 Overall you can't go wrong with any Half-Life game, heck even Blue-Shift is worthy of playing (although 
 once may be enough) . Moving on.
  Team Fortress 2, hopefully everyone remembers a good amount of the first one, but this time the 
 graphics are more of a cartoon style (which turned out to be good) . It's an online multiplayer 
 game and doesn't disappoint. If you liked Counterstrike at all, I'm positive you will enjoy Team 
 Fortress 2, if not more. The gameplay of it is a little different than CS but different is good. 
 Check it out and see if you like it, or not, whichever.
  Finally we come to Portal. Portal is something new, before it came out we all suspected it may 
 tie into Half-Life's storyline, and well you'd be correct. That is all I'm going to say about that. 
 Pay deep attention to it because it probably won't be that obvious. On the other hand, Portal is 
 like physics reborn. This game is unlike any other and should not be passed up.
  By now I know you are sick of reading, so go out and buy this amazing deal. You're PC will handle 
 this game (4 years old or not) . If you have a 360, same thing, go out and buy this ASAP, and if 
 you are the unfortunate PS3 owner, well sorry about the wait, good things come with time. Good 
 luck, and hope you enjoy the Orange box.
  
  If you hated this review, sorry for wasting your time, these are solely my opinions (although others 
 may share these) , everyone is entitled to their own opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  There are so many good things to say about The Orange Box. It is made up of five games: Half-life 
 2 and Half-life 2: Episode 1, which have been previously released, but are both classics; and three 
 brand-new innovative games Half-life 2 Episode 2, Portal, Team Fortress 2. Each one of these new 
 games could easily fetch a hefty full-price tag if they were from any other publisher but Valve. 
 But Valve not only makes great games, but they are great to their customers. The Orange Box is 
 only $50 for the PC! And trust me, The Orange Box is worth way more than you will pay for it. Portal
 
  Hands-down, Portal is the most original game of recent time. Though the main game of Portal is 
 short (about 2-3 hours max) , its the gameplay and the portal mechanic that will have you coming 
 back to Portal again and again. For myself, it was more important to have access to this new Source 
 engine technology. Once the mapmaker is released for Portal, its worth as a game will rise exponentially.
 
  As for the main game of Portal, it is really just an introduction to this new branch of the Half-life 
 universe. You play a women who has just woken up in a small glass cell in Aperture Science Enrichment 
 Center. A robotic female voice (whose name is GLaDOS) explains what you need to do, and introduces 
 you slowly to the portal mechanic.
  The entire campaign has you slowly learn new ways to use the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device 
 to solve unique puzzles in a highly detailed 3D environment. By the end, you will have to be thinking 
 with portals, and using momentum and angles to reach your goal. I dont want to spoil anything, 
 but the ending credit song is one of the funniest songs ever written, and its worth playing through 
 the campaign over and over again to hear it.
  Half-life 2: Episode 2
  Episode 2 picks up just minutes after Episode 1. You emerge from the wreckage of a civilian train 
 aided by Alyx, and you continue on your journey to White Forest, pursued by the Combine, who have 
 some new baddies to send your way. I just want to say that every downfall that made Episode 1 mediocre 
 in some peoples minds has been fleshed out of this new adventure. There are so many tiny details 
 that have been changed within the Source engine that make Episode 2 the most exciting and well-paced 
 game Ive ever played. Enemies now spurt blood, courtesy of Valves new particle effect technology. 
 They also use this technology on everything from the Vortigaunt energy attack to water gushing 
 from an empty pipe above.
  Some other changes to the engine include cinematic physics, where pre-designed highly-complex physics 
 are used in game with no noticeable slowdown. According to the commentary, the scene with the Advisor 
 ripping off the room of the barn had over 18,000 individual physics objects. These cinematic events 
 are just absolutely amazing to watch, and will have you reloading your last save over and over 
 again to see them. Valve has also done a much better job optimizing Ep2 on most computers, so you 
 will probably see a noticeable increase in performance over Ep1, even though Ep2 has more graphical 
 detail.
  Valves attention to detail gushes from every texture and landscape in the game. The antlion caverns 
 glisten as you shine your flashlight (which is now on its own power supply) across the walls. Iris 
 reactions to bright and dark light are much more pronounced this time around, and take a more realistic 
 time to adjust to large intensity changes.
  The full cast of Ep1 returns for this new episode, with the exception of Barney Calhoun. There 
 are also some new characters, such as the arrogant and extremely hilarious Dr. Magnusson, who returns 
 for the first time since Black Mesa. The Vortigaunts have a new actor portraying them, and have 
 received an extreme makeover. Their bodies are much more detailed and now have a smooth texture 
 as opposed to the old rough and wrinkled texture. The combine overwatch voice that was commonly 
 heard in Half-life 2 has gotten a lot different. It sounds much more clear now, and is even more 
 creepy and cool.
  Episode 2 mixes story elements, fun action sequences, some great puzzle elements, and amazing graphics 
 and sound into this perfect package of a game.
  Team Fortress 2
  It has finally come, after about nine years, Valve has finally released the sequel to one of the 
 most popular multiplayer shooters of all time. Valve has made some really interesting changes to 
 the TF formula. The cIasses are more fleshed out, and the balance is perfect. Grenades have been 
 taken out of the game all together, which eliminates that grenade spam craziness that defined some 
 of the TFC gameplay. Thats not to say that TF2 is not totally crazy. Explosions still make players 
 gib everywhere, which is much more detailed this time. Your body parts are still noticeable when 
 they are in fragments all over the ground, and they react as ragdoll objects.
  Team Fortress does something that many multiplayer shooters dont often seem to promote, and that 
 is teamwork. CIasses must work together to make up for each others weaknesses and must have a 
 general strategy in order to beat the other team. Even on random servers with people who have never 
 played together before, you often see at least a minimal amount of teamwork and coordination.
 
  One thing that really stands out about TF2 is its awesome cartoonish Cold War retro theme. The 
 gameplay and graphics all have to do with style, and there is no lack of style here. The environments 
 are highly detailed but have a interesting non-photorealistic look to them. Hopefully mapmakers 
 continue this style and make some memorable maps that become a staple of the map cycle on most 
 servers.
  GET THE ORANGE BOX NOW. You wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Valve has now created 4 games, HL1, HL2, Episode 1, Episode 2, and Portal. Each and every one of 
 these games has been profound and amazing. Half Life is and has always been my most adored game 
 series and it continues to be with this excellent group of games. It is hard even to complain about 
 the shortness, because you can just see the amazing quality of the game and why it is in fact so 
 short after a year spent on it. It was extremely well worth the money, even before I have played 
 Team Fortress 2. Portal and Episode 2 are some of the few single player games I think I will be 
 able to play multiple times.
  
  ---Edited a year and a half later ---
  
  I am still playing TF2. I've played Portal countless times. I've also played Ep2 multiple times. 
 The Orange Box is one of the only games I own that I can always sit down in front of and have fun 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiohazardV
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Although i own standalone versions of half life 2 and Episode1, It wouldn't kill me to buy it again 
 as the orange box. Not only its agreat deal but next chapter Episode 2 really is the greatest game 
 from the half life series. The gamr blends with better graphics, Artificial intelligance, story and 
 gameplay. Rather than that Portal combines a great game with physics and the best new concept of 
 the gaming in the gaming industry. Finally the much awaited Team fortress 2 also gives a great 
 new gameplay, graphics and a much fun way to play it. From all of this the orange box is a great 
 for gamers and it will never make you bored, the box contains plenty of fun, action, and hours of 
 great gameplay so my advice and reccomendation please make sure you buy it or not, your not a gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbelford22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is one of the greatest gaming bundles ever released. Consisting of Half Life 2, 
 Episode One, Episode Two, The longly anticpated Team Fortress 2 and Portal.
  
  After 9 years of development its finally here. Team Fortress 2 has finally hit the shelves and 
 boy has the wait been worth it. Team Fortress 2 is a run and gun shoot em up from Valve with many 
 intresting features that increase the depth of the game. Team Fortress works on a class system. 
 The player chooses what class he/she wants to be at the begining of each round and is spawned iwth 
 a certain selection of weapons. This has been tweaked and retweaked dozens of times to make sure 
 every class is balanced an that not one class is more powerful than another. The same can be said 
 about the maps. Each map has been tested thoroughly so one team does not have an unfair example. 
 Each map is set to a certain game mode. These range from a capture the flag style game mode to 
 a capture the control point scenario. These games can last from 20 seconds to 20 minutes as each 
 game is completely different from the previous. What makes the difference is teamplay and a a bit 
 of luck. Finally the icing on the cake with Team Fortress 2 are the graphics. Using a technique 
 called phong shading the developers have managed to create a cartoony feel to the game which makes 
 it all the more fun to play. Team Fortress 2 is one of the greatest multilpayer games of the year 
 and dare i say ever!
  
  Half Life 2 is Valves most famous game. Released in 2004 it stormed to the top of the charts. This 
 game features Gordon Freeman and his struggle against ousting the invading comine forces from earth 
 with help from various allies. With its complex physics system and amazing graphics Half Life 2 
 has become one the greatest single player games ever. Episode one is the cotinuation of the Half 
 Life story. Episode One is missing some features form the original game. Puzzle solving is not 
 as prominent and there is not driving chapters in the game which is a dispaointment. Although Episode 
 One is stil an amzing game to play through and defintiely worth the money. Episode Two builds on 
 the concepts of the original game and Episode One to become one of the best games so far. A welcome 
 return is seen to the driving chapters and puzzle solving along with a few other minor changes 
 here and there. Altogether this game offers a wonderful expeirence as well as coninuing on the 
 all important story.
  
  Portal is the last game in the package (not including Peggle Extreme... oh im geting there) . This 
 game features you playing as a test subject in a research facility. Your goal is to complete a 
 number of tasks while defying the laws of physics and risking death in a number of painful ways 
 to achieve your ultamite goal.... to get some cake!. This is one of the most innovative games ever 
 created and offers many hours of fun. There is much replay value in this game as there are advanced 
 levels and time trials which will melt your brain! Althogethr Portal is one of the funniest and 
 briliant games of the year!
  
  Peggle Extreme. How can i even explain this. It stil make my head hurt! basically its a demo of 
 a full game wich one can prchase off steam. It combines a puzzleish style of gameplay with familiar 
 backdrops of many valve games. To win you must hit all of the coloured bricks with a limited amount 
 of balls. Ive played through a few levels. Yes it can get addicitng and you can foinsd yourself 
 spending a few hours trying to finish a level. Its a nice little game throw in to play while waiting 
 for your games off steam.
  
  The Orange Box has to be the deal of the century. 5 games, One Box and an incredible price. Dont 
 miss out on this amazing chance to broaden your gaming perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This it truely the best box of games ever !
  
  each and every game is amazing in this pack.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two:
  
  This game 
 is truely amazing every thing has increased so far since the last Half Life 2 episode 1.
  
  The graphics are so much better every thing has a glow to it now.
  
  The shine is truely amazing 
 on everything including the alien look a like thing that call your the free man. (On a 8800GTX)
 
  
  The Sound is spectactular on a 5.1 I can't amagine what it would be like on a 7.1 it sounds so 
 realistic (on a X-fi)
  
  The gameplay is about that same but alot more speed is required in this game it reminds me more 
 of Half Life 1 because you have to be quick.
  
  The Controls.
  
  The Controls are the same nothing to worry about here still the same good controls.
  
  Let 
 me also say that they have done an amazing job with Alex this game wouldn't have been the same 
 without her in this game adding her was the best idea since making Half Life.
  
  You will find this game truely amazing when you get in the car and drive across the forest and 
 going through the tunnels with the glow of the bugs.
  
  This game is truely spectacular if your a half life fan or even if you have not played it yet I 
 really would recommend buying this game.
  
  Buy Buy Buy! :)
  
  Portal:
  
  This game is another amazing game its hard at times but very fun.
  
  Graphics:
  wow what 
 can I say? the graphics are so crystal clear especially when you shoot the portals and look through 
 them don't thik there is any thing they could have added at this point.
  
  Sound: Another amazing part of this game the sound is very good on my
  5.1 system the voices 
 gun and every thing sounds so amazing its just awesome.
  
  Gameplay: Its very hard at time don't give up there is always a way.
  It becomes very hard at 
 times and can give you a head ache.
  the portals are what mess you up when you see your self go through and portal and your going through 
 the portal at the same time.
  
  Controls:
  the controls are very good they are just like Half Life's controls so if you played Half Life Or 
 Counter Strike you can play this game with no problem.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  This game is pretty good.
  
  Gameplay:
  I find the gameplay really easy and similar to the 
 last one not much has changed but the grahics sure look good now.
  
  Graphics: They are very very good compare to the last one and the shine and textures are very amzing.
 
  
  Sound: the Sound is really great huge increase it sounds very realistic and I couldn't be happier 
 with it.
  
  Controls: They are very easy to figure out just about the same as Counter strike and Half Life 
 so if you played them before you can play this one also.
  
  Its a great game to buy if you liked the last one for sure.
  
  Thanks for reading this review 
 have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode 2
  While I was a bit skeptical about spending the 50 dollars for games that problary would not last 
 too long as a whole so far it seems to be worth it.. If you download the game from steam it allows 
 you to give episode 1 or half life 2 original as a gift to someone else who already has steam which 
 is a good idea.. Episode 2 is awesome and even though the half life engine is old now the graphics 
 on this are beautiful still.. It problary still has better graphics than alot of recently released 
 games.. The scripted events are really impressive to.. especially when they go to a half cutscene 
 half gameplay one where it seems the graphics are improved slightly.. The story continues from 
 where episode one left off and goes from there.. All in all I think episode 2 took me about 6-7 
 hours to finish which really isnt too bad.. Its not too difficulat at most parts if your already 
 really familiar with how half life 2 plays.. The last level is alot of fun haveing you try to take 
 down waves of striders acommpanied by 2-3 hunters.. You are given a special weapon to bring down 
 the striders as well.. Portal I just started on and while most of the earlier levels are really 
 easy its beginning to get a bit challenging around the 15th stage.. I really hope it doesnt take 
 them as long as it did to release episode 3 as it did for them to come out with episode 2.. It 
 was almost a year in between games!.. I havent tried team fortress 2 yet because I really dont 
 play too much multiplayer games but I will get to it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Valve has never failed us. Simply the best video game designers in the business. We have waited 
 patiently. But nothing can prepare you for what is inside this bright orange box. 3 of the greatest 
 games ever developed.
  Episode 2 is amazing. Valve listened to the fans an has delivered probably the coolest and greatest 
 FPS ever made since Half Life 2. A worthy edition to the series, Episode 2 is filled with new creature 
 and surprises. The detail of the environments is incredible. New textures and sounds that push 
 video game graphics and sounds to new levels of realism and far past the norm. Valve has the best 
 game designers in the business. Period. The intricate details of structures and machines will leave 
 another lasting impression on the player. Simply cool. Like the original Half Life 2, the game 
 play remains basically the same with some new elements thrown in the mix. Great replay value too. 
 New challenges and achievements are attainable and will keep the player coming back. The achievements 
 can be viewed on a players profile in Valve's recently new Community feature. Varying degrees of 
 futuristic fun can describe Portal. Portal is almost un-describable. Genius game design at work 
 here. You use a gun (early version of the 0-point grav-gun?) to create portals to get you through 
 levels. Simple yet futuristic artwork and level design. Another cool game just to watch in motion. 
 The sounds and music are really cool also. A melodic symphony echoing through your mind as you 
 try to think of a solution to a level. The voice over/background announcer is hilarious at times. 
 I'm wondering if this game takes place well after Half Life 2 or before it? Maybe it's a sign of 
 things to come in Half Life 3? The main character almost looks like Alyx and has the foot attachments 
 like her father did. Everyone loves a good game of deathmatch. thousands of them are already going 
 on in Team Fortress 2. Another worthy sequel that is also included in this little orange box. Multiple 
 characters from the Spy to the Heavy Machine Gunner. This is a great multiplayer game and can't 
 wait for the tournaments to start. Points and achievements are gained for conducting various tasks 
 or kills. TF2 is a real fun game to play. I liked setting up the turrets using the engineer. Watching 
 the turrets gib unsuspecting enemy's is hilarious. All of the stat information is recorded in real 
 time and can be viewed on Valve's STEAM community program. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artistry_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The best of Valve is here on display all in one glorious box. Thats five games in one. And if even 
 one is worth 30 dollars or more all on its own it is Portal. A mind bending journey through mazes 
 which will test every perception of physics you might have. What goes up must come down .. speedy 
 thing go in speedy thing come out. The notion of momentum and propulsion. All courtesy the portal 
 gun Aperture Science provides you with around test chamber 5. Thats right you're a lab rat in some 
 devious facility designed to test the potential of said portal gun. It's sheer genius. I love the 
 idea of being a lab rat given an opportunity to overcome all obstacles and even breaking free from 
 entrapment, breaking all the bounds of the facility.
  It reminds me a lot of the movie Cube and it's psychology, experiment for experiments' sake, a 
 test chamber never meant to be solved or conquered.
  Do Not Pass This One Up !! : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshyMan50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  One of the things you think about when you pick up a game is the overall value. With The Orange 
 Box, value is not a problem. Five games are all in one box for a low price, which is something 
 you dont see in video games that often. The Orange Box is a great compilation that any fans of 
 action games will love. The first two games in the collection are Half-life 2 and Half-life 2: 
 Episode One. Half-life 2 tells the story of Gordon Freeman traversing the combine controlled city 
 streets of City 17. The biggest thing this game introduced was how the player interacted with the 
 physics of the items in the environment, which is a theme that stays throughout the entire series. 
 Half-life 2 is defiantly a modern classic that was first released in 2004 &amp; still holds up 
 today. Half-life 2: Episode One continues the story of Gordon Freeman running out of City 17 (trying 
 to avoid spoilers) with Alyx Vance, a character introduced in Half-life 2. She is by your side 
 throughout the entire episode, which is nice. Episode One is cripplingly short, about 4-5 hours, 
 which was a bummer when it was first released. That problem has been fixed by putting it in a compilation 
 package. Half-life 2: Episode Two is the newest chapter of the series that has Alyx &amp; Gordon 
 traversing the dangerous White Forest to bring a package to Alyxs father. While episode one is 
 focused on interiors and corridors, episode two brings back wide open vistas &amp; vehicles. There 
 is one new weapon &amp; one new enemy type to fight. Without getting into spoiler territory, the 
 story is the main focus of episode two &amp; lets just say the story is at its best it has ever 
 been with some serious stuff going down. Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer portion of The Orange 
 Box. Its has been in development for nine years and has gone through many iterations from an ultra 
 realistic look to a counter-strike kind of look. What they have ended up going with is a Looney-tunes 
 cartoon sort of look that looks so good &amp; polished you would think Bugs Bunny would get the 
 next frag. Like Team Fortress &amp; Team Fortress Classic, Team Fortress 2 is a class-based first 
 person shooter thats main focus is on the nine classes and how differently balanced they are from 
 one another. The action is very solid &amp; very fast paced. Although there are a few issues here. 
 There is no matchmaking which is sensible on the PC, but makes no sense on the Xbox 360. There 
 are only six maps with five of those being capture the point maps and the lag is quite noticeable 
 rendering the game unplayable at times. Its also sometimes hard to stay in a game when it kicks 
 you out at random times. Portal, the last game of the package, is quite the mind f*ck. This first 
 person puzzle game is all about getting from the start of one of the nineteen puzzles to the end, 
 which is usually a door. Sounds easy, right? Well it isat first. The puzzles focus around the 
 use of a gun that, undoubtedly, shoots portals. These portals allow you to pass though the environment 
 as one portal is an entrance, the other an exit. Its very jarring at first, but once you get used 
 to it, its a cool effect thats the star of the game. Or should I say would be the star of the 
 game if it didnt have the amazing and often humorous female robotic voice guiding you through 
 each puzzle. Whether its stating that a puzzle is impossible &amp; then badgering you for attempting 
 said puzzle, to saying flat out that you will die at the end of the test. It just shows that she 
 cares about your test scores, not you. The writing is great, moving you forward through each puzzle 
 without it feeling like a grind. The only problem I have is the length. The game is about 2-3 hours 
 long which is short by action game length, but on par with other puzzle games. Oh, and the ending 
 is pretty mind blowing as well and deserves a shout out. The PC and Xbox 360 versions are identically 
 the same. The differences are graphically. If you have a high end PC you can have sharper textures 
 and the ability for mods. In no way the content is any different out of the box. Both versions 
 have 99 achievements for all the separate games. You rarely see titles like The Orange Box. Valve 
 could have easily just sold each part separately (which they give you that option on the PC through 
 Steam) , but putting all of these products together makes this a title that shouldnt be missed.
 
  
  Graphics- The frame rate stays a rock solid 30 fps at all times. The animations are spot on. The 
 game has something for everyone to the Eastern European looking environments in Half-life to the 
 crazy Road Runner cartoon styling of Team Fortress 2.
  
  Sound- From the sounds of that are from the real world (like machine guns, explosions, and the 
 voice acting) to things that dont exist in the real world (like portals &amp; the gravity gun) . 
 Nothing sounds out of place.
  
  Gameplay- The shooting in the game is solid &amp; the environmental puzzles break up the action 
 nicely. Also, Portals puzzles ease you into the experience perfectly while getting progressively 
 harder.
  
  Value-
  Half-life 2 with episodes one &amp; two: 30-35 hours
  Portal: 2-4 hours
  Team Fortress 2: keeps you coming back
  Needless to say that you will be 
 playing this one for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure by now everyone has heard how The Orange Box is the deal of the century, blah blah blah. 
 However, even ignoring the inclusion of Half Life 2 and Episode 1, The Orange Box is a great release 
 by Valve that will keep you entertained for quite some time.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 does feel short when compared with Half Life 2, but probably a bit longer 
 than Episode 1, it's still a great ride along the way. And after playing it, it makes Episode 1 
 feel like well... a bad game. Which isn't to say Episode 1 is a terrible game, it's just not near 
 as good as Half Life 2 was or Episode 2 is. With its mix of action and puzzles, the game feels 
 remarkably well rounded and timed. Also, the puzzles won't basically boil down to 'How can I use 
 the gravity gun here?' that seemed to plague most of Half Life 2 and part of Episode 1. Episode 
 2 also brings many answers to the story of the Half Life universe, and opens up a few new questions, 
 leading into what most definitely will be some sort of climax in Episode 3.
  
  Portal is an interesting puzzle game, with a great mix of humor, action and strategy. The portals 
 themselves are fun, and it seemingly never gets old to move objects with them, or to run in circles 
 in a corner. The usage of momentum is enjoyable, especially when you fall out of a high wall portal 
 into the floor to jump far. However, it's hard to do a few of the puzzles in the game where you 
 have to go through an infinite loop to build up speed, then shoot another portal to a different 
 spot. With your portals redirecting your positioning, and the camera rotation thereafter, it can 
 be a challenge to shoot a portal right at a wall next to the ceiling while falling at terminal 
 velocity. But in the end, I really just can't wait for Portal 2; perhaps it might be released with 
 Half-Life 2: Episode 3!
  
  Team Fortress 2 looks like some gory, graphic Pixar video game, and it really is. The game is fun, 
 with creative and enjoyable classes to play, including the healing medic. The game feels very balanced, 
 and while it seems to have a slight shortage of maps, it still has great replayability. Some of 
 the maps even have different parts to them, where they will change which part is used every round, 
 which can be interesting. TF2 will probably hold the most gameplay for your average gamer, and 
 it ultimately lives up to the reputations of its predecessors.
  
  Basically, all three new games in the The Orange Box are worth a buy, and since you give away Half-Life 
 2 and Episode 1, I would highly recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SharkyLV
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Half-Life is the best game what i have been played.. There are really good gameplay and graphic. 
 I think Team Fortress 2 is intresting game... For some time...
  Portal is game where u need to work/think with your little brain.. It is good too...
  Minus in 
 HL2: Episode 2? Too Short!
  Half-Life is the best game what i have been played.. There are really good gameplay and graphic. 
 I think Team Fortress 2 is intresting game... For some time...
  Portal is game where u need to work/think with your little brain.. It is good too...
  Minus in 
 HL2: Episode 2? Too Short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornrocker666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Nothing gets my heart racing like a good tf2 game with my friends. Tf2 is so different from the 
 other straight shooters on the pc or any system for that matter. The graphics are beautiful and 
 the characters all have great personalities and everyone is so different. Moving on to Portal, 
 this game is a must have. Although i thought it was extremely short, it still has some replay value 
 when the advanced maps are unlocked. Half life 2 episode 2 is also extremely sick. I never bought 
 episode 1 so that was also a major bonus for me to buy the orange box. If you have a decent pc 
 get the orange box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 2 is just great entertainment! It's a thrilling and action-packed FPS which 
 leaves you absolutely no time to breathe. It's perfectly designed cos the second a passage threatens 
 to become boring there's another of these great moments which just wants you to explore the world 
 of Half Life 2 deeper. Nearly everything in this game scratches on the surface of perfection: pacing, 
 atmosphere, design, animation, graphics and sound add up to one of the best games ever!
  
  Portal is just great entertainment! The way this game combines a bizarre kind of humor with an 
 absolutely unique and demanding idea of game play is fantastic. If you search for a new experience 
 in the FPS-genre, play this game!
  
  Team Fortress 2 is just great entertainment! The game delivers a truly addictive style of game 
 play, even for people who don't play multi player in the first instance. It connects cool graphics 
 with even cooler multi player action and is definitely worth a try for everyone.
  
  A sum up is obviously not difficult: Valves Orange Box is just great entertainment - multiplied 
 by three (or even five if you don't know the first two installments of the Half Life series) ! If 
 you're interested in FPS games there's definitely no way around these fantastic games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  This is the most awesome game release ever. Three incredible games. Not only are they brilliant 
 games, but they look beautiful and the star of the package (Episode Two) continues the Half-Life 
 2 story and only gets better than ever. The package includes the new and innovative Portal game 
 which is a load of fun in itself. I'm sure that in time there will be downloadable map packs, whether 
 it be directly from Valve or from users using a map editor (or both) , but the game will surely 
 not end with the campaign given to begin with. The voice over the intercom also provides entertainment, 
 with her dark humor that shocks you in a way. Team Fortress 2 brings back the classic Team Fortress 
 with the smooth and clean cartoon style graphics. The revamped gameplay makes the game all the 
 better, only improving upon the original. Like any good multiplayer game, it should prove many 
 hours of fun for any gamer.
  
  Episode Two did not disappoint, only reinforcing that Half-Life 2, and the whole Half-Life 2 series, 
 is/are my favorite game (s) . Portal is awesome and should prove to be a new idea to be introduced 
 in future Valve games, and Team Fortress 2 brings back the classic while losing none of the original 
 fun and gaining some new excitement.
  
  Buy the Orange Box! It is my favorite video game-related purchase of all-time, and I do not at 
 all regret spending my $45 to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeuton_Mojukai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, Half-Life 2 and HL2: Episode 1 are both pretty good, though the former is much better 
 than the latter.
  
  The Orange Box may include these, but the real reasons to buy this are the other three games included: 
 Team Fortress 2, Portal, and HL2: Episode 2.
  
  Before anyone starts getting all angry about the price of the game, or how you have to buy them 
 all together, let me just remind them that they can buy the games individually on Steam.
  
  Portal is $19.99
  TF2 is $29.99
  HL2: Episode 2 is either $29.99 or $19.99
  
  Why would 
 you want to buy only a few of these, when you get all of them together for the same amount it would 
 cost to buy two of them?
  
  If you already have purchased the first two parts of Half-Life 2, then you'll get a free gift copy 
 to give to anyone you feel like.
  
  Now, onto the games.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is one of the most anticipated multiplayer games since the original came out 9 
 years ago. The game has gone through redesign after redesign and we've groaned every step of the 
 way. Now that it's here, it's nearly perfect. Every class has a value to the gameplay and is well-balanced 
 against the other classes (even a beginner like me can find classes that I become an expert at 
 very quickly) , and the levels are profoundly robust and exciting to play in, despite there only 
 being six designed originally for the game. However, there already are a great number of new maps 
 that have been developed (remember, they give out their Developer Kit for free) . This game is not 
 just window dressing for Episode 2, as many are wont to say. In fact, this game stands alone as 
 the collection's only multiplayer game. As far as collections go, that's a very nice thing to have. 
 The graphics are beautiful, the sound is satisfying, and the experience is going to be addictive 
 for a long time.
  
  Portal is also incredibly well-made. The physics of Half-Life 2 are taken to a level that seems 
 impossible to comprehend until you actually try it. A real mind-bender, this puzzle game allows 
 you to do things you'd never normally expect to do, like looking at yourself infinite times, or 
 chasing your tail, or using your own momentum to fly without ever touching the ground, yet being 
 continually in a state of falling. Oh, and of course the commentary by the omnipresent computer 
 voice is so hilarious, you may find it distracting from the actual gameplay. The music is wonderfully 
 done, and often a combination of eerie insanity and hilarious silliness is found in the same place. 
 This game is worth playing as much for its humor as it is for its gameplay.
  
  Finally, Half-Life 2: Episode Two is a great return to the kind of exciting gameplay and horrifying 
 atmosphere that made the prior games in the series (possibly excluding Episode One) such classics. 
 While no new weapons are introduced, the cinematic quality of the game is simply incredible. Instead 
 of holding your hand through dialogue, it is simply given to you straight, and you are free to 
 ignore them or listen closely. Like the other two games highlighted here, humor becomes a welcome 
 addition to the formula for Half-Life 2, with subtle and slightly goofy moments giving you the 
 chance to regain your composure before the resuming of utter chaos.
  
  If you don't want the Orange Box, then don't buy it. But if you're at least interested in trying 
 it out, it comes highly recommended.
  
  Granted, this isn't a perfect setup in the most exacting sense of the word, but at least this collection 
 is close enough to be the best experience I've ever had in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If you can run the games in this box, ur lucky.
  
  if you havent played any of these games in this box , ur DOUBLE lucky
  
  5 A+++ shooters togethor 
 for 50 bucks? count me in
  
  team fortress 2 is funny, fun, and addicting as hell. youll be up all night playin this game.
 
  
  portal is the mose innovative fps puzzle game ever. you will really use ur brain in this one
 
  
  half life 2 and its expansions. you cant go wrong with the greatest shooter of all time. deep involving 
 story, amazing look, insane action, grim environment.
  
  do urself a favor: GET THE ORANGE BOX.
  
  *only reason im not giving it a ten is because people 
 who already had HL2 and episode one got screwed over a lil.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilso326
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  First, I want to make it clear that I don't really hate any of the content in Orange Box. Episode 
 Two should satisfy any Half Life 2 fan and the huge amount of stuff it comes with should keep you 
 busy for a while. Portal and TF2 aren't bad games, and they can be great for killing some time 
 after you've finished playing HL2 and the episodic expansions. My problem with Orange Box is even 
 after going through all the extras, it still feels like it isn't worth $50. And I find that extremely 
 disappointing, because the whole selling point of Orange Box was the value.
  
  Half Life 2 isn't a horrible game, Episode one isn't horrible either and episodic content isn't 
 that bad. But the thing is, if you haven't bought either of them until now, you're probably not 
 interested in Half Life games, and if you have bought them, it feels kind of stupid buying a bundle 
 where you already own two of the games. If you don't own HL2, or Episode 1, or only own one of 
 them, and you think you'll enjoy them, then orange box would be worth the money to you. But if 
 you are only buying it for EP2, like most people, you're going to feel like you've been badly ripped 
 off.
  
  So after you finish your newly purchased HL2 and Episode 1 that you probably already bought a long 
 time ago, you get to try out the extras. Valve and their fancy marketing made you think you were 
 buying a package with 5 games in it, but really you've just bought 1 game and two expansions and 
 a bunch of little extras. Anyways, the two mini games really shouldn't be considered games. Team 
 Fortress 2 can be fun for the first while, and it is original and funny. But it's definitely not 
 the kind of game you would be waiting years and years for, or to play for hours everyday. It's 
 more like one of the better mods in the HL2 modding community, or a budget title which ends up 
 in the bargain bin a few weeks after its release. It's not a rip off though, because you're only 
 paying $10 per game in Orange Box, but it really has nothing to do with the HL universe, and its 
 just packaged in Orange Box to get better sales.
  
  Portal is very innovative and challenging. It's mostly a puzzle solving game, but it is set in 
 the Half Life universe and it does make very good use of the source engine. Just like TF2, I can't 
 really call Portal a real game because it feels so much like a mod. Just because it uses the same 
 engine as HL2 doesn't mean it has to reuse so many of the assets in HL2. And, just like TF2, you're 
 probably not going to be interested very long because the game just doesn't feel like a retail 
 game... There goes another $10 not being used to its fullest.
  
  Overall, Orange Box feels like a cheap attempt to sell a bunch of mini games by packaging them 
 into one game that you will actually like. Orange Box was all about adding lots of little things 
 into one big package for a low price. But in the end, it's more like one game expansion that you'll 
 enjoy with a bunch of cheap bargain bin games disguised as retail games, and you have to pay near 
 a retail price.
  
  To be honest, I think Orange Box isn't that great of a deal. I liked TFC, but not all Half Life 
 fans liked it, and not everyone wants TF2. Portal is fun and innovative, but like TF2, Valve assumed 
 it would be such an amazing game that everyone would want to buy it. And if you're a Half Life 
 fan, you must have bought HL2 and Episode one ages ago, so paying $50 for episode two feels like 
 a ripoff.
  
  If you don't care about how much you will enjoy a game, and cheap deals and reveiew scores are 
 all that matter to you, then this game is for you. But in the end it's not even that great of a 
 deal, because very few people will actually enjoy everything in the whole package. If you can, 
 just get Episode two, you really won't be missing out on much if you don't buy Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFreelancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Packed with a variety of games, the Orange Box comes with Portal, Team Fortress 2, Half Life 2, 
 HL2: Episode 1, and the new HL2: Episode 2. Theres something for everyone in this monster of a 
 package. Personally I have not truly got in to HL2: Episode 2, however when I tried it out I could 
 tell that the graphics were up to standards many other new games. It seems as though they included 
 graphical updates for episode one as well. If you plan on playing these two back to back, you can 
 expect about 14 hours of action packed missions. I played Episode One for four hours last week 
 and there were still no signs of it coming close to an end! Team Fortress 2 on the other hand, 
 does not include any offline support. While this would normally deduct points from any other game, 
 it's strictly online mindset is the cause of an already large fan base. Team Fortress 2 will most 
 likely remain a prominently popular online game for the next few years. To me Portal seems like 
 a product that they just threw in here. It doesn't really fit together with the other games, but 
 it is a lot of fun if you like physical puzzles. As seen in the title, players must jump around 
 from portal to portal to accomplish objectives and discover new places. I can't say much for this 
 game as I am not personally a fan however I think that it will gain somewhat of a fan base and 
 that everyone could enjoy certain aspects of this game. In all Orange Box has something to offer 
 for everyone. Another great thing about this game is that you can also buy Garry's Mod and use 
 HL2 textures while playing it. Orange Box was one of this years greatest and most anticipated PC 
 releases, and it's games will still be played in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a collection of five games from Valve Software. Five games in one package. Okay, 
 so Half-Life 2 and HL2: EP1 have been around for a while now. But if you already own them, you can 
 gift them to someone who does not. Tell me who else would do that.
  
  Also, the game is worth the price for the three new games, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team 
 Fortress 2. Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer content and not having spent time with it, I will 
 leave it for others to review that part of The Orange Box.
  
  HL2EP2 is the central piece of The Orange Box; it's reason for being. For those new to the story 
 of Gordon Freeman, the earlier HL2 games are included. EP2 picks up where EP1 left off. The game 
 play is very similar, which is a good thing. The Half-Life series is well loved for a reason. There 
 are some new enemies in the game, and the trusty gravity gun is back. While you never get the super 
 charged version that you had for brief periods in HL2 and EP1, it still is a great weapon.
  
  The game also progresses the Half-Life story in interesting ways. No spoilers here, but saga 
 continues as humans struggle against the combine. Of course the G-Man makes an appearance, but 
 more substantial than in the previous games. Graphically the game is up to date. As with the rest 
 of the series, the character models, especially facial animation, is the standout piece. I do wish 
 they modeled your legs, especially in driving sequences. But that's a minor announce.
  
  But Portal makes The Orange Box. Without Portal, this is a good game, but not significantly different 
 than HL2EP1. But Portal elevates The Orange Box. I'm not sure how sites will treat The Orange Box 
 in game of the year discussions, since it is a collection of games, but taken as a whole, Portal 
 makes the collection one of the top gaming purchases of the year.
  
  Portal is something of a puzzle game, and can be played simply as puzzles if you want. But there 
 is a story element as well that ties into the Half-Life story and will likely be significant in 
 HL2EP3. As with Freeman, the main character has no personality at all, but your guide in the game 
 makes up for your dullness. Portal is somewhat short but more challenging versions of some of the 
 maps are included along with some other modes, like a timed mode. I played Portal before EP2 and 
 found myself wanting the portal gun in some situations.
  
  So, if you like first person action, then you should get The Orange Box. Gaming should be about 
 having fun, and something in this collection will at least make you smile, and maybe draw out a 
 few other emotions as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Valve the most essential pioneer in FPS/gaming history never stoppes to innovate &amp; amaze people 
 either if its based on theyr games or the way they take on the gaming industry ! 1st I want to 
 start with the most awaited game/part of the year in my book .... ofcourse i'm talking about HL2ep2 
 .... welll the gameplay style is allmost totally diferrent &amp; much more intense than ever not 
 only that but some important story facts have been revealed wich have been revealed thru out the 
 game not only that the gameplay is far more challenging &amp; olso enjoying &amp; i still can not 
 see another FPS out there with such a deep story &amp; gameplay technique .... practacaly the invators 
 of use of phsix in game VALVE outdone them selfves again just imagine a grenade under a large plate 
 wich is linked by ires at one end &amp; the explosion creates a blast under that plate that puts 
 you up neer an medical bay pure geniues not only that your new &amp; old enemies can become a problem 
 in some areas ... now the stupid combine soldiers have the malee attack , cover system &amp; they 
 evan pick up grenades &amp; throw them back at you , the striders , gunships , &amp; hellicopters 
 are super smart they will try to avoid or evan shoot your projectails ... so imagine that you have 
 to play with your rocket a bit before hitting a strider or a gunship &amp; a new addition to the 
 combine army are the hunters .... who's A. i. is so agressive &amp; intuitive that you will be amazed 
 .... + you have 2 new types &amp; very dangerous ant-lions ... the Guardin &amp; a small 1one who 
 spits out toxins . Another great addition is that you will be helped by 1 or more vourtigauns in 
 a particular lever where you will learn more about theyir ways &amp; habbits on theyr own planet 
 &amp; wow what a fighting machine he is .... not ot mention in most of the game you will be side 
 by side with alyx in somekind of modified hot rod that drivers much more realistic &amp; it has 
 more mommentom + you have a montitor that shows you hidden suplyies just to brrake up the action 
 . In addition to you inventory you only have a bg new grenade that glues on striders &amp; then 
 has to be shoot at to destroy the strider instantly ..... the story well nothing more to see here 
 no SF novel or movie can get more deep than this ! THE SOURCE ENGINE is vastly improved practacally 
 all the effects are super improved starting from splashes to shaders &amp; to enviroments &amp; 
 after allmost 4 years its still 1one of the best looking &amp; intuitive engines out there that 
 can evan lok better than Ressistence , MOHA &amp; some other games !
  PORTAL is just briliant .... &amp; that shows that VALVE has an eye for tallents practacaly the 
 game is planed from the ground up by 7 guys yourng programers &amp; well the ressult is unbeliveble 
 &amp; i'm not going to spoil any gameplay surprise but i'm only going to tell you that i feel 5% 
 smarter since i've played it :D ! &amp; it has somehow a link with the HL unniverse ... in fact 
 APPERTURE tech is another company/facility like that competes with BLACK MASA &amp; the edning 
 is really funny prepare for the ultimate song just watch the credits :D !
  TEAM FORTRESS 2 ---- is just to fun &amp; to addicting especially by the difference that the calsses 
 show &amp; the graphical desing ... evan if you loose you won't get pissed because its fun if you 
 compare The incredibles with TF2 you will se that its the exact same background &amp; not only 
 that but in terms of gameplay its very challenging &amp; very well made especially for the engineer 
 &amp; spy ... but do not worry i've been playing since the beta started &amp; i haven't seen a server 
 that with a missing class in game time every class has its use &amp; if you know hw to coordenate 
 it you will sure win !
  Again VALVE not only revolutioned gameplay in games but olso the marketing industry .... i do not 
 have the orange box ... i have the black box because of my 2900 XT &amp; i was evan surprised that 
 i have Day of Defeat source in there &amp; wow what surprise &amp; what good game to kill time 
 till all of these masterfull games comed out ! Best expierence &amp; best deal this years so far 
 ! Not to mention the best game in history :P! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcwc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Honestly, after playing all the games in this bundle, all I can say is, Perfect. Actually, after 
 I finished portal, I was totally amazed how much work they put in and replay it with the commentary 
 mode turned on. And to be honest, who wouldn't like a gun which can shoot portals out of it? Valve 
 has simply done a freaking good job this time and don't push yourselves too hard sometimes, cuz 
 other games simply can't keep up if you keep making all these high-end games. After a whole lots 
 of months suffering with bad games, I finally find this bundle to be truly worth playing. Source 
 engine has improved a lot since the first time I saw it in HL2. The quality of graphics and gameplay 
 has made a great improvement as well. GOod job guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertyoung27
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  The orange box should be gold. The Half Life games are so fun and the story keeps you wanting more 
 and more. Portal is a brand new challenge like nothing you've ever played before. The voice that 
 speaks to you in the game is hilarious, and so are the speaking turrets! (after you destroy one, 
 they sometimes say no hard feelings hehe)
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a unique first person multiplayer that is just a riot to play. The classes are 
 so well done. The levels are great, the announcer voices in this one are hilarious too! Valve is 
 just fully staffed in their genius department. Anyway, I don't know why i'm here writing when I 
 can be playing these games! Later, I have combine to slaughter, achievements to unlock, and multiplayer 
 battles waiting for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennybird
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Just a quick break-down of the games.
  
  For those of you who have not played Half-Life 2, I tell you now - get this, it is truly worth 
 at least $100. The storyline is sensational, I always describe it as an interactive #1 box office 
 movie. Voice acting phenomenal, you will not get a better grade of voice acting from any other 
 FPS. The graphics, some say the source engine is outdated, but it has a look that no other engine 
 I've seen has. It runs smoothly, and yet - in my opinion has the most impact on me than any other 
 game (coming from a person who's played crysis, cod4, halo 3, e. t. c.) . Somehow, Valve made an engine 
 that runs and looks so well on even the lowest end machines, and yet looks incredible. They somehow 
 managed to make the textures and everything about the game depict the atmosphere you would expect 
 in such an environment. I would take these graphics for this sort of game over, say Crysis's anyday.
 
  
  Half-Life 2: 8-12 Hours of gameplay
  Episode 1: 4-6 hours of gameplay
  Episode 2: 6 - potentially 10.
  
  The time it takes you to complete each chapter of the tantalizing 
 tail of Gordon Freeman solely depends on how fast you are, what difficulty you're playing on, and 
 ultimately - how intelligent you are.
  
  The Half-Life series always had a good balance of shooting action, puzzle solving, and uniqueness 
 that no other FPS I played had. Unlike many FPS's today, you have the ability to shoot so many 
 different types of enemies. The life-like feeling that each of the characters in the story possess 
 is truly astounding. The interaction between each other is unparalleled. For those of you who have 
 played Half-Life 2 and/or Ep1, you will not be disappointed. Valve is the only game developing 
 company in which I have confidence in to make an even better sequel. Innovative at that. By the 
 end of Episode 2, you will be begging, if not crying - on your knees, for Episode 3.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Where to start? Scout, soldier, sniper, spy, pyro, hwguy, engineer, medic, 
 demoman. Nine classes to pick from. This is no battlefield crap. These classes are supremely unique. 
 Different health, far different speeds, many different abilities. The game contains stereotypical, 
 overexaggerated movements and hysterical comic moments, blended with extremely team oriented gameplay. 
 Honestly, you cannot win if you don't work as a team in this game. Each class relies on another 
 to aid itself. The graphics are superb and catchy, the gameplay competitive, but again the hilarious, 
 comic style parts to the game keep you realizing that it is just a game and to have fun.
  
  Portal:
  
  When I started playing this game, I literally got sick and a little dizzy. I thought 
 'This is awesome!'. You will do things that blow your mind in this game, and it is so innovative, 
 I do not know how Valve _could not_ make another hit game out of this. The robotic A. I. 'Woman', 
 that leads you through this mind bending game is also hilarious. By the end, I guarantee you'll 
 want more. I do not believe I've ever given a game a 10.0, however considering this is several 
 games in one, and really fits almost every gamers' style; not to mention I truly cannot point out 
 anything wrong with the games besides me wishing they were longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivanorus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a crazy game, its short, but i think this was just to make us learn how to play it. There 
 will be part two I'm pretty sure. Episode 2 was also very good, i think the best experience you 
 can get from half life 2 is if you play all those games in a row, starting half life 2, ep1 and 
 ep2, of course we just gotta wait until ep3, and maybe HL3!!! Now, Team Fortress i haven't played 
 yet so i don't know how the game is, but by what i heard, the best multilayer FPS, and I'm sure 
 of that, its VALVE made, so there is no question in its gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leige_a
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing bad I have to say about any of the game included with the ORANGE BOX bundle. My 
 gripe is that as this is advertised all over the video-game universe, there was no mention of the 
 BLACK BOX...
  
  I have nothing against the games themselves but I have a bone to pick with Valve/EA/Steam;
  
 
  After pre-ordering the ORANGE BOX on Steam, I was very excited to take part in the TF2 beta. Solid 
 build which had me sold.
  
  The the day that The OB went live, I immediatly installed my Steam client on my workstation at 
 work and took full advantage of the fiber-optical bandwith!!
  
  Needless to say I wasn't disappointed with the new games, however... I was slightly agitated by 
 the fact that the OB also included HL2 and EP1; both of which I already own. Obviously this would 
 be the cause of my distaste for the marketing scheme designed to force fanboys/hardacores/L337/and 
 the n00bz to drop down the extra cash to be able to purchase the OB upon release day.
  
  Yes, I admit to being so nieve and foolish to spend the extra dough anyway as I felt it was worth 
 it. Until I came across another Steam-based advertisement called: THE BLACK BOX. This NEW bundle 
 was essentially the Orange Box WITHOUT the original HL2 and EP1. There was no mention of this bundle 
 at all and as I am an employee of a very reputable video game publishing entity, I did my best 
 to keep tabs on the latest news of the VG industry. The Black Box was NOT something I expected.
 
  
  My final thoughts and opinions for The Orange Box, as I wrap this review up is to urge you all 
 of the Video Gaming Community to do your research before making a purchase! Otherwise you end up 
 a statistic like me - having to fight back the urgency of wanting the latest and greatest game 
 titles of the season while biting the bullet shot from the BILLION-DOLLAR money train that is EA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelaney26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The game's value is really end all. For 50 bucks you have entertainment till your power company 
 and our society, (or valve) goes kaput.
  
  Team Fortress 2 = Infinite entertainment. Better then beer. Better with beer too.
  
  Episode 
 2 = What you'd expect, but better. Engine shows its age only slightly, and Valve continues to provide 
 with enhancements. Both to game play, and lighting.
  
  Portal = Fantastically entertaining. I especially enjoyed the depth of design. I do wish the elevator 
 scenes could have been speed up. Not to sound conceited but i moved through the initial 15 levels 
 quite fast. I do admit 15 was ambulatory to my IQ and sense for some time... but whatever. I sound 
 like a pompous prick right now. Portal rocks.
  
  
  Not buying this game = a big loss in gaming. This is what it's all about. TO be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Valve has rewarded people who have waited to get episode 1 and 2 extremely 
 well. I'm struggling to find out why review sites didn't give this game a ten...
  
  First of all having five games in one package you would expect: One really good game, four crappy 
 games.
  
  No. All of these have AAA potential (with one simply being extended chapters to finish a story) , 
 all boxed together and developed well. Graphics, gameplay and innovation are here. If you're tired 
 of Bioshock or Halo 3 than you need to get the Orange Box. If you've been thinking about buying 
 it, stop thinking and just go get it. It's a huge amount of fun that will last you for months and 
 probably years.
  
  I downloaded the Orange Box from Steam.
  My platform was the PC and upon trying the first game - Team Fortress 2 I was a little nervous 
 and hesitant as I very much disliked Team Fortress Classic. Right off the get go Team Fortress 
 2 feels welcoming, innovative, and easy to get into unlike TF Classic. The art style and the music 
 was the first thing to stand out.
  
  As a big fan of the Incredibles I was laughing like a kid again over the sillyness of this game, 
 which has a naturally chaotic pace and pixar-like animation. Each time you are killed violently 
 there are cartoonish arrows reminiscent of the signs used by Wile E Coyote when he had encounters 
 with the road runner. An arrow will point at a piece of cartoony looking flesh on the ground of 
 the map with captions such as Your Pancreas along with a piece of dramatic music that would play, 
 camera switching to the person who killed you and taking a screenshot, reminding you of a Batman 
 cartoon from the old days.
  
  It's a team-based game with heavy emphasis on team work and class choosing. There are medics, spys, 
 snipers, engineers, Heavys (chaingun wielding maniac) , Scouts, Demolitions and Pyros (flamethrowers) . 
 All of them have their own quirky personality and easy to pick up gameplay that is challenging 
 enough to require adaptation to master the respective classes.
  
  Some gametypes require you to control points or steal the enemies intelligence which is a brief 
 case stuffed to the brim full of top secret documents. The intelligence acts like a flag in a CTF 
 match.
  
  My very first game I had a blast. This is so much better than Counter-Strike source it's amazing. 
 Valve did an outstanding job making Team Fortress available to more people and make it easy to 
 pick up.
  
  I cannot review the rest of the games due to shortness of time, However each of the games are very 
 fun to play and a perfect franchise to get into. Half Life delivers another amazing story with 
 the extra universe linking to Portals.
  
  Just five amazing games. Put this one on your christmas list or get it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I've finished Portal
  
  This is the first game which I sit in front of computer and wander for 30 min, then when I figured 
 it out, I yell, Literally yell OH MY GOD, YOU GOT TO BE KIDDING ME! NO WAY! THIS IS THE SMARTEST 
 THING I'VE EVER DONE! HOW DID THEY COME UP WITH THIS STUFF?! 
  
  I yelled a lot of times throughout the game, many stuff are confusing, and hard.
  I can assure 
 you, even though Valve don't necessarily have the best game designer, they are the SMARTEST people 
 in the world, I swear after you figure all of these stuff out you'll say the same thing.
  
  Storyline was way beyond what I expected, I thought it would just be a few experiment and puzzel 
 solving stuff in a lab, but end up... it's not, it actually have a storyline when you get to the 
 end, and you'll realize this is not only a game, it's a darn human intelligent masterpiece, seriously.
 
  
  there's just so many way to solve all those problems, some even require you to go back and forth 
 the map to achieve it, sometimes you gotta stop and think for a long long time, but at the end 
 of the game you'll be really well trained in these kind of brain-twisting logics.
  
  I love this game, with passion, although short, but it's really, really really innovative and I 
 bet they spent lots of time on this game.
  
  and the last level... not gonna tell you, but remember: the computer might be lying sometimes... 
 
  
  I guarantee you you'll have true Fun in this game, it really opens your brain and you'll love it.
 
  
  
  
  now go to HL2 EP2.
  
  I haven't finish it yet, as i spent most of the time playing portal, but as far as graphics, gameplay 
 and so on they really improved a lot.
  blurs, effects, smokes, and most importantly the shadow improvement, etc, beautiful enough to name 
 it with latest games.
  Just turn on flashlight and walk around Alex and you'll see what i mean.
  
  there's lots of 
 new stuff and environment, although the antlion hole scares me...
  The storyline and gameplay in story is just as innovative as ever, with lots of new tweaks, tricks, 
 and so on.
  
  Overall this is a game that doesn't only kill stuff, you don't just use your mouse and keyboard 
 to play, but your brain, and the enjoyment that comes with getting through and get all the tricks 
 is just indescribably amazing.
  Try this game, I guarantee you you will have a true smile, this is more then just a game, it's 
 truly a masterpiece of human innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsolo888
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I loaded the game up and played it until I had beat it. Valve has done it again. The out of the 
 box thinking in Portals is so much fun and challenging, you have to play just one more puzzle. 
 The humor is outstanding, I laughed out loud several times while playing. I can't remember the 
 last time I started to play a game intending to stop by 10pm and then looked at the clock and then 
 look up to see that it is 2am! I can't wait to see if the Episode 2 is as good as well as Team 
 Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comedus357
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Believe the hype. When you look down the player review list and see a bunch of 10's, don't immediately 
 write it off as a bunch of fanboys trying to build up their favorite game. This package is simply 
 amazing. I bought this initially ONLY because of Team Fortress 2. I would have paid $50+ just for 
 that alone because I remember this mod from the Quake days and how fun it was. I will be honest 
 here... I LOVE first person shooters, but after years and years of playing them I can look myself 
 in the mirror and admit I'm not very good at them... at least not on par with the average modern 
 player. I am very used to dying early in Counter Strike, exploding spectacularly via rockets, and 
 getting gunned down by scouts while playing a defensive class from a superior position. This multiplayer 
 game lets me plays the FPS I enjoy and be successful at the same time by using one of the several 
 support or defensive classes that arent geared toward l33t running, juking, dodging, and precision 
 weapon discharge. I can be a medic... or a spy, or an engineer! Hell... even as the pyromaniac I 
 can toast 5 or 6 guys consistantly without needing an ounce of precision aiming ;) And if you're 
 the traditional l33t rocket propelling player.. then have at it, there's something for everybody 
 in Team Fortress!
  
  Portal is just wow. I cried because it was so short, but it's amazing. I've played through it twice, 
 and will probably do it again because it's so fun. The puzzles are perfect in that they are challenging, 
 yet not frustrating. Ok fine, the game is short and relatively easy. But it's still very unique, 
 highly innovative, fun, and funny as hell. Go play through to test 18 where you have to do 4 momentum 
 jumps back to back up raising platforms. I guarentee you will allow yourself some form of 'woot!' 
 after you get to the top!
  
  TF2 and portal are where I've spent the majority of my time. But I'm almost finished with episode 
 2, and as others have said... it's great. It's not some genre-changing epic game. Its a solid, and 
 engaging continuation to the classic HL2. Oh wait, didn't we mention Orange Box gives you original 
 HL2 and episode 1 as well...
  
  This really is the total package. Something for everybody. The only way you wont enjoy this, is 
 if you don't like any aspect of a FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niconude
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Superb!
  
  I have been waiting for this box for a while now. With the completion of Bioshock (A game I truly 
 loved) I was not sure if Valve could amaze me further with the HL story. 2K really raised the bar, 
 and Im pleased to say that Valve has responed.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2:
  
  This was a delight. Its Half Life improved in every department except length. No need to worry 
 about the Half Life story, it is evolving nicely here!
  
  I didnt pay much attention to Portal or TF2, I still don't care much for TF2 (simply because I 
 havent tested it:-) but Portal was a very nice surprise! Im yet to finish it, but it has me hooked. 
 Very clever game, which requires creative thinking. Score: 10
  The Reson: It is the best gaming experience I have had since F. E. A. R in 2005. HL2E2 really lifted 
 the HL saga and if this is any indication for what to expect in HL3, the wait is going to drive 
 me even more insane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Alright. I had been waiting to get orange box for quite some time. I didn't really want to buy 
 all the half life games separately and now I am so glad i waited.
  The half life games within themselves are really good with nice boss fights, immersing story etc 
 etc. Now adding all 4 of the half life 2 games up in one package is enough for me to give the review 
 at 9+ but throwing in Team fortress 2 is icing on the cake. If your looking for a great multi-player 
 that requires more then massive one on one fights, great communication between teammates, and a 
 very balance game play with a good amount classes (all being 100% different) then its right up 
 your ally. I would def recommend playing on pc then 360 just for the fact that the 360 community 
 would not be as in depth with halo 3 taking so much of those guys time. Also it would prob be best 
 to by orange box through steam, since its a bit cheaper and in most states tax free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boostud
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  As you get older and gain more responsibility (by responsibility I mean BILLS) , you can't afford 
 to upgrade that PC of yours so often. I had a pretty decent machine 3 years ago to play Half-Life2 
 ... but Episode 1 and 2 are out of the question. Now that they are released on the 360, and all 
 in one package, it was an immediate buy for me.
  
  I started out playing HL2 again to refresh my memory. Like I said, its been almost a few years 
 since I last did. Graphics are not top notch for the 360, but they are far from the regular Xbox 
 version of the game. I'd say they rival my PC's performance of HL2. Can't argue with that at all.
 
  
  I'm looking forward to continue through episode 1 and 2. No game I have ever played has roped you 
 in as deep as the Half Life series does. Keeps you on edge at all time.
  __________________________
  
  Portal
  Although I only gave it about 10 minutes, I'd have 
 to say this title shows plenty of potential. If I can devote enough time in one sitting, I'm positive 
 this game will no disappoint. Very unique, and kinda odd. Just what I like :) Graphics are great, 
 but simplistic. The music is just downright crazy. I can't explain much more, just go play for 
 yourself.
  
  
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  First play through, I was honestly dissapointed. The games were so laggy it was unplayable. I wasn't 
 the only one complaining either, I feared the game was shipped unplayable. After a lousy round 
 1, I gave the game a second go. No server issues at all. I played for at least 4 hours with nothing 
 less than an excellent experience. Gameplay is absolutely great. You have several character to 
 choose from, each being completely unique... while holding a strong balance, something most games 
 screw up on. Although there are not many maps, the maps are designed very well and keep you interested. 
 If you have the right teammates, you could play the same map for hours and not even realize you 
 still playing the same map. Its a solid game. If you and your friends want to do some system link 
 or live, this would be the game. I haven't picked up Halo 3 since I played this. ... which sucks 
 because Halo 3 is by no means a horrible MP experience.
  
  Anyway, enough with my review! Go buy it and see for yourself. you Won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  To those of you who have never played the Half-Life 2 series, there is no better time now to start. 
 I truly agree with Gamespot, The Orange Box is the best all in one set a gamer can buy. Even though 
 I have the original cuts of Half-Life 2 and Episode 1, it's still worth the money spent. Episode 
 2 is just fantastic. I just wish it was longer. The graphics are spectacular. Game play is flawless 
 and I have had no technical issues what so ever. The thing I really liked is that your counterparts 
 in this episode actually help you. It really pays off to be patient and let them do their thing. 
 I too have chosen not to go into very much detail abut this latest episode because I would hate 
 spoil it for someone else. Portal was much better than I thought it would be. I figured it was 
 just going to be a somewhat cheesy throw in just make it sound like a better deal. It really is 
 fun to play. The computer guide is funny and comments made by the turrets are even better. A good 
 little game for younger family members or that significant other who may not like graphic violence. 
 I'm not into online gaming so I have not played Team Fortress 2. However, I do think that VALVE 
 should consider incorporating the Portal weapon into a future episode of Half-Life 2. I cannot 
 wait to see what's next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erencicek
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really 
 Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Really Good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  // Half-Life 2 Episode 2
  
  Pros:
  + Graphics been updated pretty significantly in this episode
  + Voice acting solid yet again
 
  + More story has been added into this episode
  + Very fun gameplay situations
  
  Cons:
  - The outdoor scene isn't really as big as they claim it to be
  - Lots of stay in one 
 section and defend gameplay
  - Was a tad bid too short compared to Episode 1
  
  Overall:
  Great solid game. No need to say this, but pick it up if you're a Half-Life fan.
 
  
  // Team Fortress 2
  
  Pros:
  + Quirky graphics
  + Lots of humor from voice commands and taunts
  + Good old fashion TF style gameplay
  + Definitely 
 will suck up some hours of your time if not careful
  
  Cons:
  - Suck up some hours of your time if not careful
  - Would've been nice if they added bots features 
 (which I'm sure someone will eventually)
  
  // Portal
  
  Pros:
  + Awesome puzzling level design
  + Disturbing computer voice
  + Lots of surprises
  
  Cons:
 
  - The CAKE IS A LIE, I LIKE CAKE!
  - Wasn't really THAT challenging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFreeman62
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the best half life game ever the graphics are amazing the story is awesome ( although i 
 want hl2 episode 2 now even more!!!) you have to get the orange box!!!!! Episode 2 is a great continuation 
 of the hl story and portal is great and very fun! Team fortress 2 is the greatest multiplayer game 
 ever!! you have to get this game! it is the best ive ever played along with half life 2 and half 
 life 1!
  
  Episode 2 Graphics= Amazing
  sound amazing
  story= amazing
  overall awesome
  
  Portal
  Same as above although i havent beaten it yet im close!
  
 
  Team fortress 2 Same as above but not story of course! lol
  Multiplayer= amazing
  
  Half life 2 and half life 2 episode 1= Still great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Half Life has always has a habit of leaving you hanging off the story wait for me then ends it 
 on a impact. With every little twist and turn it goes threw it is imposable not to want to play 
 Episode 3 (when it comes out) because you want to find out how Half Life 2 will end. The graphics 
 as in all Half Life's are less then stunning, perfect, or a piece of eye candy. Sound have A+ material 
 that tie in the effects on the screen and the feeling you have while playing it.
  
  Story: Leaving off were Half Life 2 Episode 1 you find Gordon Freeman in a wreck of a train. Upon 
 wakening up Alyx looking for you after she blows off the door too the train with the Gravity gun 
 you head towards a Vortiguant Camp where you encounter the new enemy, The Hunter. While under a 
 pile of rubble that the Hunter knocks down on top of you he attacks Alyx, impaling he then stomping 
 on he. Then a Vortiguant comes to help and takes he too the camp. After this we find out that her 
 injuries are critical. All the Vortiguants decide it would be best to go inside the antlion caves 
 to get a Lava essence which is used to heal up Alyx. When you get back you go ahead to heal Alyx 
 up, But before it is done the G-man has a Heart to Heart talk with you about somethings endding 
 up telling her to tell her father, Eil Vance, that he is about to see Unforeseen Conscience. After 
 wakening Alyx and Gordon head to White Forest where Eli is. A Vortiguant helps you get to the Car 
 in the game , a 1975 Dodge Charger, Which is with you for the rest of the game. Finlay you will 
 get too White Forest with the data file that you acquired in Episode 1. After decompiling it we 
 learn that Judith Mossman is up by a ship called the Borealis, which carried Aperture Science equipment, 
 which Eil says is bad. After wards you find out that striders have come to blow up a rocket that 
 will close a rift the Citadel let out, to bring more combine to earth, in attempt to destroy it. 
 After the strider fight the rocket is lifted off and closes the portal after wards Alyx and Gordon 
 waste no time to head to the Borealis to get Mossman. On their way to the chopper Eil says his 
 goodbyes to Alyx and Gordon. After you get the first look at the chopper up close two Combine Advisers 
 break in pinning you and Alyx up on the wall Eil stays and tells them to not worry then a Adviser 
 picks him up and kills him, then the other closes in on Gordon and Alyx to kill them too but D. O. G 
 Chases off them. The episode ends with Alyx crying over Eil chest for him not to leave. Very emotion 
 story I give it a 10/10
  
  Graphics: The source engine was already was a A+ engine but Valve couldn't stop their they had 
 to pump it up. The physics took a overhaul . Also lighting was adjusted a bit. Not only these but 
 they made big events like building being blown up something that causes no lag but still is as 
 epic. Also they added textures that just look fantastic As usual I give a Half Life game a 10/10 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is just epic, While story is just fantastic it is added on by fantastic 
 gameplay of it. It has really about 4 or 5 types of play. Small scale battle, Driving, Large Scale 
 battle, Puzzle, Story. All of these act in sync with each other to perform something beautiful. 
 It has added new effects to things on fire and effects when things are hit which just look great.
 
  
  Very smooth gamplay, love it 10/10
  
  The Good: Just about everything in this Episode was perfect The Bad: Eil Dying wasn't cool man 
 The Ugly: It is too short but it is a Episode after all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bmbrd86
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I originally had all of the Valve games so I was at first disappointed that I would have to repurchase 
 Half-Life 2 and Episode 1. But at the amazing price and also the 10% off it was worth every penny. 
 Plus you can give the ones you have to a friend as a gift and get a few bucks out of it.
  
  Anyway, Half-Life 2 is just an amazing game. Episode 1 was pretty good but it didnt live up to 
 what I was hoping. It mainly just continued the story and set it up for Episode 2. But Episode 
 2 was a BLAST. There was no dull moment and the cliff-hanger at the end will be unbearable and 
 make you want to play Episode 3 right away. The improved source engine also gave a nice cleaner 
 look and improved the gameplay.
  
  For Portal, I would have to say it is the funniest and one of the most original games I have ever 
 played. The puzzles are very clever and keep you on your toes. There is also replayability with 
 the extra challenges that you get.
  
  TF2 is an amazing game just like TFC. It takes all of the great things from TFC and adds the graphics 
 and a cool new 1940's style and feel. One of the best things about it is all of the work put into 
 each character and giving them a personality, which you never see in a FPS multiplayer game.
  
  Overall, a must have for all Half-Life enthusiasts and also people who have never played them. 
 Way to go Valve!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaemic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2:
  Even though Half Life 2 has a few years on its back, it's still a classic that any self-proclaimed 
 PC gamer should have heard of at the very least. It's still great and there's a lot of hours to 
 spend in this game and it's the longest game in the orange box. Players that already own this game 
 gets a free gift card which they can give out to one of their friends or something else.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 1:
  sadly, no box full of goodies comes without some sort of candy that is 
 going to waste and isn't going to be consumed in just as great amounts as the others. The game 
 is, in short, unsatisfactory and leaves me with a feeling of 'Is that it?' which is enforced by 
 the very short playtime that it offers. Even though its short and all, I still prefer it over many 
 of the other games that I own simply because the AI is somewhat decent and the animations are good 
 too but most important of all, you get to oogle Alyx for two to three hours.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2:
  Half Life 2 is usually known to be straight-to-the-point and without 
 and awful lot of dialogue and plot, well, episode 2 changes that completely in a way that keeps 
 the story interesting without taking up an awful lot of time all at once. I enjoyed racing around 
 on the countryside with Alyx and the car itself was rather pimped out while some of the puzzles 
 seemed illogical or simply too easy to figure out while others made me consider myself as slightly 
 retarded for not checking the room for a shorter wire before using the one that was sitting in 
 the plug. The hunters are challenging and fun to fight due to their look and it's satisfying to 
 bring down every single one of them and eventually throw logs, full of their own deadly weapon, 
 back at their faces to unlock one of the many ahievements that this game offers. In contrast to 
 other FPS games, episode 2 offers a highly dramatic storyline with lots of awesome sequences where 
 you simply sit back and enjoy the view such as watching dog tearing out the guts of a strider all 
 of the sudden.
  Also, the voice acting from Alyx, Eli, the vortigaunts and especially Gman is spectacular, every 
 word that you hear from Gman is printed onto your mind for the next half an hour. Also, the many 
 developer's commentaries is a goldmine in itself.
  Yet the game is really great, it still has a few bugs all around it. The ruined citadel looks rather 
 awful even at the highest detail settings and isn't a pretty sight at all but I guess that's what 
 it takes to keep the game running smoothly.
  Also, the first few chapters where you're constantly surrounded by antlions seems kind of boring 
 at first but Valve seems to straighten this out about half an hour before you exit the caves and 
 set off to white forest.
  
  Portal:
  Portal is a mindbender in all aspects, the level design/puzzles is marvelous and the sense of humor 
 that roams throughout the game has made me smile more than once. The physics that is used only 
 rarely shows weaknesses even if you try to **** it up by purpose. Sadly, the game lacks very hard 
 puzzles apart from the few advanced levels that is basically just a redesign of the previous levels 
 with a small touches to make it even harder by limiting your options. The replay value is rather 
 high despite the short amount of time it takes to complete the game. This is mostly due to the 
 many challenges, the achievements and the developer's commentaries which is all rather interesting. 
 Only bad thing I can say is that the game is rather short and you're left with an unquenched thirst 
 once the game is completed. I am personally hoping for hundreds of great puzzles from the fans 
 and eventually a second game if Valve can come up with more great gameplay.
  
  Team fortress 2:
  Team fortress 2 has been in development ever since Team fortress classic was 
 released about eight or nine years ago. The game has is outstanding when speaking of graphics, 
 however this feature is nerfed due to the fact that many gamers won't be able to enjoy the game 
 due to the fact that not everyone is in the possession of a PC dedicated to gaming. But even on 
 the lowest settings, TF2 delivers good gameplay that'll keep you glued to your monitor as long 
 as there's people on the server you're playing on. The many classes offers variety and lots of 
 tactical gameplay into the game. The characteristic classes also makes the game more intense since 
 its very easy to differ class from class and team from team due to the distinctive colors and shapes 
 of the classes. Also, the game is slightly humoristic in various ways, the characters, the funny 
 comments that the players can shout out and other various things. Yet the humor can be a bit too 
 much at some points and it occasionally makes you starve for something a bit more serious, luckily, 
 we've got lots of other games for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estraka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  If it were only a couple more hours of playtime, I would say Ep.2 is THE BEST FPS ever! And Team 
 Fortress 2 is a must play because of its simplistic, dirty fun that is easy to get into, yet not 
 bogged down by the intricate blahs of other multiplayer games out there. First, Ep.2 gives you 
 a little of everything this time around. Ep.1 was good, but it was really bland in comparison because 
 of the lack of environments and overall atmosphere. Ep. 2 has you outside, inside, driving cars, 
 etc. And the level design of the later levels are reminiscent of HL1, which is a definate plus. 
 Infact, I was sure I was going to find one of those jump pads to launch myself onto roofs and into 
 craters. The addition of the Hunters are great, and is a well balanced adversary. The enemy AI 
 is a lot better than HL2 and actually died a couple of times due to their flanking maneuvers. The 
 only bad side was that the game would have been better if it lasted just a couple more hours. As 
 it was, I spent maybe 8 hours on it. It could be another couple of years before ep3 and I can't 
 stand the thought!
  TF2 is my new favorite Multiplayer game, even beating out my old favorite, Day of Defeat: Source. 
 I like the comic book style gameplay and arrangement of classes. It allows you to build a team 
 that can grow with the amount of players on the server. The classes are also pretty well balanced, 
 where no one class can do it all. I've probably already spent over 20 hours on the game! It's very 
 addicting, and now my studies will suffer.
  I haven't played portal yet, but will probably do it soon. I'm really looking forward to it after 
 seeing those trailers. Overall, this package was well worth the money. I can think of it as buying 
 TF2 and ep2 and getting portal for free (as well as ep1 (which I didn't already have) and HL2) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cactaur
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  3 great games for the price of one. Graphics that are on par with today's best, story line that 
 pulls you in, sound/music that are memorable and characters you remember for more than 10 minutes 
 after you play the game.
  
  TF2 has pulled me back into online gaming. It's fun, perfectly balanced and hard to quit. As an 
 aside, I've played it for several weeks (beta) and I did not hear one single racial slur uttered 
 which is one of the reasons why I left online gaming (well, on XBL anyways) .
  
  Portal is a fairly short but great game that makes you think about things from a different perspective. 
 The ending was good and the I'm eager to see what the modding community comes up with.
  
  Half Life 2 - Episode 2 - I'm only a little ways in but from what I've seen so far, it's a real 
 treat and this game deserves a 10/10 - unlike other hyper-marketed FPS games that have come out 
 recently. This Halo killing combination is what happens when everything is done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weburak
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  It is a tradition for Valve. It is not just a game, it is simply another masterpiece that defines 
 the genre.
  
  In Episode 2, you will run into some new tough enemies and find out some new answers with which 
 brings some new questions in to your mind. You will have chance to try new guns, see what is going 
 on outside of City 17 along with very shocking graphic performance. Not the mention the fact that 
 you don't need to change any part of your pc to run the game, again the game is just perfectly optimized.
 
  
  This package worths more than you give. not just another sequel of the Half Life, but like reading 
 a very engaging book, watching a cult movie.. Only difference is that you are actually in it. It is 
 the game you just wish. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is an amazing deal that combines the genre defining HL2, HL2 ep 1, HL2 ep 2, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2. PORTAL IS PROBABLY THE MOST FUN GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED! The mind-bending 
 awesomeness is onely exceeded by the cool credits song. Really funny! HL2 was amazing and although 
 short, Episode One was very fun. The full HDR lighting is a big improvement. Episode 2 is probably 
 the best looking, and one of the most fun games I have ever played. The scenery is beautiful (although 
 i was a little disappointed by the trees) and the faces can't be beat by any game except maybe 
 Crysis. This game is amazing and ORIGINAL, something i really enjoy in a game. I would have payed 
 this much just for Portal, so you can't go wrong with the Orange Box. Various things I would find 
 scattered around the level actually made me laugh out-loud, a first for me in a game. A friend 
 who played also showed me that sometimes there are multiple was of winning a level. I hope that 
 you enjoy this game as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atrainvii
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Not a big fan of 1st person shooters or MM Os and never played Half Life but I could not pass up 
 the value of the Orange Box. I figured I play around with the games a few time then give them to 
 my nephew as a gift but now he's gonna have to wait awhile to get his own!! Portals id the BOMB!!! 
 A simple concept executed exceptionally with imagination and creativity. Two things most games 
 today lack. I spend most of my time playing around with the physics than I do solving the puzzles (which 
 are not that difficult but sure is fun!) . Half Life is Beautiful! Great game Physics, Graphics, 
 Sound, Story, Gameplay, heck it's the bomb 2x! Should have played this a long time ago! Haven't 
 gotten to Team Fortress 2 yet but at this point it doesn't matter. I'm sure it'll be just as good 
 as everything else. This leaves me to wonder, with all the stupid, crappy, down right awfull games 
 out there for $60, How can Valve put out this package of great content at the same price?!?! Only 
 one conclusion comes to mind. ALL THOSE PUBLISHERS HAVE BEEN RIPPING US OFF FOR YEARS!!! Thank 
 ou Valve, for giving more than my dollars worth of games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyT3N_MAFIA
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is as good as it gets. This series has always been one of the best FPS, if not the best, 
 in every portion of the genre, from AI and physics, to humor and storyline. Adding TF2, Portal, 
 and the new episode for HL, you just can't go wrong in spending the 50 bucks to go get this game. 
 The mulitplayer is intense, and any fan of strategic multiplayer FPS is in for some crazy fun. 
 The story as good as ever. You just won't want to stop playing, it compels you to keep playing... 
 which could also be bad at the same time for all you school kids. So buy this game, kick back, 
 and enjoy one of the most amazing FPS you will ever come across. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papapischu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is a genius package! You get 3 tight games. I just loved the funky humor and the innovative 
 game-play in Portal, the coolness of Team Fortress 2 and the awesome story in Episode 2!
  
  If you look at these game you'll notice that on the one hand they are completely different and 
 on the other they are somehow related to each other. Like for example Portal and Ep 2. In portal 
 you're this android-woman who has to find a way from A to Z in an underground lab. Aperture is 
 the name of the company who runs this lab. When you play Ep 2 you'll recognise that a few boxes 
 are labeled with Aperture and even other connections are being made. You just gotta love these 
 charming details!
  
  Of course TF 2 will be another star on the sky of the team-based online-shooters.
  
  If you 
 played HL 2 before get this! If not, get it too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strike08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The games all speak for themselves. When Half Life 2 launched on PC it was touted as one of the 
 best FPS of all time. Nothing has changed today, except for the time. Half Life 2 still looks great 
 and plays wonderful even though the game itself is around 3 years old. The story is one of the 
 best anywhere, and Episodes 1 &amp; 2 add such a more in-depth look at the woven storyline Valve 
 has presented.
  
  Portal could be one of the best puzzle games ever for FPS fans. What's better than a puzzle game 
 that plays like an FPS? The levels start of easy and complete with enough difficulty to make you 
 throw a few headsets around the room. With advanced mode playable after you complete the levels, 
 it can only get harder.
  
  Team Fortress 2 adds multiplayer on the level of Halo. While there is no set slayer type game, 
 the CTF games are amazingly fun. Overall this package is a must for any gamer (or at least 360 
 &amp; PC gamers) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I must admit when I saw the line up for this box set I initially thought, wow they threw in some 
 more crap just to sell episode two , because a lot of us, my friends and family, were let down 
 with Half-Life 2: Episode One. That game was just too boring, nothing happened. I couldn't have 
 been more wrong. Each game in this set is complete and polished. I couldn't have been more happy 
 with the way it turned out and the innovation in these games.
  
  Buy this game now.
  
  Half-Life 2 (s) --The series picks up with more struggle against the combine and builds on the story 
 (I don't want to ruin anything) like you thought it would. Apart from Episode One this is a great 
 series of games and consider it a must play for all of you. What's great is that you can play them 
 back to back to back so the story seems continuous, almost as if you watch all three Lord of the 
 Rings in a row.
  
  You're still reading and not buying.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Amazing, if you loved Team Fortress you will love this game even more. The quirky 
 graphics and humorous chunking of bodies when exposed to an explosion pulls this game together 
 with a smile. The game does only have 6 maps but they are still really fun to play. It does take 
 you a bit to get the feel for the maps and how to strategically choose your class for maximizing 
 your teams score but that's just part of the fun. I suggest you play this game if your looking 
 for multiplayer and throw HL2 Death Match to the back burner for awhile.
  
  You could be downloading this package from Steam as you read you know, so... you should do that... 
 now... now.
  
  Portal: The crown jewel of this set. This game will make you laugh your ass off and rip your brains 
 to shreds. This innovative puzzle game lets you have full control of your actions, thanks to the 
 first person view, and approach each level with creativity. I hope your thinking cap is on when 
 you start this game up because you will need it. Just when you think you have the level figured 
 out it throws you for a loop and has you questioning how you got where you are in the first place. 
 Enjoy this 5 hour title and then play it again thanks to the challenges mode. Remember there is 
 cake at the end of this review and you are an excellent test subject.
  
  Overall: Buy this package now, you're done reading so go buy it already you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sushbag88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I've been a big Half-Life fan for years, as anyone who has ever discussed PC gaming with me knows. 
 Half-Life 2 being the best single player shooter ever made, one would think Valve couldn't top 
 it. But with the Episode 2 expansion, they have developed their best game yet filled with incredible 
 (and occasionally frightening) shooting action, puzzle gameplay, visual flair, sound perfection, 
 and story. Half-Life 2: Episode Two is incredibly immersive, as the past games have been. But this 
 one stands out as even more so because the feeling of the story finally starting to build up and 
 come together permeates the experience. The story will not disappoint fans and will leave you desperate 
 to play the final installment, whenever that comes out. The gameplay of Ep2 is so good partly because 
 the level design is simply perfectly done. Puzzles are never obvious yet never impossible, enemies 
 are placed and paced just right, and there is always a sense of purpose to everything that you 
 do. Also, the graphics have been turned up to 11 and this game is the best Source engine game yet 
 for visuals. The motion blur effects really add a lot to the game, but it's the new physics effects 
 which take the cake. Seeing entire buildings (and much larger things) blown apart in front of your 
 eyes in real time is just jaw-dropping stuff. Just as great is the sound of course, where perfect 
 voice casting meets amazing sound engineering and music to create that signature Half-Life soundscape. 
 Headcrap zombies howl in the distance. Scanners buzz and whirr their way towards you. Crickets 
 chirp in trees for crying out loud, and because this is Half-Life and the whole game feels so real 
 to begin with, these touches are just icing. Worth noting is that some of the weapon sounds have 
 been beefed up, which is a welcome change. All in all Ep2 is stunning and is such a good game that 
 you wish it could go on for longer than it's roughly six hour running time. Team Fortress 2, to 
 be brief, is the best multiplayer shooter in years. It takes an old formula that's been around 
 for a decade, and injects it with a great new sense of balance and fun, and throws in an absolutely 
 distinct visual style to boot. This game is impossible not to like. It is so much fun you wonder 
 just how Valve pulled it off. Each of the nine classes are unique, and very, very fun to play. 
 It's hard to beat the rush of pulling to victory with a good team that works together. Those who 
 have been playing the beta for a few weeks leading up to release have become well versed in TF2, 
 but this is a game that has legs well beyond just a beta. If Valve can keep a flow of new maps 
 coming for this game past the initial six, this game might just never get old. As for Portal, it's 
 the perfect icing on the cake for this package. It's an amazing 3D puzzler that will get you thinking 
 outside the box to complete it's quirky challenges. The idea of using real-time portals in video 
 games might not be bleeding edge (a certain lesser shooter played with them recently) but giving 
 the player control of these things is a masterstroke, and though you might get stumped when the 
 difficultly increases late in the game, Portal is just so well done you can't help but get sucked 
 in and work through the tough parts. Gaming doesn't get more fun and inventive than this. In short: 
 Buy the Orange Box, and do it now. If you're worried about PC specs, don't: As usual with Valve, 
 these games scale well and if you could run HL2 well three years ago, you're fine now. This is 
 easily the game of the year for gaming enthusiasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarman7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics are superb, game gets challenging fast- bad spiders! Loading of scenes much faster than 
 before. Seem more than twice as fast, but i have a stellar internet connection. Team Fortress 2 
 is much different from the first, graphics aside. No grenades, det packs, and some of the maps 
 encourage spawn camping, which sucks. Havent played portal yet, but reviews of it are intriguing. 
 Will have to check it out after finishing HL2.
  
  All in all love the orange box and even Steam is improving. It continues to evolve into a beast 
 with the myriad game offerings and the faster interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nephthyswandere
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Being one of the 3 people in the PC gaming world to never play Half Life 2, I decided to jump on 
 the long departed wagon and pre-order the game through Steam. Not only did I save a cool $5, I 
 was able to get HL2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, and a beta spot for Team Fortress 2.
  
  Wow, I was completely missing out on an awesome game in HL2. This game alone is worth the $45 for 
 me. I haven't even touched the other episodes yet, as there is so much quality content in the first 
 one, it's kept me busy for 13+ hours already. I still have 1/5 of the game left! (Yes, I'm one 
 of those slow and steady players that takes every detour, smashes every box) .
  
  Haven;'t even touched Portal yet, but I'm excited to give it a shot, I love strategy/action games 
 like this. Something that makes you think a bit before you leap.
  
  I was finally introduced into Team Fortress 2 last night. I have ot admit I had no clue what was 
 going on for the first 2 rounds, but it was crazy, hectic, exciting, and exhilarating all at the 
 same time. Never have I played an FPS that required so much teamwork. I loved it! Sure, I took 
 my own path and went Rambo style a couple times to destroy those pesky sentry guns, but playing 
 the Heavy Gunner with a Medic behind you is awesome.
  The maps are great, the graphics are perfect, the characters are hilarious, the customization is 
 fantastic. As an old CS player, this is amazing. I can't wait to see all the cool mods this spawns!
 
  
  I gave this game a perfect score. There is absolutely nothing to bash about this package, it contains 
 a game that alone was a 9.5+ when it was released, plus TF2 which is brilliant. I can't imagine 
 that anything else comes close to such a value pack of solid gaming. An absolute must have for 
 anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  HL2 EP2:
  All puns aside, this game was the best game i have ever played on the PC.
  
  Graphics, pwnage
  
  storyline, crazy, and the ending was a killer, did not expect there to 
 be 2! of them as one would be enough to take control of a city
  
  music was awesome, but in short supply
  
  fight sequences were nicely done, especially the 
 strider battle.
  
  over all, it should get 30 out of 10, but i could only give it 10/10
  
  Portal:
  I was lmao on this one, that robot his hilarious.
  
  again, 10/10 got this game, 
 for all the same reasons as hl2 ep 2
  
  TF2:
  
  i give this one a 8/10 while it is good, its still not quite as good as the other new games in 
 TOB.
  
  then again, team multiplayer games arent my thing, so that weighs on the score a little also. also, 
 anyone who says halo is still better, time to go get your brain checked, cuz is gota be damaged 
 somewhere, no way halo could ever compete with this one 5 to 6 hour game, and that is so sad that 
 it makes me laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiIsARational
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This review focuses mainly on Episode Two and Portals. I purchased The Orange Box while already 
 owning the rest of the Half-Life franchise. In any case let's start the review!
  
  First off, I'll give valve credit for updating the Source engine and making it stable and fast. 
 I remember issues from the HL2 and EP1 era where the engine had some hardcore issues from stuttering. 
 I could always play the game maxed out but sometimes the frame rate would drop under 30. This time 
 around I had everything maxed and the frame rate never seemed to drop under 30 (except some moments 
 where there was a lot of fighting going on and even then it might of been 25 frames) . I don't know 
 if this comes from good map optimization or the new LOD algorithms but it definitely was a speed 
 boost and I'll give valve massive credit on this. It's always been an issue for many players, and 
 personally I was a bit scared I'd have to turn a setting down or two for EP2 and I never had to.
 
  
  The story line for EP2 was okay, I thought some of it was fairly predictable and felt as if they 
 made it up as they went along. This is where I mostly give it a lower rating. Every time you're 
 with Alyx and she's near a console or you haven't seen any action for a bit you know there's going 
 to be some annoying gravity gun puzzle involving plugging something in or getting ready for a combine 
 raid. It was way too predictable and the fact that the NPCs actually joked about it a few times 
 made me even more aggrivated. Apparently, this episode was supposed to answer more questions about 
 the GMan and HL2 story arc in general, but I don't believe it did. If anything, it made me even 
 more confused then when I started out. I feel as if they did that to make room for Episode Three. 
 Even more annoying was the fact there was no Episode Three trailer at all. Why? Ugh.
  
  They also recycled old, scrapped ideas. I won't name specifics for those who are trying to avoid 
 spoilers but if you followed the mod MI/177, or read Raising The Bar, or even followed HL2 in it's 
 Alpha leak stages you'll notice it, and it's sort of annoying. It just makes me feel like they 
 never planned to make HL2 go beyond what it was with the ideas it had and then they decided the 
 game was popular enough that they could bring back this cut out content. How lame, uninspired and 
 what a cop-out no less.
  
  Things that also agitated me was some of the detail, no doubt that some of it was nicely done and 
 the level designs are always top notch but the graphics could of been a bit better. They had Parallax 
 mapping in some of the cave-like areas but why not outside? Why not on the buildings? Why not on 
 anything else basically? That's just lazy, if you have the technology and it's already there and 
 functioning... USE IT! The final straw for me was how short the game was, I finished it in roughly 
 five hours and the ending was too predictable and just overall lame.
  
  Overall, Episode Two was an okay addition to the series but I felt they could of done better. Granted 
 it was episodic content, not a full game, they could of made it longer, or more detailed, just 
 anything!
  
  Onto Portals. Portals is a pretty unique game and it feels somewhat reminiscent of an FPS'd version 
 of The Incredible Machine. Anyone whose into games like TIM, or any puzzle game in general should 
 feel at home with this game. This was another game that felt way too short. There isn't really 
 much to say about this game. The graphics, gameplay, etc was all great and I enjoyed it but once 
 again it was way too short. There is some replay value I suppose if you're a puzzle nut who enjoys 
 finding multiple solutions but I'm not.
  
  The Orange Box itself is a great deal to get the whole HL2 franchise (if you don't own it already, 
 but probably most of those who bought The Orange Box already did) , but if you're just getting it 
 for the new content don't expect a whole lot. Valve didn't drop the ball entirely but I felt like 
 they rushed this out the door instead of detailing it up a bit more. I expected a bit more quality 
 from Valve. I don't feel like they Raised The Bar like they did with HL2 itself. Overall, I'd have 
 to rate this 7.5, I'd go lower but I enjoyed playing it, it was just way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Short summery at the bottom for those who don't want to read a wall o' text.
  
  Alright, take 5 games. One of them being half life 2, a game that won game of the year, and still 
 sells for about $50 or more in a lot of places. Add in a new and funny type of game called Portal. 
 The most waited for online multi player fps of (dare I say it?) all time Team Fortress 2, and both 
 episode one and two of half life 2. Toss them all in a box, and sell it for $45. A set of games 
 they could of easily charged $200 or more for. And you get one hell of a deal IMHO.
  
  What you have here is easily over 100 hours of gaming, hell I will go out on a limb and say you 
 will easily have over 300 hours of gaming. You take Half life 2 by itself and you have a good 20 
 hours if you play it with out rushing, 7 hours for episode one, and i would say 10 or more hours 
 for episode 2. Toss in Portal a 10 hour game if you beat all the maps, and a online multi player 
 Team Fortress 2 which can by itself add up to more then 300 hours, and you have... Well more then 
 300 hours of game play.
  
  Half life 2 is great, it won game of the year so thats a given.
  
  Episode 1 is a good game, 
 to say the least. You will how ever after playing episode 2 think that it was a rather weak link 
 but still fun to play.
  
  Episode 2 was just great, I might even go out on a limb to say its better then half life 2 was 
 when I first played it.
  
  Portal is a new crazy type of puzzle game, it has humor and is just lots of fun and is challenging 
 for those who like puzzle games.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is just a mad mix of fun. I have not been able to stop playing that game since 
 I played the beta for it. It alone is worth the $45 and a great addition to the orange box.
  
  Is it worth the money to get the orange box? HELL YES! They should of charged more for it IMO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Well there's 5 games in total included in the Orange Box; 3 being brand new. I'm a bit speechless, 
 as the set is phenomenal, but I'll try and sputter out a bunch of words to see if they can give 
 anyone concerned an idea of what these games have to offer. Lets start off with Portal - You're 
 a lab rat in the Aperture Science Enrichment Laboratories with a handy little Aperture hand-held 
 portal device. You use the portals that you place on walls to solve puzzles set in different rooms 
 with different obstacles. If the great physics, rich textures and graphics, robotic voice in your 
 head, and mind boggling puzzles don't drive you mad by the time you're finished, you're probably 
 not human. Now, Team Fortress 2 - Crazy online multiplayer fps with graphics that look like The 
 Incredibles on drugs. Different classes to choose from, each with their different advantages, and 
 different modes of play. All mixed up with some crazy violence. Plain and simple, but nuts and 
 neurotic. Finally, Half life 2: Episode 2 - I don't need to say anything about this game. Just 
 go play it and see for yourself, starting with Half-life 2 in order to understand what words cannot 
 describe. The overall value of this package deserves an A+. Probably the best 50 dollars I have 
 ever spent on a game (s) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisCheezer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the game is very good. and this sequel was a good step froward. But maybe i 
 was expecting more, i needed something new, but simple. new guns or new options and maybe a more 
 interactive storyline. it always seems like your along for the ride. now that i think about it... 
 new guns, yea everyone wants new guns (because they are very player interactive, not the same old 
 boring hand gun every time a that damn machine gun. small simple changes like that would brighten 
 the game up. The whole story line is o. k., even thought it seems like their making it up as they 
 go along. but it never feels like u actually do anything. always feels like your fighting for yourself 
 in a few mini-games.
  
  so please valve, ep.3 think about
  -new equipment, or even a new look aka skin. this also applies to enemies (is it really hard to 
 make a few skins so u dont have to look at the same exact bad guy every time u turn the corner?
 
  - more interactive story line, maybe some tactics or Espionage somthing! thats not shooting up 
 the screen.
  
  keep up the good work, Chrischeezer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tzmir
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games they truely deserves a 10 out of 10 score, and not overhyped junk 
 like Halo 3... seriously, everyone have allready forgotten about Halo 3 and its single player portion 
 is weak. When you are done with Episode 2 you will scream for MORE MORE!!! You simply want more 
 of it.
  
  But while you wait for ep3, you have 2 oter great games, Portal and TF2 both vastly diffrient from 
 everything you played before and its AWESOME.
  
  Portal= A puzzle like game, where you use a portal gun to solve a level.. linda like 1man 3D lemming. 
 But actually there is a quite good and funy story behind Portal as you will experince.
  
  TF2= Cartoonish class based game.. just awesome... the graphics are stunningly good and not something 
 you have seen before. Smooth graphics og great humor aswell.
  
  Kudos to Valve for trying something new, and pulling it off nicely.
  
  Buy this package now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 2:
  I loved the whole Half-Life story, and you can't go wrong here. There is a bunch of action in this 
 game, and will keep you entertained from beginning to end. The puzzles aren't bad. Graphics and 
 sound are outstanding as would a Half-Life game be. If you liked the Half-Life universe, you will 
 love this game.
  
  Portal:
  I just love this game. Graphics and sound, again very well done. Amazingly, there is a story! You 
 are a human lab rat, using the new Portal Gun. The object of the game is to get cake. There are 
 some funny bits in the story, which keeps in refreshing. I have yet to beat this game because the 
 last few levels are quite hard. You really have to think outside the box, which I am not very good 
 at. The only flaw in the game is that it is just so short. Took me about an hour or two to get 
 to level 18 (out of 19 levels) . All in all, this is an amazing puzzle game that needs WAY more 
 levels.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  Finally! It has been released! After 7-8 years of waiting. It was worth the wait. I've been playing 
 this for about 1-2 weeks now (beta) , and I just can't stop. I like how this game encourages team 
 play, not like in Team Fortress Classic. I also like how there are some superpowers. For example, 
 if you are a Medic, and you heal enough people to fill up the UberCharge meter, you become invulnerable. 
 Another great thing that I really, really liked, is that ALL the classes are fun. Yes, the medic, 
 the spy, the pyro, the scout are now really fun. In addition, I like how the scores aren't kill/death 
 but rather points. I think it is better because some classes like the spy have to do more for a 
 kill than a heavy, therefore they get a bit more points. I used to hate the 50s-60s theme of the 
 game, but the new theme fits very well with the game. There is also some humour in this game, which 
 I liked. Graphics and sound, like the other 2 games, are awesome.
  
  Overall:
  The compilation is AMAZING for the price of $45-$60. Everything is great. There were some flaws, 
 but none were serious enough to interfere with the gameplay. I can't wait for Episode 3. Maybe 
 even a Portal 2, or a new franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollinfromhell
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Awesome game!!!!! I love it to death!! I finally get to play episode 1 and episode 2 in no skipping 
 glory!! Please everyone, get this game! This game is just insane, and really is the best game of 
 all time, just as said in the tv commercials! The story is one of the best besides BioShock, they 
 really do kinda compare, but you cannot beat a package for 60 bucks with 5 games. pretty insane 
 stuff inside this package! I do highly recommend that everyone who reads this , or is thinking 
 of even renting it, buy it!! You will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XbLiNkX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Most fulfilling and fun set of games I've played in years and years.
  
  better than halo 3.... way better.
  
  I've already logged over 40 hours in Team Fortress Two 
 since it preordering the orange box. Simply the most addictive multiplayer since Counter-Strike 
 1.6
  
  Portal, relatively short, had the most fulfilling ending of any title with less than 4 hours of 
 gameplay I've every played.
  
  I really don't need to say anything about Half Life 2... Anybody who is a fan of shooters will 
 enjoy this game and its extension episodes.
  
  Valve delivers once again with an amazing mix of single player action and multiplayer longevity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaboombo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  They must have gods working at Valve because Portal is simply genius. Don't buy halo. Buy the orange 
 box. It is so good I daresay it is the best game I have ever played. I can't' imagine anything 
 better. Other than mabye multiplayer portal death match if that can be done. Makes bioshock feel 
 bland and uninspired. Phenomenal I hope this game wins award after award. I'm labeling myself a 
 Portal fanboy and wear the badge with pride. I was looking forward to crysis but I just can't imagine 
 it competing with this. I'm refering to the fun factor not style similarities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moorekenc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Starting with Episode 2. Very satisfying compared to Episode 1. The gameplay still plays as 
 solidly as it did in HL2 and the story advances well in the second episode. It also distinguishes 
 itself as a different game from HL2 and Episode 1 in both story and the more open space combat.
 
  
  TF2 is a great load of fun online; it really adds a great multiplayer aspect. The balance of the 
 9 classes is well thought out, and no one class feels overpowered or better than another one. The 
 action is fast-paced and frenetic, which makes this as much fun as it is. Finally, Portal makes 
 this game. The humor is incredible throughout, and the ending is a blockbuster-worthy show. I have 
 to agree with the statement about the best end credit song ever. So good. The bonus maps and challenges 
 really emphasize the replayability and value of the pack.
  
  Well done. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Some may balk at paying twice to get the Orange Box when they already own Half-Life 2 and/or Episode 
 One. I say get the box solely for TF2 and Portal (and Ep. 2 of course) and look at HL2/Ep.1 as 
 bonus material. Then give your original Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 discs to a friend who hasn't 
 experienced this great shooter franchise yet. You'll be doing both a favor. The Orange Box isn't 
 to be missed by anyone who enjoy solid, well-crafted gameplay. Valve need to be commended for delivering 
 a great package at the pricepoint of a single game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesbigmac
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about the Orange Box that hasn't been said.
  This is the most amazing deal ever for games, an incredibly rich step in the technical direction, 
 and a great step in gaming period. If you don't like anything in the Orange Box, then you won't 
 like any other first person games ever. I don't see how anyone could complain about what happens 
 in the Orange Box. You have serious action, incredibly humor, and generally fun gameplay for anyone 
 that picks up the Orange Box.
  
  This is the best deal, with the best games, with the best play, with the best replayability. The 
 best.
  
  I'm going to stop blabbering now and get back to the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmography
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The game was incredibly fun. First portal was a real treat. It was challenging and got your head 
 to really think creativly to get through the game. The best part was the song near the ending. 
 even when your dead I will still be alive It was hilarious. The game play was just so addicting 
 and really came in handy when I was waiting for half-life 2 episode 2. A lot of poeple might just 
 gloss over this but its really worth playing and it was simply awesome. Of course the main thing 
 for me was HL2: EP2. as always its got pretty graphics, pretty guns and pretty girls. what more 
 could you ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith22
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Well valve is known for producing some of the best games in the world. With this package they really 
 ammased and plesed many loyal gamers + new ones. let me break it down it 3 sections.
  
  1st. half life 2: episode 2 was superb amazing as youd expect from half life series. For those 
 who havent played half life 2 and half life 2 episode 1 the grafix really stand out even if the 
 games are 2 years old by now still it an amazing experiance for every gamer.
  
  2nd portal: well portal really surprised me although a bit shor the gameplay is a blast the first 
 15 missions are a piece of cake if you ve become conftable with the game type the last few missions 
 are really challanging and will take you about 15-30 min each. from the menu it is understood that 
 the game will recieve various new maps and stuff. The voice acting is amazing and the song played 
 with the credits is the best song ever featured in a video game those who listened to it know what 
 im talking about.
  
  3rd team fortress 2: well this game is a lot of fun the gameplay is amazing and the classes are 
 vast and versatile the player can change class easily according to the circumstances. visually 
 tf2 is superb with hdr and everting on high its amazing considering it is done in a cartonish style 
 pixar movie type. the only downside of tf2 is spawn time .
  
  The orange box is an amazing experiance for everyone casual, hardcore gamers. it a good investment. 
 Also valve is known for adding suplementry maps and stuff for free and do regualr patching so ther 
 are no worries. 10/10 best package of the year including best gamer ever developed nough said. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaceLifter_1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I feel that not much has to be said about this game. Half Life 2 is truly an experience that no 
 true game should go without. The character animations are amazing. Nothing has come close and I 
 doubt any games will reach the bar set by Valve for sometime to come. With the release of this 
 bundle Valve has set yet another bar. This is the best bundle in the history of gaming. There are 
 other bundles out there with tons of games in them. What truly makes this bundle great, is that 
 it isn't a bunch of old games, it's got some of the best gaming of this generation.
  
  Like I said not much has to be said about these games.
  
  If you haven't played them.... grab 
 a noose and hang yourself, or buy these games and love life!!
  
  Thanks for reading my babbles :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna stick to the new releases because those are what I'm playing because I already beat hl2 
 and hl2 episode 1. Plus it's the new releases that make the Orange Box the perfect package. Portal 
 is undoubtably an amazingly innovative puzzle game. I thought it would be straightfoward going 
 through confusing puzzles, but they actually mixed in a nice little story line to make it exciting. 
 It also is fast paced at times when you are required to make the right shot while flying through 
 the air. Team Fortress 2 is the follow up to a legendary online game. It provides the multiplayer 
 piece of the Orange Box. The different roles an teamwork required keep this game exciting because 
 you constantly encounter different strategies and have to adapt. Episode 2 is beautiful. Anyone 
 who doesn't like the idea of episodes is a fool, I'm so happy to get new additions to the half 
 life series regularly. They did a great job updating the graphics engine and I found Episode 2 
 to be longer and more immersive then episode 1. As a true fan to the hl series, I am very pleased 
 with this addition. The Orange Box pleases all the needs of a gamer with an innovative puzzle game, 
 exciting multiplayer game, and a worth addition to the hl series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7thRonin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Deal of the year
  
  Halo Rapper
  
  enought said... gone playing team fortress 2
  
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  What a deal! should be the first thing that comes out of every consumers mouth when they have purchased 
 and played every single game the orange box has to offer. Other than Half Life 2 and Episode 1, 
 it also includes the long, long awaited Team Fortress 2, the revolutionary first person puzzle 
 game Portal, and the highly anticipated next episode of Half Life 2 episode 2. All of the previously 
 mentioned games are sold in one extremely inexpensive price of $49.99. (or 44.95 if you pre-ordered 
 it on steam)
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2
  Continues to show source engine is one of the best looking graphical engine in computer gaming 
 history. Valve boosted up the graphic engine with much sharper details and nice special effects. 
 Solid frame rate and great animation.
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as Half Life 2 and the story continues after episode 1. Episode 
 2 is still short but at least it is satisfying to play.
  
  Portal
  One of the most innovative first person puzzle game that fully utilizes the source engine. It is 
 pretty easy at first but as you progress, the levels get more and more challenging. Some of them 
 are pretty tricky and sometimes make you want to rip all your hair off. But they are still manageable 
 if you spend some time thinking about it.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  The highly anticipated and long, long, long awaited sequel to the father of class base multiplayer 
 first person shooter is finally here. What makes Fortress 2 different than other first person multiplayer 
 shooter is the graphic and the class system. The graphic is reminiscent to Pixar animated studio 
 work. It is also the first game to utilize source's new facial animation technology and boy oh 
 boy it looks awesome. Technically, it is arguably on par with nowadays CGI films look. The class 
 base system is pretty balance consider none of the classes have grenades as part of their weapons. 
 This might be disappointing to people who love to spam grenades in online FPS. But the exclusion 
 of grenades make each class in the game special, unique, and fun to play. There are nine classes 
 in total and each class plays differently. So don't expect that playing a spy class is the same 
 as playing a heavy class when playing online.
  
  This package is a must own. For those who loves First person shooter and puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gamplay in Half-Life 2 Episode 2 is pretty much unchanged, the user interface got 
 a face lift that doesnt disapoint, tho the UI in Episode 1 is much better, in my opinion, the story 
 itself does not dispoint, but leaves another cliffhanger... The gamplay in Portal is amazing, tho 
 it only took me about two and a half hours to beat, most of the begining levels are fairly easy 
 but the last ones are punishingly hard, the game it self seems like an experiment more than anything. 
 Team Fortress 2 is pretty good as well, its pretty fast paced and alot of fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Half-Life 2 Episode 2 are amazing, some of the best DX9 graphics ive 
 ever seen, I wouldnt be suprised if the source engine was using some DX10 tech. Sound: The music, 
 VO's, and sound effects are all amazing as well.
  
  Value: The Orange Box is a great value do to the fact that it has FIVE games for 50$, so if you 
 have never played Half Life 2 (whats wrong with you???) then this is the package to pick up. For 
 ATi users that got the Black Box like me for free its amazing we got such a great game for free 
 :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Lets be honest now, its not a hard concept to understand, that 5 games for the price of one is 
 a great deal. When you take an overview of what exactly those games are, your pretty much sold 
 that this is quite possibly one of the greatest game compilations EVER. Half Life 2 is an instant 
 classic that needs no introduction. For those who have not had a chance to pick up by now, this 
 package provides the perfect opportunity. A FPS with an actual decent story, and solid gameplay? 
 Who would have thought that. The huge modding community added hours and hours of gameplay to an 
 already amazing title.
  
  Continuing the lineup is Half Life 2: Episode 1. Although, I'm not too much of a fan of episodic 
 content, mainly due to its short gameplay time, you still can't go wrong here. The story continues 
 with the familiar story from the predecessor. The Orange Box begins to truely shine with the last 
 three components. The first, Half Life 2: Episode 2. It's about time the next chapter came out, 
 and it tops the original in every way, shape, and form. Though still relatively short, it is still 
 a solid entry with memorable moments. Second, Portal is an amazing new concept in gaming. Perhaps 
 not entirely new due to the countless portal gun additions to GMOD as well as the spiritual successor 
 Narbacular Drop, but portals have finally been done correctly. The game is very short, but the 
 puzzler is worth every second and dollar spent. Its humorous and witty and designed very well. 
 The ending credits song alone is well worth playing through the entire game numerous times. The 
 third and final piece to The Orange Box is Team Fortress 2. I cannot stress how amazing this game 
 is. This game is the glue that holds the whole compilation together and ensures months of gameplay. 
 Being the only multiplayer game in the box, it does what it was meant to do, recreate the class 
 based online FPS the we all know and love. The art style is beautiful, although many may consider 
 it a turn off. Each aspect of the game has so much character it will never fail to entertain you. 
 The game isn't a graphics extravaganza, but it has something many high profile titles are lacking: 
 gameplay. (Well other than the wonderful art style of Team Fortress 2) This word was overused in 
 this review, but its what you would like in a game purchase. $45 for this much content... Nothing 
 more needs to be said.
  
  This review is more like a summary stating the pure brilliance of the game. Going into too much 
 detail would be wasting precious time you could be using to go out right now and pick this game 
 up. You will not be disappointed. (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow - that's not even a strong enough word for what the Orange Box brings to the table. Not only 
 do you get the entire Half Life series including the newest edition, you get 1 of the best multiplayer 
 games ever and an awesome and highly addictive puzzle/shooter type game.
  
  Starting with Ep. 3, just amazing - everything you'd expect from Valve at this point when it comes 
 to HL. A great game, with all the usual half life goodies, story, graphics, the works. Kind of 
 open ended tho, not to spoil it, but it will leave you wanting more.
  
  Team Fortress 2 - now this is the reason i wanted the OB so bad. To me, the OB is TF2 with a bonus 
 single player game. And boy was TF2 worth the 10 year wait. These guys know how to do multiplayer 
 games better than anyone. And TF2 is sooooo damn good, its crazy. The graphics fit the game perfectly, 
 it's pure multiplayer shooter bliss. You MUST play this game if you like online shooters. Only 
 6 maps does suck, but each map is fantastic, and i'm sure it will be expanded over time
  
  Portal is also just a pure suprise of enjoyment. you will get hooked on this game wishing for more 
 by the end. and this game opens up the door for future implementation in valve games that should 
 be very fun.
  
  All in all, i cannot recommend this Box enough. It is WELL worth the money and you will not regret 
 it at all. My only complaint is that everything left me wanting more. Way to go valve, bringing 
 us yet another quality product (s) at a good price!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n4m3l335
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box, while in itself is just a multipack, contains some of the greatest games known 
 to the industry. HL2: Ep1/Ep2, TF2, Portal; All are total ownage. And, according to Gamesradar, 
 except for Ep1, all of these games are expected to be better than Halo 3. Portal is awesome because 
 it doesn't need rocket launchers or BFGs or gattling guns to be fun, just a portal device. TF2 
 is like an Art Deco Battlefield, sans vehicles, but still the most fun online team based shooter 
 ever. Ep2 looks freakin sweet. I don't know what happens, but it will still be great. And, just 
 in case you didn't get it nearly four years ago, you get HL2 basic. Need I say more? BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I was scheptical about this whole eposidic distribution idea valve planned, but i think it was 
 a good step forward. Not only is valve revealing more of the mysterious halflife story, they are 
 updating the engine and also optimising their code. With hl2, the game ran smoothly for me, but 
 i had that very annoying sound glitch, which was systems specific. but with that out of the way 
 the game had great production values and an anticipating story line. ep:1 added the hdr effects 
 which in turn made the engine look great, but i feel the code was not optimized and hiccupped the 
 game continuosly. now with ep:2 they added better shadowing effects, hdr is still there, alongside 
 with enhanced physics effects, smoother gameplay, better sounds and their own environmental sound 
 effects. the introduction of the hunters, changed the strategies i use to play the game. not only 
 do utilize the gravity gun more, you actually see the effects of the lead you fire at your opponents. 
 Alongside with hl2, ep:1, tf2, and portal this orange box package is a steal. i recommend this 
 to anyone who wants an inticing story line and alot of gameplay ahead of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc46
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This package is the ultimate PC gaming experience. If your an FPS fan that is! You get five great 
 games for 50 bucks, on that alone this should rate a 10. HL2 is one of the best games ever, and 
 you get both expansion episodes, Portal and TF2!! Ive played all these games and they are outstanding. 
 TF2 alone is worth $40 in my opinion. Portal is an innovative, clever, and very humorous puzzle 
 game. I know Prey had portals, but being able to control where they go really enhances gameplay. 
 I havent played all the way through Episode 2, but I can tell you it really sticks to the great 
 story telling and character development. I dont want to give you any spoilers, but I find that 
 this one game where i really like fighting side to side with NPCs. They do their job and have all 
 kinds of funny dialogue. Team Fortress 2 is a great online multiplayer experience that pushes the 
 Source engine in a stylish and retro manner. The art production and depth of classes make TF2 a 
 fast paced yet extremely fun team shooter! Alot of work went into the Orange Box and now I cant 
 wait for HL2: Episode 3, will we see Zen again, I hope so! Oh ya and then there's Black Mesa: Source 
 coming too, hehe! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
