-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Pandora Directive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/pandoradirective/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  8, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Access Software
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The story is based on a novel by Aaron Connors, and turns out to be a surprisingly entertaining 
 experience. 

 Roswell, New Mexico - rumored to be home to aliens, a secret government base, and a national conspiracy. 
 One man risks everything to discover the truth. Is it Independence Day? An episode of the X-Files? 
 No  it's The Pandora Directive, the latest Tex Murphy interactive movie from Access Software. 
 Chris Jones returns as Tex in this sequel to Under the Killing Moon. The plot is complicated, the 
 music is good, and the acting  well, the acting tends to vary in quality. The story is based 
 on a novel by Aaron Connors, and turns out to be a surprisingly entertaining experience. The biggest 
 problem with most interactive movies is that they tend to be one or the other. Promising movie 
 sequences can be derailed by an exasperating interface. An enticing plot can be destroyed by acting 
 from the William Shatner School of Drama. The Pandora Directive manages to avoid both 
 of these pitfalls with style and originality. The Virtual World interface implemented 
 by Access works toward immersing you in the world of Tex Murphy. You can walk where you like, take 
 what isn't nailed down, and generally roam the surroundings at your leisure. Control and point-of-view 
 are similar to those of the billion existing games that resemble Doom. A couple of clicks of the 
 mouse activate GET, TALK, LOOK, and other player actions. Toggling between movement and control 
 is as simple as clicking a middle mouse button. The graphics are very good considering the genre. 
 Characters look, move, and speak like real people - one advantage to using experienced actors. 
 Unfortunately the backgrounds frequently look as if they were pasted behind the characters in the 
 cinematic sequences. As you perform certain actions, you may trigger fixed sequences. The plot 
 is driven by these sequences, which open up new possibilities. You may choose to play in one of 
 two modes: Entertainment, which makes hints available and offers 1,500 total points; or Game-Players, 
 which eliminates the hints while offering more points, puzzles, and scenes. Either way, the game 
 should keep players intrigued for many days.  

 The Pandora Directive is good, but it isn't perfect. If you simply move the mouse around the screen, 
 options besides LOOK will light up over objects with which you can interact. Patience is rewarded 
 as you simply act on any object that you can grasp. The game also divides the scenes into days 
 of action. Trigger events are required to advance the plot from one day to the next. But these 
 small problems aside, the game is pretty entertaining. Seven possible endings, a few Star Trek 
 jokes, and a main character that seems like a cross between Inspector Clouseau and Frank Drebin 
 (of Police Squad) make this worth a look.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  In 1995, I was introduced to Tex Murphy in Under a Killing Moon. Once my family got its first Pentium 
 computer the game was installed and I loved it. So much so, that when I heard that a sequel was 
 coming out I rushed to the store to get it as soon as I could. Even twelve years later, The Pandora 
 Directive ranks as one of my top games of all time. Along with Half-Life 2 and Knights of the Old 
 Republic it makes my top 3.
  
  The Pandora Directive was released at a time when the adventure game was more popular than it was 
 today. But while many were sticking with the tried and true 3rd person point-and-click adventure, 
 Access Software tried something completely different, first with Under a Killing Moon, and then 
 with The Pandora Directive and its sequel, Overseer. The Pandora Directive is described as an "interactive 
 movie". It uses FMV for its cutscenes, and the gameplay takes place in a fully 3D environment.
 
  
  Don't let the FMV scare you. The level of acting in The Pandora Directive is probably some of, 
 if not the best in video games. Whether its the well-known actors like Barry Corbin, Kevin McCarthy, 
 or Tanya Roberts, some of the lesser-known actors like Suzanne Barnes or John Agar, or even those 
 whose acting experience is limited to this game and its predecessor like Chris Jones or Doug Vandegrift 
 there are few moments when the characters are anything less than believable. Chris Jones is especially 
 amazing as the main character Tex Murphy. Co-creator of Tex Murphy, and former president of the 
 now non-existent Access Software, he had no real acting experience prior to Under a Killing Moon. 
 Despite that he brings a personality to Tex that makes him one of the best video game characters 
 ever conceived.
  
  The Pandora Directive's story is inspired by the supposed Roswell incident of 1947. With The X-Files 
 at the peak of its popularity in 1996, Roswell and aliens were common themes at the time. Though 
 the story sounds a bit too cliche, its actually so much more than just Roswell. The game starts 
 with Tex hired by Gordon Fitzpatrick (played by Kevin McCarthy) to find a missing friend (Thomas 
 Malloy, played by the late John Agar) . Through the game, Tex crosses paths with a dangerous serial 
 killer, a deranged NSA agent (played by Barry Corbin) , and even a quirky conspiracy theorist. If 
 you're worried that the game sounds too much like so many other Roswell stories, without giving 
 too much away, I have to say its not. The game deals more with the morality and danger of using 
 the alien technology and involves trying to discover the secret that Thomas Malloy went into hiding 
 to protect. No time is really devoted to attempting to uncover the truth about Roswell. In fact, 
 when it's first mentioned its truth is fully revealed.
  
  Finally, we come to the gameplay. Like most adventure games, The Pandora Directive uses inventory-based 
 and conversation-based puzzles to move the game forward. However, unlike some games where many 
 of these puzzles are contrived, The Pandora Directive succeeds at tying the majority of them in 
 nicely with the actual story. Many involve the search for clues that will help you progress through 
 the game. Some clues are items, like a scarf with a unique perfume or an address found on a piece 
 of paper. Others are found by questioning the characters in the game. One of the great things about 
 the game, is that even though some characters don't have anything important to say about certain 
 people or objects you can still question them about it and their responses are frequently worth 
 hearing.
  
  The game also uses some logic-based puzzles. While some are challenging, the game has a full hint 
 system which lists every necessary action in the game. The logic-based puzzles are even skippable 
 by entering a secret by-pass code found in the hint system. The game gives you points for completing 
 most necessary, and many optional actions, however using the hint system will deduct from your 
 overall score.
  
  Where The Pandora Directive really shines in the gameplay department is its replayability. It was 
 one of the first games to have multiple endings. You can play through the game as the good-guy 
 and finally get together with the series main love interest, Chelsee Bando, be an immoral man who 
 burns his bridges and sides with the enemy, or be something somewhere in between. The choice is 
 yours. Because it was an early attempt at multiple paths through the game, the actions you need 
 to take to go down the good or bad path are a bit restrictive, but if you're having difficulty, 
 a quick look at a walkthrough should help. Each of the different paths not only yield up to 7 different 
 endings, but many of the cutscenes throughout the rest of the game will differ as well making each 
 path unique in its own way. Even some segments of gameplay will differ between the different paths. 
 This really adds a rare type of replayability not seen in many adventure games.
  
  To add to the replayability are the two difficulty modes. Entertainment allows you to use hints 
 and has fewer challenging puzzles. Game Players doesn't allow hints, but adds some more puzzles 
 and locations for you to play. Both levels have points, with a total of 1500 on Entertainment, 
 and 4000 on Game Players. Many of these extra points are rewards for finishing logic-based puzzles 
 within certain constraints (either time limits or number of moves) . Its important to note that 
 these constraints are not strict. If you fail to finish the puzzle within them, its not game over, 
 you just don't get the bonus points. Getting all the points in the game doesn't mean just finishing 
 the game by completing all the necessary actions. There are plenty of optional elements to the 
 gameplay which further enhance the replayability. Some puzzles and locations are entirely optional 
 and you could technically go through the whole game without bothering with them.
  
  As a final note, I want to say that many of the cutscenes in the game are extraordinarily well-done. 
 Some are action-packed, some emotional, and others downright funny, and they really add to the 
 experience that is The Pandora Directive. The score composed for the game is great, and the song 
 written for the end credits by Blues musician Richie Havens fits the tone of the game perfectly.
 
  
  Though The Pandora Directive is a DOS-based game, it can be run well on modern machines using DOSBox. 
 With a total of six discs, I recommend using one of the many free programs out there to make disc 
 images and have DOSBox mount them to six separate drives. The Pandora Directive can be fully configured 
 so that it looks for each disc in a different drive. Probably the biggest problem with the game 
 is the cumbersome disc-swapping, but thankfully modern PCs have ways to eliminate it.
  
  If you can still find this game, I highly recommend getting it. If you already own it and haven't 
 played it in years, then isn't it about time you give it another go? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This is my second attempt at reviewing a game which is over 6 years old but since it is such a 
 quality often overlooked game I wil try.
  
  You play Tex Murphy a burbon swilling, ciggerette smoking, smartass PI just trying to scrape a 
 living doing what you love. What you love is being a Private Eye and scraping a living at it seems 
 quite tricky.
  
  You start out trying to find the friend of a missing scientist and events quicly build from there. 
 You wander around 3D world with the aid of your mouse and keyboard looking for clues and talking 
 to people. I have to remind you that this is a 6 year old game so the 3D is far from cutting edge. 
 In fact it does not make use of video card accelleration at all. Even with this in mind the game 
 looks suprisingly good.
  
  Where this game really shines is in the story and the dialog. It just oozes personality and builds 
 on the previous world. The innovation in this game is that the responses that you give during the 
 FMV conversations with people actually have an effect on the story. They are not just funny derivations 
 in a branching dialog tree. In fact there are 7 different endings to this game which are completely 
 dependent on how you play the game. 
  
  There are a couple negatives though. Some of the puzzels are somewhat obscure. In fact you can 
 only progress in the plot if you head back to a certian area for no reason which in turn triggers 
 a cutscene. These problems are lessoned because the game has a hint system which you can refer 
 to whenever you are having trouble.
  
  Although probably the toughest mystery you will have to deal with is getting it working on modern 
 machines. There are a couple ways that work. First and most flawlessly is running dosbox using 
 full dos and soundcard emulation. You need quite a high end PC to run this though. Your second 
 option is to use VDMsound to emulate older soundcards although you will not get the quality you 
 would with dosbox.
  
  The acting in this game is generally good. There are a few places where you will be really impressed 
 and also covering your face at the quality of the acting. In general the acting has improved over 
 the previous installment of the game. They pull off a campy yet serious atmosphere within the game 
 which suits it very well.
  
  If you can find the game it is definetally worth playing. This is a meticulusly crafted story which 
 will have you on the edge of your seat for much of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsouthern
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  After Grim Fandango, this is my favorite. It's not easy, it's not short, it has 7 or 9 different 
 outcomes depending on your candor and choices, it has Barry Corbin... It has fmv, interactive puzzles, 
 some action, a great story that includes alien landings, it's set in the near future... I don't 
 know what anyone else would want out of a game. Oh, and it also has one of THE best travel devices 
 ever: if you have already been to a location, just call it up on your map and click. Beautiful. 
 I'm not a great, technical reviewer but I have played well over 100 adventure games and I know 
 what sucks and what's great. An overall 7.5 does not do this game justice. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
