-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Political Machine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/politicalmachine/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 231 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Stardock
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 12, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This isn't the Abraham Lincoln of political strategy games, but it isn't the Jimmy Carter either. 
 

  Can't wait for November 2? Skip the rest of the campaigning season, and get right to the election 
 results now with The Political Machine, a strategy game from Stardock that lets you manage the 
 campaigns of presidential hopefuls like John Kerry and George W. Bush. The game is a bit on the 
 rough side overall, but it still has a simplistic charm and a somewhat compulsive replayability 
 factor. This isn't the Abraham Lincoln of political strategy games, but it isn't the Jimmy Carter 
 either.  

          Just like in real life, the Streisand-and-Madonna crowd can get involved in the campaign. 
 Movie big shots can make or break you in a state.     

  The game's structure is very similar to that of a traditional board game. You sign on as a Democratic 
 or Republican campaign manager to guide candidates around a map of the US for the 41 weeks leading 
 up to Election Day. Play is turn-based, with each turn representing one week, and movement is limited 
 by cash reserves and candidate stamina points. Even the hardiest political hopeful can only visit 
 so many states in seven days, so you have to carefully plan out your agenda. For example, one week 
 you might decide to drum up support in the Northeast, and the next week you might devote to winning 
 over those crucial Florida retirees.  

  Actions in each state are reasonably well varied, if predictable and a bit repetitive. Primarily, 
 you give speeches either touting your policies or slamming those of your opponent. You launch newspaper, 
 radio, and TV ad campaigns along these same lines, and you hold fund-raising events to keep your 
 overall campaign in the black. Headquarters can be built and upgraded in each state, thus raising 
 your visibility and allowing staffers to gauge the top state issues. Aiming your speeches and advertisements 
 at the right events is key to winning over the people, so you need to deal with the outsourcing 
 of jobs in blue-collar states like Pennsylvania and Ohio while gingerly handling concerns about 
 the environment and gay marriage in liberal California. And, of course, you must make lots of promises 
 about Social Security in Florida.  

  Successful campaigns require a balanced approach -- and no shortage of dirty tricks. Each turn's 
 supply of stamina points can be spent on political capital. This is used to purchase either state 
 operatives or the endorsement of national organizations. So if you want to derail an opponent, 
 you can acquire the services of a spin doctor to increase your issue ratings by 15 percent, or 
 you can hire a smear merchant to decrease your opponent's issue ratings by the same amount. Other 
 agents are also featured. The consultant raises your profile, while the intimidator keeps voters 
 away from the polls. Additionally, the webmaster gets you deals on advertising, while the fixer 
 can be sent in to take out rival operatives. The cost of buying these devious employees increases 
 with each one purchased, thus preventing you from blitzing the country with an army of spin doctors. 

          Election Night tension is boosted by a scroll from East to West. The states slowly turn 
 red or blue to tell you if you should start preparing for either your inauguration speech or life 
 as the next Al Gore.     

  Of course, if you want to enhance your national profile, you have to buy endorsements. Procure 
 the support of the Christian Confederation and your traditional values rise at the expense of your 
 credibility on abortion rights. Sign up with the National Organization for the Support of Colored 
 People and up go your civil rights and affirmative action ratings. Link with the National Organization 
 for Women and you see an increase in abortion rights and gay marriage scores. As with operatives, 
 the 10 alliances available in the game are each expensive, so you can't buy the affiliation of 
 rival groups to cover all voters.  

  Unfortunately, campaigns in The Political Machine take place in a vacuum. This is a particular 
 problem on default settings in the otherwise interesting campaign mode of play, where you sign 
 up with either the Democrats or Republicans to take on a ladder of 10 unlockable opponents (you 
 eventually take on figures like Ulysses S. Grant and William Howard Taft) that get tougher with 
 each of your electoral victories. Just as in a board game, where events are governed in every play 
 session by the same cards and tokens, the game system here is rigid. You repeat the 2004 election, 
 no matter if you're running John Kerry or someone from the game's list of quasi-fantasy candidates, 
 which includes Hillary Clinton and Arnold Schwarzenegger. The big public concerns are always the 
 war on terror, the war in Iraq, and jobs.     

  Nothing ever happens in mid-campaign to stir up a state or the nation, although you do encounter 
 random events. Sometimes you get invitations to appear on public affairs TV shows, like the right-leaning 
  The O'Malley Scenario  or Bill Mathers' lefty  HardHitter , to answer questions that range from 
 the prisoner scandal at Abu Ghraib to your opinion on UFOs. On other occasions, question marks 
 appear in states. If you fly to that state to uncover what the question mark means, you might get 
 a nasty treat, like a bore who wastes all of your stamina points or a lawsuit that drains your 
 war chest. However, you may receive a welcome surprise in the form of a million-dollar donor or 
 a Hollywood friend who's decided to help your campaign.  

          Sneaking out an election win, Dubya-style.     

  Despite this predictability, opponent 
 artificial intelligence often seems lost. While your rival can make some very astute moves and 
 always provides credible opposition, at times the AI fails to recognize the importance of key states. 
 It's often pretty easy to win an electoral college victory by concentrating solely on the Northeast, 
 Florida, Texas, and California. Your rival doesn't show the same attention span and seems more 
 concerned with the popular vote, which, as we all know from what happened in 2000, doesn't mean 
 a whole lot on Election Day.  

  To spice things up, you can adjust the domestic and foreign political statuses, the economy, the 
 starting prices of endorsements and operatives, and the overall game difficulty.  And  you can 
 randomize state wealth and population in all modes of play, from fantasy and quick, to campaign. 
 Play during a global war (with rioting in American streets) and state issues can include reasonable 
 concerns about government-controlled TV stations and national martial law. Other state issues can 
 involve some flat-out goofy stuff, such as welcoming alien visitors and cloning Elvis.  

  But even then, The Political Machine's character doesn't change much. While you can give speeches 
 about cloning The King and rolling out the red carpet for E. T., most states remain focused on the 
 war on terror, the war in Iraq, and possibly one main "new" issue, such as government-controlled 
 TV stations. Nobody seems interested in these nut-bar problems, so don't expect to play up to the 
 good people in Oregon by making speeches about your opposition to mandatory biking. Furthermore, 
 the offbeat issues aren't accompanied by appropriate artwork. Set up an ad campaign supporting 
 duck herding and you get the same handgun graphic used to illustrate ads about boosting crime-fighting, 
 battling national unrest, and welcoming aliens.  

          The main map screen is reasonably attractive, but it can be hard to tell one blobby icon 
 from another. Is that a spin doctor working for John Kerry in Florida or a consultant?     

  The graphics, overall, are actually quite good for this sort of game. There is a Hanna-Barbera 
 philosophy in action here that manages to make even Dick Cheney and Hillary Clinton look cuddly. 
 The map is small, though. Get a few icons crammed into a state and it's hard to tell a spin doctor 
 from a webmaster without zooming in. Audio is another story. Stardock has come up with music that 
 mimics the bombastic-yet-bland tunes that accompany the start of current affairs TV programs, but 
 it hasn't toned things down in consideration of the fact that you have to listen to this stuff 
 for a lot longer than the few seconds it typically runs on the tube. As a result, the music is 
 incredibly grating. Other sound effects are barely there. A game like this doesn't need a lot of 
 added effects, although some canned crowd noise during speeches and on Election Night, for when 
 the winner of each state is revealed, would have added character.  

  Despite these negatives, The Political Machine has a catchy replayability for board game fans and 
 political junkies. You can zip through a campaign in around a half hour, and there's plenty of 
 variety provided to keep you intrigued enough to play through the Democratic and Republican campaigns 
 so that you can unlock the game's mystery candidates. Online play (if you can find an opponent 
 on the sparsely populated Stardock server) can keep you going even longer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, these glitches I am about to list may only be my own (although I've seen people complaining 
 about some of these) .
  
  *When I tried to save, it froze and shut down
  *Randomly freezes
  *Randomly shuts down
  *Some graphics glitches
  
  Glitches aside, this 
 was a pretty good game.
  
  The Good
  Good political simulator
  Variety of canidates
  Ability to make your own candidate
  
  The Bad
  *glitches*
  No update for recent politics
 
  Half way through the race, your opponent goes insane
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  You can't run as an independent...
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  Gameplay: 8
  Sound: 7
  Story: 7
 
  Replayability: 8.6
  Overall: 7.62 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucino
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  US election campaign simulations get no respect. As a rule, they tend to be unrealistically simple, 
 and as a consequence, the AI is a one-trick pony. Figure out that trick and your game is over. 
 Literally. Once you have the AI's number, the only reason you will keep playing is to see if you 
 can sweep every state - as a Democrat, and then as a Republican. And frankly, this is more tedious 
 than fun.
  
  And yet, is there truly a realistic alternative to this particular dumbing down of American politics? 
 Sort of, but not in a game. An election simulation with the strategic depth of Europa or rather 
 (America) Universalis comes off second best (by a country mile) to the REAL election coverage which 
 deluges us non-stop (or rather, every commercial break) . You choose: Former Lancome rep, now wanna-be 
 VP - perhaps her enthusiasm is bolstered by her theory that the VP has no real job duties (except 
 maybe to teach the President how to turn on a computer) ; no way, no how, no lipstick on a pig; 
 and what about the Dems running-mate showing up at a fund-raiser in black face (well, who's to 
 say it WON'T happen... there is still a long ways to go before we all have our say) . No-brainer: 
 A serious political simulation lacks the entertainment value of the real thing. It may be realistic 
 in some ways, but frankly who cares if there's no fun to be had.
  
  I might not have been clear, but TPM is quite entertaining for awhile. It takes a few campaigns 
 to learn how things work, and I enjoyed those games. They weren't realistic by any means, but they 
 were fun. And in the end, fun trumps realism by a country mile when it comes to games.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_weightman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  It does not matter what year it is, or who's running to be the great president. With The Political 
 Machine, you are in control. With cunning animated graphics and simple game-play, anyone from any 
 age of any household can grasp this political masterpiece.
  
  You are forced to either slander your opponent or boost your current reputation in many of the 
 nation's toughest issues. You can start off as a current political icon, or you can climb your 
 way through the ranks with your very own fully customizable character.
  
  The goal is to win the electoral vote (270) . Who cares about the popular vote anymore? (Bush...)
 
  
  A great game for anyone to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGrey
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, what to say about this game...? I suppose that I'll start by saying that, although it is 
 fairly enjoyable, The Political Machine fails to capture a lot of the excitement involved in managing 
 a political campaign. The interface is clean and stable, the gameplay is alright but gets quite 
 repetitive and a bit predictable the longer you play, the graphics are not particularly good but 
 do not detract from the game, whose main goal is to offer players a strategic challenge. The game 
 succeeds in this to a level that brings it dangerously close to the "too difficult to be fun" range 
 as the AI quite often finds a way to come back from a huge disadvantage to win everything in the 
 last several turns.
  The additions of interviews, state-specific topics of interest, and an acceptable but lacking politician-creation 
 option make the game reasonably entertaining for a little while but then tapers off to get buried 
 with the other "filler-games" on your hard drive.
  The lack of excitement in the game coupled with the end of the election, which I believe is the 
 main reason this game sold at all, makes it mediocre as a whole, but still a good time-waster for 
 those people bored with watching Race for the White House 2008 on CSPAN.
  
  If you can find it for less than 10 dollars, I would reccomend it but other than that, not enough 
 bang for the buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The Political Machine is a strategy game that puts you in the center of a Presidential Election, 
 and why anyone would want to relive the 2004 election is beyond me, but here it is right in a box.
 
  
  The game is basically an interactive/computerized version of Risk, you're character is ontop of 
 a giant political map of the US and you'll go from state to state to try and raise your awareness 
 and compete for every last electoral vote. You take turns with your opponent and each turn basically 
 counts as half of one week, there are 40 weeks until election night. Each week you can make a campaign 
 speech, build political capital to hire operatives and win endorsments, or make advertisements. 
 Occasionally an interview opportunity will pop up and you can go on mock versions of Hardball, 
 Crossfire, and The O'Riely Factor. And eventually you will be able to pick your VP. The problem 
 with this is that it all feels like one big computerized board game, there are no videos or soundbites, 
 it's all done by menus.
  
  One thing that stands out about the game is it's stylized graphics. Each candidate looks like a 
 highly cartooned version of themselves that almost looks like they're trying to get away with using 
 their names without licencing or something. It comes across well enough, it's just too bad they 
 don't do much with it. Like I said above, there are no movies in the game and all you really see 
 of the candidates is his or her picture in the corner of the screen.
  
  The sound is nonexistant here. It's just a loop of the same song over and over again, but then 
 in the middle of the game it changes, then stays the same again. It does sound very Presidential 
 but it just gets annoying after a while. Aside from that and a few beeping noises when you click 
 on things, there isn't anything else to the saound department here.
  
  The game does an okay job of making you feel like you're the campaign manager or something, and 
 if you lose the election you'll be disappointed (especially because one round of this game can 
 take a half hour or more) . The problem is that the game just isn't very entertaining. There is 
 an Online multiplayer feature, but it's been hard finding people to play. If you're a die-hard 
 politician or a fan of politics then this game is for you, but not many others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The Political Macine is a very fun and educational game all rolled into one. It provides a fun 
 simulat with very user friendly controls and menus. It may take some time to get used to but it 
 is definately one of the best political based strategy games.
  
  The Political Machine allows you to run presidents like John Kerry vs George Bush, Abraham Lincoln 
 vs George Washington and more! You can also create your own president. This game was perfect for 
 me as I got into politics this year and this game really captivated my attention for quite some 
 time. 
  
  The Political Machine also has a fun online mode where you can run against people from all over 
 the world, a verry innovative feature! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vengentz
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 24, 2004 1:29 am PT
Review:  The most obvious things you will notice about this game is that the graphics are nothing to wow 
 over as well as the sound. This title could have come out 10 years ago and still would have looked 
 about the same, and would have gotten the same rateings from be in the graphics and sound department.
 
  
  Ok.. if you got this game or thinking about getting this game, then those are not important to you. 
 This game feels like Civilization or the Romance of the 3 Kingdoms titles. The game is all about 
 the stratagy not the wow factor.
  
  This is where I was a bit disapointed. It feels that you don't get enough to do. You fly to a state, 
 set up an HQ, give a speech, make and ad blah blah blah. I don't know what I would have done better 
 but it feels that it's missing that little umph that it needs for somebody like me. Maybe it's 
 the 41 turns that makes the game feel rushed. Two turns a weeks would have made a diffrence and 
 what about making your own press confrences where is that? I would have loved the ability to talk 
 smack on national tv and then watch the other guy come on tv to defend himself. You know all the 
 low down dirty tricks that make this country great.
  
  Or what about being able to twist and minipulate what they stand on? it happends all the time, 
 useing half truths against somebody. Maybe a beginner and an advanced mode would have fixed this.
 
  
  Over all this game was ok, I find myself playing it from time to time and for a $20 title, I have 
 no complaints. I would have liked to see more but if an upgraded version were to come out I think 
 we wouldn't see it till 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwidower
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 21, 2004 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by The Political Machine. While it is not a very long game, it does 
 offer many options and allow different playing styles. Each round tends to be a bit short, 41 weeks 
 with each turn lasting a week. Lots of different strategies can be followed to a win. The character 
 creation screen is a bit weak though, the stats for the politicians are quite unbalanced. This 
 would be a great game to play with your kids, they can learn alot about the election process (including 
 the seedier side of things.) Overall a fun game and you can't beat the 19.99 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decknique
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 7, 2004 1:10 am PT
Review:  Well... this game was absolutely boring. I managed to get about three presidencies into it and 
 it just seemed to be the same thing over and over again. While I can't say uber political types 
 would/would not diggit, I will say this was so absolutely repetitive and boring for a RTS/RPG/Sims 
 type that I just could not even manage a week. I am quite hyperactive and a game that can hold 
 my interest for say... a month is considered usually one of the top games by game reviewers everywhere. 
 Games like EQ, FFXI, Simcity, Sims etc... this game didn't hold my interest for a day... so don't 
 bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminretrostyle
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 2, 2004 4:20 am PT
Review:  Like pretty much everyone who picked up Political Machine, I consider myself a political junkie. 
 I await the Presidential Elections with the same sense of anticipation football fans await the 
 Superbowl or basketball fans await March Madness. Perhaps that's why I found Political Machine 
 to be so lacking.
  
  First off, let's cover the basics. The graphics are kind of cartoony but fit the mood of the game 
 well. 
  
  The controls are easy to pick up, but if a state state gets a little crowded it can be a little 
 difficult to click on the correct candidate or political aide. 
  
  The amount of information provided is probably about on par with what the actual candidates receive. 
 Consistently updated information (delivered via the map) about whether your candidate is winning 
 or loosing a particular state, the percentage of liberals or conservatives in various areas, etc. 
 
  
  The sound is probably the best part of the game. The music that plays in the background while you're 
 running your campaign is very... well, "campaigny" for want of a better word. And when you make 
 an appearance on "Barry King Live" or "Hardhitter" the intro music is perfect for those sorts of 
 shows.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is a lack of replayability. I've run about a dozen campaigns 
 in the game so far, and they go exactly the same no matter who my opponent is. You simply concentrate 
 on the same states, and the same issues, and win the same endorsements from the same special interest 
 groups. 
  
  There should be some difference in how the game plays depending on who your candidate is. It should 
 be harder to win the Christian Coalition's endorsement if you're a flaming liberal than The Environmental 
 Movement. It should be harder to get the Union's behind you than the gun owners if you're a republican. 
 Adds saying Ulysses S. Grant is weak on the war should have less effect than adds saying George 
 Bush is pro outsourcing.
  
  Overall, a fun game for a little while, but gets boring and repetetive in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 31, 2004 9:54 pm PT
Review:  It would be all too easy to pass by The Political Machine after glancing it on store shelves in 
 favor of flashier titles, or to dismiss it as another mediocre budget game cashing in on a quick 
 buck in an election year. But Stardock is no lame duck: this turn-based strategy game is an addictive 
 little gem sure to suck the time from unsuspecting gamers with its colorful presentation and original 
 concept. It may wear thin for gamers who want more strategic depth, and its simple presentation 
 wont be winning any technical awards, but The Political Machine is still a fun, quirky mix of 
 election year shenanigans and tactical board game fun easily worth its $19.99 price tag. 
  
  The premise is rather simple: you act as campaign manager to a presidential candidate and order 
 him (or her) around the U. S. map, using stamina points for various activities until the turn  
 and an in-game week - is over. You also start with a supply of cash that dwindles over time as 
 you build and upgrade campaign headquarters, start smear campaigns, and travel from state to state 
 garnering support. You can also spend stamina points by giving speeches or purchasing political 
 capital, which is then used to hire political operatives or garner endorsements. Cash is replenished 
 by holding fundraisers, although the amount of cash available in any given state depends on its 
 wealth, and decreases as you raise funds in that particular state. The campaign mode will, oddly 
 enough, take you through a series of 2004 elections against progressively tougher candidates; quick 
 mode will let you play through a single election; fantasy mode allows you to create a candidate 
 from scratch; and you can also play against another via the internet, which gives you limited time 
 in which to complete your turn. 
  
  The platform you can take in any given state depends on your degree of awareness there, and the 
 easiest way to increase it is to upgrade your headquarters, which opens up issues previously unavailable 
 to you. The importance of these issues varies from state to state, so you need to be sure to choose 
 a speech topic that interests voters in that region. How your stance on those issues will affect 
 you with Republicans, Democrats, and Independents are presented clearly, although those groups 
 remain mostly static from state to state: for example, Republicans will always support tax cuts, 
 regardless of which state you visit, and the population distribution amongst those factions wont 
 change throughout the game. You can also start ad campaigns in newspapers, on the radio, or on 
 television, and they can be presented in a positive (I support the environment) or negative (My 
 opponent opposes the environment) fashion. 
  
  As the game progresses, you can use stamina points to purchase political capital, which is used 
 for two purposes: to gain the endorsement of a political lobby, such as the National Organization 
 of Women; and to hire operatives that affect you or your opponents standing in a given state. 
 Endorsements will affect your issue rating across the entire nation, and purchasing one requires 
 8 capital points, so they are effective but relatively expensive, which means that usually you 
 may purchase only one or two in any given election. Your operatives require a lot more strategy, 
 depending on how they affect ratings and whether or not they are mobile. For example, The Fixer 
 will remove an opponents political operative from any given state, but it is a one-time deal. 
 Other operatives, like the Smear Merchant, can be moved from state to state if they are needed 
 elsewhere, and your most important operative  the Vice President  will be offered up automatically 
 later in the game. He is mobile and doesnt spend any stamina points, but has only one job: to 
 increase awareness in the state he occupies and the surrounding states. He adds wealth as soon 
 as he is on board, which also makes him a valuable asset. 
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  Other 
 events will become available as well, and work like landing on the chance space in Monopoly. 
 Sometimes you will find an additional operative behind the intriguing question mark on your screen, 
 although they may have negative impact as well. Other times, media opportunities will become available, 
 letting you answer a series of questions for such celebrity interviewers as Barry King (get it?) . 
 Aside from that, there isnt a lot more to The Political Machines actual gameplay, but the game 
 itself becomes an interesting tug-of-war as you battle for the electoral votes in key states, particularly 
 as operatives come into play. The artificial intelligence will focus immediately on the most important 
 regions, and makes no bones about attacking your candidate from the get-go. You may raise a brow, 
 though, as you watch your opponent spends more than enough time in states without a lot of electoral 
 votes, such as South Dakota or Alaska. Weekly recaps humorously point out any progress, and feature 
 interesting (but sadly oft-too-recycled) commentary from each sides campaign advisor. 
  
  We just wish there was more to do. Creating a candidate in fantasy mode sounds like fun, but in 
 reality, doesnt add much enjoyment, since playing with pre-existing politicos is much more interesting. 
 The Political Machine plays out as a board game, which is fine in and of itself, but since you 
 are stuck playing the 2004 election with mostly familiar election issues, you will find yourself 
 wishing for a broader scope. You unlock new candidates over the course of the campaign, and the 
 gameplay is just as addictive as you may expect, adding a ton of replay value as you pass the hours 
 blissfully giving speeches on the war on terror. Generally, though, while there is plenty of opportunity 
 to employ different strategies, the same tactics will be mostly successful each time you play: 
 build and upgrade headquarters in key states; duke it out in Texas, California, New York, and other 
 important battleground states; and make last-ditch efforts with your operatives to save swing states 
 that could go either way. It would have been nice to see changes to the political landscape, such 
 as variable electoral votes, national crises to avert, or other surprises. Once you have gotten 
 the core gameplay down pat, there just isnt much more to discover. The online mode can be fun, 
 but finding a competitor is often a futile endeavor. 
  
  The Political Machines graphics and sound are mostly utilitarian; there is nothing terribly exciting 
 about them, nor are they outstanding in any way, but they certainly lend character. Candidate portraits 
 are done in the style of an editorial comic, and are as charming as the rest of the presentation, 
 even if the candidates icons on the map  and the others too, actually  are small and difficult 
 to find if you have turned your attentions elsewhere for a moment. Still, aside from the oft-cluttered 
 main map, the visual presentation is colorful, even though at its heart, it simply represents a 
 strategic board game. The music has a six-oclock-news style to it, particularly on election 
 night, although throughout most of the game, it becomes repetitive and annoying. Sound effects 
 convey the necessary information, but its too bad they arent as quirky as the rest of the presentation. 
 
  
  There are numerous tiny annoyances to be found within, on top of the sometimes simplistic gameplay, 
 such as various misspellings and database errors, in which, for example, the word state appears 
 where the state name should be. These frustrations aside, there is no doubt that The Political 
 Machine is oddly compelling, and its budget price makes it a must-buy for casual gamers and strategy 
 fans alike. The game isnt terribly expansive and may become somewhat monotonous over time, but 
 there isnt much to dislike. Stardock has created an easygoing, charming title with a lot of pick-up-and-play 
 appeal. Give it a shot, and like us, you may be pleasantly surprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I find this game to be absolutely great because I am a political junkie. Maybe I find it 
 to be a great game because I am crazy and senseless. No matter what your overall opinion of the 
 game is, it is hard to argue that Political Machine is an original concept. For the first time 
 in my memory, I am able to play the part of a campaign manager in a presidential election.
  
  The mechanics of the game are rather simple. You control your candidate, who is responsible 
 for fundraising, running ads, ect. against your opponent. The game spans for forty-one turns, making 
 it short enough o play in a single sitting and since you have the option of randomly assigning 
 issue importance and other values, the game has nearly unlimited replay ability. 
  
  The graphics and sounds are admittedly not the games strong points, but you usually do not play 
 a strategy game for these aspects (if your looking for a graphical and audio feast, go play Doom 
 3) . Despite this, fans of strategy games looking to try their hand outside of waging wars or running 
 countries/empires might find running a presidential campaign enjoyable. Also, the game should definitely 
 appeal to the political crowd. Overall, I think the Political Machine is well worth the money you 
 pay for it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
