-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Political Machine 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thepoliticalmachine2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy-to-grasp board-game-style gameplay.
 New scenarios let you change up the electoral battleground.
 Attractive new 3D visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Core game is little changed from its 2004 predecessor.
 A bit formulaic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Political junkies and board-game fans should love The Political Machine 2008, even if it is a bit 
 too close for comfort to its predecessor. 

  Four years seem to be making a lot of difference in the real American political landscape, but 
 things haven't changed all that much in the virtual one created by Stardock. The Political Machine 
 2008 is nearly indistinguishable from its 2004 predecessor, with the same board-game-style mechanics, 
 fast pace, and charming personality. Although it may be a bit disappointing to see that the new 
 boss is pretty much the same as the old boss, the basic turn-based gameplay remains as catchy as 
 ever, and new features such as alternate-world scenarios and an in-depth candidate editor freshen 
 up this familiar face.  

  Sort of. If you didn't like the original Political Machine, or grew tired of using it to beat up 
 on Dubya during the past few years, there isn't much here to draw you back to the table. Core game 
 mechanics haven't changed at all. You still take the role of a U. S. presidential candidate with 
 41 weeks to go before election day. You still zip around the country like a lunatic during each 
 turn, building campaign headquarters, giving speeches, raising money, and approving ad campaigns 
 until your cash or your stamina points run out. And you still work hard at earning the endorsements 
 of groups including the gun lobby, and hiring political operatives who spin the issues and smear 
 opponents.  

  The one somewhat significant alteration is the addition of PR clout, earned by the construction 
 of new buildings called Outreach Centers. However, all this does is replace political capital as 
 the currency used to purchase endorsements from lobby groups, so it doesn't require much of an 
 adjustment to your playing style. Instead of a single stream of resources used to buy endorsements 
 and operatives, you now have to deal with two. If you played the original game, you'll be able 
 to sit down here and start blazing a trail to the White House without even a glance at the tutorials. 

           Lord Kona turns the map red on election night, in no small part due to his Democrat opponent, 
 Jimmy.      

  Nevertheless, this isn't a carbon copy. The old 2D map has been replaced by a full 3D one that 
 is much easier to read, and the comic-strip candidates have been swapped out for rather creepy-looking 
 bobblehead dolls. Consequently, the game at least looks strikingly different and much more modern. 
 Many issues from the front lines of the campaign have been pulled from today's headlines. Pressing 
 concerns include high gas prices, withdrawing from Iraq, addressing climate change, and other political 
 talking points that you've been hearing nonstop on the news during the past year. New candidates 
 are also featured this time around. Obama is the star, of course, but lesser lights such as Bill 
 Richardson and Mitt Romney are also on the docket, along with oddball choices such as Lord Kona, 
 a genocidal Drengin supremo from Stardock's Galactic Civilizations franchise. (Lord Kona unfortunately 
 looks like a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle here in bobblehead form.) A detailed new candidate editor 
 allows you to make your own bobblehead presidential wannabe, too, and allows you to customize everything 
 from appearance to smarts to political leanings.  

  Four new scenarios have been included for quick solo play or competition online against human presidential 
 wannabes (unfortunately, you can't play them in the ladder-style single-player campaign) . The scenarios 
 range from the 2008 and 1860 US elections, to an across-the-pond election that takes place in a 
 high-school student's Europe with misnamed countries and extra nations, and a Drengin election 
 on the evil aliens' homeworld. (That Electoral College system really gets around.) These liven 
 things up with some new issues, but the mechanics that you use to address them are largely unchanged. 

  Although all of the new features add breadth to what was a somewhat limited package four years 
 ago, they don't lend the game a great deal of depth. Gameplay is still fairly formulaic and repetitive. 
 Whether you're battling for leadership of the USA, a Europe that includes Japan, or the home planet 
 of the murderous Drengin, you still start off every game by laying down campaign headquarters in 
 key states that have loads of electoral votes, then move on to fighting for winnable battleground 
 states with ads, political operatives, and speeches. You don't have a lot of room to experiment 
 because the game doesn't give you a lot of credible options, especially when starting out in a 
 new election campaign. If you don't get your buildings on the ground right away to lay the foundation 
 for what comes later, you'll have to buy a ticket to the inauguration in January. This is certainly 
 true to life, but it does limit your choices and ramp up repetition.  

  All in all, there is a real same-old, same-old feel here. Many of the issues that you're debating 
 seem pulled from the 2004 game. Granted, such concepts as lower taxes, gun control, and abortion 
 sure haven't gone anywhere in the past four years. But it's still a little dreary to be dealing 
 with them again, in the exact same way as you did in the previous game. The same can be said for 
 lobbying groups, which also don't vary much. Alternative scenarios actually cut the number of these 
 organizations down to six each from the default 10, and they're all generic groups with goofy names 
 like The Lethargic Workers Union of Europa and Concerned Parents for Galactic Domination. Even 
 those funny, random interviews on TV talk shows are pretty much identical no matter what scenario 
 you're playing, with robots on Drengi, and shows like Boxcar Charlie's News Romp replacing the 
 standard Barry King Live broadcast in the 1860 US.  

           So much for change we can believe in.      

  With all that said, you get a lot of 
 game for a budget $20 price tag, and most of these gripes are more along the lines of nitpicking 
 an elegant design that can easily turn into a compulsion. Everything remains incredibly appealing, 
 and matches move along at such a fast pace that it's unlikely you'll ever get bored. You're more 
 apt to get hooked and play game after game trying to crush all of the opponents thrown your way 
 (who doesn't like smacking around Jimmy Carter?) , or to fixate on attempting to run the table by 
 turning every state the desired red or blue. If you're into European strategy board games, which 
 generally rely on the same simple-yet-addictive fundamentals, you'll find it awfully tough to pull 
 yourself away. Every game also develops its own storyline, which usually focuses on the fight for 
 a battleground state. One election might come down to the wire in Illinois, with your decision 
 to hammer on lower taxes giving you a last-minute edge. Another might revolve around the impact 
 of TV ads in Ohio or center on the role of political operatives swinging the vote a few percentage 
 points in California. Repetition or not, The Political Machine 2008 provides nail-biting drama 
 in the final weeks of every campaign, especially when you're competing at higher difficulty levels 
 against an opponent that really knows how to make use of his or her resources.  

  Even though it partially coasts on past glories, The Political Machine 2008 is one awfully addictive 
 game. The easy-to-learn, tough-to-master style of play will draw you in, despite the vague feeling 
 of being let down by the similarities between this new game and its four-year-old predecessor. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Read the full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2905,0. html
  
  Political Machine is one of the few franchises that is based on the United States presidential 
 elections. With minor enhancements, it feels like a retread of the original game. However, its 
 a fun thing to play with the backdrop of the 2008 elections.
  
  The core game mechanics haven't changed that much. You take the role of a U. S. presidential candidate 
 nearly a year before election day. The game plays out on a map of the USA, where you build campaign 
 headquarters, raise money, and approve ad campaigns until you run out of stamina points or cash.
 
  
  The one huge addition is PR clout, controlled by the building Outreach Centers. This replaces political 
 capital as the currency used to purchase endorsements from lobby groups. Instead of a single stream 
 of resources used to buy endorsements and operatives, you now have to deal with two. If you played 
 the original game, you'll be able to sit down here and start blazing a trail to the White House 
 without even a glance at the tutorials.
  
  There are some interface and visual improvements: the 2D map has been replaced with a 3D one, and 
 the candidates are now funny bobblehead parodies of their real selfs. The game has been updated 
 to feature modern issues, including climate change, high gas prices, Iraq withdrawl, etc. The candidates 
 have similarly been updated, with Obama, Clinton, McCain, Richardson, etc, all available to play 
 with. There's a nice bonus in the form of Lord Kona, a mean alien from Galactic Civilizations. 
 You can also create your own candidate with a powerful editor. Also, there's four new scenaros 
 that allow you to play solo or online. The gameplay mechanics remain the same, but they offer some 
 nice new issues tailored to their territory and society.
  
  Unfortunately, the game remains kind of shallow and formulaic to a fault. You should always start 
 off by laying down campaign headquarters and then hitting winnable states with ads and speeches. 
 The thing is that its a $20 game, and its hard to fault it for such issues when you get such a 
 fun game for such a low price. The game is still appealing and the game has a fast pace that makes 
 it hard to get bored with. The endgame often gets very tense, as you fight for those last few percentage 
 points in swing states.
  
  PM 2008 is mostly a retread of the original, but the updates and additions make it worth its budget 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schwarte
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I got my copy of this game as a present from a friend, who thought it would be funny replay the 
 election. 
  My friend was as wrong as one can be. And this is why:
  
  Let's start with media aspects:
  
  Graphics:
  The graphical presentation is befitting of 
 a board game, characters have more head than body and can be more or less customized. (They will 
 still all look like rubber toys, but that's ok) The map most of the game happens on is obviously 
 a map of the US, which could have featured some landmarks or stuff, but is mostly just a display 
 of colored tiles (different styles are configurable, so as to display awareness, voters etc. in 
 the states) . 
  Now one should not expect much more, I guess, but it does look "simple". Not worrying about that 
 too much tho, as it is a board game.
  
  Audio:
  Not too much to note here forgetting some horrible sounds that sometimes pop up. There's no real 
 need for surround sound or anything, as once again: it's a board game. So I guess this is also 
 "ok".
  
  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay is what murders the whole game (as is always the case with bad gameplay) . You basically 
 are only able to spend 41 turns touring around the state, each turn your stamina being refreshed. 
 Now you need stamina to tour around and to do stuff. What can you do? Build HQs (mainly to raise 
 money and get votes) and 2 other types of buildings which are used to raise the resources next 
 to money. The first one of those resources lets you hire assistants who do all kinds of stuff for 
 you, like helping you get votes, or slowing down your opponent. The last resource is used to "buy" 
 the agreement of different societies and unions (female-rights, worker-rights, gun-association 
 etc.) , which will further add to your campaign.
  Now if you're not building stuff, you're holding speeches/creating ads/giving interviews (all to 
 raise votes) or you do fund raising (to get money, duh) . 
  While this may seem like a lot to do (especially if you add to that, that each building has 3 levels 
 and there are 3 types of adds) , it is not. Any ad/interview/speech you create/give is assisted 
 by a little window that tells you how voters will react. So if you chose to tell the public you 
 are fond of abortion, the republican vote section will get a thumb down while the others get a 
 thumb up. Turning that around, you can say you do not support abortions and the thumbs will turn.
 
  And you can also do both "for" your opponent, saying he is in favor/against abortion, so that 
 he has to suffer the effects.
  What likes/dislikes the state has, can be seen when a hq is built and that will then translate 
 into the window. (No need to study those long statistics.)
  
  Following from that, the gameplay can be seperated into two parts: 
  - Build stuff and get staff.
 
  - Say you want the economy to grow, say that other dude wants it shrink. 
  For 41 weeks. (During which you get an assistant-politician, doubling the fun!)
  And if you win... 
 Rinse and repeat.
  
  Now that is so incredibly deep, it's shallow again. I won't even lie and say the game has "Potential", 
 because it hasn't. You COULD turn politics into a board game, but you will never do it in a satisfying 
 way. Politics ARE complicated and not really too accessible to newbies and board games can GET 
 complicated but have to be simple and accessable at the same time. So no Union there. 
  And if you even want to be remotely successful, at least let it be a bit deeper than this. Monopoly 
 is deeper than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  american politics... is kinda depressing, but fun when you're winning. we're working on our master's 
 in the subject and though this is a caricature of the process, it's still pretty representative 
 of its source.
  
  there really should be more games like this. it's gotten a little deeper since the last one, but 
 not a whole lot though. it's still very much the same idea.
  
  the bobble head motif is pretty cute, doesn't add anything to gameplay, but it's a nice artistic 
 touch, gives a little movement to the board. the create a candidate is alright, there's a few unlockables.
 
  
  music is nice. there's only a couple songs though, so in an extended game it gets old fairly quickly.
 
  
  gameplay hinges on building the right bases in the right states, upgrading them, spending the resources 
 they generate on ads, staff, and endorsements. pretty easy to wrap one's mind around, pretty low 
 learning curve.
  
  since it is an american election, popular vote means jack. it's entirely a game about snagging 
 electoral votes. the states with the larger populations get most of the attention, the rest get 
 ignored or snapped up for some insurance for the final weeks.
  
  there's a more refined issues system in this updated version that lets you start defining your 
 platform, which issues your candidate supports. best strategy, "it's the economy, stupid." doesn't 
 seem like anyone is against a strong economy and it's typically in the top ten. soft politics, 
 slam your opponent for being against a strong economy and boost your commitment to it, it's a safe 
 path to victory.
  
  there are some other scenarios in quickplay that take you from the familiar setting of campaign 
 mode and let you fight out elections during civil war, in the drengin empire, and in a satirical 
 european union. doesn't extend the longevity of the game in a real significant way. same gameplay, 
 but it's a nice change of scenery.
  
  would have been interesting to see 3rd parties or a parliamentary mode. the board gets a little 
 cluttered when your strategy is to "out staff" your opponent. the tv interviews are neat, but not 
 all that vital to success. a debate would have been interesting, so would starting before the party's 
 primary. it's a pretty fun game as it is, but it's practically on par with the board game risk. 
 leaves little to the imagination. not sure what those who slammed this game were expecting. it's 
 basically a board game like risk or monopoly. not any worse than either of those classics.
  
  "politicians are the same all over. they promise to build a bridge even where there is no river." 
 - nikita khrushchev
  
  gave this game an 8.0, which is pretty up there. like american politics, sometimes coming out ahead 
 depends on just not screwing up... and stardock just knew what they were doing. extra points for 
 stardock on their pro-consumer philosophy, it's worth getting this game just for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Basically, the first time you play, you will like it. After you win the first game it pretty much 
 goes downhill there. 
  
  First I'll talk about the game play. It is pretty much what you would expect from a presidential 
 campaign sim, you go from state to state raising money building HQ's holding rallier running ads. 
 At first, the wide array of options seems like it would make for great replay right? WRONG! After 
 losing my first campaign mission trying to play the 'right way' running as a republican and going 
 with the republican base and issues. I lost pretty bad. On my second game, I realized that when 
 picking speeches, commercials and ads. There are ads that appeal to everyone and ads that damage 
 your opponents reputation with everyone.
  Basically all you need to do is: Hold a bunch of rallies in california, texas, and other high pop. 
 states. then just run commericals saying 'I support the economy' and 'My opponent supports high 
 gas prices' and it works.
  It feels totally unrealistic that you can run constant ads saying your opponent supports high gas 
 prices, supports terrorism and stuff like that, without backlash.
  In my second time playing, I won every, EVERY state, on a campaign that was strictly based on running 
 2 types of commercials. It boggles my mind that the devs put in these 'perfect' campaign ads, that 
 make ads like 'I support drilling in ANWAR' that are more controversial, useless.
  
  The game has another feature that lets you go onto a tv show for an interview. This would be cool, 
 except that the interviews consist of 2 questions only, with answers that are so blatantly right 
 and wrong that it makes the whole thing useless. 
  
  The killer for this game is that once you finally win an election, the next step is running that 
 same campaign, except against another opponent. It's like if you took the first mission of an rts 
 game campaign, and made the player play it over and over and over again, with the only difference 
 being the colors of the enemy units.
  
  This game is a good way to spend a few minutes, but once you realize that it is incredibly easy 
 if you stop playing like you're running a campaign, and start playing like its just another lame 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Hey look, the United States presidential elections are this November. What do you think about that. Would 
 you like Obama to win, or you'd rather see McCain as president? What if Bush could participate again? But 
 wait, how about Abraham Lincoln? George Washington? Did I catch your interest? Good... read on then.
 
  The Political Machine 2008 is an excellent TBS (Turn-Based Strategy game) based on this year's 
 elections. You'll get to do a lot of crazy things (which the candidates really do to win, then at 
 the election you'll yell Republicans/Democrates for each state that turns red/blue. But let's start 
 with the start (or would you have liked to start with the end? ) .
  
  Graphics:9/10
  
  
  Believe it or not, the graphics suit this cute game very well. Ummm, no, it's not CryEngine 2. Nope, not 
 Unreal Engine 3. This is a TBS for God's sake, so don't expect any high end graphics with High Dynamic 
 Range, Bloom effects or other things like these. Nope, you'll be in front of a map of the US from 
 start to end. It's something like the map in Europa Universalis (or Supreme Ruler, if you wish) , only 
 it's better designed & the colours are chosen very well. Now of course there are the candidates, who 
 look really really funny. They are comically drawn,& some of their facial traits are exploited in 
 order to make them look even funnier. Abe Lincoln's long face, George's big ears & not only were 
 exploited by the designers in order to create their game correspondents. But you can also make them 
 bang their head in the menu as if they wer in a Maiden concert or something, which is surely a great 
 idea.
  
  
  Sound:7/10
  
  
  Unfortunatelly, the sound doesn't really stand up high. It's not annoying, but it could have been 
 a lot better. Why? Because all the sound means the music. An electoral-political theme, which is well 
 chosen & won't bother you, but that's all. Oh, pressing the menu buttons also make a "click". I never 
 thought I'd take that into consideration when reviewing a game, but this is an exception. The lack 
 of voice acting is unpleasant. Imagine hearing Bush say :"Ossama Bin Laden, we'll find you wherever 
 you are" ,ore Hillary Clinton with some of her "blah-blah-blah s" & you'll get a clear picture 
 of what we're missing here. To be honest with you, I should have given the Sound a 4 ,but since it's 
 not all that important & won't really bother you if you don't think about it, I have made this tiny 
 exception (& the mouse click sound seriously boosts it) .
  
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  
  
  As I said before, this is a TBS game on the United States map. After you'll choose your candidate, you'll 
 be thrown on this map,& you need to win the elections in 41 weeks. Now, each turn means a week. You 
 can control your candidate to travel from state to state, create political advertisments, give speeches, raise 
 the campaign budget, build buildings, win endoresments or hire staff. You'll get a full stamina bar 
 each week,& you should be careful how you use your actions, because each of them lowers the stamina 
 bar. When you reach 0 you'll have to click "TURN" ,so that you enter a new week, with a full stamina 
 bar. But your opponent also moves & does stuff each week, so beware! Now as you know, there are 41 
 states & the same number of weeks, so you can visit each state in a week. Now, as you know, the candidate 
 with the highest number of electoral votes wins. Some states have a high number of electoral votes 
 & are very important for you to win. So my advice is to get California, New York, Texas, Florida, New 
 Jersey & others to vote with you, cause you'll really get a boost with them on your side. If you're 
 losing in a state with, let's say, 3 electoral votes, don't bother trying to get it on your side, because 
 it's not worth it. Just be careful with those big states, because I started with California & when 
 I saw I was winning, I ignored it, only to see by the end that I was losing there. Remember, the opponent 
 also focuses on the important states, so you should do the same. Now to win a state you need to have 
 51% or more votes in that state. If that happens, all the electoral votes from there go to you. Now 
 I'm gonna tell you how this thing works. Money is really crucial, so you'll get the option to raise 
 your campaign funds in each state you visit. The wealthier the state, the more money you get, so I'm 
 again recommanding California, Texas & New York. Now you can also build Campaign headquarters & other 
 types of buildings. Some raise your points you need in order to hire staff,& some raise the points 
 needed to win endoresments. They raise each week. Okay, there are a lot of types of staff, so I'm gonna 
 speak about some of them. Three of them are unique & can be hired only once,& cost 5 points each: a 
 speech writer, in order to be more influential with the speeches, a guy that boosts your appearance 
 with cool cloathes & another one which I forgot what does. The other ones cost 5 points at the beggining 
 but raise as you hire more of them. They raise your media awareness, which means that the ads you 
 make will be more influential on the public, some which raise your results & lower the opponents, one 
 guy which can eliminate one of the rival staff members,& so on. Now you can move each of them in 
 any state you need them to be,& they'll help you in your campaign. The endoresments are also very 
 useful & can really increase your poll results. Some are better suited to the Democrats, some ar 
 best fore the Republicans. I won't get into details, but organisations such as Christian Confederation, 
 Environmentalists Club, Foreign Policy Agency or the Gun Control Association are only some of them. Now 
 there are a lot of society, economical, financial & military problems mentioned in the game. Improving 
 the economy, withdrawing from Iraq, a strong military, universal health care, the environment, high 
 gas prices, more jobs... stuff like these. Now as you know, there are three sides of voters: Democrates, Republicans 
 & undecided. Now, all of them oppose high gas prices & favor the environment, but withdrawing from 
 Iraq is wanted only by the Democrats ,while the Republicans oppose it. Trough your speeches to the 
 public on in your ads you can either tell them you support a cause such as improving the economy 
 to go up in the polls (& maybe gain the unecided voter's trust) or you can tell them that your 
 opponent favors high gas prices or opposes more jobs, which will certainly make him go down the 
 polls. Aye, that's how politics is. What you also can do to increase your results in the polls is 
 to participate to some TV shows, such as Barry King Live or local news. You will receive a set of 
 funny questions & you will have to choose from 4 even funnier answers, based on those problems I 
 spoke about earlier. If the people like your answers, your polls will rise. Also, you can come across 
 some states marked with "?" at some time. If you go there immediatly, you'll receive a good or bad 
 bonus. You can gain some money or get a cool staff member for free, but you can also lose some money 
 or lose all your stamina for that week. You'll decide if it's worth to visit them or not. At half-point 
 you will have to choose a running mate, which has to be from your party. Speaking of candidates, there 
 aren't only Obama & McCain. You can try out (or go against) Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, George 
 W Bush, Al Gore, John Kerry, Theodore Roosevelt, Rudy Giuliani, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Woodrow 
 Wilson & other former US presidents or important political figures. Even my favorite president, John 
 F Kennedy, is one of the candidates. Yay!!!
  
  
  Multiplayer:10/10
  
  The multiplayer works exacly as you think it would. On turns. It sure is cool to defeat your friend's 
 Hillary Clinton while playing with Honest Abe. No more about the multiplayer, but if you really want 
 to get kicked in the 00 ,come challenge me.
  
  Overall Impression:10/10
  
  
  With all its politics mix with funny exploits, original ideas & a non-boring gameplay, you'll have 
 a wonderful time while playing The Political Machine 2008. A strategy game that doesn't seem to 
 be big deal, but after you'll play it for a bit you'll come to the conclusion that The Political 
 Machine 2008 is the best strategy game of 2008 so far. Just 4 more years till we have The Political 
 Machine 2012. Now go, Obama & McCain are waiting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeodalLord
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  You are into politics? No? Still play this game, because it is such fun! You can select pre-made politic 
 or create your own! Select issues that you favor or oppose and let it fly! First few times can be 
 disaster, but once you learn how to play (Tutorial sux ;) ) it can get pretty addictive! You wander 
 around states (or countries) creating ads and making speeches about main issues of states such like 
 withdrawal from Iraq or rising gas prices. Issues are quite up to date and that's wonderful. The 
 bad part that it's quite repeating. Game campaigns are long boring, because after playing first 
 mission you know them all. Single skirmishes are more enjoying! Try to play Europe campaign, which 
 is "as seen through student's eyes" countries are quite messed up, but that makes game fun. Did 
 I mention that whole game is in funny graphics? I recommend this one if you have nothing to play 
 or love games of this genre! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
