-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Punisher (2005)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thepunisher/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Special interrogations are occasionally funny.
 Character models all look pretty sharp.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor sound mixing in cutscenes.
 Repetitive interrogation scenes.
 Camera can't handle the game's many tight areas.
 Underwhelming sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,396 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Jan 18, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Punisher tries to break out of the shooter blueprint by offering sometimes-gory interrogation 
 sequences, but these don't do enough to change what is otherwise a very by-the-numbers action game. 
 

  Though many games today take elements from existing titles and try to put their own spin on them, 
 this form of imitation isn't always a bad thing. There's something to be said for honing a concept. 
 But the possibility that the new twist on an old formula won't actually improve the overall product 
 certainly exists. The Punisher, a long-running Marvel Comics franchise about a vigilante trying 
 to save the world from being overrun by scumbags, is no stranger to this concept. Back in 1993, 
 the character appeared in an arcade game from Capcom that basically started with Final Fight as 
 a template, and then dropped in The Punisher, Nick Fury, and so on. It wasn't so great. Now, THQ 
 and Volition have delivered a new game with The Punisher name. While it attempts to put its own 
 spin on the third-person shooter genre by adding sometimes-gruesome interrogation sequences, this 
 game is, more or less, Max Payne without the bullet time.  

          The Punisher's got a bone to pick with criminals everywhere.     

  Well, perhaps "without 
 the bullet time" isn't entirely accurate. The Punisher can go into "slaughter mode," which slows 
 the game down a bit. Slaughter mode is slightly unique in that, while in it, you'll regain some 
 of your health and drop your guns in favor of a never-ending supply of knives that you can throw 
 into the faces of enemies with stunning accuracy. The other twist to The Punisher is that you can 
 grab any enemy for use as a human shield. Though doing this slows down your movement so much that 
 it's only occasionally useful, once you've grabbed an enemy, you can choose to interrogate him. 
 This brings up a little tension minigame, in which you have to work the mouse just right to keep 
 a line in the proper section of a meter for three seconds. Once you do this, the perp will crack 
 and tell you what he knows, and you'll get a little health boost for your trouble. Most enemies 
 know next to nothing, and interrogating the average bad guy will get you one of only a few phrases 
 per level. But some enemies yield more-interesting results, and these guys are clearly marked with 
 a skull over their head, so you'll know to deal with them dead last.  

  The Punisher's family was wasted by the mob, and he's out for revenge. Unless you're already a 
 fan of the character, that's all you really have to go on at the outset of the game. The story 
 is told via a series of flashbacks. It seems that Frank Castle's finally been caught at the end 
 of a three-week spree of crime fighting, though the NYPD sees his vigilante tactics in a slightly 
 different light. The game opens with The Punisher being interrogated by the authorities in a little 
 room on Ryker's Island (not to be confused with Rikers Island, the real-life prison) . They talk 
 him through the last three weeks, fading out to gameplay at certain points. You start out merely 
 taking on the mob, which happens to be running a crack house and a chop shop in your neighborhood. 
 Eventually, murdering your way up the mob's chain of command leads you to a much bigger terrorist 
 plot. Players will find somewhere between 10 and 15 hours of action here the first time through, 
 with the variance in time largely decided by your skill at getting headshots. The game gives you 
 medals based on your performance, and you can choose to reenter levels with specific challenges 
 to complete, though these additions don't really provide enough reason to go back to the game after 
 completing it.  

          Frank Castle goes through a handful of different costumes as you play.     

  You do 
 most of your killing with a variety of firearms. You'll begin with only a pair of pistols, but 
 your arsenal grows quickly. You'll have a handy array of assault rifles, submachine guns, and pistols, 
 as well as some more-specialized weaponry, like a rocket launcher, a flamethrower, and grenades. 
 While some weapons certainly have their place -- there are a few spots that are much easier if you're 
 toting a sniper rifle -- the minute-to-minute fighting that you'll spend most of the game engaged 
 in doesn't require a lot of firepower as much as it requires a steady hand. You can zoom in with 
 most weapons for more-refined aiming, and headshots are most definitely the order of the day. With 
 the game's fairly boneheaded artificial intelligence constantly standing still, or, even better, 
 taking cover behind benches and other items that leave most of their body exposed, most players 
 shouldn't have much trouble when it comes to ringing up headshots.  

  Even if you don't seem to be able to nail enemies in their heads, the game makes killing them startlingly 
 easy. The Punisher is supposed to be a superhero of sorts, so it's not too far-fetched that most 
 bullets barely take anything off your life bar, but it's so minimal that you can cruise through 
 most of the game by running up to each enemy and pressing the "quick kill" button, which rolls 
 out a brief animation of the enemy in question being shot, being stabbed, or having his neck broken. 
 Sure, you'll take a few shots while you run up to each foe, but since you can just interrogate 
 a couple of guys to get that health back, you're rarely in need of health on the game's normal 
 difficulty setting. The hard setting, as you might expect, limits your ability to do this a bit. 
     

  The Punisher's action is very standard, fitting right into the third-person shooter genre. The 
 only thing that really sets it apart, in terms of gameplay, is that it has a number of specific 
 kill animations. You have a handful of quick-kill moves and four different standard methods of 
 interrogation. These don't change throughout the game, and they get repetitive very quickly. In 
 an effort to change things up, some spots in the levels can be used for special interrogations. 
 These spots are clearly marked, and usually involve you using a piece of the environment to loosen 
 a foe's lips. Many of these simply have you dangling your enemy over a ledge, but there are some 
 unique ones, like slamming an enemy's head in the door of a jeep, threatening to stick a guy's 
 head into a ceiling fan, shocking a man with an exposed electrical wire, and so on.  

          The Punisher is sort of a one-trick pony. Once you've seen all of the interrogation animations, 
 there's not much else to do.     

  It's nice that the game offers these, but the payoff for actually going through with the plan and 
 killing your subject is really underwhelming. The game's rated M, but for some reason the camera 
 quickly zooms out from the action when you decide to finish an enemy off in a special interrogation 
 sequence. It also changes to black and white, almost as if the game doesn't want to show you such 
 a bloody finale without heavily filtering. Yet, after the fact, it doesn't have a problem showing 
 you a dead body that happens to be missing its head, for example. And many cutscenes are filled 
 with dripping blood. Whether the black-and-white effect was a stylistic choice or one aimed to 
 censor some of the game's gorier scenes isn't so important. Either way, it takes away from the 
 impact of these sequences.  

  The Punisher is a good-looking game, but with some better texture work, it could have looked much 
 better. You'll encounter some awfully blurry-looking textures here and there that make the environments 
 look a little bland. At least the game is pretty good about giving you a variety of environments -- many 
 sequences take place in fairly tight indoor settings, but you'll find some larger outdoor arenas 
 as well. While the environments may be varied, there really isn't much to do in them beyond running 
 around with your guns blazing. The extent of your environmental interaction, beyond the special 
 interrogations, consists of being able to shoot bottles off a bar. Yet you can pump bullet after 
 bullet into a television set without breaking it. This makes the game's locales feel flat and stale. 
 Also, the game's camera isn't really up to the task of presenting the action when you're in tight 
 corridors. One level in particular puts you on a ship, and the tight corridors and small rooms 
 make it nearly impossible to see what's going on around you. The one standout part of The Punisher's 
 graphics is its selection of character models. The standard troops look good, and The Punisher 
 himself looks really great, with similar levels of detail going into the models for many of the 
 story's other major characters and bosses. While the PC version is definitely the best-looking 
 of the three available versions, the interrogations are much easier to do with an analog controller 
 in the console versions than with the mouse.  

          If you're good at getting headshots, you'll find most of this game to be pretty easy.  
    

  Good in-game sound in a shooter generally comes down to having gunfire that sounds appropriately 
 tough. The Punisher doesn't do this especially well. While your gunfire sounds at least passable, 
 enemy fire is quiet at times and doesn't seem to always be positioned correctly. As an example, 
 in one sequence you're raiding an island, and there's a man positioned behind a turret, firing 
 off rounds in your direction. While you'll see tracer fire heading your way, and you'll even have 
 a clear view of the turret, you won't actually be able to hear the gun firing until you get much 
 closer to its position. The sound in the cutscenes is also poorly mixed. Voices usually come through 
 loud and clear, but the rest of the action sounds awfully flat. Certain actions, like a man slamming 
 his hands down on a table, don't make any sound at all. The game has a great deal of voice acting 
 in it, though most of it is a little flat.  

  The Punisher tries to break out of the third-person shooter blueprint by offering sometimes-gory 
 interrogation sequences, but these portions don't do enough to change what is otherwise a very 
 by-the-numbers action game. If you're fan of the character, you'll probably get some enjoyment 
 out of running around and torturing enemies, but the lack of variety here causes this portion of 
 the game to wear thin fast. Beyond that, you're better off looking elsewhere for your third-person 
 action needs.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Onyxon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:42 am PT
Review:  Let's get directly to the point. I think that the game was build mostly for fans (like me) . It was 
 a great experience to play this game because it is quite different than that type of games (comic-made 
 or 3D action) . Here, Frank is back and he is just LoL. At first i didn't believed that there are 
 "more than 100 ways to punish" but ,man it was true. Another big + for the game is the huge arsenal 
 because there are like 25 different weapons ,including sniper and bazooka (imagine walking into 
 gang bar with one of there hihi) . The game has few flaws of course (who doesn't) , but one of them 
 is quite serious if you ask me. The problem is that there are so many many ways to kill the gangsters 
 BUT there are 2-3 different gangster models which is kinda lame. It's like killing one and same 
 guy over and over again.
  Still it's amazing experience for fans and non-fans as well. EnJOY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, i dont really know why i started playing the punisher, maybe it was because 
 i liked the comics, or maybe its because the movie was good or maybe it was because of all the 
 good user reviews, but users, you guys are way off this time, and gamespot was right on. This game 
 has lame graphics, a stupid story, stupid A. I., and bland, boring gameplay.
  
  Gameplay
  In the punisher, you go around clearing rooms of guys with some cool weapons, but besides that 
 and the punisher "rage" thing, its just the same thing, over and over. it just seems like the developers 
 made the levels, put in a lot of stupid bad guys, and made up a plot that coincided with some other 
 marvel characters. to tell you the truth, there were some parts of the game where i felt it was 
 just plain awesome, but those times were few and far between, as all the other times you are using 
 the same weapons against different looking bad guys. oh and thats another thing. The only reason 
 i said this game is hard is because of ALL the enemies that the game throws at you. how the hell 
 are you supposed to kill all those guys without dying a crapload of times? very very frustrating 
 espcially in the later levels when you can only shoot people in the head because thier body armor 
 is so strong. The enemies are also pretty much braindead, except they do get to cover and shoot 
 around it, but there was one time in the end of the game when a guy was just standing there with 
 his gun in his hand, and i was just standing there, waiting for him to do something, but he did 
 nothing. the bugs in this game are easily spotted, but not gamebreakers, and sometimes makes the 
 game even easier, as one time when i was against the boss bullseye or something he just got stuck 
 in a wall and i shot him in the head a bunch and i got his health down which was nice i guess.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game overall are really weak and the only thing that looks decent is the punisher, 
 as everything else looks really bland, and the gore is stupid, as the game seems to choose which 
 enemies heads' explode and which ones dont. its really dumb when you shoot someones head off but 
 the next guy gets a bullethole in his head and he still keeps fighting. completely UNREALISTIC 
 to the max. i also dont know how a guy can still be alive when being shot from 5ft away from a 
 guy with dual weild .50 caliber guns. how does that work volition? The physics are ok, but i have 
 never really been impressed with the havok physics engine, cause there isnt really much to interact 
 in the environment with besides the interrogation sequences. i feel the biggest letdown of all 
 with the graphics was the plain tweaking of the graphics. you can only change the RESOLUTION. I 
 mean, only this game and SoF: payback have this great feature, and what do you know, both those 
 games suck!
  
  Story
  The story is pretty weak, as you are the Frank Castle, the punisher, and you go around getting 
 messed up in the gang wars between the yakuza, russian gangs, and other things for some reason, 
 i guess so you can get the main guy behind it who killed your family? so its pretty much about 
 Franks' redemption for his family which sounds good on paper, but is really boring in this game.
 
  
  Another complaint i had that wasnt with the story but with the game was the feeling i got after 
 playing through the levels was a feeling of boredom and dread, as you saw guys spawn from behind 
 you, and you could just stay in one spot and wait for the baddies to spawn and then blast them 
 in the face, which is very stupid and predictable. the last con i think i should mention is some 
 of the interrogation sequences, as sometimes you really dont mean for a guy to die, and you need 
 his info, but the game can be oversensitive, and the mouse doesnt really do that good of a job 
 cause thats what you use to put pressure on the guy you are interrogating.
  
  Overall, the Punisher is a miss at what could of been a dark, fun game similar to Max Payne, but 
 instead tries to be just a run-of-the mill shooter, and it achieves that with bad ai, bad graphics, 
 a weak story, and broken, boring gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heero_GX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank 
 Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I 
 Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge 
 and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and 
 Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher 
 and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love 
 Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle 
 I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank 
 Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I 
 Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge 
 and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and 
 Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher 
 and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love 
 Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle 
 I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank 
 Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I 
 Love Frank Casle I - Love Punisher and Revenge and I Love Frank Casle I-Love The PunisherI-Love 
 The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love 
 The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love 
 The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love 
 The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The PunisherI-Love The Punisher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  You play as Frank Castle, AKA The Punisher. You are in Ryker's prison where you are being questioned 
 about a one man killing spree against the Gnucci family. This takes you back to a couple of days 
 earlier in the story and you work your way back to getting put in prison. The story is quite well 
 done and full of plot twists and turns. You start trying to get drugs off the street and soon end 
 up in a full on drug war between the Yakuza and the Gnucci's. Also, many a Marvel character make 
 cameos in the game which are a true treat for the avid Marvel fan. I won't spoil who they are, 
 but they were totally out of the blue and really cool. More Marvel games need to take this approach. 
 Also the AI wasn't brilliant, but at times it would flank and duck for cover. It was pretty good, 
 but sometimes would dumb itself up.
  
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty simple. You start with a basic arsenal and as you progress through 
 the missions, you get points that allow you to buy things like better armor, quicker reloading 
 and the like. Also you earn more weapons as you complete missions. The weapons are diverse and 
 come from real world derivatives and are a lot of fun to use. But the stars of the show are the 
 story and the interrogation. As we have covered the story, we will go over the interrogation. This 
 mode allows you to threaten the suspect to the point of him spilling info. Normal modes include 
 punching, choking and face smashing. At some points you will have critical characters that can 
 be interrogated via special interrogation spots. These spots are quite ingenious and include a 
 piranha tank, jet engine and deep fryer among other items. Don't do enough and the guy will never 
 give you the info, but go overboard, and the perp will die. It is a great feature and hopefully 
 is used more in other games.
  
  
  The graphics are amazing. The Punisher model is great and comes straight off the pages of the Punisher 
 magazine. The Punisher had a lot of detail and sports a fully flowing coat. Other character models 
 looked good and the environment was fully interactive. Also, the game uses rag doll physics using 
 the Havoc physics system. All in all, the graphics were quite good and you will want a decent card 
 to get the full push out of the game.
  
  
  Sound is another great item. The voice of the Punisher is voiced by Thomas Jane, the movie version 
 of the Punisher. His performance was solid and in my opinion, a lot better than his movie job! 
 The weapons are also very well done and sound full and rich. Ambient sounds come up occasionally 
 along with ambient music, but I could of done without the music.
  
  
  Overall, the game is really good. I know it got bad press and it uses a checkpoint save system 
 which was a knock in my eyes, but it is a good game that did not deserve the bad press that the 
 game got. Get this game for $20 now at EB Games or Gamespot and you will have a total blast. It 
 is a bit easy and the AI can be dumb at times, but overall the game shines and is a gotta get it 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Story begins when cops arrest you.
  After that you're telling why and how you killed all those people and you play every scenario.
 
  Graphic is good, there's blood, suits are moving while you're moving,...
  There are guns but game is better if you use "Q" which is special attack, like stick a knife in 
 someone throat, break his legs, neck,.....
  You can interrogate people, but there's few people knowing more then others, for them you have 
 special interrogate, like holding him an inch away from sharks,....
  You have some special kills, like throwing people off a building, drive by,...
  Bosses are hard 
 to kill, that's a minus in this game, they are taking you too much time, as never they fight without 
 running in other rooms, some can't be killed with bullets, must be set on fire,....
  Story ends with you escaping with help of F. B. I. agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Van_manowar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Pure and Brutal action! I'm impressed from this game, it's challenging, it's fun, it's a masterpiece! 
 This is one of the shooter-games which you can replay many many times. The Punisher has a nice 
 graphics (not like Crysis, but come on it's from 2005) . The sound is good :) I don't know why you 
 think is poor. I like it :) The gameplay rocks! Brutal interrogations, bullets, bullets and more 
 bullets! There are two modes in some missions, so you can replay them. Punishing mode and Challenge 
 mode. I like the hero Punisher as much as this game. The special interrogations, the special kills 
 and quick kills are very fun! They also bring you more points. And the more points unlocks the 
 challenge and punishment modes :) The Punisher is very underrated game I think. 6.5 . . . that's 
 not fair. I give it 10. And automatically it goes to my "favorite game" list :)
  
  
  I'll say it again: If you fell blood-lusty, play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MariusGta
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I bought it when it came out and I enjoyed it from the 1st minute :) I recommend this game to anyone 
 who is looking to have phun ;) . Now let me tell ya some reasons why ya can have phun playing this 
 game :
  1 - You have plenty of weapons
  2 - There are different ways of interrogation (cuz' this is available in The Punisher)
  3 - A 
 quite long story
  4 - Amazing graphics
  5 - Amazing sound
  6 - It's quite easy.
  The only problem (I noticed is that the enemies don't die whit ONE headshot)
  but if you want 
 to play THE BEST 1ST PERSON SHOOTER I recommend Max Payne 1&amp;2 :) I love this game cuz' I'm 
 a fan of The Punisher :P but I didn't finish it yec cuz' I was an O am busy with all Hitman games 
 and by da way... I recommend these games either :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petergeist
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Frank Castle a. k. a. The Punisher is hellbent on cleaning the streets up of the scum that roam them 
 after losing his entire family in a gang massacre. There's bloody interrogations, awesome gun play, 
 witty lines from Frank and loads more to keep you entertained. After picking up a weapon in a level 
 you alway's have access to it from your armoury and can choose which guns you start the missions 
 with. He can handle two guns at a time, and the cool thing is that the left mouse button fires 
 the left gun and the right mouse button controls the right hand gun. A handy feature that will 
 help you out a lot. Good Game. Good Graphics. Good Fun... It's easy to pick up this game and just 
 let off some steam by taking out the scum that roll the streets. There's one level you'll just 
 want to keep going back to and if you've played the game you'll know what I'm talking about (Funeral 
 Parlour) .
  
  I only got this game recently but it only cost me 4. My advice: if you see it buy it! And I'm 
 just sad I didn't get it sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  The game is very good, as it garantees fun for some hours. Nevertheless, it has some problems such 
 as enemies that does not die with one head shot, lacks melee combat and a better story. As i am 
 a big fan of the punisher, i enjoy being the punisher in the game, as well as i enjoy being 007. 
 For the majority of players it should be a 7.5 game and a recommend you to play max payne if you 
 want a real shooting game. To end, what is good in the punisher?
  01- plenty of weapons
  02- plenty of enemies
  03- chance of being the punisher in a good game
  04- chance of being 
 part of the marvel universe (iron man, jigsaw, kingpin, bullseye, matt murdock - not daredevil, 
 black widow and nick fury take part in the game)
  05- good improvents for shooting games, such as the possibility of interrogating and using enemies 
 as shields
  That's all !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  With The Punisher Movie just released what did they have to do? Make a game. Who did they call? 
 Volition and THQ. If you can remember Volition did a great job of making Red Faction. (and RF2, 
 Meh :/) Volition did a good job of portraying who the Punisher is. They set him as a reckless man 
 who lost his wife and kid would do anything to get revenge for their deaths. The Punisher then 
 continues to punish all the bad dudes in his city. With an array of weapons, around 20 or so, you 
 get to take on dumb A. I. scum. The tons of weapons if pretty cool and fits The Punisher's style 
 but the A. I. is pretty stupid because they will stand with no cover as you fill them with bullets. 
 After a while you don't even have to try, on one level I pretty much went the whole map without 
 get scratched.
  
  To try to make this better than you average shooter, Volition added some cool special kills that 
 could involve windows and furnaces. These give you extra points and are pretty fun to watch. The 
 team also added Special interregations such as buzzsawing a bad guy's face so he will fess up or 
 electricuting him until he talks.
  
  Overall the levels, guns, and special kill techniques are a nice touch and are amusing for a while 
 but after they you see what an average action shooter, The Punisher is. If you are a fan of The 
 Punisher series, check this out, if not it wouldn't hurt you to pass this game up.
  
  Pros+ Weapons, Weapons, and More Weapons, Sweet Kill Moves, Punisher fans will like this
  
 
  Cons- Special A. I. , nothing new in a shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  I got the game because what the hell it was 10 dollars and I wasnt expecting much from it. I remembered 
 not caring too much for the demo on my older computer but it wasnt too bad. This game was so much 
 fun i wish i had played it earlier. The game is basically a Max Payne type third person shooter 
 but I thought this was better than both the max payne games. Most of the game is over the top violence 
 and it does have alot of profanity in it. A unique part of this game is the interogations where 
 you grab an enemy and torture them by using a minigame that has u push the mouse in different directions 
 to get the information then you usually kill them. Like holding there head in a car door and continuously 
 bashing it, or dangling knives above there face, feeding them to pirahanas sharks, letting a rhino 
 impale them ect. Like max payne this game does have a special move you are allowed to do, and no 
 its not quite slow motion its slaughter mode, once you kill enough enemies you can use this to 
 regain health and get fast kills all around. The games story isnt the greatest but its definatley 
 entertaining and sometimes funny the way it takes itself seriously. Near the beginning of the game 
 through the first 6 levels or so it seems you are pretty much unstoppable, blowing away enemies 
 without much challenge but near the end there are some pretty difficult areas. One thing is that 
 I kept thinking i was on the last level even really early in the game but I had a long ways to 
 go. The graphics on the Pc version are good nothing great but the way the enemies crumple or brain 
 chunks fly out of there head when you shoot them never gets old. The voice acting is all very good 
 most of the time and the sound effects work for the game. If you can find this game for under 20 
 dollars I would definatley get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I mainly purchased this game because I liked the movie.
  What made the movie appealing to me was not only the good action scenes but also the likable main 
 figure, the hero, played buy Thomas Jane. Also the story was o. k and the plot was not dumb at all.
 
  Even more sophisticated for this gender.
  The game though, was rather disappointing. The main Figure was a Sam Fisher clone tomy eyes, although 
 I haven't seen the Comics
  maybe he looked this way in the original comics as well. An extremely
  unpleasent and dry person 
 which you couldn't make yourself like him
  at bit. Like most action games there is not much of a real story other than kill and go. The graphics 
 were also not really something, they just
  couldn't create a realistic and touchable atmosphere you want to see in a modern action game. As 
 others mentioned there were some certain
  novelty in squeezing info out of antagonist but is was not enough to keep
  you looking for more.
 
  I stopped playing the game somewhere, not because it was bad, it was
  bearable but I found something much more interesting.
  Nevertheless, I don't think that I go 
 back to it when I finished my now
  playing game. The Punisher is just not that catching
  Maybe in an desolate Island... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sj420
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  one of those games i forgot to play. i recently had a chance to play it for the first time, and 
 it's really not a bad game. better than a 6.5, no doubt. it's not very polished, but there is enough 
 to warrant a a run-through. the level of enjoyment is directly related to HOW you play the game.
 
  
  they want me to write one hundred words. they want me to write one hundred words. they want me 
 to write one hundred words. they want me to write one hundred words. they want me to write one 
 hundred words. they want me to write one hundred words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertpython
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher is an exceptional game which puts the third-person shooter to good use. The torture 
 scenes are well implemented and the quick kills spice up the variety. The violence is excellent 
 and will easily prove addictive. The game is a must have but is let down in some areas. The arsenal 
 of guns is full - ranging from sub-machine guns to sniper rifles, to the occasional melee weapon 
 required to complted a bonus task.
  
  The torture cutscenes are censored, filtered which ruins some of the impace, the sound could have 
 been tweaked, and the controls could have been set out in a better format, but otherwise, The Punisher 
 is a solid action game, well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Punisher is a good game with cool graphics with some cool background and sounds are ok. Story line 
 is little bit boring.
  
  As the movie punisher kills every one, and you can interrogate people in four different ways and 
 there are some special interrogation points in every stage. And there are some cool special kill 
 points too, those are good too.
  
  Its all about style points kill many as you can and as many different ways possible without getting 
 hit its your main target. I have played this once and finished it and now Im playing it again 
 to get gold medal in all stages Overall its good game but I say rent it first then see how it 
 goes with you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tube_90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  The Punisher. The Name says it all, a game of hardcore killing and shooting. The game is all about 
 killing avenging and killing some more. That's the whole idea. The graphics are nice, maybe a bit 
 like comic. Runs smooth on 512mb &amp; AMD Engineering sample xx (Sempron 3000+) . I like the game 
 because it's smooth and nice to play. It has some camera problems but nothing much. Controls are 
 easy the learn. I liked the game music, it's kind of movie music. The ambiance sounds are also 
 nice, with Frank's own sarcastic comments like -I'm a daddy *bang*-Not any more. , so the sounds 
 are nice. The shooting is nicely done but sometimes it just does something very wierd like just 
 doesen't want to shoot or something... The dying is gory and Frank saves nobody. The gamestory 
 is a bit clichee but is fine, atleast they've got one.
  Once you pass the game, the game'll just stay in some corner. Atleast I don't want to play it in 
 a while. The game gets very repeative in the end.
  
  Good game, too repeative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The punisher is just plain fun! really , the game is vey rich and somehow has turned just enjoyable. 
 First, what makes the punisher stands out of all existing action games, is the gameplay and the 
 endless ways you find to take out your enemies; in this game I was surprised that i could use many 
 ways to kill my enemies either by choking them or throwing them from high places or punching them 
 in the face, also there are plenty of useful tools to satisfy your killing desire and even you 
 could make use of the environment to take out your enemies in so many different ways, well .. it's 
 just endless and fun. The graphics, however aren't fascinating, yet they're cool and nice ( nothing 
 to complain about ) . The sounds are very good and the voice of the punisher is so real. another 
 good spot about The punisher is that it's quite long and it takes quite a while to meet its end 
 and that is awesome since the game is 100% fun and action. It might be that some people would think 
 that The punisher is a repetitive kind of boring game, but my answer to this is negative because 
 with a bunch of killing styles, and plenty of different Levels and so much action, one would never 
 feel bored or repeating the same thing over and over. One last comment ... I love this game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  While receiving mediocre reviews from GameSpot, I found The Punisher for PC to be very enjoyable. 
 Ive been a fan of the Punisher comics since the late 80s, and found The Punisher PC game to 
 stand out among the other Punisher games that have been made in the past.
  
  The storyline is enjoyable, and follows a natural progression, as if you were playing a comic book. 
 While at its heart it is a shooter, the ability to interrogate subjects, and perform quick-kills 
 adds some variety. Of course the Punisher has a sizeable armory of weapons, and the ability to 
 take firearms off of enemy dead ensures the Punisher wont be out of ammo for long if he runs out.
 
  
  Perhaps my favorite part of the game is the ability to upgrade both the Punisher as well as his 
 weapons with body armor, increased ammo capacity, silencers, etc. I have found a tremendous replay 
 value in this game, as levels can be replayed in order to improve ones performance, and earn more 
 points towards upgrades.
  
  I recommend this game to any fan of the Punisher comics or films; you should be able to find it 
 on clearance at your local gaming store. I picked up my copy for less than $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher is not really a bad game. Not a great game, but nearly above average. The game play 
 does lose its appeal after a while but the stunning comic-book graphics, the true-to-the-comic 
 storytelling, and sometimes-funny dialogue does make this game worthwhile. This game only works, 
 in my opinion, if youre a die-hard Punisher (or Marvel) fan. If not, then chances are, youll 
 be a bit disappointed. 
  
  The music is most memorable when youre fighting the Gnuccis, particularly the opera-like singing 
 in the background. Almost Godfather-like.
  
  Some of the dialogue is funny because the minions are so stupid. One such example (if I get this 
 right) is I got a five, six, seven, eight, and a nine. And theyre all hearts. Is that good? 
 Naw, man, thats the worst hand youll ever get. Man, I get the s**tiest luck. What a dumba**. 
 
  
  There are some cameo appearances from the Marvel Universe that keeps this game interesting. (I 
 dont know if this counts as a spoiler so Ill tell you that you have to play the game to find 
 out.)
  
  Some cool ways to kill an enemy are the Quick Kills and the Special Interrogation modes. Some of 
 the Quick Kills are awesome. For example, with the shotgun, you make your enemy pump the gun with 
 the nuzzle in front of him and you shoot to kill him. Another example is the Slaughter Mode, in 
 which you go berserk with you knives to slice and dice you enemies in anyway possible. Some of 
 the Special Interrogation scenes are pretty gruesome, especially when youre threatening your enemy 
 by putting him in the pool of piranhas. I must admit that Im a bit disappointed that you will 
 be penalized for killing your enemies during the interrogation scenes. I thought that was the whole 
 point of the Punisher. 
  
  I can go on and on about how this game works, but I must tell you if youre a Marvel fan, then 
 this is the game for you. It sure made a fan out of me.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galstyan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher is the non emotional, crime fighting, Marvel hero with the cool skull shirt. Well, 
 I am a big fan of The Punisher. I am a big fan of the comics, and the movie, BUT DEFINITELY NOT 
 THE GAME!! The game is nothing compared to the comics and the movie, and this is why... the gameplay 
 is pretty much boring and shallow. The mouse is way too sensitive, but the interrogation mode is 
 a little bit fun. The graphics are pretty much solid, and the sound is solid also, but that does 
 not change the fact that this game is not worth buying, but maybe renting for a small price. So, 
 just like Robocop, don't get the game, but get the movie instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alien_Devil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Story: The punisher has been arrested ad he is in questioning with with Police officerSoap. The 
 16 Missions is when you meet gangs like Guccis, Russians And The Yakuzas. 
  
  Gameplay / Controls: Just Classic, you know what you get. 
  
  Graphics: Nice and good, Many 
 details. Looks like True Crime : New York City. 
  
  Sound / Voices: Nice boom sounds ad nice voice actors, like the Russian's sod like Russian's and 
 the The yakuzas sounds like Japanese.
  
  Overall a good and a fun game, but one thing sucks, The Bosses They are bad, but lots of extra 
 material lots of crazy and fun action. Just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Earlier on I wrote a review for a game (The Bards Tale) , that I found in a shop for ten euros 
 I was saying how surprised I got to discover that it was a very fine game given the price. 
  Well I purchased this game at a retail price the same day in the same shop and still cant help 
 but to fill ripped off. 
  As most franchises this game was just cash in upon an upcoming adaptation from comic to movie of 
 the famous Marvels Punisher.
  At this price off course I wasnt expecting anything groundbreaking, but still a little bit of 
 a compelling storyline would have done me fine. 
  The gameplay is simple: go through a level from point A to B blasting anything that comes across. 
 The graphics are below average (though I read somewhere, in a PC magazine that the characters were 
 well designed! errrWhats wrong with my graphic card dude?) , the level design is messy, and the 
 story is as flat as a cat thats been lying dead on a tarmac for a month after being rolled over 
 by a bulldozer.
  I played 4 levels thinking that it was going to improve over time but gave up all hopes after a 
 short while.
  Even the game Dead To Rights that I found boring and repetitive had more gameplay value than this 
 cheap swindle of a franchise cash in. 
  The torture scenes that granted the game its over 18 rating which try to breath a little bit of 
 life in this long dead mummy of a game, are repetitive and not even amusing. 
  In other words, if its a quality all guns blazing action romp you are after get yourself a copy 
 of the great Max Payne (1 or 2) , and if you already have those games just try to beat your high 
 score at space invader which is in my opinion more compelling than this pile of dump. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  FIrst of all, I knew very little about the Punisher outside of his name. This game made we want 
 to purchase some of the comic books since I found the character to be quite interesting and it 
 gets boring with all of the superheroes just saving the day from the bad guys all of the time. 
 The game was balanced in between easy and difficult. In many cases, I had to think of the different 
 ways to progress through the game ( not just blasting everything in site) just to stay alive when 
 I was hurt and near death. The checkpoint system was challenging at times, but it kept the intensity 
 going and made it worth while to complete a level. I believe the reviewers were too harsh and it 
 is an underrated game. Definitely worth playing and worthy of a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 25, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Marvels hard-hitting, crime-busting comic character marks his entry into gaming with this good-looking 
 shooter from THQ and Volition. The Punisher is a highly visceral third person shooter that heavily 
 draws on concepts from Max Payne and its sequel, from its core shooting aspects to The Punishers 
 stylized model and overcoat. However, The Punisher introduces some subtle twists in the gameplay 
 and gory interrogation sequences that make it stand apart from Max Payne but still on its own it 
 is just good for a rental.
  
  In The Punisher, you play as Frank Castle whose family has been brutally murdered and who has become 
 The Punisher to avenge his familys death. At the beginning of the game you are sitting in Rykers 
 Island, a maximum security prison and being interrogated by two police officials about your vigilante 
 operations. The game begins as you start relating the events of the past three weeks, how you began 
 by raiding small time Gnucci drug operations and ended up being caught by the police. The story 
 is just what youd expect from a game of this kind, it is not overly complicated as in Half-Life 
 2 or doesnt take a complete backseat as in Painkiller or Serious Sam, the game gives you enough 
 information about the happenings around you via nicely rendered comic-book style cutscenes so you 
 can go about your business without any problem.
  
  The gameplay is similar to any other generic FPS; you have a variety of weapons and have to kill 
 everyone in sight almost all the time, with a few exceptions. However, there are some neat little 
 variations that keep the gameplay fresh and exciting atleast for one play through. First of all, 
 you cannot carry every weapon you see lying down, you are limited to carrying only one heavy weapon 
 like a rifle and one hand-weapon like a pistol or a SMG. At the beginning of the game you have 
 access to only smaller weapons like the pistol (which you can dual-wield) , the shotgun and a variety 
 of rifles. As you progress through the games levels you unlock stronger, more powerful weapons 
 like the sniper rifle, rocket launcher and even a flamethrower to kill your foes with. Though you 
 gain access to powerful weapons, the core shooting gameplay will leave something to be desired. 
 Each weapon doesnt have a different feel to it and the standard shooting gets repetitive as the 
 game progresses irrespective of the weapon you are carrying and you feel like you are just killing 
 tons of enemies and racking up points after points all the time.
  
  The interrogation sequences, on the other hand, are an entirely different matter and as a matter 
 of fact these sequences may be the reason why many people stick with the game till the end. Though 
 you are clearly shown as to who would give you useful information with a white skull on top of 
 their heads, the basic interrogation mechanic is spot-on and neither is it too complex nor too 
 easy. There are a variety of standard interrogation procedures like gun-threats, choking etc. and 
 other special interrogation places which are clearly marked by white skull splashes and you can 
 use only these areas and not any of your own. These dont offer much satisfaction because in way 
 of censoring the game, once you successfully interrogate your victim, if you choose to kill him 
 in one of these special interrogation areas, the screen turns black and white and the scene of 
 you eliminating your victim is not shown in its full glory. This is actually funny because in other 
 areas of the game you are seeing your enemies heads burst into bits on the impact of your sniper 
 bullet and definitely cutting out these sequences is not going to make a highly violent game seem 
 less violent.
  
  The other reason for interrogating a helpless victim will be to regain your lost health. The game 
 restores your health on each successful interrogation, however, the amount of health restored depends 
 on whether the information obtained was actually useful or not. You will never be forced to restore 
 your health in this manner because you are not going to lose it in the first place. This is because 
 your enemies AI is not the most advanced and is quite simply average at most times. They are smart 
 enough to duck behind tables and other obstacles and shoot from cover but at most times are easy 
 targets for you to take out. Their shooting is also quite erratic and most bullets will not seem 
 as if they hit you.
  
  Even the more powerful, fully armored enemies you meet later in the game will be easy to take out 
 because of the games quick kill feature. To use this feature you simply have to walk near an enemy 
 (even if he is firing at you) and with a simple keyboard stroke, you unlock an animation of you 
 killing your enemy. This and the fact that The Punisher can take unimaginable amounts of damage 
 before dying makes the game super easy, all you need to do is walk near an enemy and use your quick 
 kill feature. There are also some special kill areas in the game that are again clearly marked 
 by orange splashes in the environment (again you cannot use your own areas) similar to special 
 interrogation areas and can be used for disposing your foes in different ways, though these also 
 get quite stale as the game progresses.
  
  Another interesting gameplay aspect is that the Punisher can go into Slaughter Mode. This mode 
 essentially makes your movements a lot faster (though it didn't seem to slower the speed of my 
 enemies) and you can then basically run fast to each enemy and quick kill them. The Punisher can 
 remain in this mode only for a short period of time and you have to regenerate it by killing foes. 
 This isn't entirely a new concept though it is well executed and can be helpful in getting you 
 out of a tight spot. The save system also needs a mention here, there are absolutely no manual 
 saves in the game, the game saves your progress each time you complete a particular area in a level 
 and restarts you from the last completed area when you die. This made me quite frustrated at some 
 of the tougher levels because when you die just as you are about to complete a particular area, 
 the game restarts from the beginning of that area, which can be annoying to most people and certainly 
 the game doesnt feature areas which can be played through a lot of times.
  
  The points you rack up are also useful because you can use them to add extra bonuses either to 
 The Punisher or to his weapons like added armor or scopes, though I didnt feel as if these bonuses 
 had much in the way of impacting or improving my playing style. The game also grants you three 
 different medals depending on the score you achieve in each level and you also unlock a challenge 
 mode for each level when you complete it. The Challenge Mode sets a challenge for you in each level 
 and you get extra bonuses like added concept arts, comic covers etc. when you beat the games levels 
 in Challenge Mode. The harder difficulty modes dont offer any replay value as you are still mowing 
 down the same bunch of enemies, if a bit smarter, with the same bunch of weapons.
  
  Graphically, the game is quite good looking especially on a high-end system capable of running 
 it at higher resolutions. The game features comic-book style graphics that look part cel-shaded 
 similar to graphics seen in Ubisofts XIII but still look more colorful and vibrant. The games 
 character models are quite perfect especially for The Punisher whose face and flying overcoat looks 
 spot on. The facial animations also look good and the lip-synching is very well done. The environments 
 are also neatly rendered and most of them look really vivid and the textures on some of them look 
 great while, on the other hand, some of them look spotty and repetitive. But, the overall quality 
 of the games graphics is good and the system requirements are forgiving and even on lower end 
 systems, the game runs smoothly without any noticeable bugs.
  
  The games audio and sound is one of the highlights of the game. The weapon sounds are very good 
 and each weapon sounds distinct from the shotgun to the rifle to the bigger weapons later in the 
 game. The voice-overs are perfect especially for The Punisher with Thomas Jane reprising his role 
 from the movie. The background score is also very good with nice music and rich effects but it 
 seems to be too short and you hear the same score looping throughout the game even though it is 
 good to hear. Also, even though the characters lip-synch in the game the voice-overs and the lip 
 movements during the cutscenes dont synchronize properly and this again represents the games 
 low-quality production values. 
  
  The Punisher is a game that can be recommended to die-hard fans of the comic or to people who have 
 been waiting for a good action game based on one of Marvels superheroes or anyone looking for 
 an average third person shooter. The games lasting appeal is not that great as the first time 
 play through will take you anywhere between 12-15 hours depending on the difficulty level and the 
 game doesnt have much in the way replay value once you complete it the first time through. Overall, 
 this is a game that is more above-average than anything else and will not leave much of an impression 
 on you once you complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  After having purchased and played through this action-shooter, I was totally shocked at the very 
 low rating given to it by Gamespot. These are the reasons why I feel this game deserves a higher 
 rating...
  
  1) Smooth, clean graphics: Nothing flashy, but very smooth and detailed just enough to give it 
 a nice comic book feeling finish.
  
  2) Action sequences: The action in the game, while at times repetative (what action game doesn't?) 
 is varied enough to make it enjoyable throughout. 
  
  3) Environments: Both interior and exterior environs are very comic-remeniscent and add a nice 
 surreal feeling to the game that many in the comic-book genre lack.
  
  4) Attitude: By far the most admirable quality, this game seeps with attitude, from the interrogations 
 to the execution style "quick kills" to the ample supply of firepower, the game plays just like 
 you would expect a Punisher game to play.
  
  Overall, I am utterly surprised at the low score, but also realize that it is the fan base that 
 really judges a game, and in this case we have a reviewer who is way off from what the fans say 
 (6.5 vs. 8 is a major difference) . I would recommend this game to anyone who wants to kill loads 
 of badguys, and feel mean doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  STORY  Frank Castle was a U. S marine who lost his family in a gangland crossfire. Frank himself 
 was badly wounded but somehow he survived. Now hes back with a thirst for vengeance but this time 
 ITS NOT REVENGE, ITS PUNISHMENT. He goes under the name The Punisher bringing fear to everyone 
 & anyone whos made a pact with crime. He is ruthless & merciless in short hes on a killing spree.
 
  
  SOUND  The narration & voice actings are just brilliant. The game has a flashback system, which 
 means when frank encounters an enemy ,& while they beg for mercy they speak out something which 
 reminds him of his past & he finishes them off with a ruthless one liner. For e. g. Frank catches 
 hold of a thug, & the thug goes  leave me I have a family which echoes in franks head bringing 
 back memories & Frank says  everyone does & then BAMB.
  
  GRAPHICS  The games graphics are pretty decent nothing to spectacular bout them.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  The Punisher is a very violent & brutal game which is teamed up with abusive language. The Punisher 
 is unlike any other action game youve ever played. For starters theres this whole new interrogation 
 method which you can use on your enemies to get the information you need, from hanging them upside 
 down a building to ramming their face into a drilling machine, youll love them all, he, he, he. 
 You get a collection of weapons to choose from, but in a mission you can carry only 2, but that 
 wont bother you cause when ever youre tired off shooting your enemy you can try the Quick Kills 
 (one of the best features of the game) . Just imagine The Punisher walks up to a thug throws the 
 gun towards the thug, as soon as the thug catches it Frank sticks a knife through his head, & thats 
 a QUICK KILL. The game also features a slaughter mode where the screen goes Black & White & Frank 
 goes Berserk (amazing) .
  Apart from all these you can even use your environment to finish your enemies. But the game aint 
 perfect they game does have a few bugs & an ingame save issue.
  
  PROS  Amazing voice actings, Strong gameplay, Good story.
  
  CONS  A few bugs, no in game 
 saves, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game was overlooked atthe time of its release. its actually a great game to 
 play and a fun distrataction from the glur of FPS games out there. The storyline plays true to 
 the comic series, and as a fan, that is great. The gory nature of the game is coool in my opinion 
 and it adds to the feel and atmodphere of the game. The AI is a bit lacking but overall the gunfights 
 were great fun and everything you would expect from a Punisher fight. The interreogation is cool, 
 probably my faviourite feature. Its executed very well and it is just fun to do. Overall I thought 
 this was a great game well worth your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badshah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  A good  plain fun.......... You can play it just for fun
 
  i played to take a break from serious stuff like Prince of Persia & Splinter  
 You go on killing people........... to take revenge for some idiot has killed your 
 
  
  ????????????????????????
  The slaughter mode is   
 brandish a knife and go on killing people  
 game allround is good and might just grow on you.......... I hpoe there is a second version of this 
 fun game... The game is a Voltex production and they have come out with something really  
 you are looking for some serious gaming this is not the game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yojoe_1987
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Lacks in terms of gameplay. there ain't variety in villians and environment isn't as according 
 to original Punisher comics. Good weapons and better backstage production; No much power. log onto 
 yojoe_1987@yahoo. co. in 4 free goods Frank Castle, just another average guy with an average family. 
 One day, during
  a picnic, Frank and his family gets gunned down in a mob hit. Miraculously, he
  survived to see 
 as how the legal system has many imperfections, he realized
  that the only way to receive justice, is to insert punishment to those that
  deserve it. After 
 eliminating everyone that was involved in the murder of his
  family, he also came to a realiziation of how many more people are suffering
  because of so much 
 injustice and the scum that roam the streets. Soon, he
  adopted the role as the Punisher.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Frank Castle (The Punisher) family has been slaughtered by a mob and he's out for revenge. That's 
 where this game starts 
  
  The game has a cool storyline and is easy to follow. The cut scenes after passing each level just 
 add more depth to the story line. The Punishers dry sense of humor during the game adds to interest 
 of the game. You'll love the 'special interrogation' tactics and 'special kill' tactics. Passing 
 them up or killing who you were supposed to interrogate will make you just want to do the level 
 again just to try them. 
  Controlling The Punisher is very easy too. It has the standard movement of W, A, S, D, with additional 
 functions located near by so you're not stretching across the keyboard or looking down during the 
 heat of battle for that elusive 'B' key. I had to decrease the sensitivity from 5 to 3 and it made 
 it much easier to control. 
  The graphics are well done. I had no clipping issues and the game play was constantly smooth. The 
 cut scenes really utilized the graphics of the game. 
  The weaponry was outstanding. The game has a nice variety of weapons to choose from, but unlike 
 other games which let you have unlimited carry, you can only carry what's reasonable for a person. 
 The weapons have recoil and take time to be reloaded. During the main screen you're allowed to 
 upgrade your weapons as well as some other additions on The Punisher's main character. Slaughter 
 mode is somewhat of a take off from The Matrix's "bullet-time". It's a nice feature; however you're 
 limited to just knives and some 'quick kills' with them. Would have been nice to include the use 
 of weapons, but it's still a nice feature to have. 
  The game provides a good difficulty level. You can choose from Easy, Medium, or Hard. If you play 
 on easy, you'll find it difficult to die and it will more than likely not be enough of a challenge 
 for experienced game players. I would recommend sticking to medium or hard. 
  
  Overall, this is a great third person shooter. This is definitely one to run out and buy and brag 
 to your friends that you own it. Enough reviewing, time to get some 'slaughter' time in... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher is everything a great video game should be. The story is simple, but long and there 
 is a ton of killing along the way. You are able to kill and especially quick kill unbelievably. 
 They are sometimes so vicious that youll wince. There are areas in the game that indicate special 
 kills with twice the gore. In order to gain health, you have to torture an enemy in order to gain 
 health. You can choose from four different methods or you can use them as a shield to battle your 
 way through enemies. It is very untraditional, but innovative There is a definite resemblance to 
 Max Payne, but Max Payne is a great game too. Each level of The Punisher you are fighting different 
 enemies in different places with a boss at the end of each level. It is a great and traditional 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAHAPYHIPPO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  While not as impressive as Max Payne, The Punisher is a great alternative for Max Payne fans who 
 are looking for more. The interrogation scenes are impressive, and the overall game is fun. There's 
 lots of unlockables and a very relaxed style of play. When you're in the mood for a game that you 
 don't have be too intense about, this is the game for you. I picked it up for 10$ at Gamestop, 
 and it was well worth the money. The game does get a little repetative after awhile, but again, 
 it's 10$. The graphics are pretty good. I was blown away by the opening scene. Overall, the game 
 is action-packed and casual friendly, and I'd reccomend it to anybody interested in action games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Well its not that bad game as i said at the title but it would have ben the best game if it didnt 
 suffer the boring thing i mean you shoot 50 persons at the same place no mission hack this go there 
 jest go and shoot thats all it did have a nice text line but it wasnt enugh for the game play it 
 had good graphics with a nice way to show you some news papers that makes news about you like the 
 punisher went there and here and all that making enemies killing peaple alots of them actully investigating 
 and thats all in it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Well, play other 3rd person shooter instead. punisher have some unique game design but over all 
 it is not interesting to play. 
  
  It has a RPG level up system. Which you enhance your ability by killing and get even more stylish 
 point by interrogation.
  
  beside that bit boring.... Oh wait, should i kill the sucker... I spent 1~2 minutes to get stylish 
 points for doing interrogation for digging up infos (even most of infos are not very useful) . The 
 interrogation was fun in the beginning, but in the end I felt that such design reduce the excitement 
 of killing/shooting action because you have to stop killing once in a while to get some useless 
 info for up grading. In the end I wish I have done more killing than wasting my life talking to 
 foes. 
  
  The game offer you the option of replaying you played, however replay aren't really rewarding becasue 
 doing it won't offer you any stylish point. s for up grading. So you have to pray that you get enough 
 point in each new chapter for up grading.
  
  Another unique quality of Punisher is its quick kill mode as you can run to your foe (in his face) 
 then kills him effortlessly. In easily mode its very useful becasue you can just run to all the 
 enemy and killing them. However in hard more this mode is discourage for the amount of damge that 
 enemies have inflect on you before you even gets to them. 
  
  The weapon system is sort like Manhnt, which you can only pick up 2 weapons at a time. I not compaining 
 because realistic speaking it makes more sense in real combact. 
  
  However, I found the control system is not really smooth in terms of aiming. For example, you sometimes 
 find that aimming is not as fluent and sharp as the other 3rd person shooter. Even the emeny are 
 up close, ahooting their leg, feet or neck don't do any damage. This is a big flaw in the shooting. 
 Hence the game do not award the player for being a super sharp shooter. And I feel sorry to tell 
 you that that this game does not have head-shot system. 
  
  Well, about the Punisher, he hum.. hummm... he moves slow dude. He gain his advantage in the battle 
 by being a rough-old meat-truck by take more hits from emenies. Unlike Max payne, this games doesn't 
 nreally need a tactic to combact... basically... just run toward bad guy nd start pumping bullets. 
 
  
  After I playing 4 chapters i still have no idea on what the story is about. There is no climax 
 or a plot the whole game is base on. All the chapters seems rather randomly picked from the comic 
 instead connected one to another. 
  
  But I praise how the game runs very smooth in average computer. Even the graphic engine looks a 
 bit dated with blurry even at highest setting. the graphic and characters are quite poorly drawn 
 and the presentation fails to 
  fails to give the comic quality of the game. 
  
  And since the story isn't that goos, I can said by the time you finish the game, you cannot really 
 remembering any of the game characters since the game really short of introducing of the importance 
 of each main characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  most Marvel games have advanced over the years. The Punisher is one of my favorite comics for it's 
 realism (not real life but no phony superpower crap) . as a Punisher fan, i'm not disappointed by 
 this game. the gameplay: if u use stealth wisely, then u get an awesome and gory interrogation sequence. 
 u always want to get a special interrogation sequence for extra gore. and the shooting duels are 
 great too. pick up two shotguns and blow the enemies away. now the graphics aren't bad but they 
 could've been better. still the blood always needs a good flow so the graphics will show off some 
 potential. some sounds got annoying but otherwise it would've been nice. i don't like a $50 value 
 but now that's been lowered. overall, this isn't revelutionary like Max Payne but it will satisfy 
 all Punisher fans. its a shame though it could've been better. anyway review tilt gets an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdadi2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Entertaining game, story line just enough to keep you interested, gameplay familiar from his big 
 brother Max Payne all seemed like was a good choice to get this game. And I must say it was a fairly 
 good choice I did get it.
  The game story line is not like in the movie with same title it is more elaborate one. It has some 
 parts when it reminds you of that movie, like when you fight with that huge russian in your apartment. 
 This scene brings me to another thing like: how you can harm that guy :) It took me some time to 
 figure that out and I think that made it more enjoing for me.
  It is a a good game till the end... almost. I think they really messed up the end. Mabe they run 
 out of good ideas or time, perhaps they realize that they need a sequel but the only thing they 
 did was me to think I was shooting bad guys for nothing in the past hours of playing cause I really 
 I'm right there, same position from the beginning of the game, but with one big problem - this 
 was the end of the game.
  Mabe next time they think about making a sequel at the beginning of making a game not after they 
 finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher's family was wasted by the mob, and he's out for revenge. Unless you're already a 
 fan of the character, that's all you really have to go on at the outset of the game. The story 
 is told via a series of flashbacks. It seems that Frank Castle's finally been caught at the end 
 of a three-week spree of crime fighting, though the NYPD sees his vigilante tactics in a slightly 
 different light. The game opens with The Punisher being interrogated by the authorities in a little 
 room on Ryker's Island (not to be confused with Rikers Island, the real-life prison) . They talk 
 him through the last three weeks, fading out to gameplay at certain points. You start out merely 
 taking on the mob, which happens to be running a crack house and a chop shop in your neighborhood. 
 Eventually, murdering your way up the mob's chain of command leads you to a much bigger terrorist 
 plot. Players will find somewhere between 10 and 15 hours of action here the first time through, 
 with the variance in time largely decided by your skill at getting headshots. The game gives you 
 medals based on your performance, and you can choose to reenter levels with specific challenges 
 to complete, though these additions don't really provide enough reason to go back to the game after 
 completing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlb1987
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  The Punisher, first appearing in Spiderman comics years ago as a sort of semi-rival of ol' Spidey 
 himself, is a strange character, not least because, sort of like DC Comic's batman, he has no actual 
 super-powers. However, there are vast differences between the Punisher and Batman- The Punisher 
 isn't camp, doesn't need no skinny boy in tights to watch his back, and uses 'proper weapons' as 
 opposed to a piece of rodent shaped metal on the end of some rope, etc etc.
  
  So, as you can imagine, this could easily be dismissed as just another Max Payne clone, and indeed, 
 by certain critics, just that has happened. They have failed to see the point, though- coming from 
 a massive fan of the comics, this game does, more or less, capture the spirit and the excitement 
 of the series rather well. There are vast similarites to Max Payne, but most of these are the inavoidables- 
 for example, the control system is the same, much in the manor of a FPS. It is also rather linear. 
 However, as it is most famous for, the torture scenes really makes this, in my opnion, slightly 
 better than Max Payne.
  
  To do this, first you must catch your pray- this is done simply by pressing the assigned button 
 when you are near an enemy. From here, many options occur. You can walk around, using Mr. Scumbag 
 as a human sheild while his, no doubt drug addicted, friends shoot at you and, thus blast holes 
 through your victim. you can simply quick kill your victim, again by the simply press of a button. 
 Sometimes, throughout levels, there are golden markers on the floor, and, if you use quick kill 
 here, a special kill happens. Think of the 'finish him' fatalities in the Mortal Comat series. 
 This is them, Frank Castle style. Finally, most satisfyingly, you can torture the captive fiend. 
 There are four options, but the best part is that you may interact with the invironment at certain 
 points, much like the quick-kills. For instance, in an early level, you can repeatadly shut a window 
 on the disgusting criminal scum to get information out of him. Very, very satisfying. While Max 
 Payne was 'shoot, shoot, bullet-time, shoot', this gives you moral choices as well, sort of.
  
  However, bad points, as with most things in life, are a certainty in this game. The first is 
 probably just me, but in this game, you get points. This is good, don't get me wrong, you can't 
 go wrong with high scores in a game, even if it is somewhat a novelty these days. However, you 
 LOSE points for killing enemies, if you do it via the torture scene. Now, this may just be me, 
 but how is it BAD to kill an enemy via a window shutting very fast, decapitating him (not less 
 than what scum deserve, of course) , but good to uppercut them thorugh a window, sending them through 
 glass and falling three stories? Missions end if you kill an innocent, too. Now, why don't they 
 just take points off for killing innocents, and give you points for torture murders?
  
  Also, the graphics and interactivity perhaps could be sharper and stronger. While the surroundings 
 are good, it's not as interactive as Max Payne. Shoot a TV, for example, and the screen just, sort 
 of, absorbs the bullets. In general, the graphics are good, much better than Max Payne, but some 
 of the textures are bland, and the vehicles, while not a big part of the game, are terrible. Also, 
 the whole backstory could have been explained. If you read the comics, you'll find that Frank Castles 
 story, while more cartoon-y than Mr. Paynes, is even more tragic. So, to get the most of this game, 
 you should read the comic books. I shall recommend "The Punisher Vol.1", and "The Punisher MAX 
 Vol.1". Especially the former, as that is the series the game is based on, but the latter is just 
 as tragic. Also, more actual story could have been told. Remember the film Leon, where Jean Reno's 
 character, the eponymous Leon, lives in that tiny apartment and, until a certain point, he leads 
 a very dark, hidden, lonely life? If this element was added into the game, as it was in "The Punisher 
 Vol. 1", the score from me, at least, would have gone up.
  
  My final problem, as I said before, is the AI. They really do act like their high on something. 
 It's not as bad as some games, and doesn't matter all that much, as this is a straight foward action 
 game, but still... if you saw your friend being held hostage in front of a seven foot giant in 
 a trench coat, would you just shot away? Well, maybe if you're high...
  
  A short Foreword: This game, coming from the view of a near-obssesive fan, is essential, especially 
 for 2.99 which is what I got it for. However, if you want a more emotional story with your revenge 
 driven game, Max Payne is, probably, the way to go. But to dismiss this as a clone would be short-sighted, 
 and a plain lie. In fact, if you said this out loud, you'd deserve to have your face forced into 
 a tank of Pirana. Ypu have been warned... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GatorTheGeek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but not great, is has some flaws but if yuo willing to get over them it might 
 be worth your time. i would say the gameplay is great, its very fun not hard to get use to and he 
 got some prety cool moves. i would say for graphics they are deceant but they could have been alot 
 better. i would say sound is great its nice to have alot of weapons and to hear them all with there 
 own distinc sounds is cool. i would say value is good it most sertanly is not a 40 or 50 dollar 
 game, but if you like 3rd person shooters youshould at leats give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  The Punisher really puzzles me. It appears to be original around every corner, yet fails to delivers 
 after all is said and done. It's like someone's been talking in your ears for ages, then you ask 
 him: "Are you talking to me?"
  
  The punisher's gameplay has only one remarkable feature. Well, apart from the fact that the punisher 
 himself can take a legion of bullets and still live on, he is able to perform gorish executions 
 to hisenemies as well. The main gameplay is pretty much a cheap imitation of the excellent Max 
 Payne. Nothing else really matters.
  
  Graphically, the game overall seems dated, especially the environments. Character models look good 
 though, but not that good.
  
  The sound is really weak. Apart from the crappy voice overs (the only good ones are those taken 
 directly from the comic series) , the sound effects really don't add up.
  
  Overall, if you can't wait to see the violent interrogations offered by the game, then rent this 
 game. Otherwise, only a desperate die-hard would buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illwillpress88
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  For some reason the Punisher, or what you internet 733T speak people say, "PWNISHR", game came 
 out way after the movie, and because it is a movie game you know it will suck. 
  
  You play Frank Castle (punisher) who goes around killing and torturing anything that moves. 
 
  
  Graphics: Dated and bad. The graphics aren't anything to be excited about. It is just as bland 
 as you can think. Nothing looks impressive.
  
  Sound: Also, not very good. The guns sound normal. There are a few voice overs and that's it.
 
  
  Gameplay: Again, not very good. The shooting through dumb AI droons gets boring fast. You have 
 many ways to kill your enemy. They have quick-kill, which is suprisingly good. Interrogation, where 
 you either punch, kick, shoot, facepound, scrare, drill hole in head, stab, choke, , blow-up... 
 and the list goes on. Even the highlight of the game -- 'Punishing' them -- is still done mediocrelly.
 
  
  This is one of those games where you find it in a bargain bin for .25 cents. But never pay more 
 than like 5-10$ on this game or just avoid it.
  
  PROS:
  
  +some fun to be had
  
  +punishing I guess can be fun
  
  CONS:
  
  -crappy graphics, sound, gameplay.
  
  -it 
 is a movie game so that alone should make you avoid it. 
  
  SCORE:
  
  4.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattius1989
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is based, funnily enough, on the comic book: The Punisher. You are The Punisher, Frank 
 Castle. The story of the game is rather irrelevant to the enjoyment of the whole game but it is 
 basically the Punisher going around and "punishing" evil doers. Which is the funnest part of the 
 game. Instead of like in basic third person shooters, where you shoot hordes of enemies through 
 out a level and just do little objectives here and there, you can now have a bit more fun with 
 your enemies. You can do a bit of a Manhunt on them and execute them. You run up either side of 
 them and press the quick kill button and Frank will perform his quick execution. This unfortunatley 
 carries with it, a downside. The downside is that as you execute people from the beggining of the 
 game, it tends to get boring as there is not much of a variation on the types of execution. There 
 is a set of executions for Primary weapons and a set of executions for Secondary weapons. I personally 
 feel that there should have been more executuions for all the different weapons as it would have 
 made the game a lot more addictive than it already is. The graphics are sharp and carry a small 
 amount of rough edging, the sound... a little wooden and the games control on the PC are easy enough. 
 Although you can execute your enemies in this game you still have a large arsenal of weaponry to 
 collect during missions and a an armory to configure before each mission. Which is a bit like the 
 Hitman weapon system in a way. During firefights you can do Max Payne style jumps to the left, 
 right, back and forth. There is a sub-personality your character can adopt when his little blue 
 bar fills up, this is called Slaughter Mode. In this mode your screen becomes a cool negative style 
 black and white and your Punisher takes up two large blades and sprints along dishing out pain 
 via throws and stabs. This is a useful mode for fighting hordes as it allows you to move very quickly 
 and it also regenerates your health.
  The earlier levels in the game are a lot funner because they allow you to play with your enemies 
 more without the high priority worry of dying, as your enemies in the earlier stages are merely 
 cannon fodder. Another nice little extra to the game is interrogation mode, this allows you to 
 harshly go to work and threaten on a foe in order to get them to divulge information of the story 
 to you. This can be fun but there are a very small amount of ways of doing it unless you interrogate 
 with the help of your enviroment (i. e. put them face to face with a circular saw) . Interrogating 
 is not necessary if you choose not to.
  There is a reward system in the game, the better you do in a level, the more points you get for 
 upgrading your character and extras are unlocked to you.
  There are a few special zones you can use to perform special executions with the aid of your surrondings 
 which add a little bit of extra interest to the game.
  This game is very ambitious and loaded with cool new ideas that many other games wouldn't do wrong 
 to adopt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  You play as Frank Castle, AKA The Punisher. You are in Ryker's prision where you are being questioned 
 about a one man killing spree against the Gnucci family. This takes you back to a couple of days 
 earlier in the story and you work your way back to getting put in prision. The story is quite well 
 done and full of plot twists and turns. You start trying to get drugs off the street and soon end 
 up in a full on drug war between the Yakuza and the Gnucci's. Also, many a Marvel character make 
 cameos in the game which are a true treat for the avid Marvel fan. I won't spoil who they are, 
 but they were totally out of the blue and really cool. More Marvel games need to take this approach. 
 Also the AI wasn't brilliant, but at times it would flank and duck for cover. It was pretty good, 
 but sometimes would dumb itself up.
  
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty simple. You start with a basic arsenal and as you progress through 
 the missions, you get points that allow you to buy things like better armor, quicker reloading 
 and the like. Also you earn more weapons as you complete missions. The weapons are diverse and 
 come from real world derivatives and are a lot of fun to use. But the stars of the show are the 
 story and the interrogation. As we have covered the story, we will go over the interrogation. This 
 mode allows you to threaten the suspect to the point of him spilling info. Normal modes include 
 punching, choking and face smashing. At some points you will have critical characters that can 
 be interrogated via special interrogation spots. These spots are quite ingenius and include a pirahna 
 tank, jet engine and deep fryer among other items. Don't do enough and the guy will never give 
 you the info, but go overboard, and the perp will die. It is a great feature and hopefully is used 
 more in other games.
  
  
  The graphics are amazing. The Punisher model is great and comes straight off the pages of the Punisher 
 magazine. The Punisher had a lot of detail and sports a fully flowing coat. Other character models 
 looked good and the environment was fully interactive. Also, the game uses ragdoll physics using 
 the Havok physics system. All in all, the graphics were quite good and you will want a decent card 
 to get the full push out of the game.
  
  
  Sound is another great item. The voice of the Punisher is voiced by Thomas Jane, the movie version 
 of the Punisher. His performance was solid and in my opinion, a lot better than his movie job! 
 The weapons are also very well done and sound full and rich. Ambient sounds come up occasionally 
 along with ambient music, but I could of done without the music.
  
  
  Overall, the game is really good. I know it got bad press and it uses a checkpoint save system 
 which was a knock in my eyes, but it is a good game that did not deserve the bad press that the 
 game got. Get this game for $20 now at EB Games or Gamespot and you will have a total blast. It 
 is a bit easy and the AI can be dumb at times, but overall the game shines and is a gotta get it 
 title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 22, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of garbage out there when it comes to movie and comic book license games. Thats 
 why its easy to overlook The Punisher, a game that isnt only good for a comic book game, but 
 still pretty decent by any other standard. The gameplay gets repetitive and the graphics arent 
 very good, but The Punisher ultimately pleases because its surprisingly good in a few areas. If 
 youre looking for a cheap way to expand your collection of action games on the PC, then this one 
 makes a fine addition to it.
  
  Gameplay in The Punisher essentially consists of three elements: shootouts, interrogations, and 
 boss battles. The shootouts have been compared to Max Payne, but I think that Dead to Rights is 
 a better comparison. You will enter a room with five enemies, and you will run around blowing them 
 away while dodging bullets or perhaps using a hostage as a shield. If you get close enough to a 
 guy, you can do a brutal, quick kill move that is a lot of fun to watch. Enemy aim is pretty poor 
 and even when enemy bullets do connect, you can take dozens of them without dying (which is why 
 this game is so easy) . You can carry one pistol-sized weapon and one rifle-sized weapon. Ammunition 
 is abundant, and theres no reason to do any backtracking. The pacing of this game is pretty nice. 
 You move forward, shoot, and then move forward again.
  
  Even though the game lacks variety in its level design and enemies, the shootouts are still quite 
 fun. The enemy AI is surprisingly robust. This game seems to rely more on AI than on scripting. 
 Enemies will run from grenades, and they will also take cover. Where they take cover depends upon 
 where you are in the room. This leads to some nice tactical shootouts. Enemies also cannot wallhack 
 like they can in about 99% of the first person shooters out there. This gives you the ability to 
 surprise enemies from behind in firefights. The game also has decent physics, which is another 
 bonus, considering its console origins. The weapons arent that great though, especially their 
 mundane sounds, and the aiming on the PC feels klunky.
  
  Interrogations are fun, albeit repetitive, as well. This is especially true of the games environmental 
 interrogations. In some rooms, there will be an object that you can use to threaten an enemy for 
 information. These interrogations have an extremely violent yet strangely humourous quality to 
 them, kind of like the movie Sin City. The interrogation is essentially a minigame that requires 
 you to keep the enemys stress level high enough to break him without killing him. When you successfully 
 interrogate a guy, you get some health and some points with which to buy upgrades. Boss battles 
 arent terribly creative, but they are fun nonetheless. One of them, in particular, requires you 
 to use objects in the environment to brutally beat the boss into submission, sort of like an interrogation 
 mini-game. 
  
  The Punisher has a nice musical score and some good voice acting that also make for a pleasant 
 surprise. The main character has a deep cynical voice and a style that pays homage to the flim 
 noir comic book style. It does this without the ridiculous, over-the-top stupidity of the dialog 
 in the Max Payne series, and thus, it does it better. 
  
  This game is above average in its length, although it could stand to be shorter, because its pretty 
 repetitive. The Punisher provides little variety in its levels or enemies, and that makes it a 
 bit boring after a while. You repeat the same routine over and over again. Enter room. Blast away 
 enemies. Maybe interrogate a guy to regain some health. Then move onto the next room and repeat. 
 The complete lack of challenge in the game doesn't help matters any. The story is pretty weak and 
 like most action games, it just gives you an excuse to shoot whatever is in front of you. The Punisher 
 is not a great game on its own merits, but it is an enjoyable game that goes a good job of paying 
 homage to its source material. If youre a fan of the comic books, or if youre just looking for 
 a violent, pick-up-and-play action game with low system requirements, then you should check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  This is not how comic book games are suppose to be on the computer. They are suppose to be horrible. 
 They are suppose to be like Catwoman or Wolverine's Revenge. But somehow, THQ has managed to make 
 a surprisingly solid Punisher game that is fun while spinning a great story.
  
  You play as Frank Castle, AKA The Punisher. You are in Ryker's prision where you are being questioned 
 about a one man killing spree against the Gnucci family. This takes you back to a couple of days 
 earlier in the story and you work your way back to getting put in prision. The story is quite well 
 done and full of plot twists and turns. You start trying to get drugs off the street and soon end 
 up in a full on drug war between the Yakuza and the Gnucci's. Also, many a Marvel character make 
 cameos in the game which are a true treat for the avid Marvel fan. I won't spoil who they are, 
 but they were totally out of the blue and really cool. More Marvel games need to take this approach. 
 Also the AI wasn't brilliant, but at times it would flank and duck for cover. It was pretty good, 
 but sometimes would dumb itself up.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty simple. You start with a basic arsenal and as you progress through 
 the missions, you get points that allow you to buy things like better armor, quicker reloading 
 and the like. Also you earn more weapons as you complete missions. The weapons are diverse and 
 come from real world derivatives and are a lot of fun to use. But the stars of the show are the 
 story and the interrogation. As we have covered the story, we will go over the interrogation. This 
 mode allows you to threaten the suspect to the point of him spilling info. Normal modes include 
 punching, choking and face smashing. At some points you will have critical characters that can 
 be interrogated via special interrogation spots. These spots are quite ingenius and include a pirahna 
 tank, jet engine and deep fryer among other items. Don't do enough and the guy will never give 
 you the info, but go overboard, and the perp will die. It is a great feature and hopefully is used 
 more in other games.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The Punisher model is great and comes straight off the pages of the Punisher 
 magazine. The Punisher had a lot of detail and sports a fully flowing coat. Other character models 
 looked good and the environment was fully interactive. Also, the game uses ragdoll physics using 
 the Havok physics system. All in all, the graphics were quite good and you will want a decent card 
 to get the full push out of the game.
  
  Sound is another great item. The voice of the Punisher is voiced by Thomas Jane, the movie version 
 of the Punisher. His performance was solid and in my opinion, a lot better than his movie job! 
 The weapons are also very well done and sound full and rich. Ambient sounds come up occasionally 
 along with ambient music, but I could of done without the music.
  
  Overall, the game is really good. I know it got bad press and it uses a checkpoint save system 
 which was a knock in my eyes, but it is a good game that did not deserve the bad press that the 
 game got. Get this game for $20 now at EB Games or Gamespot and you will have a total blast. It 
 is a bit easy and the AI can be dumb at times, but overall the game shines and is a gotta get it 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinder_maker
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the film, let me tell you the action the actors. I love the Marvel Films, from 
 the second I played the demo for the Punisher I knew I'd love this game. The brutal violence was 
 underated. I think this game itself is underated, if you want to have a little fun try the demo 
 at least, or rent it for a console, the Kill moves ae a blast! Have Fun!
  
  The only thing that is slightly dissapointing are the graphics and the sound. Have in mind the 
 voice acting for the punisher is quirky, funny, and overall excellent. Though the sound for the 
 criminals isnt as good, but the screaming when they die is top notch. The graphics however do dissapoint 
 but the over all fun of the game makes up what that lacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Eskimo
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 3, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  So... The question everybody should ask is:
  Punisher... Worth the money? ... Weeeeeell... Let's see now.
  
  The punisher stars a man that 
 has lost his family, and is on his revenge trip like any other action game and movie. Or not, cause 
 this guy call it punishment (Pretty much the same, yes) . The game is based on the classic comic, 
 (You guessed it) "The punisher". ANd plays pretty much like the comic.
  
  The game features horrible deaths of your enemies, lots of shooting and some realy horrible deaths... 
 (Did I mention that?) For anybody playd the max payne games, you will be formilar with almost everything. 
 You control the character the same way, you look pretty much the same, the levels are pretty much 
 the same and so on. But the cool bullet time is switches with the possibility to grab people, make 
 them your hostage or tourture (and kill) them. And the famous "slaughter mode" witch works pretty 
 good, all in all. In slaughter mode you can run around, beeing shot, without taking damage, and 
 kill people ever more brutal than normal. 
  
  And that is pretty much the features. You will get rewarded for killing people by hand and not 
 shoting them. The only thing is that when tourturing your hostage (or interogate him... whatever 
 does it for you) you will get minus points for slaying them by "mistake". And that's a bummer, 
 since that's kinda the coolest way to kill them. The sounds of your victims heads cracking up and 
 the bullets penetrating them is good, and helps up the "horrible" and brutal style of the game.
 
  
  Anyways. The story is all what a action game need (and more here and there) and the gameplay is 
 entertaining. That was the pros.
  The minus of the game is that it has no later value, it's too short, the graphics should been way 
 better and of course... It has no charisma at all. 
  
  RENT THIS GAME BEFORE BUYING.
  
  -Mike- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  The Punishment has begun, and fortunately enough, players will not be punished by a bad game. When 
 I first heard about this new Punisher at E3 04, I was very skeptical. A lot of comic book to video 
 game adaptations have been very bad. I saw videos of The Punisher getting info out of his victims 
 very violently, although it looked sweet, I was still very skeptical. Well I have played the game, 
 and it ROCKS! You will play obviously as the Punisher, a vigilante hell bent on punishing any drug 
 dealers, weapon dealers, killers, rapists ect, ect. If you don't know the story, His family was 
 killed buy the mob, and so was he in a sense. The mob thought they killed him, but he survived, 
 just a little angry. To put it simply, you have no remorse... so you are in for a very violent 
 ride. 
  
  The game starts out with the Punisher being caught by the police just fresh from his recent hit. 
 As the detectives question him, he will tell his story. The story is what you will be playing. 
 So when they ask him about the Crack house he raided, you will then play the crack house. The game 
 plays a lot like Max Payne did, the only real difference is there is no bullet time. But where 
 there is loss, there is gain. You will have "quick kills" where Punisher will do a few different 
 violent deathblows, like stabbing an enemy in the gut, then stabbing him in the back with another 
 knife. There is also interrogation. This is the fun part of Punisher, and really sets it from other 
 games. You can run up to any enemy and grab him and do a special interrogation, such as gun tension, 
 choke, slam their face into the ground, or beat them senseless. Those you can do anytime, but throughout 
 the level you will see white skulls, those are the "special interrogations." The levels are riddled 
 with these. Like for instance in one level you can take a poor victim to a wood chipper, and grind 
 him up, afterwards you get a comical little line from the Punisher "He makes great mulch!" This 
 is another great little thing in the game that makes it fun and gives life to the Punisher, any 
 time he talks to an enemy or you get done with an interrogation, he will give some great one liners. 
 Surprisingly enough, they are not way too cheesy or take a note from Duke Nukem. 
  
  The graphics are very well done. The models looks very well done, and are not way too cookie cutter. 
 You will find yourself up against a lot of different faces. It may not be as diverse as Chronicles 
 of Riddick, but it works. The Punisher himself is very polished and does look like he came from 
 the comic book. When you are in a gun fight you see bullet holes in you enemies as they happen, 
 and sometimes lose a limb when using weapons like the had cannon. When you finally get the flame 
 thrower, you will get to burn your enemies. When you do that, you actually see your enemies start 
 to "char" as they burn. Definitely something you don't see too often in games yet. The only real 
 problem with the graphics are when you do a very violent interrogation. As soon as it happens, 
 the screen turns black and white, and very blurry. But that is the only thing the game seems to 
 suffer from.
  
  The sound is just as good as the graphics are. All of the weapons you come across sound great, 
 and explosions will rattle you. One thing that was great was the Punisher was voiced by Thomas 
 Jane, the very same guy that played the Punisher last year. And he does a great job. The enemies 
 will randomly spout out lines, and about 10% contain no swearing! The victims are not happy with 
 the Punisher, and will mouth off about it, but even though it's riddled with language, it still 
 sets the atmosphere and mood.
  
  The last thing that seems to be lacking in this game is the AI. When you are fighting your run 
 of the mill grunts, there is no problem. They will rush you, hide, grab a weapon and so on. But 
 where the AI has a problem is with the game's bosses. On the first 3 or 4 bosses, they would run 
 around for a minute, lose sight of me and stand still... long enough for me to turn them into swiss 
 cheese and finish them. It's just a little annoying when a boss that can only take head shots stands 
 still... kinda takes the fun out of things.
  
  The bottom line... This is a must play for any die hard action fan! The Punisher does resemble 
 Max Payne quite a bit, so if you liked Max Payne, this is up your alley. Of course, if you are 
 skeptical, go and rent the game. But if you are a fan of the Punisher, go and play this NOW! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasika
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  "The Punisher" is a violent game. Thousands of bullets are spent, many through a skull at close 
 range. Knives are jammed into sternums and pulled up for maximum damage. Heads are cut off. Grown 
 men beg for their lives with a drill press bearing down on their right eyes. And if you don't know 
 what a "curb job" is, "The Punisher" will make sure you do before the final credits roll.
  
  In the past, extreme violence too often has been a shell game, as producers hope a little over-the-top 
 bloodshed will distract from shallow play or poorly executed game mechanics.
  
  But not "The Punisher." While deftly dodging bullets in a frantic shootout, you get the impression 
 that THQ's prime development team, Volition, spent as much time assembling thrilling play sequences 
 as it did devising the horrific torture/interrogation scenes that punctuate the game. And, reflecting 
 the current political environment, Volition actually censors some of the violence it is creating, 
 which raises interesting questions for the industry.
  
  "The Punisher" is based on one of Marvel's darker "heroes." Frank Castle (a. k. a. The Punisher) 
 is a murderer who can no longer use vengeance as an excuse. His family was gunned down in a mob 
 hit, but he's long since excised his pound of flesh. He'd now need a dump truck to carry around 
 his retribution. His saving grace is that he only kills criminals -- carjackers, pimps, gangsters 
 and drug dealers.
  
  Castle's targets are in large supply in "The Punisher." Each of the game's 16 missions is buzzing 
 with the criminal element, but like Rockstar's "Grand Theft Auto," Volition introduces an element 
 of consequence to Castle's actions. Most base-level criminals aren't worth saving, and the game 
 almost implores you to gut them without a second thought. But there are certain thugs who not only 
 possess information that may help Castle, but also could, if persuaded, help him.
  
  These special criminals are often noted with a small skull icon over their heads. Get in close 
 and grab the crook to put him in a hold, then interrogate him by applying pressure to his neck 
 or punching him until he sings.
  
  But not all interrogations are created equal in "The Punisher." If you drag one of these roughs 
 to a glowing spot -- usually near a piece of machinery or a ledge -- you can exercise an extreme 
 Q&A session. These scenes often result in pretty intense violence, such as pulling a lowlife apart 
 with a crane or goring him with a rhino.
  
  Where justice ends, Punishment begins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 10, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  
  Before I analyze the various concepts of the game I would like to state that the game seemed like 
 Max Payne, but graphically back a couple years.
  
  The game delivers some good shooting battles but in the end fails to deliver an all around package 
 of fun. The game has varying modes to play and at times can get quite tiresome. The Punisher, similar 
 to Max Payne, has a slow motion function where the main character becomes berserk in a knife 
 ballistic rage. Although this may sound quite appealing, it is basically worthless in the game. 
 I found myself using this function only to heal some of my health instead of killing various enemies. 
 There are varying locals which The Punisher attends. The Punisher will storm the docks, drug houses, 
 restaurants, uninhabited islands, meat packaging plants and many more. The Punisher does maintain 
 a good arsenal of weapons with adequate sound correlation to their real life counter-parts. There 
 are also additions like body armor, better shooting accuracy, more rounds in your magazine, which 
 can be won by obtaining points by killing enemies and performing special tasks in the game. The 
 enemies at times seem disorganized and are not too intelligent (even at higher difficulties) . However, 
 when they drop their weapons they will look for and pick up different ones to fire back at you. 
 One innovative portion of the game is the interrogation sequences. Interrogations may get quite 
 gruesome, especially the special interrogation sessions. However this also gets quite tiresome 
 because you dont really need the information that the criminals will tell you. Some of the info 
 is useful for obtaining weapons and ammo, but aside from that their pointless (and tiresome when 
 moving the mouse constantly) .
  
  The game-play is not too difficult to manage and basically anyone can hand out punishment. The 
 controls are pretty straight forward with some difficulty controlling the mouse in the pinpoint 
 accuracy mode. As all first person shooters, you aim with your crosshair and you shoot at impeding 
 enemies. 
  
  The graphics are basically average to date. After witnessing games like Doom 3 and Far Cry in action, 
 The Punishers graphics are quite obsolete. I found that the greatest amount of detail was present 
 in the Punisher himself. He was quite similar to his movie counter-part. The Punisher is a great 
 game for performance reasons but quality is another story. 
  
  The sound in the game is ok at best. There are voice overs when conversation occurs and the weapon 
 fire is quite realistic. Footsteps can also be heard. The sounds are the same throughout the game; 
 for example, gun fights, repetition in quotes and small mouth to voice draw backs in the cut-scenes. 
 
  
  The game overall is average, with great fun until you realize that the only thing changing is the 
 local and your doing the same thing everywhere you go. The story has some interesting aspects but 
 in the end, all you are doing is shooting baddies (which isnt too bad if you like first person 
 shooters) . If you have seen the movie, or generally like Marvel Comics, you can rent or check this 
 game out, but do not buy it. Save your money for Max Payne 3 if you choose to shoot drug baddies 
 who have wronged your family!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cikame
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have no idea who The Punisher is, this game puts you in the feet of a beefcake 
 who's out for revenge, with two very large combat knifes.
  
  I'll make this short and just say why i gave it the ranks i did.
  
  Gameplay - The controls 
 are very simple but you may need to check the control menu 1-4 times if ever you forget something, 
 if you're looking for some special 'feature' in a game you won't be blown away by this but if you're 
 looking for hours of playable fun this is the best modern example.
  Graphics - No amazing special effects here, but the graphics do what they're supposed to do very 
 well, levels look like their real life counter parts for example the zoo (with little water falls 
 and wooden suspended bridges) , enemies can be blown in half and bleed where shot, both complemented 
 well with havok physics, the physics are mostly only for ragdoll though.
  Sound - Ambient effects are very well implemented here, lots to hear outside of the action, but 
 when deep in the action most of the weapons give off a satisfying crack and you're knife will sink 
 into flesh with an exaggeration of the sound you'd expect.
  Value - If this means what i got for the money i handed over, i'm very pleased, lots of fun to 
 be found here and lots of unlockable stuff.
  Tilt - I'm not sure what this is but it sounds like my influence to you to buy this game, so i 
 stuck it on 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusCoven
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the few gems in the film industry was last years The Punisher movie which had explosive 
 action, a badass revenge story and some dark humor to make it all go down smooth. While the film 
 wasnt for everyone it became one of my all time favorites and I was instantly intrigued when I 
 found out a video game was on its way with voice acting from none other than Tom Jane, who played 
 The Punisher in the movie.
  
  Sadly, the voice work is the only likeness to the movie which may be a blessing to some who thought 
 the movie sucked. Either way though I found The Punisher game to still kick a lot of the same ass 
 as the film did. The gameplay is your typical third person shooter and does take a similarity to 
 Max Payne minus the slow motion bullet time. The object of the game is to kill and for the most 
 part the developers succeeded on making a gritty action game that is very playable.
  
  There is a vast selection of weaponry including heavy machine guns and a flame thrower, interesting 
 hostage sequences and a couple of memorable moments like when you climb into a coffin and bust 
 out fully armed in front of the families attending the funeral. Even with all these features the 
 game has an even bigger gimmick that separates it from the rest of the crowd. The interrogation 
 system.
  
  Every so often you will need to interrogate enemies to gain access to areas or to find weapon stashes. 
 You grab your target and, using your mouse, torture the helpless criminal until he brakes and sells 
 out to you. Sometimes you can use the actual environment to do these tortures including using the 
 wildlife at a zoo like piranhas and rhinos or sending a drill bit through their eye. Did I mention 
 this is a very violent game?
  
  For the most part the gameplay is run and gun with very few exceptions like the 5 or so boss fights 
 in the game. It is fairly simple fighting until the later levels when you are surrounded by dozens 
 of foes who endlessly replenish their numbers just when you think you got them all. This requires 
 you to take cover and try for head shots. 
  
  You could also use the games slaughter mode feature which is the closest thing to bullet time 
 you will find here. As you take damage a blue meter under your health goes up. When you trigger 
 slaughter mode, causing the blue meter to deplete slowly as you become super fast and whip out 
 two knifes which you use to run around and basically slaughter your enemies as the name suggests. 
 Your health also goes up with each enemy you kill.
  
  I found the aiming system in the game to have a few problems. Distanced firing works but doesnt 
 hit your targets often enough or takes an entire round to finish them off. There is a zoomed mode 
 for increased accuracy but I found it to be jittery and to almost have a mind of its own which 
 made head shots harder than they needed to be. Some of the other controls like the ones used to 
 pick up weapons enemies drop or to trigger the interrogation mode seemed delayed and unresponsive 
 at times. None of these flaws were too irritating just slightly annoying.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is its save system. I hate checkpoint style save systems because 
 if you die for any reason you have to redo everything you just did up to the last checkpoint. This 
 can make the game frustrating and harder than it needs to be. Luckily this problem is kept minimal 
 due to the games frequent checkpoints but in some levels it may aggravate you.
  
  The game is as linear as it gets considering theres only one path through the levels and only 
 one way to kill the bosses. This can be a plus or downer depending on what type of gamer you are. 
 For a game that focuses on high paced action I feel this works best instead of having you thrown 
 into adrenaline rushing firefights just to have to stop for several minutes, figure out where to 
 go next and then get into another fight. By keeping the game straightforward the action is non-stop.
 
  
  I also have to mention that anyone who saw the movie and enjoyed the fight with The Russian will 
 go nuts over the first Russian boss fight which basically lets you live that scene first hand. 
 
  
  The graphics resemble the kind of graphics youd see on a console which isnt surprising since 
 the game is on both the Playstation 2 and X-box as well. The levels are detailed and the players 
 have decent facial expressions especially when you shoot them. When you do one of the extremely 
 violent kills the game turns black and white which was either an artistic touch or an attempt to 
 tone down the disturbing scenes. It didnt bother me either way. The only graphical issue I can 
 see is that the game is somewhat blurry even when played on the higher resolutions.
  
  One of the coolest features is in the sound department. Tom Jane brings The Punisher to life again 
 with his deep, low octave voice. The one liners in this game gave me a few laughs. The other characters 
 are well done as well and are more like the comic book than the movie. The guns sound a little 
 weak though even on my 5.1 surround sound system which keeps you from really getting into the action 
 at times.
  
  There is no multi-player mode but there is a whole lot of extras to keep you playing more than 
 one time through. These consist mostly of unlockables like character profiles, concept art, cheats 
 and upgrades for The Punisher like increased accuracy, weapon attachments and increased life.
 
  
  All and all I enjoyed The Punisher as a marginally above average third person shooter. Id like 
 to see more of the film implemented in a possible sequel (as the end suggests) but it was still 
 cool to see several other comic book icons thrown into the mix as well. Pick it up if youre a 
 Punisher fan or if your just looking for a gritty third person action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20257018376039478582138518186741-curiosgeorge885
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 23, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The punisher is the new game from THQ that trys to be fun, but ends up being mindless fun. I'll 
 tell you why in my review.
  
  Let's get the bad things out of the way: The punisher has very poor graphics and sound. The voice 
 acting and dialogue is lame, the gunfire is abysmal, and the graphics are very foggy and not well 
 polished. It's also somewhat choppy on my Dell Dimension 4600. I even lowered it to 640x460, and 
 was still choppy.
  
  Now, more bad things. The action is very easy and mindless. You're basically just shooting people 
 in a poorly designed enviorenment. This game is definitely more style than substance, which makes 
 it feel flat.
  
  And finally, the good things, which there aren't very many of. The game's lack of substance and 
 more style makes it mildly fun. You can interrogate people and send them into cool deathtraps, 
 take hostages, and so on. The only thing above average in the game are the controls. The controls 
 have an innovative feel to them, making them more interactive and making the game less boring
 
  
  Anyways, the punisher is most definitely not worth buying, but it is worth getting the demo and 
 spending 20 min. of a boring day on it. Other than that, this game has no value whatsoever, and 
 is a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_104
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 21, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  Let's face it. In a perfect world, people would be happy with games based on comic books. For the 
 most part, that just isn't true. People forget that there still needs to be a story, character 
 developement, and, oh yeah . . . good graphics, gameplay, and sound would be nice too. Well, I 
 don't mean to break anyone's hearts, but this isn't a perfect world. And The Punisher is definitely 
 a testament to that. But just because it doesn't measure up to other 3rd person shooters, doesn't 
 make it an alltogether bad game.
  
  The gameplay is simple. Point the gun, preferably at the head, and squeeze the trigger. Simple 
 enough. That's where the gameplay becomes a detriment to itself. It's so easy, that it's redundant. 
 The interrogations are a nice touch. And I for one, like the the black and white artistic touch. 
 Too many people are have a morbid need to the act take place. It's as if their imaginations have 
 shut themselves off because of too much exposure. I say, let the imagination take over. Enjoy the 
 moment for what it is. Another issue I have with the game, is the linearity of the levels. It just 
 doesn't seem appopriate in this day and age to move from point A to point B. Let the player seek 
 out the path they wish to take.
  
  The graphics are ok. The Punisher (Frank Castle) looks great. It's true to the older comics. He's 
 a big character with a passion for punishment. The body and posture definitely fit the bill. The 
 levels have no dynamic lighting to speak of. And the weapons and other models look to a little 
 under par.
  
  The sound is only saved by the soundtrack and Thomas Jane doing Frank Castle's voice. The weapons 
 are kind of pathetic. And the movements are anything more to talk about.
  
  As far as Punisher games out there, it stands out because it's on a newer console. It also has 
 the interrogations, which can be pretty fun. It would have been nice to have hundreds of lines 
 of dialogue. But, THQ apparently only cared about the interrogations themselves. I wouldn't rush 
 out to buy this game, unless you're a diehard comic book fan. I just so happen to be one. And quite 
 frankly, I'm a little disappointed. But not much. Rent it first, buy it if you feel the need to. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 17, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Punisher is game set on you being a rough'n'tough thug who sets out to kick the crap outta 
 anybody he pleases. The game incorporates a system where you can see if you can make the baddies 
 talk before you finish them off and put them outta there miserable lives. You can choose from several 
 things such as choking them, punching them, or doing a cool face-smash to make them talk. Although 
 a good idea, it operates in a glitchy fashion, and can be hard to use. Also, if you are nearby 
 special objects, the Punisher will incorporate them into his interrogation :) For those of you 
 who play the demo (which is all i sugest doing unfortunately) , you will get to stuff the face of 
 a thug into a tank of Pirrahanas. The game also gives you sense of being consistenly on rails, 
 and has a poor physics engine. (i. e You cant stand or jump onto benches, you cant walk over some 
 debris or plants) The games sound sucks as well. The weapons sound dead and lifeless.... and the 
 voice acting is retardedly hilarious. (Notice Punishers gf in the demo... sounds like a crow.... 
 ) 
  One thing i'll give credit for is the games crisp look. Its a little textureless, but at least 
 it looks neat and tidy.
  All in all, if you enjoyed Max Payne, you should get a minor kick outta this game, although you 
 wont be playing it for long. (Beat just about every mission first try) . And it gives you a taste 
 of "wanna-be like Max".
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
