-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sum of All Fears
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sumofallfears/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     May 30, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it's clear that The Sum of All Fears was rushed for the movie's release, it's a surprisingly 
 solid game. 

  The Sum of All Fears  motion picture is out, and so is the PC game, which uses the same graphics 
 engine as Ghost Recon. And like Ghost Recon, Rogue Spear, and Red Storm's other shooters that bear 
 the Tom Clancy name, it's a tactical shooter in which you undertake missions in modern-day, real-world 
 locations, though this time the game takes place in several of the locations featured in the movie. 
 And while it seems pretty clear that some parts of the game were rushed to get it onto store shelves 
 in time for the movie's release, The Sum of All Fears is still a solid team-based shooter that's 
 surprisingly accessible, even for new players.           The Sum of All Fears has some handy options 
 for beginners.    

 If you're new to tactical shooters, you may not know that they generally involve you playing as 
 a character with a few computer-controlled teammates whom you can order to provide cover for you, 
 clear passageways, and stand guard. Unfortunately, a lot of tactical shooters can be difficult 
 to pick up and play for new players -- they move much more slowly than arcade-style first-person 
 shooters like Quake III and Serious Sam, and if you take just one good shot from an enemy, you're 
 dead. But if you are new to such games, you won't have too much trouble getting started with The 
 Sum of All Fears, since the game comes with a full training mission, as well as a lot of helpful 
 features to help you get started. Like other Tom Clancy games before it, The Sum of All Fears has 
 a minimap for each mission that clearly indicates where you need to go next in order to accomplish 
 your next objective. But the game also has some handy options on the easy difficulty mode; for 
 instance, the heartbeat sensor remains permanently active -- this item detects enemy soldiers, and 
 in previous games, you couldn't use it and a gun at the same time. Also, easy difficulty lets you 
 auto-aim, which snaps your gun sight directly onto an enemy tango -- all you need to do is pull the 
 trigger.   

   The Sum of All Fears  may be a multimillion-dollar summer movie, but the game isn't quite as spectacular. 
 That's not to say that The Sum of All Fears looks bad -- the game has some good-looking character 
 models and some good-looking death animations when you take down your enemies. Unfortunately, even 
 though the game has a decent number of maps (11 single-player maps, plus seven multiplayer maps) , 
 a lot of the game's environments look rather plain. And the actual levels are pretty standard for 
 a tactical shooter: Among other things, the game has a Middle Eastern military base, an underground 
 network of caves and sewers, an office building, a warehouse, and a richly furnished mansion. If 
 you've played other tactical shooters before, you shouldn't expect to see too many new things in 
 the game's levels. And like most other such games, The Sum of All Fears' environments aren't very 
 interactive. You can open a few doors, pick up and manipulate a few objects, and that's basically 
 it -- other than the game's glass windows, which, for some reason, tend to shatter loudly a second 
 or two  after  they're shot out. Don't expect to see any walls or buildings destroyed by movie-style 
 explosions or any out-of-control vehicles smashing through gates.   

  Shattering glass, gunshots, death cries, and nearly all of The Sum of All Fears' other sound effects 
 are short, clearly and effectively indicate what just happened, and are convincing enough. The 
 game also makes limited use of 3D sound in a few areas (this is especially apparent in the sewer 
 level of the second single-player mission) , though it's really more of a gimmick than anything 
 else. Your best indicator of where your friends and enemies are is your heartbeat sensor and your 
 minimap. Otherwise, The Sum of All Fears has a quiet, barely noticeable soundtrack, passable voice 
 acting for the mission briefings, and decent voice samples for the terse orders and signals that 
 you and your teammates exchange whenever you take down an enemy, drop a grenade into a room, or 
 take a hit.           For some reason, glass breaks long  after  you shoot it out.    

 Beyond that, The Sum of All Fears plays like a slightly more streamlined version of Ghost Recon. 
 Again, the developers apparently simplified several aspects of the game for beginners who might 
 pick it up based on their interest in the motion picture. For instance, The Sum of All Fears has 
 a much-simplified planning phase -- all you do is choose which weapons you and your squadmates will 
 carry, and that's it. Your squadmates don't have any kind of ability scores, and they're all exactly 
 the same. They get replaced only when they die, and unlike in previous Tom Clancy games, you don't 
 "buy" more experienced soldiers later on in the game, either.   

  The single-player game has the same sort of pacing as a lot of tactical shooters: lots of quiet, 
 slow parts in which you advance through the level, punctuated by short, extremely quick firefights 
 with enemies. To help you out, you can bring up a command menu to give direct orders to your teammates. 
 The command menu is considerably different from (and simpler than) Ghost Recon's, since that game 
 took place in large, open locations, while The Sum of All Fears mostly takes place in enclosed 
 areas. You can order your teammates into two formations, have them follow you or stay in one place, 
 and have them approach closed doors and open, clear, or toss a grenade through them.        
     Sometimes, your teammates are helpful. Sometimes, they're not.    

 Your teammates tend to be a lot more useful than in the original release of Ghost Recon, simply 
 because there's less space for them to wander around, and they can actually be quite helpful when 
 it comes to clearing small rooms that have only one or two enemies. However, they're unreliable 
 in larger fights, as they'll sometimes blunder into an enemy's line of sight and draw fire before 
 you can suppress your enemies with a flashbang or grenade. They also have an unfortunate tendency 
 to block doorways just as you enter them and to block your line of sight, which is a problem in 
 rooms with multiple enemies. Finally, in accordance with the film, you play as part of a government 
 strike force, so in several of the levels, you'll receive "support" from larger teams of computer-controlled 
 troops. These troops can be helpful in larger fights, but they're just as likely to blow your cover 
 and block your fire as your squadmates. You'll run into several chaotic situations in which you're 
 about to close with an enemy, only to have your support troops storm into the room firing wildly 
 and shouting that they've sighted hostiles, taken down enemies, taken wounded, or taken casualties 
 before you can even move a muscle. And unfortunately, though this happens pretty rarely, your squadmates 
 will sometimes still get stuck on objects and walls and have to be coaxed back in line. This can 
 be mildly annoying in some of the game's stealth missions, which require you and your squadmates 
 to all return to an extraction point at the very end.   

  If it weren't for the problems with your squadmates, The Sum of All Fears' levels would be more 
 enjoyable to navigate and conquer. They'd be even better if it weren't for the heavily guarded 
 choke points, which appear on different levels and on different difficulty settings. You'll breeze 
 through most parts of a level, but you'll invariably come to a point at which you'll have to save 
 and reload your game, because your teammates keep getting killed by enemy fire or because you simply 
 can't take out all four of the guys guarding that narrow stairway. You can win these battles by 
 trial and error, but the constant saving and reloading detracts from the experience considerably. 
 And unfortunately, if it weren't for these impasses, you'd be able to finish The Sum of All Fears' 
 single-player game in a flash. The game has only 11 single-player missions, and even on the hardest 
 difficulty, you'll probably be able to solve them in about 10-15 hours -- less if you play on the 
 easier settings. And when you do complete the single-player game, the only ending you'll receive 
 will be the roll of the credits.           The multiplayer game is worth a try.    

 Fortunately, The Sum of All Fears has a few options that help extend the life of the game somewhat. 
 The game has been running multiplayer sessions on Ubi Soft's ubi. com online game service ever since 
 May 31, and though there aren't exactly thousands of people playing, we had no trouble finding 
 a pickup game. The Sum of All Fears has the same sort of multiplayer modes as Ghost Recon, including 
 last man standing (an elimination deathmatch) , team deathmatch, and cooperative hostage rescue. 
 Multiplayer play is considerably more interesting than the single-player campaign. However, since 
 you can be taken out by a single good shot or two, you'll need to make sure your server administrator 
 sets unlimited respawns -- otherwise you'll find even longer breaks between gunfights, since you'll 
 not only be slowly sneaking through the game's corridors and rooms, but you'll also be sitting 
 on the sidelines until the next round begins if you get eliminated. The Sum of All Fears also has 
 single-player skirmishes that let you play through each of the single-player missions, fill them 
 with more enemies, and go at it with teammates or alone. It's a bit more interesting to go at the 
 game's missions by yourself, without teammates. Though like in the single-player campaign game, 
 you may have undue trouble getting past large ambushes.   

  While it's clear that The Sum of All Fears was rushed for the movie's release, it's a surprisingly 
 solid game. Though the single-player campaign game is too short, the multiplayer is decent, and 
 a few of the game's single-player modes are interesting enough to warrant a few tries. What's more, 
 The Sum of All Fears is easily one of the most accessible tactical shooters ever made, so it's 
 a good starter game for beginners.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that I never heard about until recently (albeit I wasnt really 
 into Tom Clancy games until recently either) . The Story is pretty simple and follows the book/movie 
 decently well. The first two missions establish you as part of the FBIs Hostage Rescue Team and 
 serve as a warm up to the remaining 9 missions which take place after the bomb has been detonated. 
 You are responsible for tracking down the bad guys with John Clark at the helm. The voice actor 
 for John Clark is the same guy whos voiced all of the Rainbow Six games and he does a great job 
 here too. The voices for team members in game are your standard selection and they get the job 
 done well enough. Graphics are of Ghost Recon quality as well as the sounds (seeing as how the 
 Ghost Recon engine was used here) . The setup for equipping your men is a little different than 
 you might expect. Instead of being able to select a different pistol and rifle setup for each person 
 (much like is seen in the Rainbow Six series) you instead pick from pre-selected types, which have 
 the armor and weapons pre-programmed into it. It gets the job done and I didnt find it too detrimental 
 or distracting. The game play in game is a very well done mix of Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon. You 
 still get all the picking locks, opening doors and CQB environment fun that you do in Rainbow Six 
 but you also get the Ghost Recon save anywhere function coupled with Hot Keys for Quick Save and 
 Quick Load. You also get a mini map with the paths you need to follow and unlike Rainbow Six if 
 you skip a waypoint in on the way to the one after it, it counts both waypoints so you dont have 
 to back track to hit all the waypoints. Unfortunately there are no go-codes and telling youre 
 teammates to open and flash/frag is useless because they are generally too slow and end up just 
 getting shot. On easy you can finish the game in a few hours and hard can be beaten quickly as 
 well. However, there are added options when selecting your difficulty that give the game a good 
 replayability (i. e. Automatic Failure on Loss of Team Member or No Support) . All in all, its a 
 fantastic game that would have been top of the list if it werent over with so quickly. I highly 
 recommend it and definitely had a blast playing it!
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The sum of all fears is a movie based off of tom clancys novel. This game carrys the tom clancy 
 license name and didnt tottaly fail with this budget title shooter. The storyline is a nuke exploded 
 in Baltimore and the CIA wants to find out who did it. So they make a new task force from the FBI 
 hostage rescue teams. The game has good tatical gameplay with easy control of your team. You dont 
 see your gun but only a aim reticule which is not seen this day in age in FPS games. Graphics look 
 the the orginal Rainbow six game for the N64. Graphics would not even pass for a free game today. Sound 
 is good with realistic weapons sounds and ok voice acting. Take some sounds from rainbow six. Overall 
 a fun FPS game with no replayablity and 2-4 hours of gameplay.
  
  
  The Good: Fun gameplay, Great Sound
  
  The Bad: Horrible graphics from the year 2000.
  
 
  The Ugly: Random crashed and graphical glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The Sum of All Fears for the PC is a fun First Person Shooter in the vein of Rainbow Six while 
 using the Ghost Recon engine. This is a really fun game. I was a bit skeptical at first, wondering 
 how the game was going to fit along with the movie, but it turns out that everything fit along 
 just fine, for this very fun title from Ubisoft and Red Storm. This game's story is a pretty good 
 one. The first two missions have really nothing to do with the game, but then a nuclear bomb goes 
 off during a sports event in Boston, and then you must go and take out the terrorists that planted 
 the bomb. Yes this is a normal Tom Clancy type story, but I do not care one bit. But wait there 
 is more, someone comes along for the ride that you would not have expected, Tom Clancy fans its 
 Mr. John Clark the head of Rainbow Six, who will once again be guiding you thorugh the terrorist 
 filled levels, as you try to promote world peace and get those guys that detonated the nuke. Great 
 stuff in this department. This game looks good. It looks about the same as Ghost Recon did, being 
 that it has the same engine and everything, but this game has something that Ghost Recon does not 
 have, and that would be cutscenes. Although there are only cutscenes after the second and last 
 level, they really do look good, and they were not in any other Tom Clancy game before this, so 
 it is really a feat for the guys at Red Storm and Ubi Soft. This game has no jaggies or anything 
 that makes this game not look good at all. This game has great graphics, another plus for this 
 game is this department. This game has some great sounds. The bullets sound like they do in every 
 other Tom Clancy game, but did anyone ever say that they sounded bad? There are some very bad voice 
 overs by your teamates, but John Clark is still played by the same guy that has been doing his 
 voice isnce the begining of the R6 series. This game is short, I will admit that. For someone like 
 me who has been playing Tom Clancy games all their life this game can be beaten in one sitting. 
 You will however go back and play it agian to win all the medals, play at a higher difficulty, 
 or try to play through without losing a man. There are so many ways to play. Not to mention there 
 is multiplayer that is comparable to any other Tom Clancy game multiplayer. This game is a really 
 fun game. Anyone who likes Tom Clancy needs to pick this up. I found it really cool how they had 
 it be the Ghost Recon engine, but have the story be like Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 29, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The Sum of all Fears is a game based on a movie, and it doesn't really live up to the movie, but 
 in the end, you can say its a decent attempt to convert the movie into the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you play Tom Clancy's games, you'll recognize alot of actions from Rainbow Six 
 etc in this game, opening doors and controlling you're stupid AI teammates is frustating and isn't 
 that much, seeing that the opponents AI could be more polished.
  
  Further then that, you get a tutorial for the basics of the game, you don't see you're weapon while 
 in game, which sucks in FPS, if you want to play a game thats similar like this, but with better 
 AI, tactics and scenario, go play other TC games.
  
  Graphics:
  Blocky and lame textures, lots of icons and such, theirs not much innovation either, its just the 
 millionth Tom Clancy game and doesn't quite bring it, it doesn't remind me of TSOAF either, more 
 like the millionth terrorist encounter game.
  
  Story:
  You're this guy, blah blah, take out terrorists blah blah, nuclear weapons blah blah blah, its 
 you're average movie that goes about terrorists, and again, this story isn't much better or diffrent 
 from other games from TC.
  
  AI:
  Opponents takes seconds to respond to you, you can run infront of them and they're like 'Zzzzzzzzzzz'
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  MP isn't that good either since you can't play with bots, and nobody plays the game online, surprise 
 isn't it?
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  No, you might want to look into the game if you like the movie, but there are alot of better games 
 in the genre.
  
  Also, the game is almost only one between two hours long, so its short, thank god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Someone please tell me why this game was created? Anyone? Please tell me? All I know this game 
 sucks balls! Let me tell you a couple things about this no-fun-at-all game. First off the gameplay 
 sucks. The reason why that does I can never see the gun that I am shooting with. I want to see 
 them when I am shooting! The missions are way to damn easy, even set at the most hardest difficulty. 
 So you can get through the game probably less than a frickin hour! The graphics in this game is 
 really bad. The game was made in 2002 and that's the best that it could give me! Com' on, I've 
 seen games that were released the same year or the year before with way better graphics. Like 007 
 Nightfire for PC. I don't like that game, but at least that has some good graphis to it. Or one 
 of my favoites Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell. I love the gameplay, and that also has pretty good graphics!
 
  The sound sucks, the... You know what I'll just keep saying it. THIS GAME SUCKS, THIS GAME SUCKS, 
 THIS GAME SUCKS, THIS GAME SUCKS, THIS GAME SUCKS. Oh yeah why am I even writting a review for 
 such SUCKY ass game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Maybe you feel guilty buying this game for full price back when the terrible movie of the same 
 name came out in 2002. "The Sum of All Fears" is a solid and engrossing FPS that combines some 
 of the aspects of the classic GR and makes it basically an Rainbow 6 shooter without all the planning 
 that goes into that game.
  
  I don't feel guilty about having this game though. Along with GR and all its expansion packs, this 
 game is on my hard drive to this day. The reason is it is a fun and solid shooter that makes the 
 grade and delivers well in its presentation.
  
  Your team are first part of the FBI's HRT and takes you through a sorta brief 11 mission campaign 
 as part of a secret CIA counter terrorist team led by the old R6 founder, John Clark. The controls 
 and command map are similar to the GR game as well. You only have two other team mates backing 
 you up in this one and you get to choose from about 30 weapons and assorted grenades (flash bang 
 and frag) . It is just like the Gamespot review says "a basic solid shooter, more like R6, but with 
 the Ghost Recon engine". I always thought that engine did just fine and is one of the better engines 
 put out there in the PC market.
  
  I finished the game quite quickly but play the game again with the difficulty level changed to 
 "Elite" and you will get shot pretty damn fast I must say! But the replay value is there, this 
 was still a damn good Red Storm game. Check out the map in the "Skirmish" mode where you get to 
 take on terrorists inside the Red Storm offices too! Good stuff!
  
  Pick it up when you can, it's a winner!
  
  "TANGO DOWN!" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
