-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Secrets of Da Vinci: The Forbidden Manuscript
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/thesecretsofdavinci/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking backgrounds and artwork.
 mostly well-done voice acting.
 puzzles provide a decent challenge, but there are enough clues and hints to keep you moving along.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inventory management is a hassle.
 constant backtracking means you'll see the same few areas over and over.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 129 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 7, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's generic to a fault, but The Secrets of Da Vinci still delivers a fairly enjoyable experience 
 for fans of adventure games. 

  Does the name Leonardo mean more to you than a katana-wielding turtle? Does the mention of the 
 name Da Vinci conjure up more than an image of Tom Hanks? If so, and if you're interested in the 
 works of the immensely talented artist, inventor, and all-around genius known as Leonardo Da Vinci, 
 then you might be interested in the latest adventure game from Kheops Studio. The Secrets of Da 
 Vinci: The Forbidden Manuscript is a fictional adventure that has you searching for the lost works 
 of the master himself. The game doesn't actually reveal any secrets about Da Vinci, so if you're 
 looking to back up any conspiracy theories, you'll be disappointed. Beyond the name, there isn't 
 anything remarkable about The Secrets of Da Vinci. It's a solid but standard point-and-click adventure 
 that isn't the least bit adventurous. Despite that, it still proves satisfying enough for fans 
 of adventure games.  

          Da Vinci is dead, so now's your chance to go rifling through all his stuff.     

  The 
 Secrets of Da Vinci takes place shortly after the death of Leonardo Da Vinci. Apparently, Leonardo 
 willed most of his works to a friend, but there are people who, for undisclosed reasons, believe 
 that much of the master's greatest works have yet to be discovered. You play as Valdo, a young 
 student who is hired by a mysterious person to visit the Cloux Manor where a valuable codex containing 
 some of Da Vinci's greatest secrets is supposedly hidden. As with all dead people in adventure 
 games, Da Vinci keeps his valuables well hidden but leaves behind a series of cryptic clues, puzzles, 
 and riddles for you to solve to learn his secrets. You'd think that if Da Vinci really had any 
 profound and enlightening discoveries that he would just come out with them before he died rather 
 than screwing with people from beyond the grave, but then if he did that there wouldn't be much 
 of a game here.  

  The game takes place entirely in and around the small Cloux Manor, and by the end of the game, 
 you'll know each and every nook and cranny of that place because you'll constantly be covering 
 the same ground as you search for new clues, items, and puzzles. You can explore each area from 
 a fixed standpoint, while moving your view with the mouse to interact with people and objects. 
 The cursor is context sensitive, and it changes shape to indicate mechanisms you can interact with, 
 items you can pick up, and areas you can move to. Usually, the important items stand out and are 
 quite obvious, but you'll still have to do your fair share of pixel hunting.  

  Most of the puzzles in the game are related to fetching the right items to produce other items, 
 unlock doors, or gather new information. There's a lot of junk you can collect in the game, from 
 pebbles and eggs to ladders and drill bits. Every item has a use, although some are more obvious 
 than others. Inventory management does become tiresome later in the game, though, because you have 
 five pages of available inventory that you'll have to flip through to find the item you want to 
 use. If you don't know which item to use, it becomes even more frustrating as you go through the 
 trial-and-error process of searching your inventory, finding an item, trying to use it, opening 
 your inventory again, selecting a different item, trying to use it, and so on until you finally 
 figure it out. Thankfully, most of the puzzles are fairly intuitive, so it's usually easy to figure 
 out what you need to do. But even when you do know what to do, it can be somewhat tedious to repeat 
 the exact same series of clicks multiple times, as the game often requires you to do.  

  The puzzles themselves are pretty basic. For example, early in the game you have to get into Leonardo's 
 study on the second floor, but the door is locked. So you go fetch a ladder and try to climb in 
 the window, but one of the rungs breaks, so you have to go find a stick, take it to the workshop, 
 cut it to length with a table saw, repair the ladder, and then finally climb up. There are also 
 recipe puzzles that require you to find ingredients to create ink, perfume, and paper. The mechanical 
 puzzles are fairly simple and include matching up gears to make a clock run, getting a waterwheel 
 working to power a mill, and fixing a movable bridge. None of the puzzles are particularly difficult, 
 which keeps the game moving along but also sometimes makes it feel like you're just mindlessly 
 going through the motions. Most of the challenge in the game comes from not knowing what to do 
 next, but that is often alleviated by using a handy journal that tells you what you need to do. 
 The journal isn't so detailed as to provide step-by-step instructions for what to do next, but 
 it usually provides enough information to gently nudge you in the right direction.  

          The puzzles in this game require you to fetch a lot of items, which means you'll spend 
 a lot of time looking at the inventory screen.     

  The nature and number of fetching tasks in The Secrets of Da Vinci mean that you'll have to backtrack 
 often to collect items from different rooms and areas. It gets old after awhile, but at least the 
 places you'll see look nice. Croux Manor is nicely detailed, with elaborate artwork, soft lighting, 
 and rustic dcor that make the place look good. While most of the backgrounds are completely static, 
 portions of the environment will become animated as you interact with them. This animation is a 
 bit rough in spots, but for the most part it looks fine. Some of the fixed standpoints used in 
 the game give you odd views on the area you're trying to investigate, which can be annoying at 
 first, but you'll quickly get used to it. The sounds around the manor are pleasant, as well, consisting 
 mostly of chirping birds and other ambient noises. There's a bit of music that softly plays whenever 
 you solve a puzzle or discover a clue, but it fades out quickly, and you're left in relative silence 
 again. The voice work isn't going to win this game any awards, but it's passable, and the dialogue 
 is kept to a minimum, anyway.  

  The Secrets of Da Vinci will keep you occupied for 12 hours or so, depending on your proclivity 
 for adventure games. But for its not-quite budget price, this game isn't good enough to make it 
 wholly recommendable. The puzzles are challenging without being frustrating, and the presentation 
 is easy on the eyes and ears, which makes this a fair choice for established fans of adventure 
 games and newcomers alike. But, the game does get tedious at times, and it doesn't do anything 
 interesting to elaborate on a very generic design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  ( (What is it with line breaks on this site? Sigh... a few big paragraphs that didn't break up the 
 way they should) )
  
  Few people have inspired as much awe and wonder as Leonardo da Vinci. It's surprising that more 
 games haven't capitalized on the engima and intrigue that surrounds one of the first true Renaissance 
 men, but Secrets of da Vinci does good justice to the spirit and mythos of one of history's most 
 fabled figures.
  
  The timing of the game might lead you to believe that the game draws heavily on the fiction established 
 by Dan Brown's The da Vinci Code . Fortunately, Secrets of da Vinci creates its own story; as Valdo, 
 you are tasked with recovering a manuscript hidden in Da Vinci's manor. While it's not the richest 
 backstory, it does provide a solid foundation for mystery and intrigue to unravel. -- Kheops Studios 
 and Nobilis seem to take great pride in the ability to integrate puzzle play into the story, and 
 this is clearly demonstrated in Secrets of da Vinci. Puzzles are heavily inventory-based, with 
 a handful of set-piece puzzles thrown into the mix. You'll find much of what you'd expect from 
 a da Vinci inspire d game - backwards text, invisible ink, and, of course, painting. While most 
 of the puzzles are standard adventure game fare, there are enough original challenges to make the 
 game refreshing. The game also strikes a nice balance between linear and free-form play, giving 
 you just enough puzzles to tackle at a time without being too unstructured.
  
  One innovative feature is the conscience meter. By tracking the trend of your actions, your ethics 
 can tend towards diabolical or angelic . While there is no right or wrong, favoring one trait to 
 heavily can limit your ability to act in the other manner, and can even affect how the final cutscene 
 plays out. If you steal too frequently, you might not be able to buy items later, and will have 
 to find another way to get them. It's an interesting technique for creating a little variety in 
 the game, giving it very slight replay value. Additionally, many puzzles have multiple solutions, 
 giving the game a nice logical feel. --Graphically, the game is pretty conventional, though some 
 of the outdoors areas look as though they came straight out of a Renaissance era painting. There's 
 nothing stunningly beautiful to look at, and you are limited to the manor and a few outdoor areas, 
 but the quality is certainly passable. In a few scenes, small details, such as shadows and highlights, 
 are rendered surprisingly well. The few characters in the game are rendered nicely, and work well 
 in the overall graphical environment. There is no shortage of detail, from papers scattered about 
 on the floor to food on the tables, avoiding the sterile, uninhabited feel that plague many games.
 
  
  There's not much to rave about on the sound front. There's a running score that is mostly unobtrusive, 
 though it does turn dramatic during key points in the game. It does manage to avoid being mindlessly 
 repetitive, and provides a decent backdrop for the game. A few ambient sounds are more confusing 
 than fitting; occasionally you'll hear footsteps when no one is around, and just seem to be randomly 
 inserted into the game. Voice acting is surprisingly good, with well delivered, believable dialogue. 
 -- The Secrets of da Vinci does have a few mostly minor shortcomings. The abundance of detail can 
 lead to pixel-hunting, as you work to differentiate between decoration and useful items. Additionally, 
 some items simply appear after some other action has triggered them. This makes it easy to overlook 
 new items in a room that you previously scoured. In one puzzle, the steps to success are decidedly 
 linear; if you do things correctly, but out of sequence, you may spend a good deal of time trying 
 to figure out exactly what you did (especially since you can't simply start over) . However, in 
 all, The Secrets of Da Vinci stays faithful to its subject matter, and develops into an interesting 
 and intriguing story. Definitely one of the better adventure games to come out recently, and certainly 
 worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teardrop2006
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  i like the game except when i got stuck there was nobody in any forum that would help or even played 
 the game. i like to talk to people and give and get help when i play a game, it makes it more fun 
 and i did not get that with this game. ok so i was stuck and mad because i could not continue but 
 i dont give up easely so i will continue plugging away so go out and buy the game and come and 
 let me know what you think because iam think it is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambers100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Secrets of DaVinci is a fascinating trip through the residence and era of this genius. Though 
 you spend the entire game within the confines of Leonardos estate, it is an informative and worth 
 while stay. The game has above average graphics and voice overs. The puzzles vary from simple to 
 somewhat challenging and are well integrated into the plot. My one complaint would be the clumsy 
 inventory system - too much juggling items around and many items you pick-up and carry are useless 
 and make the inventory cluttered and confusing. On a positive note the characters are realistic 
 and believable. However, in some of the cut scenes they look somewhat robotic. In summation the 
 game is worth the bucks and if you have any interest in DaVinci or this era you will enjoy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  The Secrets of Da Vinci had better not be serious about it's title. I realize this is a puzzle/adventure 
 game, but it fails to be adventurous, and while it's puzzling as to why anyone would make this 
 game, the puzzles are nothing you wouldn't find on any Myst or even early Resident Evil clone. 
 Fetch the item, insert the item, arrange items. Rinse and repeat for about 8 hours. Do all of this 
 in the same environment, that isn't too shabby, but isn't captivating either. With OLD games out 
 there like Day of The Tentacle, or Myst 1 - 185,166.... or whatever Myst is at now... it's a PUZZLE 
 (or a secret?) that this game was made.
  
  The strange thing is, the puzzles really don't have much to do with Da Vinci. While most touch 
 on some element of his work or mythos, considering the VAST amount of information available, the 
 puzzles are shockingly generic. A lot of them are reminiscent of the "locked chest" puzzles in 
 the various Onimusha titles.
  
  Finally, the story here, such as it is, does not draw you into what is a VERY brief experience. 
 Usually this genre tries to create a world, an atmosphere, a powerful central character or place 
 YOU at the center of things. TSoDV just kina... meanders along with you feeling obligated to hit 
 buttons a lot. The payoff as the end, is simply not worth it. As for replay value, there is none. 
 There are literally a dozen games over the last 10 years that are still more current and interesting 
 than TSoDV. There is no reason for even the most seasoned fanatic to play this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
