-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: Superstar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simssuperstar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,451 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     May 12, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superstar adds lots of interesting and challenging new stuff that should keep any fan of The Sims 
 busy for some time. 

  Maxis' unusual strategy game The Sims, which lets you control the lives of little computer people, 
 rocketed to the top of the sales charts when it was released in 2000, and its subsequent expansion 
 packs have done the same. And just like the others, the latest expansion, The Sims: Superstar, 
 doesn't change the basics of the original game, or fix any of the inherent issues (it actually 
 adds a few stability problems) , but it does add enough new content to make it worthwhile. And Superstar 
 has the added distinction of being the first truly challenging expansion pack for The Sims.  

 
          This talented singer draws a crowd.     

  As its title suggests, The Sims: Superstar capitalizes on the new trend of fame-related TV shows, 
 most obviously  American Idol . The expansion lets you take your sims out of the house and off 
 to work in a brand-new career track: the path to fame, as a fashion model, an actor, or a musician. 
 Though these new jobs represent the first time The Sims players have ever been able to follow their 
 sims to work, they also collectively represent the toughest challenge the series has ever offered. 

  In order to successfully become a superstar, your sims will need to fulfill a surprisingly stringent 
 series of requirements, including improving personal skills (such as body, charisma, and creativity) , 
 increasing their new fame skill, and increasing their star power by making lots of famous friends. 
 As your sims gain more fame, they'll have to deal with scandalous tabloid reports (which cost a 
 great deal of money to buy up before they hit the presses) , as well as the possibility of being 
 stalked by an obsessed fan if they don't maintain a good relationship with the public. Fulfilling 
 all these requirements can be exceptionally time-consuming, especially since, as always, you'll 
 also have to carefully monitor your sims' current moods and needs (or "motives") . As always, if 
 you let your sims become too hungry, tired, or lonely, they'll become depressed and uncooperative, 
 which can make the already difficult task of increasing your sims' fame even tougher.  

  This difficulty is offset somewhat by some of Superstar's new features and objects. For starters, 
 Superstar lets you hire a butler at a rate of a whopping 500 simoleons per day. The butler can 
 not only keep visitors away from the house and cook sumptuous meals on demand, but he can also 
 independently hire maids and repairmen as needed to clean and service the house. Superstar also 
 lets you purchase extremely pricey recreational items, such as a personal scuba tank and a free-fall 
 chamber that can be used to help fill your sims' fun motive quickly. However, when you're running 
 your sims in and out of recording studios, photo shoots, and fashion runways, you'll still be hard-pressed 
 to maintain your social connections and advance your career, since your sims' motives will constantly 
 be running out in the new studio town area, where they pursue their careers. It's too bad, because 
 at the very top levels of your sims' careers, you'll be able to star in appropriately over-the-top 
 fashion shows, movies, and music videos.  

          You can hire a butler and let him worry about cooking and cleaning.     

  Superstar 
 also adds a number of new objects for use in decorating your sims' houses and open lots. Like some 
 of the previous expansion packs, Superstar lets you modify or completely clear out the new lot 
 area, studio town, and add whichever items, shops, and amenities you wish. The expansion also features 
 a number of new gestures and dialogue options -- your sims can beg other celebrities for their autographs, 
 stage publicity stunts for paparazzi, and perform in movies, soap operas, recording studios, or 
 karaoke bars.  

  Each of these new gestures and performances is accompanied by all-new phrases in "simlish," The 
 Sims' expressive gibberish language, and all-new animation. Though the expansion's graphics look 
 rather dated, it's hard not to like the game's clever new character animations; for instance, your 
 sims will vault through the air while staging sword fights, or ham it up on camera while shooting 
 a music video. And Superstar is probably the best-sounding expansion pack for The Sims, since it 
 features all-new music (such as appropriately thumping techno tracks for fashion shoots) and a 
 variety of voice samples for singing. In fact, as your sims improve in fame and creativity, they'll 
 become better and better at singing -- these multiple skill levels come through loud and clear each 
 time you perform a gibberish country ballad or a catchy commercial jingle.  

  It almost seems pointless by now to mention that The Sims: Superstar, like all the other expansion 
 packs, doesn't bother to address the annoying problems that have plagued The Sims ever since 2000. 
 The game's scrolling camera is as sluggish as ever, the pathfinding is still unreliable. And as 
 usual, your sims will still occasionally "forget" the instructions you give them. This can be especially 
 frustrating when another celebrity sim tries to speak to you to increase your fame while you're 
 in the middle of something else. In these instances, the celebrities will seemingly "forget" to 
 speak with you the instant your sim becomes available. And unfortunately, Superstar shipped with 
 a few bizarre crash problems. At least some of them can be fixed by adjusting your AGP graphics 
 settings or running the game in a window, though hopefully Maxis will release a patch for the expansion. 
 Still, like the other expansion packs, Superstar was never intended to fix any of the original 
 game's flaws. Instead, it adds lots of interesting and challenging new stuff that should keep any 
 fan of The Sims busy for some time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: heppa7594
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  With being the second last sims expansion pack it is also in my mind th best one. You are able 
 to follow your sims to work for the first time and use all luxary items and make money and come 
 home and spend it all. Also if you have kids and don't have much time for them you can hire a butler 
 for about 500 simoleans a day and he does everything from prepare food for all the famaily and 
 also clean the house. But the downside to the game is that it focuses to much on becoming a Superstar 
 and dosent upgrade many songs and sim socials. But overall the game is great and reccomended for 
 most die hard sim fans, as i said before it is probably the best sims expansion out of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  THE GRAPHICS Defiantly not as good as sims 2 but of course better than the sims 1.
  7.5/10
  GAMEPLAY
  It is fun. You get an open larger community to go to. Also you get dance floors so 
 that you can dance and cages to dance into. So now you can make the ultimate party. With the ultimate 
 party stuff and party guest.
  You get new clothe and new furniture and the new location is basically it. But the main idea about 
 it the dancing part so you can be a super star!
  7.5/10
  
  Its really not that great besides the open community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow, besides Vacation, this was probably the best ever original Sims add-on! The stars were really 
 cool! The entire, meet stars and become a star concept was very smart, and awsomelty fun!
  
  Graphics - 7/10 ~ Doesn't even come close to the Sims 2, but still for the time, and the way 
 they were portrayed, they are wicked cool!
  
  Audio - 9/10 ~ The audio was wicked, and with the new expansions, came new music, which was always 
 right on tune with the occasion or place!
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 ~ The Sims gameplay was just as wicked as the Sims 2. Not to mention, the best 
 part of the game, you sometimes had your own obsessed fan! *Byfar the funniest part of the game*
 
  
  Overall, get this game just to play the add-on materials! The Sims is pretty cheap now, so you 
 can get this one and have an awsome time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) What a great idea... my Sims have always wanted to be in a band. When I first 
 started playing this game I got addicted. I loved the graphics and how I could control almost all 
 aspects of my Sims life. The modding community is spectacular and you can find just about everything 
 you could imagine to add to the game. The characters actually talk so it is fun to hear their conversations 
 in simmish. There's a lot of stuff you can buy for your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of 
 other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit 
 is your imagination with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, 
 (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours 
 to let your imagination run wild in. My SiMs love being in a band and on stage now.. some stagefight 
 I admit.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  For a very short while, I found The Sims addicting and was buying the add-ons. Superstar was a 
 great add-on at first, but then it began having problems. The larger my Sims neighborhood got and 
 the more objects I put into the buildings and the more I customized the architecture, the slower 
 the game got. It got so bad it became totally unplayable, and games shouldn't have that problem... 
 They're for playing after all. And that took care of the addiction (thank goodness) . You can't 
 play a game that takes 10 minutes for a sim to do something that should have taken 10 seconds!
 
  
  Graphics were what I would expect for a Sims game. Sound, same thing... what you would expect from 
 The Sims.
  
  I was happy (at first) with the new objects that were added to the game, but since they created 
 a problem with gameplay, they became the bain of my existence.
  
  Basically I wonder... What in the world was I thinking when I decided to play The Sims? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibleman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  This One My Mum Wouldnt Let Me Get But I Got It. Superstar Is Awsome And You See The Sims Work And 
 Choose How They Do It (exept for jingles, commercial And Print Ads) . I Like The Lyrics And Videos 
 For The Rock, Pop (ballard/pop ballard) And The Dance Mix (Dance Anthem) . country And Big Band Suck. 
 The New Items are SOOOO Cool. And I Thing Studio Town Is The Best Place Apart From Downtown. Fame 
 Is Da Bomb When You Are A Female Sim. The Male Sims Arent So Good Unfortunaly. So Basicly Its A 
 Good Expanison Pack.
  
  (look out for my Makin Magic review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  So I think that The Sims Superstar is and alright game, but overall it's just too complicated. 
 The games concept itself is and awesome idea by any means, but they did too much to it. You have 
 to make friends with all of the famouse people and thats extremely hard to do. For instance, I've 
 been having one of the most famouse people come over to my house for the past like ten or eleven 
 days and our "friendship" is going okay, but it hasnt helped me at all get what Ineed in order 
 to become famouse like I want to. So at this point I'm kind of stuck. I don't know what else to 
 do in order to get that relationship that I need so that i can be famous. I don't like typing in 
 cheat codes, because that's cheating. At the pace that im going I'm going to have to type in another 
 few money cheats so that I don't die. Therefore I need to become famouse fast because I dont have 
 musch money, and from the looks of it im not going to. Essentially the game is too complicated
 
  
  I giw 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Superstar is one of the best expansion packs I have ever played for The Sims. It is way better 
 then Vacation. The game adds even more items then before, and they are all reall cool. Like the 
 swim tank, satellite dish (adds more channels to the tv) and even hire a butler! The butler is 
 a lot better then the maid, he even cooks meals! But he does cost a lot of money... although that 
 wont be a problem because.....
  
  ... one of the main features the game includes is the new addition of being a Super Star! Everytime 
 you want to do what famous super stars do, call up a cab to pick you up and go to the studio. The 
 gameplay remains the same here, control your sims life and so on. But the new features the game 
 introduces makes it a better experience.
  
  I have not found a single bug in the game yet. And I also like to use the cheats the game has (what 
 can I say, im a cheater) Although like before, installing this with other expansion packs will 
 reduce your performance.
  
  The Sims Superstar is an excellent expansion pack, a game that you must buy if you have The Sims. 
 If you have never played this, go out now and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The Sims : Superstar has many new aspects that it brings to The Sims. It firstly gives you a whole 
 superstr hood which is really good because the places are really fun. The main new feature is to 
 become a superstar which is a very fun but also a very hard thing to do. To keep you person life 
 and your fame all high up and to balance it equally is a hard thing to do.
  
  If you want to go down the path of a superstar then you basically start with no one really knowing 
 about you. You continue on and the better you get then the more stuff you get to do which means 
 that it just gets more fun and more fun rather than getting more boring. If you really want a good 
 Sims atmosphere then this expansion should most likely be owned. This expansion I feel is good 
 and has many important elements in it that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  We've all been playing the sims now for years. It's get old, the graphics are getting a bit dated 
 and the complex web of enxpansion packs are causing more bug problems than a bee farm on strike. 
 But heres another expansion pack and it kicks rear end related crevice. The new superstar carreer 
 revolves around performing certain tasks to gain points, much like skill points. As you advance 
 star ratings, you get access to better paying tasks like recording studios and catwalks, until 
 you make it big. You also make ridiculous amounts of money in the process. Although this sounds 
 easy, it isn't. You have to deal with dodgy journalists printing explicit stories about you, obsessed 
 fans rooting through your trash and stealing your rewards (and the police/burglar alarm does not 
 stop them) aswell as other things. If you've gotten too good at the Sims ove the years and need 
 a fresh challenge, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  If you want to pick one or more Sims expansion pack to your Sims game then this is certainly it. 
 More items including some decent (but God damn expensive) ones and the ability to become the talk 
 of the city, becoming famous is something that only Maxis could make work in their life simulating 
 The Sims.
  
  Gameplay: Obviously extends your playing time, but this isn't just some attempt for selling figures 
 at Maxis, oh no, this simply has to be the best ever Sims expansion pack recorded to date! Building 
 up your superstar status is a game in itself.
  
  Graphics: I have noticed a slight change from The Sims to putting this on. The sharpness and contrast 
 has been altered for the best and the new items are captured perfectly well.
  
  Sound: Not much better than The Sims, but a nice addition nonetheless.
  
  Value: Definitely 
 worth buying and the first expansion pack you should be considering adding to your Sims collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best expansion packs out of this series. I love the fact that I can portray 
 a Star so to speak. I love all aspects of this game. Starting from having a butler, to the crazy 
 stalker and getting picked up by the Limos. And you have to love the schmoozing of the other people 
 who are trying to move up and get in the spotlight just like you. 
  
  The key is to get your skill levels up and also paying attention to what the directors want. Whether 
 you are shooting a video, a scene in a movie or modeling clothes. Just one great game and if you 
 are a big Sims fan then this particular expansion pack is a must. I definitely hope to see something 
 like this or similar to this in Sims 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Superstar is great! Who wouldn't want their Sim to become and actor, model, or a singer? These 
 are the three things that Superstar has to offer, and they are spectacular! I enjoyed many hours 
 making by Sim the best that I could. 
  
  The whole thing is Sims, so you most likely know what that is... If you'd like me to explain: The 
 graphics are like the images here at Gamespot, the sound is Sim... Watch a video or something, 
 the characters are all your own design and everything... there's more too... Just let me finish.
 
  
  Okay, I'm not going to finish. I'm going to leave you hanging. It's only about ten bucks right 
 now, so go buy it. Either that or buy the whole huge set. Whatever you do, if you want an original 
 Sims game (and already have the first Sims) then buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MustangCobraJC
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The best sim game i have played for years keep them comin.!!!! I think i will be playing this game 
 for a very very very long time until i become the best superstar there is on the game!!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA 
 BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA 
 BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA 
 BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! YEAAAAAAA 
 BOYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is the best game i have ever bought thankyou for making this 
 game it is awsome. If i were to rate this game i would give it a very very very big 10.0 because 
 its so fun. IT was so easy to get my persons skills at max because I had no job and then i got 
 a job, then built a house of of how much i made and know i have the biggest house you could ever 
 see in your life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matsu_shinbu34
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  So I think that The Sims Superstar is and alright game, but overall it's just too complicated. 
 The games concept itself is and awesome idea by any means, but they did too much to it. You have 
 to make friends with all of the famouse people and thats extremely hard to do. For instance, I've 
 been having one of the most famouse people come over to my house for the past like ten or eleven 
 days and our "friendship" is going okay, but it hasnt helped me at all get what Ineed in order 
 to become famouse like I want to. So at this point I'm kind of stuck. I don't know what else to 
 do in order to get that relationship that I need so that i can be famous. I don't like typing in 
 cheat codes, because that's cheating. At the pace that im going I'm going to have to type in another 
 few money cheats so that I don't die. Therefore I need to become famouse fast because I dont have 
 musch money, and from the looks of it im not going to. Essentially the game is too complicated 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Oh man. This Expansion is one of the best. There is so much going on all at the same time that 
 you never get any time to relax and just get your job done.
  
  You start off a normal Sim. You get an agent and you start your new road to success. First off 
 if karaoke night. If you are in a good mood and your creative skills are good enough, you will 
 be instantly promoted to the next level.
  
  You keep doing odd jobs like catalogue modeling and TV commercials till you get right up there 
 with Avril Leveign and Christena Aguilera (makes an appearance in the game) . You have the ability 
 to drop names while having conversations and see the reactions from the other Sims. 
  
  Before you can go up in your Superstar lie, you also have to keep an eye on the Who's hot section 
 of the new paper you receive every day. Keep yourself up top and it's all good. You also have to 
 make friends with Sims that are already Super Stars. 
  
  There are loads of new objects, walls and floors and a whole load of new actions for your sim to 
 perform. The new movie lot is also great.
  
  This is a great expansion. If you are going to get one expansion, let this be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was a hit all by it's self. But now comes a new way to play : as a superstar. From a lowlife 
 to the best singer, actor /actress or fashion idol, this game is highly addictive. A wealth of new 
 items such as the oxygen bar to the satellite dish, the game will amaze you.
  
  Game play : 10/ 10
  This game may seem boring at first, but to players such as myself who buy 
 games for the length you can play them for it is the game to buy. There is no aim, live life to 
 the fullest you want to. I don't like the fact you can never grow up but the rest makes up for that 
 weak point. 
  
  Graphics : 7 / 10.
  Not some thing to boast about, but not sore on the eyes either. You can see the pictures greatly, 
 the sim's faces are nothing special, but not half bad either.
  
  Sound : 7 / 10
  Also nothing to brag about, the music ets a little repetitive after a while, but not a bad attempt.
 
  
  Overall value :10 / 10
  This expansion pack gives all it needs to give and much, much more. If you read tis review and agreed 
 with me ,go and buy it now. Well done maxis for creating a brilliant game and a fun hit for all 
 of the family.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Adding virtually nothing except more items for your house. Superstar is just another expansion 
 in a very over-rated and boring series of games. 
  The Sims, basically let you play god by controlling one sims life, fun in writing, not so when 
 actually playing the game.
  Superstar is the same thing, only you try to become a star in music, acting, modeling, yeah yeah 
 yeah. If you could actually crash and sleep on a bench outside of the studios it would be a little 
 more nice than actually having to go back and forth wasting a lot of time, but then again its real 
 life and you don't have a car, just a substancial amount of money and a phone to call a cab.
  Superstar, just another waste of time, if you enjoy the series and it somehow doesn't bore you 
 to death with repetativeness you actually might want to pay less than $20.00 for this expansion, 
 its just not worth anything if your not a fan or can endure long hours of nothing.
  Go read a book, you'll get more satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best expansion packs out of this series. I love the fact that I can portray 
 a Star so to speak. I love all aspects of this game. Starting from having a butler, to the crazy 
 stalker and getting picked up by the Limos. And you have to love the schmoozing of the other people 
 who are trying to move up and get in the spotlight just like you. 
  
  The key is to get your skill levels up and also paying attention to what the directors want. Whether 
 you are shooting a video, a scene in a movie or modeling clothes. Just one great game and if you 
 are a big Sims fan then this particular expansion pack is a must. I definitely hope to see something 
 like this or similar to this in Sims 2.
  
  Well that is all for and to all that read this:
  
  Happy Gaming!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
