-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2 University
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesims2university/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of intriguing new strategic options.
 Great new music.
 Engaging new items.
 New careers and career rewards.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland depiction of college life, lame pranks.
 Slowdowns and more tedious loading screens than ever.
 Fails to adequately address some existing issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 4,320 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Feb 28, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new college life experience is something of a letdown, but the new items and strategic options 
 more than make up for it. 

  There are three things you can count on: death, taxes, and Sims expansion packs. We can do without 
 the first two, but we'll happily take the latter. The original The Sims received a whopping seven 
 expansions, and now The Sims 2 receives its first pack in the form of The Sims 2 University. Cynics 
 might argue that this is all overkill, but when a game is a huge creative and commercial success 
 like The Sims 2, who wouldn't want more? The Sims 2 University sure gives you more. You get a whole 
 new young adult life stage, plus a new influence system, new careers, new interactions, new items 
 and decorating schemes, and, of course, a whole new experience: university life. That new life 
 experience is something of a letdown, but the new items and strategic options more than make up 
 for it.  

          The worst semester ever: Urele-Oresha-Cham House experiences its first frat fatality.  
    

  Many fans were skeptical when the theme of this expansion pack was first announced, but have no 
 fear. Even if the college-lifestyle angle doesn't appeal to you, you'll still get plenty of features 
 that apply to the core game, too. There's a new influence system that lets your sims make other 
 characters do their bidding, from sprucing up the yard to picking a fight with someone to playing 
 with a sibling. Your sims gain influence points by fulfilling "wants," which is akin to how the 
 existing aspiration system works. Now, many familiar goals, like a sim's child making good grades, 
 grant both aspiration and influence points. The maximum number of influence points your sims can 
 store depends on the number of friends they have. In the past, sims who reached the top of their 
 career paths could forget about the hard work of constantly cultivating numerous friendships. But 
 if you want to use the influence system to its fullest, you'll need to keep a bunch of friends 
 throughout the lives of your sims.  

  The new features in The Sims 2 University aren't just about points and strategies. There's a lot 
 of stuff that's just plain fun. Tired of the same old TV shows and stereo tunes? Well, now there's 
 a new sim sports channel, so your sims can laze away on a Sunday afternoon, munching chips and 
 watching the game. You get two new styles of music for the stereos, too. You get catchy college 
 rock and, for something more sophisticated, straight-ahead acoustic jazz in a number of authentic 
 styles, like soulful '60s hard bop. As with the existing The Sims 2 music, the tunes are well played 
 and filled with great hooks, regardless of the gibberish lyrics. The expansion sports catchy new 
 menu music to boot.  

  Speaking of music, your sims can now play cool new instruments. You can buy an electric upright 
 bass, a drum kit, and a guitar, replete with effects pedal board, and more. As ever, the animations 
 for the new items are a kick to watch, so you'll see show-off guitarists playing behind their backs 
 and drummers flipping their sticks into the air midsong. Not only can your sims practice to earn 
 creativity points, but also they can perform for tips by playing rock, country, or jazz tunes, 
 though you can't actually load the instruments into a taxi for a gig at a community lot. Oddly 
 and inexplicably, child sims can't use these neat new instruments. (So much for starting your own 
 sims Partridge Family.) For that matter, they can't use some other new items, like the pool table, 
 which serves as a new solo or group activity. At the pool table, sims can not only play, but also 
 perform tricks or hustle for simoleons.  

          Gig for simoleons with the game's new instruments.     

  Along with new items, like 
 the pool table, a bonfire, treadmill, cell phone, MP3 player, and arcade games, such as Pimp Viking 
 (quirky Maxis humor at work) , The Sims 2 University also boasts new decorating schemes. There's 
 a small collection of medieval-style items, a battered-and-tattered college dorm theme, and a psychedelic 
 '60s theme with colors so garish you'll need sunglasses to look at them. One problem with The Sims 
 2 is that your interior design options are rather limited, so getting new chairs, wallpaper, and 
 so forth is great... in theory. The new ones just aren't particularly practical, unless you're creating 
 a swinging bachelor pad for an Austin Powers sim.     

  In addition to the new design elements, you get new gamewide interactions. Now sims can "hang out" 
 (laze about and chat) , introduce one sim to another, play a few new games, like pillow fights or 
 "kicky bag" (Hacky Sack) , and pull pranks. The pranks were supposed to be a selling point of the 
 expansion, but they're a big bust. Coming from the fertile minds at Maxis, the pranks are surprisingly 
 unimaginative and boring. Water balloons? Joy buzzers? That's just weak. It would have been better 
 if Maxis had spent time fixing problems with existing actions, because it can still take ages to 
 perform simple tasks, like getting kids off the school bus or accepting grocery deliveries.  

 
          A kegger with fruit juice? This is strictly a PG version of college.     

  As for the college portion of The Sims 2 University, it has to be said that it bears only a vague 
 resemblance to the real thing. It's college as a 12-year-old might imagine it. The pressure cooker 
 of rigorous course schedules and intense studying is replaced by fairly easy academic demands, 
 though balancing those with a social life is realistically challenging. The alcohol-fueled adult 
 antics that many students use to unwind are replaced by drinking juice and pulling those lame, 
 PG-rated pranks. This is a bland version of college.  

  Nevertheless, the college portion of the game has interesting things to offer. The Sims 2 University 
 ships with three ready-made universities, each with its own layout and vibe, though the differences 
 are mainly just cosmetic. You can basically do the same things at any of them, and you can access 
 any of these universities (or ones of your own creation) from your existing sims neighborhoods. 

  So how do young sims go off to university? There are three methods. You can pick ready-made young 
 adult sims, fashion your own college-age sims using the usual "create a sim" method, or take existing 
 teen sims from your families and send them packing. The option of sending a teen to college creates 
 new strategic concerns. First of all, it's the only way to enter the young adult life stage, which 
 seems unfair and makes little sense. It's also the only way to enter certain new careers, which, 
 on the other hand, makes perfect sense. If you decide you want those benefits, timing becomes an 
 issue. Do you want to keep your teen sim in the house as long as possible to build skills? Or do 
 you pack the kid off to college as soon as he or she becomes a teen to free up space in the house 
 for new sims?  

  Teens' grades, skill points, and job performances are doubly important now, because they directly 
 affect how much scholarship money sims receive. That money can make the difference between living 
 in crowded dorms or renting nice little two-story homes all for themselves. Early skill-building 
 will need a new focus, too. Ambitious players often start grooming sims for specific careers as 
 soon as the sims become toddlers and are able to boost skills. But now you'll need to consider 
 not only the requirements for an intended career, but also for a degree program.  

          College grants sims many bonuses, like extra want slots, the ability to switch aspirations, 
 and new job opportunities.     

  Once at college, sims will find campuses organized by the same principle as sim neighborhoods. 
 Each campus is divided into separate areas, like dorms, libraries, student unions, and gyms, and 
 these can only be visited by calling a taxi. In other words, they're like a collection of isolated 
 community lots. That brings us to one of The Sims 2 University's major flaws. The community-lot 
 implementation in the core game is already a big hassle. To go to a lot, you have to make your 
 sim call a taxi. Then you have to wait for the taxi to arrive. Then the sim has to get in, sit 
 through a loading screen, pick a destination, sit through another loading screen, and then repeat 
 the process in reverse order when returning home. In other words, the core game discourages you 
 from making sims leave their homes, and the expansion discourages you from making them leave their 
 campus lodgings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (99 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Atari_7200
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  As a Sims fan, I own all the original expansion packs for The Sims 1. All of them featuring tons 
 of new items and new gameplay elements. But this one has a few new items and a very glitched, very 
 easy university element. Don't get me wrong, the university idea is great fun when it pulls you 
 in. The games first impression was to put a frozen sim in animation right in front of my dorm! 
 The game expects you to work at the cafeteria for $10 an hour to afford things like telescopes, 
 book cases, a new bed basically anything you could buy if you're at home. But why would you do 
 that when you can go into buy mode and sell all of your peers stuff from their dorm? Yes I'm serious, 
 You can do that without your peers noticing. 
  
  The university element is like the jobs you have to do to earn money back at home, but the only 
 difference is that you now are moved away from home and in a campus with a bunch of other sims. 
 You're bascially still a teenager but the developers have decided to just make this a whole new 
 age group. So your sim has to be a teenager in order to go to university. You can choose your catorgory 
 for your major in 12 subjects. Physics, literature, political science, mathematics, economics, biology 
 ,philosophy, artistic, drama, psychology and history. Some of these subjects unlock new careers 
 for your sims such as artist, paronormal and show business. Others just let you step though the 
 firsts bits of the career you chose. 
  
  I love it how the developers tried to make this expansion pack just like a real life university. 
 Just like in real life university, you get a term paper that you have to complete by the end of 
 the term. This is pretty straight foward. The way I do it is just to click on a computer I brought 
 by selling peoples beds, click "college" then click "term paper %0." Or I can get someone else 
 to do it for you. 
  
  Your sim (s) also have assignments, unlike homework. Assignments don't have to be complete. If you 
 do the assignment, you will get a little upgrade on your total grade for the term. But the thing 
 is about Assignments, they never, ever end! For example: Your sim (s) has just completed a Assignment, 
 clicked on him/her again and you will see another Assignment! Well I guess it doesn't really matter 
 because Assignments are a waste of time anyway. 
  
  The thing I like about The Sims 2 University is that you get a completely new bar that is called 
 "Influence." Depending how full the bar is and how many friends you have. You can influence Sims 
 to do your bidding or improve on their life style, for example: You can influence one of your peers 
 to do your term paper. The sim you have influenced will now do your term paper while you can relax 
 and watch TV. 
  
  Another thing I like is how it has such a wacky sense of humor. You can take off your sims clothes 
 and streak around the campus until everyone grows accustom to your bits. Prank someone by farting 
 and saying it was them, using a joy buzzer or chucking a water balloon at them.
  
  All in all, this is a wacky but glitched first expansion pack for The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:44 am PT
Review:  After the great success of The Sims 2, the developing team has started to release expansions, pointing 
 to make the gameplay and the whole world of The Sims bigger, and more realistic. University succeeds 
 in most of its targets.
  
  As the title of the game says, the game adds three universities, where you can send your Sims. 
 You can also create your own university, as a part of the full-customizable content of the whole 
 series, but I will not focus on this right now. Right after the start of the game, you will be 
 asked to match the neighborhood you play in with one or more universities. Visiting an existing 
 university, you will see the campus which contains lots for the students to live in, dormitories 
 and many community lots the Sims can spare their time. You can, of course create new students, 
 or send existing teenagers to college straight from an affiliated neighborhood.
  
  The life in the campus is not easy: you will have to guide your Sims to the end of each semester 
 succesfully, passing the semester exams with a quite high grade. After you finish, you can work 
 in a work affiliated with the major you previously declared. Though there are new and exciting 
 careers, the whole concept of the life in college is severely broken.
  
  What comes along with the new expansion is the stuff. Every clothing, items and hairstyle installed 
 with University brings fresh interest into the game. To conclude, this expansion is a very good 
 addition to The Sims 2 franchise, and if the developing team continues like this in the future, 
 the world of The Sims might be much greater than is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Your Sims are now young adults leaving home to live the ultimate college fantasy. Immerse them 
 in college life as they become the Big Sim on Campus. They'll relish their new-found freedom as 
 they party with friends, join fraternities and sororities and pull outrageous pranks. Your Sims 
 will explore all the campus hot-spots as they frequent lounges, gyms, coffee houses and more. Help 
 them fulfill new lifetime goals to unlock more rewards and reap all of the benefits of their university 
 years.
  
  Features:
  
  New Young Adult Age Group
  All-new university age Sims leave home and take over campus. Now they can relish their new-found 
 freedom by setting a new life goal.
  
  Become the Big Sim on Campus
  Your Sims have all-new wants and fears tied to their social and academic life. Develop their ability 
 to influence friends, classmates, and faculty.
  
  Earn Degrees to Open Up New Careers
  Choose from 11 majors for your Sims and keep their grades on track. Secure the final degree and 
 open up four new career paths.
  
  New "College Town"
  Now your Sims can live the ultimate college fantasy whether it's living in dorms, rushing a fraternity, 
 or shacking up with friends in their very own pad.
  
  College Lifestyle
  Join a band, crash parties, find a part-time job, or get initiated into a secret society, print 
 money, and cheat on your studies. How will your Sims enjoy their college years?
  
  Over 100 New Objects and Dcor Items
  Take a fun study break with the Arcade Game or polish your 
 skills on the Drum Kit. Hustle your pals on the Pool Table, milk the cow plant and extend your 
 Sims life span, or take a photo with the new Camera and use it as a wall-hanging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunbrine47
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The first oringial Ep for the Sims 2.
  I will now list the pros and cons.
  
  Pros
  .Extends Life span (More time to do stuff)
  .Ample supply of people to befriend
  .When Living 
 in a dorm all your sims needs can be easly filled (Food is cooked by a cafetriea worker and lined 
 up on the counters)
  .Max out your grade meter through a myarid of ways besides class (Assingmints ,term paper etc.)
 
  .The better you do the more the collage pays your sims.
  .Gives you an incetive to start skill building early (So your sims can bag more money for collage 
 when they are teens)
  .Going to collage helps advance career quickly (Through major ,skills and friends)
  .Many more 
 Pros
  
  Cons
  
  .Can be long and boring at times (That's why I try to send a bunch of teen sims at a time so they 
 can get thier education over with.)
  .Once you are done maxing your grade meter at the begining of the semester ,it can be very boring 
 for the rest of the semester.
  (Even with all the activites you can do in a collage "Hood")
  .Many more cons
  
  Over all 
 thanks to gameplay changes and a fun slection of new objects ,University makes a good ep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcomputer08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  After being hooked on the Sims for a long time I started to look into getting some of the expansions. 
 University was the second one I got.
  I'll start with the good, and there's plenty of it in this expansion. The game comes with three 
 ready to go collages: one is a party school, another is an ivy league type and the third is a mix 
 of the first two. All you do is pick one of the three (or you can build your own) then you're ready 
 to start your collage life.
  The first thing you should know about collage life is that you should have a plan for the Sim that 
 you have sent, because it is an investment. But the end result is worth it. Your degree opens up 
 four awesome new career paths and you gain new life experiences. You can join a frat house or start 
 your own. You can even join the secret society. Students can meet new people and even hang around 
 with their professors. 
  There are also plenty of new objects added to the game in both the "Buy" and "Build" catalogs. 
 Also the rewards for the new careers are some of the best career rewards in the overall game. There's 
 a Sim-eating plant, a plastic surgery kit, a phone that calls the grim reaper and an antique camera. 
 If you want to see a new creature added to your game, be cheap when the grim reaper offers to revive 
 a dead friend or family member, you might get an undead friend instead...
  Overall University adds new addicting game-play that will have you planning out your Sim's future 
 from the time they are born. 
  The one and only problem I had with University was the time it takes for a Sim to graduate. It 
 can take a while. The best way I found to handle this was to work with five or six Sims at a time, 
 in one dorm house.
  Hope I helped you decide about wither or not you would like this game. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: University is an expansion pack to The Sims 2 which makes your teenage Sims finally 
 get the education they need to help in their careers. The idea is very interesting, however there 
 isn't much to do at University. 
  
  --Graphics --
  
  The graphics have not changed compared to The Sims 2, however that doesn't mean it is a bad thing. 
 The objects in the game are really detailed and the "sims" themselves look just as good with expressions 
 in their face and nice animations. The edges however are a little choppy but that doesn't change 
 the fact that the graphics are really good.
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  In any Sims game, the main object of the game is to take care of your own custom character/family 
 and run their lives. With the added University to the game, your teenage Sim is able to move out 
 of their home and into a dorm to start their education. However, living at University isn't that 
 much different from living at home. Let's make an example... Bob has just been sent to University. 
 He picks his dorm and after a while many NPC Sims arrive in the same building as Bob to pick their 
 dorms. With so many people always being in the same place, some computers can be very laggy being 
 at University. Bob now wants to get started on his education. He picks one of the many majors to 
 chose from and each major requires you to learn certain skills to advance your education so you 
 can pass the final exam. So, Bob has chosen his major and has gone to class. You wait until Bob 
 returns, and once he does you try to get his skills up, fill all your needs, maybe chat with the 
 other students, go to bed and repeat. This is basically all there is to University, however you 
 can change things around by throwing parties or doing crazy things like streaking. The concept 
 of the game was very interesting but there really isn't much to do.
  
  5/10
  
  --Music --
  
  New tunes have been added to those boring loading screens in this expansion. Especially 
 at University because in the Dorm Rooms, music is always playing in the background to make the 
 game seem less dull.
  
  8/10
  
  --Story --
  
  The story of the Sims is up to you! You can make your sim get eaten by a cow plant or make them 
 have a successful career, it is all up to you. Being able to control every aspect of the game is 
 a great idea. You can even make your own neighborhoods and make their own stories. Everything you 
 can imagine is in the Sims. Aliens, ghosts and now, Zombies! Yes, your Sims can now become Zombies. 
 To do this, you need to get a certain Job Reward that ressurects dead Sims. Once you use it, you 
 need to pay the Grim Reaper money to ressurect the Sim. If you pay a lot, they will be normal but 
 if you don't, the Grim Reaper will ressurect them as a Zombie. Zombies aren't much different from 
 regular Sims besides their appearance, the fact that they don't age and some other minor things. 
 The Zombie thing is a cool idea, but they are too similar to regular Sims.
  
  8/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  The Sims 2: University was an interesting concept, but they didn't really add 
 much to do. Maybe, if they made you able to go with your Sim to class and do different activities, 
 it would've been better. Needless to say, The Sims 2 is a great game and University just adds to 
 your game to make it seem more realistic. However, the game is just as good without adding University.
 
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Many fans were skeptical when the theme of this expansion pack was first announced, but have no 
 fear. Even if the college-lifestyle angle doesn't appeal to you, you'll still get plenty of features 
 that apply to the core game, too. There's a new influence system that lets your sims make other 
 characters do their bidding, from sprucing up the yard to picking a fight with someone to playing 
 with a sibling. Your sims gain influence points by fulfilling "wants," which is akin to how the 
 existing aspiration system works. Now, many familiar goals, like a sim's child making good grades, 
 grant both aspiration and influence points. The maximum number of influence points your sims can 
 store depends on the number of friends they have. In the past, sims who reached the top of their 
 career paths could forget about the hard work of constantly cultivating numerous friendships. But 
 if you want to use the influence system to its fullest, you'll need to keep a bunch of friends 
 throughout the lives of your sims. 
  
  The new features in The Sims 2 University aren't just about points and strategies. There's a lot 
 of stuff that's just plain fun. Tired of the same old TV shows and stereo tunes? Well, now there's 
 a new sim sports channel, so your sims can laze away on a Sunday afternoon, munching chips and 
 watching the game. You get two new styles of music for the stereos, too. You get catchy college 
 rock and, for something more sophisticated, straight-ahead acoustic jazz in a number of authentic 
 styles, like soulful '60s hard bop. As with the existing The Sims 2 music, the tunes are well played 
 and filled with great hooks, regardless of the gibberish lyrics. The expansion sports catchy new 
 menu music to boot. 
  
  Speaking of music, your sims can now play cool new instruments. You can buy an electric upright 
 bass, a drum kit, and a guitar, replete with effects pedal board, and more. As ever, the animations 
 for the new items are a kick to watch, so you'll see show-off guitarists playing behind their backs 
 and drummers flipping their sticks into the air midsong. Not only can your sims practice to earn 
 creativity points, but also they can perform for tips by playing rock, country, or jazz tunes, 
 though you can't actually load the instruments into a taxi for a gig at a community lot. Oddly 
 and inexplicably, child sims can't use these neat new instruments. (So much for starting your own 
 sims Partridge Family.) For that matter, they can't use some other new items, like the pool table, 
 which serves as a new solo or group activity. At the pool table, sims can not only play, but also 
 perform tricks or hustle for simoleons.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The first of The Sims 2 expansion packs is all about getting skills for your young students. Once 
 they have graduated from high school, you can send them on to college. They actually move out of 
 their parent's home and can find a dorm room or fraternity to live in. Once they are there, they 
 can "claim a door" of a room within a building, which will become their home for the next four 
 years. Yours sims can successfully graduate from college by studying, doing their homework, and 
 don't forget to write that all-important term paper and get to the final exams on time!
  
  The content within this expansion is what really makes this a "must buy," even if the gameplay 
 itself isn't that spectacular. In particular are cell phones. The ability to carry a telephone 
 with you wherever you go without having to buy normal ground-based phones is something I have wanted 
 for years. There are also a number of interesting decorative objects, and new music for your stereo.
 
  
  This first EP for The Sims 2 isn't exactly what I had hoped for, but it is a good start.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The University expansion pack, is in my opinion the best one yet!!! It allows you to go to a college 
 of your choice and you get to do almost everythingthing there is at a university. Have parties, 
 have friends, fall in love, make the grade, and graduate. With this expanion pack it gives you 
 new ways to play the game, You don't have to start a family to get to university, now you can just 
 start out as a singl young adult and get your career off the ground from there. 
  
  Best of with a degree in your pocket you don't have to start your career from the bottom. Some 
 degrees are so powerful, that all it take is one promotiion or two to reach the top of your career. 
 All because you started out in university.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2: University adds a new "Young Adult" life stage for Sims 2 characters, and a new "College 
 Town" environment tailored to all their young adult fears and desires. When characters complete 
 their teenage years, they'll now have the choice to move away from home, and into a dorm room at 
 the university. To aid in this exciting but sometimes challenging transition, first-year students 
 are required to live in the dorms, but if they do well there, they can eventually move into off-campus 
 housing. The dorms are an excellent place to learn about college life and meet other students, 
 however, so young adult Sims will want to make the most of their time there.
  
  Dorm rooms are small and standardized, but the dorms themselves are large and bustling with an 
 array of NPC characters, providing the player's scholarly Sim with all sorts of potential companionship, 
 from friends and study partners to rivals and love interests. Once they've met some other characters 
 and learned their way around campus, students may wish to move into a place of their own, or into 
 a group house with other students. To do so, they'll need to earn some extra rent money, by picking 
 up a part-time job, or perhaps hustling pool at the local hangout. 
  
  Many Sims 2 players may look back upon (or forward to) their college years as a time of social 
 growth as well as scholarly dedication, and this expansion pack is also designed to account for 
 the extracurricular aspects of collegiate life. Sorority and fraternity houses are excellent places 
 to throw wild parties and truly cut loose, especially when they're equipped with the proper party-oriented 
 objects. Characters can take turns doing inverted chug-a-lugs on the "Juice Barrel," for example, 
 or engage in relaxed contemplation around the "Bubble Blower" apparatus. Opportunities to blow 
 off steam abound, in fact, as young adult Sims can take part in pillow fights, toga parties, musical 
 jam sessions, foot-bag circles, and even buck naked "streaking" runs.
  
  As in the real world, hard work (and play) at college can lead to fresh perspectives and new opportunities. 
 While progressing through school, studious Sims can earn an additional "want" slot. They'll also 
 have a one-time opportunity to change their overall life aspiration. If they manage to keep their 
 sanity and study hard enough, young adult Sims will eventually graduate to full adulthood, where 
 they can truly reap the fruits of their collegiate efforts. College graduates can access new career 
 paths, such as "paranormal," "science," and "show biz," each with its own appropriate ultimate 
 reward object at the top of the ladder.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uhero41
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  This was the first expansion to the Sims 2 and is still my favourite so far. I like that you can 
 choose your majors and that when you get on the deans list you get more money from your grants. 
 Being able to start a fraternity is cool too. But I found it hard to finish college because while 
 I was studying all the time it was hard from me to socialize so after my guy made it through college 
 I think he only had one friend left. The coolest thing for me was being able to work at a part 
 time job making coffee or playing a insrument for tips. Overall this is a great expansion pack 
 with loads of cool new items and cool new things to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Right, let me start off by saying..
  TS2 University is pretty good - saying that i only got it today - but its still pretty fun.
  
 It may be a little old now but that only means its cheaper doesnt it ? so there is no problem there. 
 The Gameplay - Added Objects and You get to go to university - which to some of us.. arent at uni 
 yet !
  The Sound - Same except more songs.. better ones tbh !
  The Graphics - Basically the same... I may have made it out to be really boring but it isnt .. 
 well not yet for me anyway.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: german84
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Being myself a former university student, I guess I can say something about this game and Uni-life.
 
  
  A new age group has been added in order to the sims to get higher education and better chances 
 in life. The Young Adults are full adults with a teenager attitude: Not here nor there. With these 
 atributes, they can engage smoothly into grown-ups' activities... What would college life be without 
 all that wilderness?? Without parties the night before the exams?
  
  It is indeed a PG-13 version of college life: Juice instead of alcohol? Bubbles insted of pipes? 
 That's odd, but it serves the same purpose, doesn't it?
  
  Good luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  I know, its odd. The first expansion pack for the no.1 pc games for the year, is set in sub-world 
 of more acedemic activity. But strangely, when you enter teenager year, you can go to Uni. So when 
 your 14, you become a young adult and are located in University. Sad isn't it. They promoted it 
 as a community of dorms, houses and greeks was it all that fun. Well... no. You still had to make 
 sure essays were done on times, makes sure your acedemic achievement was high enough, and not get 
 bored of it in 4 sims days. It was a step, and new neighbourhood, well 3 really, and new objects, 
 socials and jobs. Hopefully, by Nightlife, new features will be inserted and &pound;15 will be 
 well spent. Keep up the good work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSchafer3
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I like the University idea in itself, but I don't like how they did the expansion. I guess there 
 are no major problems to point out besides some minor annoyances, but it just didn't hit me right. 
 For one, I really found it, mostly boring. With the heavy workload, I felt locked in a schedule 
 that I had to follow in order to pass. I didn't do much in the universities as a result. The scholarship 
 program was kind of simplistic and there was kind of a limit on what you could do. Where are the 
 sports, the squad, the band? Then again, how would you have the time for that with your classwork? 
 This expansion just wasn't good value for me, the $30 or so I payed for didn't even seem worth 
 it. This game didn't do anything for me. Buy Open for Business or Nightlife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Well now you can go live on campus which is just another new location for you sim to go. Here you 
 can party and act crazy bring out those electric guitars everybody. You will also get a dorm room 
 in which you can decorate. You can also make your campus you want your sim to go to. Its pretty 
 cool and really changes the sims and makes you wonder and do something different for a little. 
 With new decorations and new social options and new aspirations, new goals, new sims for you to 
 meet, new career, a new objective, and new game. Basically this would sum it all up if your familiar 
 with the sims franchise if not go look at some other reviews for re-insurance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University makes you have an idea of how hard the university must be (for those who 
 didn't went to the place yet) . Controlling your sims it's a lot more fun with this expansion, because 
 there are so much more actions do do with themselves of with other sims, like singing rap, hearing 
 the mp3 player, playing the psp (i guess it's a PSP, don't you?) , etc.
  
  Really, really, really growns on you. A lot of fun surrounds the world of your new young adults. 
 For those who don't have this expansion, I recommend to buy it. Oh! And I love to play with sims 
 in the dorms. They don't have to cook, or clean, or nothing! Just study and live, just that! Amazing! 
 Excellent! Worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game adds alot to the best game ever: The Sims 2. It probably does add the most stuff, such 
 as Gutairs, the option to streak, Aspiration/Career rewards, Tips, Zombies, Death Phone, Dorms, 
 Cofee shops, secret societies, Hot cheerleaders, Sports Channel, Mascots, new careers... and obviosly 
 the ability to make a College school for your sims. Although this is not the best Sims 2 Expansion 
 Pack ever devised or Created it probably does add the most... but overall The Sims 2 University 
 is a must have for any Sims 2 owner (Well, all the Expansion Packs are must haves..... so..... 
 MUST HAVE!!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: University is just an awesome game that is worth buying. Must I go on? Well, if you 
 want a little more advanced review, keep reading. The Sims 2: University gets a 7.9 from Gamespot. 
 I think that the rating should be at least 8.0. This being said from a person with a brand new 
 computer, I wouldn't know how slowly it loads, so maybe it does derserve a 7.9. Anyways, in the 
 game, you can send your teenager to college. When they arrive, they will grow up. They'll look 
 more mature, but usually they don't look the coolest, so you might want to get a taxi and get new 
 clothes. That's actually the biggest flaw in the game. The taxi. Even if you have Nightlife (another 
 great expansion pack) chances are there isn't enough space to put your car. Either way, you just 
 have to be patient, maybe put it into ultra speed. When I was playing Sims 2 with Nightlife, it 
 was truly addicting. University makes it som much more addicting. There aren't many new additions 
 to the game. Some include new clothing (not much) , some new items like a Counterfeiting machine, 
 and some new social interactions such as water balloons, joy buzzers, and the ventrilo fart. All 
 pranks are very funny, but you have to be careful who you do it to. As in regular colleges, you 
 can study a major such as drama, art, and others. To complete in your classes, you might want to 
 do your assignments, gain the required skill points, but most importantly, write your term paper. 
 This will help your career when you get out of college VERY well. So basically, The Sims 2: University 
 is a fun, humorous, and addicting game. So my opinion is that you should buy it and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict190
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Ok, first I didn't know if I wanted this game or not. But im REALLY happy I did. Ok in the game 
 you can send your teen sims ( from the other towns) to the university, or make them at the university. 
 I have to say though, you almost HAVE to make the dorm rooms nicer. The sim has alot of stress 
 so the better comfort, entertainment ext the better! motherlode is a cheat code and when you put 
 it in ( by pressing Ctrl shift c) it gives you 50,000! :D You get to choose a major also! You have 
 to do homework, and term papers. I would advise you to start the term paper right away! The term 
 paper will increase your grade wich is shown at the bottom of the screen. The higher your grade 
 at the end of the term, the more money you get from the university! So study up get good grades, 
 and have alot of fun with this game! it rox!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I know this sounds quite boring , but when I first played the sims 2 without any expantion packs, 
 I couldn't stop playing it, but when I tried the sims 2 university expansion packs I felt quite 
 bored not because of the sound or gameplay or anything, but about all you have to do in the university 
 expansion packs is study and talk to friends. If you like the sims 2 then get the sims 2, but wait 
 for the other expansion packs to come. In this game you also need to share a house with your friends 
 which is quite fun. You don't need to envite no one or telephone them.
  
  I think university is quite boring. Not as good as nightlife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is okay overall, but it has it's flaws. One big flaw in it is that when you're in college 
 you have to pay the whole dorm's bills. Also the photo album you have while in college? Well it 
 gets deleted when your sim graduates or drops out. Also the new selections aren't that great for 
 college life, other than some really cheap stuff what the heck is a college kid going to do with 
 a 60s or Middle Age theme room anyways? Also the idea that you have to study up on skills to even 
 get enough compatence to pass in a term is a bit off too. And the term paper takes forever, there's 
 hardly any chance of getting it done between partying. I don't know I think it's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 university is hillorious I mean striking pillow fighting togoas this game is worth it! I 
 mean look of all the new stuff like asporation rewards, new things to do, new age, new furni, new clothes, new 
 objects and the best thing of all new things to download on thesims2. com! You should totaly get 
 this game! I mean you can get a good education and with that a good job plus if you go to university 
 and get a regular job like scince you can skip the first three job promotions! (at least that's 
 what I heard) All in all sims 2 universty is a great new experince for your sim (s) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Even when it doesn't have everything of the real college life it's really nice way of taking it 
 into the sim world.
  You can create Sims in a college as young adults and get them to any dorm or just move your teens 
 from their neighborhood to the college by using a phone or computer or just going to the college 
 an choosing the option Move Sims to college 
  This time your sim's first task will not be checking the newspaper and choosing a job, Instead 
 of that you use a phone or a computer and choose one of the majors included in the game (Physics, 
 History, Psychology, Drama, Art, Philosophy, Biology, Economics, Mathematics, Political Science 
 and Literature) any major you choose will require building specific skills and it will help you 
 on getting a related job later when you get out of college.
  Not everything in this Expansion Pack is focused on young adults, there are also four new careers 
 for your adult Sims to work (Paranormal, Show Business, Artist, Natural Scientist) new objects, 
 clothing, hair styles and the Influence Bar which you can fill by fulfilling some wants and even 
 enlarge by making lots of friends, then use your influence points to have Sims do what you want.
 
  While all this new features may sound pretty interesting, one of the bad aspects is that now the 
 game will take longer on the loading screens and also you may experience a slowed-down gameplay 
 in college dorms since there are always around 10 Sims in the lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I like the college life style that you experience in the University expansion. I love the Sims what 
 better than to have a sequel. I like all the things that you can do on sims2. com and upload in 
 to your game. There are tons of cheats for the game i use the 'motherlode' one all the time so 
 i cam build my dorms with $50,000 at a time. I spend more time building houses, than actually playing 
 the game, the game is fun too. i like the abbility to have cell phones, mp3 players, and video 
 games. i also like going to commercial places. most of the time they are built by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University is very cool as I said the idea of putting a University where young adults 
 can go when they are finished high school is incredible. I mostly like the fact that when you are 
 finished University you get a diploma that goes into you career reward, I mean most of you guys 
 would agree with me on this. I made my girl in this game finish University and then she fell in 
 love with the most coolest guy in The Sims 2 University. My most favorite thing I like to do in 
 this game is cheat, Most of you guys out there would also find this cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This expansion sucks. No one likes school in real life, why would anyone like it in a game. It's 
 not fun either way, and homework is still a hassle. Some of the content is nice to have, but I 
 would have much rather downloaded it than wasted my money on a boring expansion, which this definately 
 is. Going to school is not a fun gameplay aspect. I don't love it at all. And this expansion didn't 
 offer enough new content other than a new stage of life and a couple of new career paths and some 
 game content. To me, this expansion was a big waste of money... I grew bored with it in a couple 
 quick hours. The whole point of an expansion pack is to add a new interesting aspect to a game, 
 which this didn't do very well. It is certainly new, but not interesting at all. It's not exciting, 
 not worth the money it costs, not enough new features to keep players interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amzon
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  The game is defiantly one that is one to play. Combined with The Sims 2 it is good. I found that 
 the University part of the game quickly became boring and repetitive. The constant repeating of 
 doing assignments and term papers, gaining skill points and research is bland and leaves very little 
 time for other things that have made me love The Sims sets. Perhaps combined with the other expansions 
 it could be better but I will still have to wait for those...
  
  Until then though The Sims 2 University could do with just a few extra things:
   More time for 
 friendships and romance before exams
   Different clothes
   The ability to own your own car (I am not sure whether this is available in another expansion)
 
   Less need for food (I find I spend most of my time feeding my Sims)
   Time to go just a little slower (travelling takes an unnatural amount of time)
  
  Try it 
 you will enjoy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pink2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  finally, sims can have the much desired college education! it's fun, your sims get, um let's say, 
 "extra life" by attending college. classes are fun to attend, instead of scrolling up to see how 
 many days left as an adult or kid or whatever, it just says ?? hours until the final exam. pretty 
 cool. oh, and let's not forget the majors: mega funny! you should check out your sims next subject 
 when they take the tests, you are bound to laugh, or at least smile, depends on your humor.
  
  the fact that there are 4 new careers is awesome! you should try getting all of the promotions, 
 it's totally worth it. they earn more than 1 thousand dollars when they go to work, and only work 
 like 3 days a week, the sweet life! 
  
  also, graduating college gives you 2 extra aspirations (so you end up with 6) . it's a whole lot 
 better since it's a whole easier to please your sim. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supakilla_2004
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 University was sort of a disapointment. The new objects and life time wants are very good 
 ideas. Going to university is fun at first but after a while it can get quite annoying. At first 
 the experience is cool you get to live in dorms with other sims but after the first semester it 
 starts to get really university begins to get stupid it. This is because it requires to much time 
 to finish university. If you are like me and don't want to spend 24 sim days in university there 
 is always the choice of dropping out which is what I did several times.
  
  Aside from university being really boring this expansion pack is alright and it is worthy expansion 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hladyb4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Ever wonder what to do with those now teenage sims you have hanging around the house, tired of 
 all their partying or just need more room for the new sims babies that are coming along? Well wonder 
 no more. Send your teenager to college. You can follow their careers as students and have them 
 visit home or call occasionally or you can stay with the original family and call them from time 
 to time. I kind of toggle between the two. Initially I played with University quite a bit, but 
 I got a little bored with it. Still it's a good EP and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  This was an expansion I had waited a log time for in The sims 1, that you have to get good grades, 
 for a good job. Finaly!
  
  The good: The grades matters for your job, a whole new town (s) , and a lot of new cool objects. 
 It's also a new age for the sims. Lots of new functions also.
  
  The bad: It's a really long study time when your're at the universe, and can get boring after a 
 few generations of sims.
  
  NL og BL is a little better than this expansion, but if you always have liked sims, you will like 
 this expansion too.
  
  Ok game/expansion, but not the best..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallonebrownme
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  i have jsut started playing the university pack annd so far im really enjoying thegame. although 
 with the college life you either get good grades and have less fun or you can party out right and 
 your grades will suffer. im trying now in the game to find a medium for my sims because college 
 life is suppose to be fun but at the same time i want the sims to be successful at their college 
 majors. also in college life there are tons of things to do on campus like join sorriorities and 
 throw wild sports parties and even earn some money to help with your college expenses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny139
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  I don't see why people dislike this expansion. In my opinion, its the best expansion for the Sims 
 2 yet!
  
  The Gameplay is addictive, and will leave you playing for hours. And though collage life can get 
 boring after a while, I think its a fun new way of life. As for new jobs, I wish they had added 
 more, and made some non-degree required. I mean, a doctor can work without a degree, but a Cult 
 Leader can't? But this little annoyance won't take away from the sheer brilliance of the game.
 
  
  Graphics and sound are good, but the music can get a bit repetitive. The games difficulty is perfect, 
 easy to learn, and addictive. I can honestly say I have been playing this game for nearly 100 hours. 
 This makes $20 seem like nothing compared to what you can get from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miragedolphin7
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Of course, we all knew it was coming, right? The Sims 2 was getting its first expansion pack. And 
 lo and behold, your Sims can get a higher education! The studying, the finals, the socializing... 
 ah, the good times. 
  
  This pack adds a lot: new objects, NPCs, and even an extra age your Sims can live out. There were 
 also new jobs and the inclusion of majors for your Sim to choose. Do your Sims need money for those 
 much-needed books and endless supply of ramen noodles? Sell coffee, start a band, tutor, and even 
 become a physical trainer... or just make obscenely good grades. Don't have a place to stay? Bunker 
 in the dorms or join a Greek house. The possibilities are endless, and each Sim's experience is 
 unique.
  
  Alas, the pack makes two enormous mistakes: the Young Adult age is only experienced if your teen 
 Sim goes to college and the new jobs are only accessed once your Sim graduates. These are forgivable, 
 and I hope this is corrected in future packs (Lord knows we'll see many more) .
  
  Once more and always, happy Simming!
  miragedolphin7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University expansion pack is just what your sims need in order to expand their IQ points. 
 You can be housed in a dorm of your own or rent your very own place to call your own. Either party 
 with friends or just sit at home and work on your studies. Your sims can either graduate successfully 
 or flunk out early and move back in with your folks (if they don't kick you out first) . 
  There is new career paths to follow. You can work part-time jobs at the coffee house or join your 
 own college band. 
  Create new life goals for yourself, and unlock new rewards.
  There is over 125 new objects to choose from, including the drum kit, arcade game, home plastic 
 surgery kit, and even a man-eating cow plant to get rid of those annoying neighbors of yours.
 
  You can either give your sim a healthy, long lifestyle or allow them to get squished by a falling 
 satellite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 was one of the top games of 2004. What happens when you give an already good game a 
 great expanision pack? You get the SIms 2 University. Although there is not much in this game that 
 really makes it feel different, the extra content is what this game is about. Now you can design 
 your sim with clothes and hairstyles like rockstar punks. There is also guitars and other nice 
 new stuff that really makes gamers want to play more of the Sims 2. If you have not yet purchased 
 The Sims 2 University, I highly recommend you do because you are missing a lot of great new content 
 if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican2456
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  one of the best games ever before the sims not the sims 2 used to well..... suck the graphics weren't 
 all that great and there wasnt things happening evryday that will suprise like alien ad alien babies 
 and theres more ways of dying and theres way more to do.... the sims 2 ROCKS!!!!..... theres asperations 
 theres want and then influeence and ur sims live for a way longer time and even more when they 
 go to university and then u can go out to restaraunts and then start ur own business in all the 
 new expanisons pack. all fo these things get into just one game which i think is just great. Thes 
 Sims 2 was one of the fisrt games ive evr played i hated the console versions like the urbz i hated 
 those games b/c u dont really get to do ur own stuff u ahve to do the mission and the house were 
 only 1 floor and all that other bad stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzvvolf
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this was just plain fun. This was an expansion pack you didn't entirely expect, but when it 
 was released, you were glad it was something fun and interesting instead of a pile of new items 
 and characters. Personally, it is my favorite out of the expansion packs thus far.
  
  First, it's much less mundane than the simplicity involved in normal play without the expansion. 
 You spend two hours going to class, and then the rest of the time is spent studying, socializing, 
 exploring, etc. It feels much more open. Also, it gives you a nice chance to get a jump start on 
 your character's career, meet a ton of people (even make it with a couple of teachers. Nyuk nyuk) , 
 and visit a bunch of different locales you don't have to make all by yourself, unless you want 
 to. Me, I'm lazy.
  
  But overall, one thing needs to be said: there is nothing funnier than the smarta$$ comments the 
 developers made about different classes and majors. I cracked up numerous times about how they 
 came down on the philosophy degree for being useless.
  
  Buy this expansion if you have to choose between the lot. This one is the best, the most interesting, 
 and definitely the most funny if you can live without the Simlish version of Suffer Well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a very good game. Anyone playing this expansion regularly will know that. And this adds 
 some very decent new features.
  
  The basic addition is obviously the ability to go to college. This is very well done and adds a 
 whole new level. There are four years, both with two sections. There are dorms or your own house, 
 or a Greek House. These are all very good. If you're bored a bit of the old game, this new addition 
 will probably get you playing it again.
  
  Then there's the new furniture, all good, and there's also now lifetime wants. These are want-specific 
 things, like; Family-5 children, Fortune-$100000, Popularity-20 best friends, Romance-have 5 loves 
 at once, Knowledge-max all skills. These give a sim platinum mood for the rest of his/her life. 
 These are commonly hard to reach, but manageable, as I maxed all 7 skills with Beau Broke.
  
  There's still the ability to get bored with it eventually, and the grating music, but on the 
 whole a good add-on.
  
  Score: 8.4
  
  It's better than.... The Sims 2
  It's worse than.... The Movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 University is the first of no doubt many expansions made for the wildly popular Sims 2 franchise. 
 Unlike the original Sims, Sims 2 had a lot of functions out of the box that we had to wait for 
 in the first game, such as shopping, downtown lots and the like. University takes the Sims from 
 the residential world, and drops them into the life of college students, a completely new direction 
 for the game.
  
  University adds a new section to the lifespan of a Sim. The Young Adult age group fits in between 
 the Teen and Adult section. Physically, the YA Sim is an adult in size and in clothing types, but 
 the YA is specifically a college student. The young adult age group consists of 8 semesters of 
 72 game hours each. During each semester your Sim will have to perform various actions to raise 
 skills and get grade points. Each semester will have new and greater skill requirements, and a 
 Sim has to raise their skills before being able to get grade points. The required skills are based 
 on the major of your Sim. In addition to the student's classroom requirements, you still have to 
 keep up on all other needs, such as hunger and socialization, as well as meeting the various wants 
 to maintain aspiration levels. If the Sim fails to get enough grade points, they will have to settle 
 for a lower semester grade, or even fail. Enough failures, and your Sim is on the bus home in disgrace. 
 
  
  The game's time flow is pretty quick, and it can be a real challenge to keep a Sim's needs up and 
 still get them through college with high scores, but there are some real benefits to succeeding. 
 Graduating from college, especially with honors, will give your Sim extra want slots and an extra 
 lock to put on his wants and fears. Also, your Sim will have the benefit of being able to start 
 at a higher rank in their career, especially if they choose a career related closely to their major. 
 Finally, there are a couple of interaction choices that are only available to former college students.
 
  
  University shares the same graphics and sound as the original game, which means they are of very 
 good quality. There are some new songs and sounds, some new interactions and new hairstyles and 
 clothes, all of which are at least of the same quality as the original items. There are no surprises 
 and no major changes here. Again, the game is still very demanding of the CPU, and can stutter 
 when a lot is happening on screen. In fact, Sims 2 still seems to be more demanding than some games 
 with arguably much better graphics, leading me to believe that the engine hasn't been optimized 
 as well as it could have been. Still, the game looks and sounds good. 
  
  There have been some complaints by people on various message boards about bugs, some of which were 
 show stopping. Personally, I haven't encountered any of these, so I can't ding the game for this. 
 In fact, the game has run flawlessly for me since installation. There are patches out to correct 
 these bugs as well as to add to and modify the game play slightly. 
  
  University adds an interesting new neighborhood and a new dimension to the original Sims 2 formula. 
 It's not an earthshaking change, but it definitely expands on the original game play in a fun way. 
 It's a nice feeling to take a Sim all the way from being a baby into college and beyond. This is 
 a good and worthy addition to the original game, and is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Ah, the first expansion pack of The Sims 2. Graphically, this game is no less splendid than the 
 first game, nothing added, nothing taken away. To do with gameplay, theres a quite a bit more. 
 Firstly, there are 150+ items added to the game. Then, theres a new age group added to the original, 
 baby, toddler, child, teenager, adult and elder. This is young-adult and can only be accessed by 
 going to university. Going to university simply works by sending your sim either to an already 
 made one, or one you have made yourself. Once there, you attend regular lessons every day, whilst 
 keeping yourself happy and in a good mood. At university, you can make new friends with kids who 
 are also attending, engage in study groups, join secret clubs complete with secret handshakes and 
 homework hacks, and as I said you also have homework to do everyday. If you pass each simester 
 with an A+ degree, you get a best pupil memory, it doesn't do anything but just reminds you of 
 how clever your sim is. Going to university can be a very lengthy process, but once done, you get 
 a plaque to hang in your house, more openings in the new jobs and are more qualified for jobs with 
 the skills that you have gained. Musically, there is still more rock groups and stuff singing the 
 good old simmish language. In all, if you give the lengthy schooling time, the fruits of your labor 
 shall clearly show and you'll have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edvs89beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this expasion i thought you could go to a classroom or something like that , it's 
 just like the sims 2 without a spansion, gain skills and get good grades the goals aren't interesting, 
 the only thing that is good is the furniture. I think that University it's the worst expansion 
 pack that has came out. Although i love the sims 2 and there will be better expansions like Open 
 for business. 
  
  bla bla bla blablaba lbal babl baba lba lbalb al b albalbal balb abal bblabl babl blabla bbalab 
 lablbalb alal ablablbalabla blbalalbablabblb ablabl balblbb lblabl ablablbalbala balbalblba lbala 
 balbal babababababl abbalablablbal ablabbla aaa aaaaa a aaaaaa aaaa a aaa a aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aa 
 aaaa aaaa aa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aa aaaaaaaaa aaa aaa aaaaaa aa aa aaaaaaa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSChik2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The new items are good (billiards, tredmill, arcade games, new styles) . Other Sims living 
 with you and not having to worry about controlling them. New music is great because I'm so sick 
 of the old stuff.
  
  Cons: Even slower loading the houses and neibourhoods, which becomes irritating. Only one new good 
 hairstyle :P. The pranks and streaking isn't funny. Hard to balance Sims needs with homework before 
 final test. The Sims still don't talk english! Lol, still the same old jibberish. 
  
  If you're still enjoying Sims 2, you'll love it once you add this expansion pack. Although if you're 
 over the original, this pack doesn't spice it up that much. I'd say wait till Sims 3 is released 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigo_hy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  
  Loved it though, it makes you bored after a while. so not it's totally not bad. One of the bad points 
 was that it didn't have many new objects and hairstyles, but the clothes were cool lol!
  Anyway, if you ask me I prefer night life to this University pack. Ask other people's opinions 
 too I'm not in your shoes to know your taste, don't rely on my review!
  I wonder if you've noticed how strange the young male adults walk ... they're like how gooses walk 
 !!! Open feet lol !
  I love the fact that they go to classes, it's real fun. I mean it's like real colleges. Going to 
 classes then homework and all that school stuff lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth getting, not because college is good but because what the expansion adds is 
 good. 
  
  When your sims reach the age of teen they can decide to go to college. college is just like a normal 
 house except for half the tim eorless you'll be studying. College is a must for those wanting to 
 have the new careers like fame or paranormal. And college lets those of you wanting normal jobs 
 to have a headstart depending on how well your college life went. Those who attend college also 
 get more goals at one time so they get 5 or something instead of 4. apart from that it doesnt really 
 offer much. There are secret societies but i have never found one which is a bummer.
  
  Sims 2 university is good because it gives you rewards. like a telephone to the grim reaper which 
 will let you raise the dead or turn the person into a zombie. It also has a conterfeiting machine 
 which makes money but if you use it for to long it catches fire or the police come. Theres also 
 a plastic surgery kit that comes with the fame career so if you hate what your person looks like 
 that will help. It lets you create a band and gives you furniture. And it lets you cook a new meal, 
 ramen - whatever that is.
  
  So to be blunt you dont really need the expansion but it'll keep you excited for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverzwiebel12
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I dident expected sutch a dissapointed version of sims...
  its so boring to go to the university... WHe i saw the game i tought...
  WOW... that must be great... but 
 when i playd is i was kinda dissapointed...
  I have thid wxpansion now for 7 months or something and i only had 2 sims finish the university 
 the rest stopt or some died of boringness...
  I just want to say its kinda boring... -.-'
  
  i need to type 100 words so dont read the bla bla bla
  
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 was sort of a disappointment due to the lack of traditional objects such as the pool 
 table, treadmill, air purifier and other objects with made the first Sims so great. The Sims 2 
 University puts back most of those objects but also creates some new problems as well.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Not much to add about the game's graphics except for the improvements on the 
 computer. There's now a more realistic screen added to it and more variation. Other than that, 
 the character models still look great, the environments look great, and it still just generates 
 a great feeling on the whole.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  I have nothing to add to the sound... Sorry.
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  To start off, University has 
 a new college lifestyle, a new young adult age group, more of the original objects put back in, 
 plus a few other bonuses and more gameplay mechanics. You can claim your dorms and lock the doors 
 so that your roommates don't come barging in, and now, there's even school subjects that you can 
 major in. Te game works just like colledge and the Sims 2 put together. You have term papers to 
 write, teststo study for, and you even have to go to classes. There are now more objects for your 
 selection, and more building tools as well.
  
  However, I had a few problems with this expansion pack. While it may have a total of five workout 
 machines now, and more objects to place in your dorm (like the original treadmill) and the ability 
 to use these new objects in your current houses back in your neighborhoods, University still dosen't 
 have some of the most significant objects like the aroma machine and pool table. Another problem 
 I had was when I uninstalled this game, it took all my files from both games with it and I lost 
 my story that I spent nearly 12 hours on! The loading times are also unacceptably long. If you 
 don't have the patience, don't buy this game. Other than that, it's okay all around. 
  
  Overall, I recommend that you get the Sims 2 and University at the same time, and install them 
 both so that you don't have to go through the disappointment that I had to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 was a HUGE hit, so why not make and Expansion Pack. Well, they did, and they got it perfect. 
 University is a new way of looking at the Sims, and it changes the whole gameplay, while mixing 
 perfectly with the original game.
  
  GOOD
  -New Instruments are a must have for any music fan
  -College Life can be frusterating, but very 
 rewarding
  -Influence System is a great way to get more done in less time
  -Young Adult period gives you more time with your precious Sims
  -New Objects will blow you away
 
  -New Carers are neat
  -More wants from college are great, and new rewards are cool
  
  BAD:
  -Once again, some slow dorm loading times
  -Sims Clock is weird
  -NO ACTUAL COLLEGE!
 
  
  Overall:
  This is a no brainer. University is a perfect addition to the Sims franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rouge_Hunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack offers a very good idea and interesting perks to the game. The ability to further 
 educate your sims and give them a higher payoff ass adults is wonderfull. However, the time it 
 takes to finish college almost makes it not worth it.
  
  Each semester takes 3 sim days to complete, and there are 8 semesters in all. So you spend a total 
 of 24 sim days in college, compared the the 30 sim days you spend as an adult. They should have 
 made college a little shorter, say 20 days, and lengthened adulthood to about 40 days. I've always 
 said sim life was too short.
  
  This game is fun, but I for one could do without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Most people would like this game. If you buy this game you have to buy the expansion packs or else 
 it would get boring quick. There is lots to do in this game. Although some of it is boring, it 
 is pretty fun over all. This game opens up unlimited possiblities. Creating people is even fun. 
 I enjoy this game and I think any of you big gamers would too. I suggest buying this game and the 
 expansion packs. It is really fun. I hope this review helped you. If it did please Suggest this 
 review. Thanks alot for reading!
  
  -John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  i picked this game up i didn't think it would be as good as the original was, i figured I'd get 
 bored of it pretty quick and regret the 50 or so bucks i spent. but i plugged it in, installed 
 the expansion and it blew my socks off. Imagine The Sims but with five times more content and five 
 times more content for the content! It was amazing! But let me break it down for you.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay as far as The Sims 2 should go should deserve an 8 or 9 by itself, with hundreds 
 of new additions from the original and so much to do in your sims' lifetimes you won't know what 
 to do next. The new aging system seems scary and overwhelming at first, but the moment you get 
 used to it you'll want most of your sims to die soon anyway! It was the overall perfect addition 
 to The Sims. As far as University goes it created an amazing whole new world in The Sms, with a 
 new way to help your sims set goals you'll never be more excited to get on the computer and help 
 them proceed ever again. With so much to do you will want to make sim after sim and just keep playing 
 till the end of time. Gameplay for The Sims 2 and its expansion truly deserve a solid 10.
  
  Graphics: As for me, my computer can't take these graphics as well as I'd like them too. I've 
 heard there have been many performance issues for a lot of people. Nothing major though, the most 
 notable was the fact that you can only invite up to 2 guests to your parties, making them nearly 
 obsolete. But don't let that bring you down either, this game really does look overall amazing 
 and you won't be let down, especially since most of the effects are really good looking. Such as 
 facial expressions which never seem to get repetitive. Because of the slight performance issues 
 I'm giving The Sims 2 an 8.
  
  Sound: Not a lot to say for sound. There are a lot of new sound animations and the new radio stations 
 are particularly good, especially the new College Rock stations, where I heard they even got real 
 Indie bands to perform songs in Simglish. I found the refreshing new sounds to the sims deserved 
 at least an 8.
  
  Overall: Buy this game. You won't regret it, especially if you're a fan of the original go out 
 and buy The Sims 2 and The Sims 2: University. Overall this game actually does deserve a 94 and 
 is an instant classic in my honest opinion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomer_TV
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University lets you bring your sims through college as a young adult. They can pull 
 pranks, study for mid terms, and have a great party - all at one place.
  The game doesn't focus much on anything much, except young adults. It isn't quite what we all were 
 hoping for it to be. The game allows you to be a young adult, but that seems like all there is. 
 This expansion pack gets boring. Once one sim is through college, you've pretty much done it all. 
 It wasn't worth the wait and it could've been much better than what it is. But for the first Sims 
 2 expansion, I think they did good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  It was a great idea to add a university lifestyle to The Sims 2. I really got bored with the basic 
 Sims 2 because you would make your kids grow up and out they go to start a life and get a job. 
 But now they can go to university and learn more to get better jobs and do all kinds of stuff on 
 campus. But if you like to cheat, it won't make much difference to the game.
  
  The bad thing was that when this expansion pack was released it had alot of glitches on it. They 
 were eventually fixed though, but not until waiting for about 4 updates.
  
  This expansion pack definetly made the aspect of The Sims 2 more exciting.
  
  I would definetly 
 recomend people to buy this, even though it has been out for awhile now, it is still worth getting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I love the university ep, so much that i wish they made uni 2 lol... anyways university adds a 
 lot of new things in the sims 2 and now you can go to uni! but the only problem is that the uni 
 system is too long and it will get really boring after a while... maybe you want all of your sims 
 going to uni? but it will take forever. The items are cool and the new sytem too like the inluence 
 meter and the dream life thingy, Pool tables, guitar are so cool in the game there are a lot of 
 concertating in the gameplay and all there is a bunch of new things! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandymand42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Loved it though, it makes you bored after a while. so not it's totally not bad. One of the bad points 
 was that it didn't have many new objects and hairstyles, but the clothes were cool lol!
  Anyway, if you ask me I prefer night life to this University pack. Ask other people's opinions 
 too I'm not in your shoes to know your taste, don't rely on my review!
  I wonder if you've noticed how strange the young male adults walk ... they're like how gooses walk 
 !!! Open feet lol !
  I love the fact that they go to classes, it's real fun. I mean it's like real colleges. Going to 
 classes then homework and all that school stuff lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meisje
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Although "University" is definitely not the most exciting expansion pack for The Sims 2, you will 
 want to get it for certain new features (such as Life-Time Wants, and new careers/career rewards) . 
 Or, if you're like me, you're a complete Sims freak and simply want all expansion packs possible. 
 The main letdown to this EP is the tediousness of sending your Sims to college; after all, there 
 is only so much studying and eating pizza you can do before wanting to pull out all of your hair. 
 The ideal of putting a Sim through college is exciting until after you graduate your first one. 
 Following that momentous occasion, you'll have learned the routine quite thoroughly and want to 
 play it only to get it over with. And, really, there isn't much of a point to sending her/him to 
 college, except for the chance to meet new people and/or being able to enter into one of the new 
 careers. "University" should probably not be purchased if your computer is somewhat on the slow 
 side as there often seems to be a lot of activity going on in the background (especially in dorms) , 
 which will often make your game run at the pace of a snail going to a French restaurant. Overall, 
 the main focus of the game (going to college) is not all that fun, but the new objects and interactions 
 are well worth it. That is, if you're into that sort of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  With just as much gameplay variety as the Sims 2, University also offers your Sims a chance to 
 go to college, a very fun new asset to the game. You can finally make roommates with different 
 last names, which was great for me. There are lots of new outfits and items, but there are too 
 many to list, so I'll just let you buy the game to get those. In college, you can choose a major 
 for your Young Adult Sims which can help them build skills to advance faster when they get a real 
 job. You go through eight terms of college, two per year. There are also dorms, so you can have 
 your Sims live with other random Sims. College social interactions, like streaking, are new, too.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The graphics are unimproved from the origianl, but hey, it's an expansion pack, cut it some slack. 
 They're still good. 
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  There is some cool new music in the game, which is great after you listen to the same old music 
 over and over again. The voices are all high-quality, even if you can't understand a word they 
 say.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  If having the ability to make tons and tons of people and houses isn't replayability, then I'm 
 not exactly sure what is. Educate me.
  
  TILT: 10/10
  Same old formula, awesome new game. I can easily recommend this to every Sims 2 owner out there, 
 and if you don't have the Sims 2, I strongly recommend you to go buy it before you become as ugly 
 as you are prone to procrastination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The worst semester ever: Urele-Oresha-Cham House experiences its first frat fatality. Gig for simoleons 
 with the game's new instruments. A kegger with fruit juice? This is strictly a PG version of college. 
 College grants sims many bonuses, like extra want slots, the ability to switch aspirations, and 
 new job opportunities. Overexuberant frat boys chase down a pledge. Will they let him into class 
 like that? New looks for young adult sims. I give this game a Superb 9.0 out of 10.0.
  
  On the Positive side: Lots of intriguing new strategic options; great new music; engaging new items; 
 new careers and career rewards. 
  
  On the Negative side: Bland depiction of college life, lame pranks; slowdowns and more tedious 
 loading screens than ever; fails adequately to address some existing issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  The new college life experience is something of a letdown, but the new items and strategic options 
 more than make up for it. I would say get it if you like playing the sims, and if i were you, i 
 would ask myself if it was actually worth buying (would i actually play it often or would i just 
 get bored after 2 weeks) . I was dissapointed because i wanted to be able to go to the colleges 
 but instead you just leave the house and come back later. I am dissapointed with you Maxis, pretty 
 darn-tootin' dissapointed. 
  If the sims graphics were cr@p, than the game would be awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargedPower
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University is a great expansion to add to your Sims 2 Game. The Sims 2 University offers 
 tones of new items to buy and a new clothing selection for your sim to wear. Experience the highs 
 and pitfalls of college life on your computer! There are new places to explore on campus and new 
 faces. There are also some new social options available that your sim can perform. Your sim can 
 major in psychology, drama, art, philosophy, biology, economics, literature, mathematics, history, 
 physics, or political science. It all makes an impact on their future. Oh, we can't forget about 
 the new snazzy loading music. (lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakutakuraku
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  y oy oy oyo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo o yo o y yo yo yo yo yo yoo yo yo oy oo yo oyo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo oyo oyo o yoyo yo yo yo yjhfd hvfjh jh hj j jn j n j j j j n n n n m k buighi g hkbg g 
 h g hg jhh h ghj gjg j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninamj
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I love all Sim games. This game seemed to cause more problems when I installed it then anything 
 else. I love the chance to go to college and the opportunities that come with it. I was disappointed 
 with the graduation. It was advertised differently. If it was not for the glitches I would love 
 the game. I understand why others said the university expansion pack was disapointing. I am not 
 sure that I would pay that much for an expansion pack again. Or I will wait a little longer before 
 I buy one. I am still waiting for a chance to enter a secret society. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shelly42591
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  the sims 2 university is a very fun and highly addictive game. i have a very fun time playing this 
 game. i would reccommend this game to many people who are not kids and like strategy games. this 
 is a real strategy game because of you having to run their lives. you are the one responsible for 
 that sims life, not really that sim itself. the sims 2 university game came out on february 28th 
 2005. the price it is going for is about twenty-nine dollars at best buy. i found out about the 
 sims 2 through my cousin and the television. i had to use his game to play the sims 2 university, 
 and it was the best thing i have ever done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  As a bid fan o fthe sims I have about all of the games and just buoght this one recently. It was 
 great and the game was greater. If you know what I mean. What I like about the sims is the action 
 on the lips. That just might be the only reason I like the sims. Well, not really the only reason, 
 I have a lot more. But, I really do not want to waste my time doin this when I could be playin 
 this right now. (Doorbell rings) . "Hello". OOOOOOHHHHHH yes, yes, harder, faster, yyyyyyeeeeeessssssss!!!!! 
 Just kidding folks, Bye bye to all, ALL, of my homies in the hood!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you think you had a lot of bars to watch in Sims 2, try the expansion pack. OMW!! 3 more bars 
 to watch.
  
  One is the Influence bar. This controlles the amount of Influence you have over the people around 
 you. You can ask them to clean up after you, do your collage work or make pranks. There are loads 
 of stuff you can do. That is if you have enough friends and enough points.
  
  The collage lifetime meter is a replacement for the life meter for normal Sims. It is split up 
 into 4 more sections and each of those are devided into 2 more. Each section represents a University 
 year. Senior, junior or whatever. And you have to write 2 exams per year. So you have to do all 
 your work and write term papers to get your NEW study bar up.
  
  The study bar tells you how much you can learn, how much you are supposed to learn to pass the 
 semesters and how much you have already learnt. To get through the semesters, your Sim has to get 
 Skills to increase the amount of learning he can do.
  
  So in this expansion there is much more stuff to look out for and much more to do. You will not 
 be sitting around waiting for your sim to eat. You'll have to plan your next moves. This could 
 be a little tiring.
  
  I still love the game though. I love the new interactions and I love the new stuff you can get 
 for career bonuses and Aspiration bonuses.
  
  Cool Expansion. Can't wait to get the next one
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzx01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaa aaa aa a a aa a a aa a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaa aa a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa a aa a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlkLBL
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game i must recommend you should wait till the price drop
  Because nothing that much was added to this game. First of all
  The game is pretty laggy but not 
 the biggest complaint.
  When you send your Sim to get an Greart education the Time spend at the University takes about 
 1-2 hours straight then your Sim returns back to their house To get just a little boost for there 
 resume for there Career. I got really sick of this game after a week and prefere just playing the 
 origanal Sims 2 title. I don't at all recommend this game at all to most people who get it for the 
 hell of it because you will be confused and eventually use the game disc as a coaster. I Dislike 
 this game and EA better redeem themselves when Nightlife comes to stores.
  
  Pros:
  -Sending your Sim to University is neat
  -More Instruments are added for Creativity points becasue 
 the 
  previous title lack on creativity points being earned.
  -Cool new furniture appliences etc.
  
  Cons:
  -Very repetitive
  -Fun for only a few days 
 
  -Not that much new additions to the game
  -The Fraternety HouseParty were GAY I mean really GAY!
  -Sims still don''t now hoe to speak proper 
 english still
  -Wait till it his the bargain Bin
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  so....
  this game is like THE SIMS 2, but its got more new stuff...
  ther are new items... and u can send your sim to the unversity
  but its preaty much like the regular 
 sim....
  in the start its realy fun cus u build houses and they grow up and u buy stuff
  and that stuff that goes on sims... but after, it getting boirng..
  i mean u dont have what to 
 do with your sim... he grows up and then he move and then u play with him.... and if he have a brother 
 or a sister so u play with them 2... and u tried al the time that they will be happy and u try to 
 have
  the highest job rank.. to see how he will go to work... and u try to collect
  the prises but if a sim move the house he does'nt have it any more...
  and its all the time the 
 same... so its nice in the begining
  but after a while it getting boring and u dont want to play it any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game was very fun in the beginning; the idea of sending your sims to college was really awesome. 
 But after having one sim graduate, it became a task. And then it hit me; it was just your sims 
 in a different place with other people living there that you can't control. It slowed down your 
 computer ALOT if you didn't have a fast one. It is nearly impossible to have two sims live together 
 and graduate. I suppose it was worth it for the new items and other interactions, but that's about 
 it. If you like the idea of having your sims study until you're bored with it (they have to stay 
 for a few hundred hours) then this is for you. If you want to get the new items, then go ahead 
 and buy it. But if you are in it for the college part, pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerklm
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest. No matter how good this game was, most people would see it as a let down after 
 the Sensational Sims 2. I'm one of those people. The hustle and bustle of dorm life is engaging 
 and interesting... the first few times, then it becomes overly repetitive and more of a chore than 
 anything else. This is when Sims 2: University becomes more an exercise in taking advantage of 
 University's new objects then going to University. You increasingly opt not to send your Teenagers 
 to University and the true extent of this expansion pack has been realised.
  
  However, it does have some saving features. The ground breaking graphics, for example, and the 
 variety of new items are a definite plus point. The University Campus offers a change of scene 
 but nothing revolutionary.
  
  In conclusion, although the game could never really meet the expectation's set by Sims 2, it has 
 a numerous number of short comings which leave it lacking. Playing is all good and well, but he 
 must get bored running everyone's life constantly... you play this for a few weeks and you know 
 how he feels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game has some very noticible flaws. But college makes up for it completley. The new college 
 town is great, frat parties, dorms, great community lots also, but best of all *drumroll* ramen 
 noodles! Yes this game has everything a sim player could want. Even with the bool_prop glitches, 
 this game is a must buy for sim collecters. Everything is pretty good, new soundtracks light up 
 the sound department, graphics are great and you should buy this game for sure, this is a great 
 sim game and a must-buy despite flaws. Well buy this game. No hesitation at all just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The first expansion pack is finally here! the sims 2 university lets sims to enter the university 
 life and experience the ups and downs of campus. players can send their teen sims to be a young 
 adult or create them to be there.
  
  sims now have to study to be graduated in university. sims should do research, do assignments, 
 go to class and anything else to keep the grades up as well as having other rewards like money 
 and extra want slot. failing which will send them packing.
  
  the most interesting gameplay is the influence gameplay where sims can now influence people to 
 do their chores. for example, a sim can get other sims to wirte their term papers so they can have 
 their time on their own to socialize or build up skills. preety useful.
  
  another interesting element in the game is the ultimate want. if sims managed to achieve the ultimate 
 want (which is really hard to achieve) , sims can have platinum want for the rest of their lives.
 
  
  the campus life does not end after they graduate. new careers are unlocked once sims graduated 
 as well as getting new career rewards. unfortunately it is only the same as the older careers only 
 they pay more than the previous ones.
  
  of course some things featured in the expansion pack are rather disappointing. campus life really 
 simulated to be very routine and almost the same as they were at home. it will eventually become 
 very boring after a long time.
  
  on top of that, most fans will be content of the new objects, building tools, clothes, quirky and 
 comical actions and catchy sims music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViktorHannawald
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University is the same thing as The Sims 2 but the sims grows up and leave the home 
 earlier when they go to the University where they struggle to get good... or bad grades. 
  
  Time for some of my own thoughts.
  This Expansion Pack for The Sims 2 was'nt what I was expecting.
 
  I hoped for more new things and you will get bored pretty fast.
  
  Graphics:
  One of the best parts in the game. The same as The Sims 2 that means good.
  
  Gameplay:
  
 Fun for a while but since nothing new happens you just sit there and play almost the same thing 
 over and over. Could have been funnier if there could have happened more when you played it over 
 and over...
  
  Sound:
  The sound is okey and pretty much the same as the old sims games.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  ... I must admit that The Sims 2 University Expansion Pack doesn't really offer that much new to 
 the over all gameplay at first glance, but this soon changes after one really becomes a bit more 
 involved with the expansion pack options and extras.
  
  Overall, this expansion pack doesn't really offer the same as the Nightlife one, but is nonetheless 
 fun playing and really addictive, considering that The Sims 2 in it's "bland" form was addictive 
 to start off with!
  
  My biggest complaint with the expansion pack is that it becomes almost impossible to really get 
 to do half the stuff that the pack caters for in terms of campus sites, etc. if one intends to 
 get any form of acceptable grades for whichever Sim you happen to be involved with at the time.
 
  
  The pace is simply too hectic and there is too much to do around the lot that one simply doesn't 
 get enough opportunity to go out and enjoy the other areas offered in this expansion pack.
  
  In retrospect though, this is probably more "true to life" from a pure simulation point anywayt 
 - who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  I thought that this expansion would bring more exciting qualities to the game, and maybe university 
 life will be more thrilling than just staying at home and reading books to increase skills. However 
 I found University disappointing. Your sims have 4 years to go through, you can't stop time, but 
 I guess thats a good thing because all im doing is either pulling their grades down or up, throwing 
 the same parties even if their sports, house or whatever. The gameplay just got too repetetive 
 for me, and I got tired of it in a short time of period. 
  hmmm.. The plus sides are that there are a few new jobs for your sims, and yes. furnitute, floorboards, 
 wallpapers, floorboards. Too bad im not a real fan of spending lost of time on building homes. 
 
  More NPC's are added as well .. Yay! .. more friends to handle with, and sharing a Dorm with other 
 people arent as exciting as it sounds like, becuase they mostly spend time in their dorm, unless 
 you knock on their doors,.. not really social people I guess. 
  And yes you do get a better start in finding jobs if you've finished uni, but thinking of all that 
 time you have to put in to get through all those semesters, really makes you feel bored already, 
 and once i tired getting it all down within 30 minutes, so it just seems like another routine to 
 go through. 
  
  Overall I dont think this game is really worth buying, unless youre interested in building bigger 
 and fancier houses, I dont recommend you buying this expansion pack. Ive had an urge to uninstall 
 this expansion pack, but thinking of those little additions e. g quitars, jobs, career awards made 
 me decide maybe I should just keep it there (Dope!) . I guess this is what the rest of the sim2 expansion 
 packs are going to do, add a few details in each of them, and get you to buy it, and in the end 
 your computer would run slower and slower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornescuandrei
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  Hallo I am Andrei the sims 2 university is a wonderful expansion pack for the sims 2 and it offers 
 lots of new things but it focuses mainly at going to colege but that isn't a bad thing. New jobs 
 exist in sims 2 university and much much more so if you have some money I recommend you to buy 
 this game because it is worth the price. I am now willing to buy the sims nightlife becaused i've 
 heard that it is more fun than this one. I hope I will buy the sims noghlife soon. The sims University 
 isn't a very hard game and even young peoples can play this game and evean older man can play this 
 game because it isn't designed only for kids but also for adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freak24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  The sims university is a fun expansion to the sims 2 and has lots of great items to add to the 
 game like mobile phones and mp3 players. The game lets you go to college and pull pranks, play 
 games and control other sims to do your bidding.
  There are also many new clothes and some hairstyles which have been added to the game, much cooler 
 and modern compared to some of the regular clothes on the sims 2. You have to pass tests, go to 
 class, make friends and loads more. I think it is another great thing from maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nezkan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  If you are a sims fan you have to get this game, becuase you will know how to get the most out 
 of it. However if you are new to The Sims, I would recommend you to wait for better expansion, 
 unless you are becoming an addict and will be playing for a while, go ahead and buy it. You will 
 not regret it, if you put some time into it. It takes some time to get to play it. 
  
  If you are low on cash, and if you can wait to buy, I recommend you to wait becuase The Sims2 expansion 
 are most very closely to the orinigal The Sims2 price. It is just a matter of time before they 
 start dropping the prices or sell the expansions in a Mega Deluxe as they did with the original 
 The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow im blown away by how much you can do at school so much
  well i would have to say this is a must buy game this game will be totaly a classic some day if 
 you got sims and dont have university you have 
  to get it its the best it can be and you can also get a your masters or something like that it 
 rocks i would recomend you buy it right away
  well thankyou for listening to me and really you must try it
  if you have the sims 2 for pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeybones4
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  It barely had any extra additions to the Sims 2. Going to colladge isn't as fun as some might think. 
 It's just like a regular lifestyle as a grown up. So what if you can streak. So what if you can 
 live with other people in it. It didn't have that many more additions to the Sims 2 game. All that 
 it did for me is make my computer run slower when playing the sims. The only good additions to 
 it are the one, the fact that you can become a zombie, two, the fact that you can get 3 more jobs, 
 and three, the fact that you can get a little more stuff. I got me all psyched up for nothing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lynx_101
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  University made many adjustments and improvements on the first Sims 2. I expected just a superficial 
 addition, but Maxis really did add a number of in-depth game elements to its first expansion.
 
  
  Most notable is the major aspiration level, when reached, your sim is at platinum level all the 
 time.
  
  However, there were some down points. With all the sims, there have been rather large loading times, 
 especially when you have to go somewhere. which is really irritating. it actually makes u want 
 to just stay where you are, and not explore the vast neighbourhoods Maxis have created 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 24, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  I was expecting 'The Sims 2 : University' to be a disappointment, and whaddaya know, I was right! 
 Although University adds quite a bit to the core gameplay of 'The Sims 2', is the gameplay really 
 worth the AUD$40? At least not for casual gamers. But any self respecting Sims fanatic would gleefully 
 say "Yes, what kind of stupid question is that?"
  
  Gameplay gets a rock bottom 5 (on the expansion alone, not on the core game) as University gets 
 incredibly tedious and boring. I have so many kids in University; I want them all to graduate but 
 I honestly cannot be bothered investing the time and effort into making them graduate, so I make 
 them stay there. Thus, I slack off on my other Sims families as I want their ages be consistent 
 with one another. Not happy. Not happy at all.
  
  The graphics are the same as the original game. They're fantastic. 'Nuff said.
  
  The music 
 in University is much better than the stand alone game, which is a plus (gotta love the 'College 
 Rock' genre) , but cannot compare to the music of the original Sims games as they had a certain... 
 I dunno... "classiness" to them. But the brand new tracks have certainly earned a 9 from me. :-)
 
  
  The game gets a low "6" for value. Although there's quite a bit of new gameplay and new objects, 
 it's merely not enough. A ton of downgraded furniture is not anybody's idea of "value".
  
  'Tilt' gets a 9 as your Sims will always have SOMETHING to do, and at least if you're unsatisfied 
 with the expansion pack itself, at least you can use the new objects for creating great music videos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastelite
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 25, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Your favorite sequel to the best simulation game around now has its first expansion pack. You can 
 now send your teenage Sims to college for an education. Of course, the expansion is something you 
 may want to get but here are the basics of The Sims 2 University.
  
  Graphics- Graphics are basically the same as the original really. Come on, its an expansion pack. 
 The additional items look good and they interact well with the sim. New clothes are only available 
 when you are in college so don't really expect anything to wear.
  
  Sound-Sound is still good though how come the Young Adult Sims sounds like teenagers. Aren't they 
 fully matured once they are in college? I guess not. There is still the same music which is alright. 
 There is a new type of music called college rock which you'll mostly hear from some dorms. The 
 new additional sounds feel blended with the old one.
  
  Gameplay- If you haven't played the Sims 2, then why do you want an expansion pack? The new additions 
 in the game seems more like minigames than anything else. College is surprisingly easy despite 
 how difficult it looks or sounds. I wish life was like that. You can still get aspiration points 
 but now you can get influence points which you can convince people to do your bidding. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 University is a good game with great add-ons to the original game and more objects and 
 interactions than ever before. The University add-on is really good, but it could have been better 
 and more enjoyable. You can either study all the time and not have much fun, or you could have 
 fun and socialise a lot, but get crappy grades and flunk out.
  
  Also, the time-frame which you pass university is way to short  70 hours in a semester?!? Wouldnt 
 a week be more interesting, as in that 70 hours you have to study, sleep, go to school and work 
 (optional to earn more money) , on top of the time which you use to fore fill your needs, it doesnt 
 leave much time for socialising or for want fore filling. Also, with the amount of sims in your 
 dorm, it can be really difficult to do things when you want to (like shower or study on the computer) , 
 and for slower computers it is terribly frustrating to have to wait forever just to see the floor 
 below you or go directly to your sim.
  
  But on the plus side, the University feature allows you to get a head-start in careers and skill-building, 
 and the things which happen in the dorms are sort-of interesting.
  
  The new items are very good, though, and so are the new options. New items include fridges, ovens, 
 showers, toilets, decorative, electronic entertainment, floorings, paints and roofings. The additions 
 in the create-a-sim mode where only small, but what is there is good. Different interactions include 
 hanging out, pranks and new play options. The addition to the Lifelong Want is also very good, 
 as if it is fore filled, it will give your sim a permanent platinum rating. The influence to 
 addition is good, but not really necessary, as many of the options are only little things.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  The additional features included in this game really improved the gameplay, 
 but as I stated earlier, the University feature could have been done better, and that is why the 
 rating isnt as high as the original. Still, great gameplay with no real drawbacks and it is really 
 interesting and it gets you hooked in very quickly.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  
  Well, really no development in graphics from the base game, so same score as what I gave in my 
 review of The Sims 2.
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  
  The new music which has been included is ok, but not as good as the originals. The music is very 
 catchy, but a little bit boring. The sound effects are still the same, good but not always in time 
 with the action, and the sims still speak simmish, but most of the sounds are from the original 
 game.
  
  VALUE: 7/10
  
  The game is a good game, but not worth the $50 that I paid for it. Maybe it would be better value 
 selling at $35, but that will take a while.
  
  Overall, a great sequel to a great game that is an instant classic. The Sims 2 University requires 
 The Sims 2 to play, and if you arent really interested in sims games, then you really shouldnt 
 buy this game, but if you are, this is another great game by Maxis that is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAM_02
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 20, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing the original "The Sims", I thought the game was very creative and 
 innovative, and I also couldn't wait to see what would come up next. Well so far nothing has. 
 
  
  I bought 4 expansions to the first Sims game. Everyone of them was one let down after another. 
 The tired, boring and frustrating gameplay got old, and no amount of expansions were going to fix 
 that. When the Sims 2 came out, I was excited. I thought, "What's next is finally here, something 
 new and innovative". Well I was wrong. I was drawn in by the flashy new 3D graphics and a few new 
 features, but it was the same, old, tired and frustrating gameplay I remembered. 
  
  So here we go again, time for an expansion to this "new" Sims game. Maybe taking a sim through 
 college would put a new interesting spin on things, mix it up a little. I have to say it did, has 
 a different feel to it than the plain Sims 2, but the same gameplay was there. It feels like more 
 of a grind than an actual game, it's just not very fun for more than a few days. 
  
  The graphics for The Sims 2 are pretty good, but when your in a 2 story dorm building with 15-20 
 other sims all living together, it can bring the best of systems to their knees. It makes my x800xt 
 pe on high settings/resolution feel like integrated video trying to play HL2, it's not pretty. 
 
  
  I wont be buying the next expansion, I've seen enough already. I do not feel like paying for an 
 expansion every few months because EA decided they didn't want you to have all the features right 
 away. The next expansion is probably going to allow you to go to a night club and dance, add a 
 few more actions and probably a few pieces of furniture.. I'm giving up on this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Almost like the passing of the seasons comes another Sims add-on pack. This time, however, it's 
 for The Sims 2, and thus promises to be more rich and exciting than a lot of the previous Sims 
 1 expansion packs. While Sims 2 University is all that and more, the package suffers from having 
 most of its best content hidden away.
  
  It's never a good sign when the new content supplied by an add-on package has to be sought out. 
 The whole College experience - the whole point of the package - requires a lot of planning and 
 effort just to get there. Once you are there, things pick up accordingly, but it would have helped 
 to make it a bit easier to get into. There's three new career paths to follow, and each of them 
 requires a College diploma, which again adds to the time taken to actually access them. 
  
  Thankfully. most of the new items included in the package are fantastic to play with, the highlight 
 probably being the new musical instruments, which can now be co-ordinated in order to form a band. 
 
  
  The package introduces a new age bracket - the Young Adult - and it's in this state that the Sim 
 goes attends college in. The puzzling thing is that this new age group is *only* available in the 
 College section, making it a bit of a brainbuster as to why it was introduced in the first place. 
 Also, it appears that there's little-to-no difference to Young Adult and regular Adult in terms 
 of appearance. While this stage of Sim life is a welcome inclusion, it's a shame that the role 
 isn't given a bigger scope, or at least given a bit more thought.
  
  The idea of the "dorm" works very well, though. Living in a house filled with NPC's really works 
 well and allows you to focus on the one single character. It also negates the need to create an 
 entire family just for one house. What doesn't work as well is the Greek Houses and Secret Societies. 
 It takes an awful amount of effort just to get into them and once you do, you have to control everyone 
 in the house. An interesting idea, sure - but ultimately let down by the implimentation.
  
  A raft of interactions have been added, including the new "influence" meter, which can be interesting 
 but perhaps useless in an all-player controlled household. The pranks aren't all that interesting 
 to be honest, and not really all that useful - unless you want to have whole neighbourhood hate 
 you.
  
  The additions to the soundtrack are, to put it mildly, breathtaking. A lot of variety has been 
 added to the game's Build, Buy and Neighbourhood view tracklisting and it makes the world of difference. 
 The new addition to the radio - the College Rock station - are some of the most inspired tracks 
 in the history of the Sims. EA puts more energy into the Sims' soundtrack than is probably necessary, 
 but the results are truely amazing, and the game is much better for it.
  
  In all Sims 2 Uni is a solid update, but nothing more. It isn't as ground breaking as House Party 
 or Hot Date, but it's decent enough. With a bit of time the package can only get better, but for 
 now - this'll have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paradox460
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 13, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 was ok, but it got boring with it's lack of objects and repetitive gameplay. Maxis released 
 the sims 2 university. This looked promising as a good expansion pack, but the idea wasn't the 
 greatest in the world. Many people would have liked it if they had mixed House party, Livin' Large, 
 Hot Date, Vacation, and Unleashed expantion packs from the sims 1 and ported them to the sims 2. 
 This expantion pack still doesn't give the user enough objects to make a unique environment like 
 the first one did. It has plenty of objects, but they just seemed unimportant. Also, the university 
 life is a little to long and repeditive. Here's how a semester goes. Sims come, do work, wait, 
 have boring parties, do exam. Thats all, no extra special features. Also, the Frat and Sorroritie 
 system is very undeveloped. This ep is good if you want a few new objects, but don't buy it for 
 amazing gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 10, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  After months of playing The Sims 2: University, I can say that it's really a good one! However, 
 I found out that the whole new college idea wasn't that fun anymore, it was actually some kind 
 of boring, because most of the time almost the same things happened just with different sims!
 
  
  On the other hand, the expansion pack adds lots of content to the original game, more object (although 
 I think there was a lack here!) , more fun interactions between the sims, the brand new "influence" 
 power of your sims and some other features that can be used in the original neighborhood as well!
 
  
  Finally, I want to say that since University is the first expansion pack of The Sims 2, it's sales 
 were really extreme. Players that are used to The Sims 1 + 7 expansion packs which added many objects, 
 were probably very desperate for new content in The Sims 2 as well, so they bought the expansion 
 pack just to get more content to the game! The Sims 2 University is a good expansion pack, however, 
 I think Maxis could do a better job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  It was in demand from the moment the very first batch of expansions hit stores for the original 
 Sims, to take your Sims to school. Now that we are able, how does it shape up to years of anticipation?
 
  
  The basis of the first Sims 2 expansion is quite simple; as your Sim reaches teenagehood, you are 
 given a choice to head off to Uni, or stay behind and follow what path you may have led earlier 
 without this addition. You can get a scholorship or a grant to spend on either a home for yourself 
 and other students, or live in a dorm which is the cheaper option (and also the most fun) . From 
 there on in, you're on your own, no parents and no-one to bail you out. The aim, is to live and 
 study with the other students, and everyday - head off to class. It's all simple stuff... but the 
 main emphasis of the game, is on the college lifestyle... will you study hard and sit quietly in 
 the corner... or be a party animal and try ot cram it all (studying) at the end? The game has a 
 very wide scope on things... meaning a number of possibilities and events to occur to any of your 
 sims in University; creating a lot of replay value. 
  
  The game does has it's glitches, but none of which will interfere in your gaming experience that 
 much. the gameplay is very easy to catch on to, although it is very dense and learning all of the 
 mechanics, may take some time. The graphics have been improved and to compensate for so much going 
 on in one area, they have slowed things down a bit. I. e. your sims walk slower than usual. But 
 this seems so much more realistic... the movement of their hands and shoulders, the girls wiggling 
 their bums as they move etc...
  
  The sound is terrific, the neighbourhood is no longer inflicted with that one theme tune playing 
 over and over and over and over, until you're forced to switch off the speakers. Also, the new 
 radio station has a whole host of new songs, of which are very well done and feel very authentic. 
 
  
  There is a lot of value in this pack, not just in the Uni life, but also how you can lead your 
 life from Uni, back in your home town, earning a living (of which will be much easier with a degree) 
 and more open ended abilities... I was very happy to see that they've added an option to combine 
 households... meaning a Sim from Uni, can move back into their old home with their family... or someone 
 completely new!
  
  All in all, for a game made in such little time, this is amazing... by itself it is a worthy package 
 for your shelf, and cost from your wallet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The first expansion pack to the second game... that's how it goes. The Sims 2 : University is a 
 good first expansion pack... but it could've been a tid bit better.
  
  The idea of having your teen Sims attend university is brilliant and very logical, since the Sims 
 2 is based on having your Sims "grow up". I found the game to be very good, although lacking in 
 some sectors. You attend University, go to classes, study, hang out with fellow students, party.. 
 and you can even work. All of this is fun... but I find there is something missing. You can still 
 buy and build in University... but why ? If you stay in a dorm room, you don't need much luxuries 
 besides a bed, a computer, some clothes to change into and maybe an mp3 player or a portable gaming 
 device (both new in University) .
  
  The game gets choppy at some times when there are alot of Sims around, which can get annoying. 
 I also would like to see my Sims go through all grades of school, from childhood to University.
 
  
  But all and all, this game is great, I recommend it to every Sims fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyb42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh, the introspective nightmare that is The Sims 2. The original game was extremely fun, the 
 sequel even better. But, maybe this time it's gone too far; the game has descended into madness. 
 
  
  As a college-age person, this expansion seemed to be perfect for me. I went in, created a little 
 guy with a beanie and a little goatee, with a dragon tattoo on his left arm - and he looked exactly 
 like me ( I wear a beanie, have a goatee and a dragon tattoo on my left arm ) ! Creepy. The realization 
 that I was becoming way too immersed in the game began to dawn on me. The Sims 2: University had 
 taken my soul and wrapped it up into somebody with relatively few and simplified wants, fears and 
 needs. I realize now that that's all life is... sleep, get up, take a shower, watch TV, go to school, 
 hang out with friends, eat, repeat ad infinitum.
  
  The most horrifying additions are the musical instruments. You see, I've been playing bass for 
 about seven years, and my character plays it, as well. Another frightening reflection of real life. 
 Seriously, the implications upset my stomach for hours. Madness!
  
  I started to think about myself as a sim; for example, when I was hungry, I would think something 
 like "Oh, gotta get that hunger bar back up to full before my general mood rating starts falling!" 
 Or, I would take my cue to go to the bathroom from the game itself! My character would need to 
 use the restroom, which would remind me to use it. I had lost my grip on reality.
  
  In short, if you have never played The Sims in it's many iterations, stay away! These excellent 
 games will suck you in and steal your soul and drive you insane! But, hey, if you're already a 
 brainless Sims zombie like me, University adds a whole new experience to the game and is definitely 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  When i picked this game up i didn't think it would be as good as the original was, i figured I'd 
 get bored of it pretty quick and regret the 50 or so bucks i spent. but i plugged it in, installed 
 the expansion and it blew my socks off. Imagine The Sims but with five times more content and five 
 times more content for the content! It was amazing! But let me break it down for you.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay as far as The Sims 2 should go should deserve an 8 or 9 by itself, with hundreds 
 of new additions from the original and so much to do in your sims' lifetimes you won't know what 
 to do next. The new aging system seems scary and overwhelming at first, but the moment you get 
 used to it you'll want most of your sims to die soon anyway! It was the overall perfect addition 
 to The Sims. As far as University goes it created an amazing whole new world in The Sms, with a 
 new way to help your sims set goals you'll never be more excited to get on the computer and help 
 them proceed ever again. With so much to do you will want to make sim after sim and just keep playing 
 till the end of time. Gameplay for The Sims 2 and its expansion truly deserve a solid 10.
  
  Graphics: As for me, my computer can't take these graphics as well as I'd like them too. I've 
 heard there have been many performance issues for a lot of people. Nothing major though, the most 
 notable was the fact that you can only invite up to 2 guests to your parties, making them nearly 
 obsolete. But don't let that bring you down either, this game really does look overall amazing 
 and you won't be let down, especially since most of the effects are really good looking. Such as 
 facial expressions which never seem to get repetitive. Because of the slight performance issues 
 I'm giving The Sims 2 an 8.
  
  Sound: Not a lot to say for sound. There are a lot of new sound animations and the new radio stations 
 are particularly good, especially the new College Rock stations, where I heard they even got real 
 Indie bands to perform songs in Simglish. I found the refreshing new sounds to the sims deserved 
 at least an 8.
  
  Overall: Buy this game. You won't regret it, especially if you're a fan of the original go out 
 and buy The Sims 2 and The Sims 2: University. Overall this game actually does deserve a 94 and 
 is an instant classic in my honest opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I must say in the beginning I was skeptical about this game. Now, after playing it for a bit I 
 definitely can appreciate the direction that Maxis is going. We are able to have a more well-rounded 
 Sim. You are able to almost become the Sim. This is truly the aspect I love about it the most. 
 Although we may not have gotten a lot of items like we have in the past, you truly have to love 
 this game if you are a true Sims fanatic. 
  
  Maxis is doing a great job not only with the game play but also with the outstanding graphics. 
 You have to love the time they took to get the characters looking almost life like. The movements 
 are just beautiful along with the facial expressions. You have to also love that the Sims acknowledge 
 each other and are aware of what is going on around them. I thought the original game was awesome 
 but it doesn't even compare to this one. I am pretty sure the next expansion pack will come with 
 a few more bells and whistles and also allow us to go other places. I think the Sims fans are definitely 
 ready for it. 
  
  Thank you for your time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, in The Sims, it often felt like there wasn't enough time to accomplish everything 
 you wanted to do. With The Sims 2, that was helped a lot by the ability to work friendships via 
 phone or computer, vacation days, and life stages. It still feels like there's a lot to accomplish 
 in a single day, though. University helps immensely with that.
  
  Firstly, I'll say for the record that you do NOT go to class with your sims. They leave for class 
 for two to three hours, much like when adult sims leave for work. You have limited funds, although 
 there are several ways to earn money (though no careers are available during this life stage) . 
 Your sims can live in a dorm, a frat house (or sorority) or they can move into "off campus" housing 
 (it's still in the college neighborhood, but it's a house you rent out) . Living expenses for young 
 adults, the new life-stage, are much reduced and if you keep your grades up you generally have 
 plenty of money. Once you leave college, though, you go back to your standard 20,000 simoleon starting 
 fund - so you might as well spend it while you can.
  
  And what shall you spend your money on? There are new hand-held devices - a cell phone, an MP3 
 player, and a hand-held game machine. Also, there are new creative items such as a guitar, drums, 
 and a bass guitar. They've also added a pool table, which is very entertaining. I've spent more 
 than a little time watching them play and predicting which shots they'll try to make next :-) Overall, 
 there aren't a lot of new objects, but I was satisfied with this aspect.
  
  On the down side, the phone seems like it's driving me nuts now with sims always calling and griping 
 that the friendship is falling. I don't think there is a different decay rate - I just think it's 
 from trying to maintain a ton of friendships. I've also heard that cell phones, if purchased, will 
 wake your sims up if they ring in the middle of the night. Lastly - there's a new influence ability. 
 Influence points work similarly to aspiration points, but I haven't found them particularly useful. 
 They probably come in handy for sims who would prefer to party and let someone else do their homework 
 and term papers, though :-)
  
  Finally, I'll get to what, in my opinion, is the most important aspect of University - sim development. 
 I think we'll all agree that a second generation sim (one born into a household) has an advantage 
 in that they should have a couple of friends from when they were growing up, had their personalities 
 tweaked a bit through parental encouragement, and they probably have developed a few skills, as 
 well. College sims have a period in which they are able to further build their skills, make more 
 friends (usually 5 or six) and they get two additional want slots (for a total of six) , plus the 
 ability to lock two wants rather than just one. Also, their aspiration points usually build very 
 nicely during this period. This makes your sims adulthood go much more smoothly (which is what 
 college is for, eh?) 
  
  Overall, I am very pleased with The Sims 2: University. With all of the bonuses they've added, 
 plus four new careers (and corresponding rewards) I can't think of a good reason why every sim 
 shouldn't go to college. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Expansions to Sims games are like **** they keep coming at you no matter what happens. Fortunately, 
 the resemblance ends right there. Most of them (expansions, that is) are quite fun according to 
 the word-of-mouth...
  
  Well, yes, I'm one of the 5 people on this planet who loved the original Sims yet didn't buy any 
 of the 7 subsequent expansion packs.
  
  Since I'm a big fan of the original, it should be clear to you that I rate The Sims 2 very highly. 
 One complaint I had at the time was that the game, despite tons of new features, shipped with too 
 little content. Of course, such a problem for Sims games is something waiting to be inevitably 
 rectified. The Sims 2 University is here, and it adds many things beside the obligatory new household 
 items.
  
  As its name states, University's main feature is the ability to send your Sims to college. Sims 
 who go to college gets to live the new Young Adult life stage. Gameplay changes dramatically when 
 you play a student Sim. Time management becomes top priority and micromanagement is almost unavoidable 
 if you want your Sim to have a chance at succeeding in college. The game time is measured in hours 
 left before each semester's final exam. The clock starts at 72 hours and goes from there. Unfortunately, 
 no break of any kind is to be found since weekends no longer apply. This can make the game tedious 
 at times, with your Sim milling around the place trying to get good grades and make new friends 
 in order to get Influence Points.
  
  Influent Points, a new addition which also applies to the core game, enable Sims to spend these 
 points in order to make other Sims fulfill their wishes. Clean up the toilet? No problem. Put a 
 lighter to the sprinkler? Affirmative. The more friends a Sim has got, the greater amount of Influence 
 Points he can muster. The Points themselves can be earned by fulfilling the various Wants, in a 
 fashion not unlike the Aspiration Points in the core game. Wants (and Fears) which affect Influence 
 Points have blue borders around them, so they should be spotted easily enough.
  
  The game also adds several new interactions - such as Pranks (3 are available, none of them quite 
 good enough for real college students, but it's The Sims. You get the idea.) , new games under the 
 Play menu like Pillow Fight and Kicky Bag - and many intriguing items. Cell phones, MP3 players, 
 and a handheld console can be purchased from kiosks in community lots. The new musical instruments 
 (plus new actions for the existing piano) enables you to make a SimBand, although it's odd that 
 singers are nowhere to be found in SimCity. Actually, there's a Freestyle action under Entertain 
 that makes your Sim rap, but it doesn't fit with the types of music you can play with the instruments 
 at all. Oh, and you can do all those for tips, if you like. The pool table is an even more entertaining 
 instrument of socialization. Sims can simply practice, play with others, perform trick shots, or 
 even hustle other Sims for money! Juice kegs (in place of beers) and bubble blowers (for weed, 
 perhaps?) serve as great party items, as well as the new bonfire.
  
  Back to the campus life. Sims can opt to join (or even create) Greek Houses, fraternities/sororities, 
 and - with enough luck and keen eyes - Secret Societies with brilliant benefits. There are scholarships 
 to be won, using a Sim's grades and skills as criterias. A graduation party option is in, and so 
 is the sports party activity. And then there are... bugs.
  
  Visit www. thesims2. com, get in the BBS, and you can read about them. University introduces new 
 bugs to the series, many of them rather odd. While I haven't encountered any of them myself, it's 
 not a good sign. More expansions are bound to introduce bugs and conflicts, and the original Sims 
 managed to hold them at bay for quite long. A first expansion with bugs isn't exactly encouraging. 
 Performance also goes down due to the new content and the dorm environments, which feature a lot 
 of Sims on the screen at once. Load times are still quite long, slightly longer than before even.
 
  
  Still, don't let those small glitches prevent you from purchasing this great expansion pack. The 
 Sims 2 University adds a very enjoyable mini-game, some new content for the core game, and will 
 probably reinvigorate your interest in The Sims 2 enough for hundreds of hours of plain fun. Let's 
 see if Maxis can continue this legacy with The Sims 2 Nightlife, on track for a late 2005 release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 4, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  
  The Sims 2 University is a great idea that has been translated wrongly into the Sims universe. 
 The games main feature is the addition of a University in each of the three main cities in the 
 state. These Universities have many associated buildings and recreational institutions but generally 
 the game falls short of success.
  
  Each University campus offers many opportunities for Sims to do whatever they wish. Universities 
 have: coffee shops, dormitories, parks, lounges, musical theatres, accessory shops, grocery shops, 
 libraries, pools and nearby homes that Sims may dwell within. Sims are able to buy their own groceries 
 in this expansion at the local store which does add some realism to their lives. The students may 
 also buy MP3 players, cellular phones and other electronic or entertainment providers (magazines) . 
 The game allows you to go to these various complexes and it allows your Sims to meet new students 
 or simply lounge and waste time. These additions to the local scene may bring your Sims out of 
 their home or dormitory but they are no means places that you will spend a lot of time in. Basically, 
 whatever they offer at these establishments you can do at home.
  
  The greatest change to this expansion is that Sims have an opportunity to choose their dedicated 
 fields and become successful members of society. The game goes through a Sims freshman, sophomore, 
 junior and senior years in University. Your Sims will have to take exams and further their studies 
 to obtain superior grades to avoid the dreaded probation from school. Sims declare their majors 
 in their freshman years. Majors include: Drama, political science, psychology, philosophy, mathematics, 
 science, biology, physics and some others. Depending on your chosen field your Sim will meet different 
 professors (obviously) . Your Sims can make friends with the professors and this probably can help 
 you attain the higher averages in your courses. I found that the game runs pretty quickly throughout 
 your Sims University experience. For example, in your freshman year you take your final exam only 
 50 Hours into the game, considering the Sim Clock, thats pretty fast. Your Sims will have to 
 attend their classes to earn better grades and to hopefully make the Deans honor list (A+) . If 
 you move in new Sims into a dormitory there is a wild rush for each Sim to claim their dorm room. 
 When Sims claim their room their face will appear on the door to show everyone that they own that 
 room. 
  
  The game allows you to become a successful Sim by doing your term paper and eventually doing very 
 well in your studies throughout the years. The game could have added additions like a campus newspaper, 
 sports events, game tournaments or other occurrences instead of music concerts which are not 
 that fun to begin with. If you lead your Sim through their University career they will graduate 
 and eventually become adequate citizens in the Sims world.
  
  The expansion offers some additions in the buy, and build mode. There is not much added but the 
 additions do add to the variety of products available to you. The game uses the exact same overlay 
 as the original Sims 2 game. Every single thing is the same but the additional button on the main 
 menu to go attend a University. I do not know how long it took Maxis to make this game but judging 
 by the simplicity of its design, by integrating the exact same overlay as the original title; I 
 judge it took them not to complete this title. 
  
  The game allows you to add new Sim students and also to create your own Universities. If you are 
 a fan of building in the Sims environment this might make you happy but for the general Sims player, 
 you wont really care about this option. 
  
  The gameplay in The Sims 2 University uses the exact same outline of its original title; in fact 
 it even uses the exact same entrance movies and game menus. The additional options in this game 
 like, adding new bought items to your home or allowing your Sim to research their course material 
 online are cool in their own right, but they are way to similar to their previous title. Success 
 is marked by innovation and the creation of an extraordinary experience which Sims 2 University 
 just copies from its previous title hoping that their formula for success will continue.
  
  The graphics in The Sims 2 University are exactly the same as the original title. This is not surprising 
 but this aspect does not take away from the game experience. Maxis copied the exact same graphical 
 innovations from their previous title and this is probably the only area where copying benefited 
 their title. The graphics are smooth and the 3D characters are very responsive, especially on 128MB 
 video cards.
  
  The sound in the Sims 2 University is well done. You can hear your Sim agonize over the treadmill 
 as he or she sprints for glory in one spot. The game adds additional music in its jukeboxs and 
 televisions. Pool tables also outburst sound. Hitting the cue ball with the stick makes a realistic 
 noise and adds to the feel of the game. Small details are the focus of the Sims 2 University and 
 they are generally done successfully.
  
  Overall the lack of ingenuity and implication of new concepts or ideas makes the Sims 2 University 
 an unsuccessful expansion. It does add some nice concepts to the original Sims game (Next Sims 
 game I want PETS!) , but this small expansion is probably not worth your money. Go have a sub or 
 a slice of pizza before you plan on deliberating your career path at the local Sim State Universities.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overkill253
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2005 12:14 am PT
Review:  Some people have all the luck; they come up with great concepts, successfully pioneer new genres, 
 make lasting and addicting products, and have a blast while doing it. Unfortunately for Maxis, 
 it seems, lightning doesn't strike twice.
  
  The Sims 2: University is as forgettable as... well... as I don't know, because whatever it is I'm 
 comparing it to seems to have slipped my mind at the moment. Bad jokes aside, University simply 
 leaves much to be desired. Maxis takes an already lacking concept (come on, university life?) and 
 mucks it up even more by failing to introduce any worthwhile objects (sans the Pool Table) and 
 injecting even more tedium by forcing you to take taxis everywhere. 
  
  First, though, let's start with the good: New objects are always a plus, and I suppose the ability 
 to do something more with the lives of your Sims is a postiive addition. More social interactions 
 are now available, and you can do a multitude of new things with your Sims' aspirations. A few 
 new career paths have been added and getting a degree can help your Sims out (although not by enough 
 if you ask me) . 
  
  But the new objects are few and far between, and many of them are pointless additions. An extra 
 pinball machine is pointless at best, moronic even, especially when taken in with the fact that 
 Maxis neglected to give us things that we really wanted like another TV, microwave, a 3-square 
 coffee table (for God's sake, why oh why are they all 1 or 2? Where is the symmetry with couches?!) , 
 increased swimming pool options (mounted hot tubs? Waterfalls?) , landscaping choices, etc. Instead 
 we get multiple variants of the same exercise machine (although to be fair the treadmill is unique 
 and useful) , a new bookcase (we have enough already) , and, as mentioned earlier, a third pinball 
 machine (let it be noted that none of the three have new swatches [the same is true for the exercise 
 equipment, which clash horribly with red or green colored housing schemes] ) . Instead of useful 
 musical equipment (like a Grand Piano or an Organ) we get Guitars and Drums, which, while nice 
 in their own right, serve no purpose in any setting other than a frat house (and since you can't 
 bring them to community lots to do gigs their worth is severely limited) . 
  
  I have some complaints two about the very concept of the game. Giving it a point - graduating college 
 and moving on with your life, seems, to me at least, a deviation from the core nature of the game. 
 The Sims 2 has always been about the sandbox. No point except those you define for yourself. With 
 University comes set scheduling and an ultimate goal - you can't even change your major once you're 
 a senior. Regardless, though, this is a minor complaing compared to the severe lack of objects 
 (and the fact that those you do get are largely useless; we have enough beds and tables, give us 
 more unique things please like a ping pong table or sprinklers so we don't have to water our flowers 
 anymore) . 
  
  All in all, the game has additions but not enough of them. The new careers are the same as the 
 old. They just have different pays and schedules. 10 levels, nothing really revolutionary. The 
 objects are tiring, and the the college idea is weak. Not worth $40, not by a long shot. $20 would 
 be more reasonable. 
  
  Bottom Line: If you MUST have new stuff, get it. If not, save your money. Overpriced, unimaginative.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 2, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Im really happy maxis is adding content to their games but $40 for this college expansion just 
 didnt do it for me. I felt a little robbed.
  Basically the campus of the college is a neighborhood. Ok so far.
  You attend classes but really 
 dont do anything. Kind of like going to work in your profession. 
  
  What we really want are more objects. There really isnt enough content in the game yet to keep 
 it interesting. 
  They did add some tatoos and new "college" outfits. maybe a dozen of each.
  Oh and they added 
 more MP3 Sim speaking college music... That was tollerable for about ten minutes.. Oh yea.. they 
 also added new professional paths. But I dont think Maxis has put enough effort into the working 
 simulation of the "SIMS"... yet..
  
  Anyway. Its still a good game. Just not ENOUGH of it yet... My only complaint is the high cost 
 of the expansions. Course they have always charged to much for so little..
  
  All in all it will keep you busy playing for a while longer, preventing you from un-installing 
 the game, right at about the time the next expansion is due out :)
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
