-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Saga of Ryzom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/sagaryzom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nevrax
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Saga of Ryzom is another unfinished massively multiplayer role-playing game to be inflicted 
 upon gamers. 

  The Saga of Ryzom is the latest unfinished massively multiplayer role-playing game to be inflicted 
 upon gamers. Its unrefined gameplay is too simplistic to have enduring appeal and yet, paradoxically, 
 its character-development system is needlessly complex. While Ryzom may eventually evolve into 
 a more interesting game, right now most of its novel features have yet to be fully implemented, 
 so its gameplay consists almost exclusively of tediously improving character attributes.  

          There's some graphical eye candy in Ryzom, including the convincing water effects.     
 

  Ryzom was released earlier this year in Europe, so it's surprising that the game is still missing 
 so many promised features. It's set in a colorful, original setting that's thankfully devoid of 
 typical fantasy-world creatures and characters. The setting has an intriguing background plot that 
 involves the humanoid races recovering from being overrun by a horde of marauding  Starship Troopers 
 -ish insects called the Kitin. There are four playable humanoid races to choose from, and instead 
 of offering a rigid class-development system, the game allows characters to develop skills in four 
 basic skill groups (combat, magic, harvesting, and crafting) . Once your character attains a rudimentary 
 degree of competence in a basic skill group, you gain access to more-specialized and more-powerful 
 skills to develop. For instance, after gaining 20 levels of skill in basic crafting, your character 
 can then develop an additional 30 levels of more-specialized armor crafting or melee-weapon crafting. 
 Choosing to develop one group of skills does not limit your ability to learn the others, so devoted 
 players could eventually develop a character who has fully mastered all available skills. As a 
 result, players tend to develop jack-of-all-trades characters, and there's little incentive to 
 create more than one character, although the developers intend to introduce further differentiation 
 between races.  

  Ryzom's biggest problem is that there really isn't anything to do in the game other than work on 
 improving character stats, and doing so is far more monotonous than engaging. The melee combat 
 looks dull and consists of only simplistic animations and uninspired special attacks such as "increase 
 accuracy 3." Magic combat is more involved, and eventually features some massively damaging area-of-effect 
 spells that are atypical in an MMORPG, but it's initially so badly underpowered that the developers 
 are planning some significant rebalancing. Once engaged in combat, it's generally impossible to 
 retreat, since character movement is slow and angry creatures will pursue you indefinitely unless 
 you trap them on landmarks or lure them to NPC guards. Harvesting is extremely time-consuming and 
 dull, generally taking over a minute to obtain a single resource item, and the special abilities 
 you can acquire to improve your efforts are poorly explained.  

  Crafting is similarly dreary, since you have to acquire a new skill plan for each item you want 
 to craft, and each plan costs three levels' worth of crafting experience points. In other words, 
 after acquiring 10 levels in crafting, your character will likely be able to craft only a couple 
 of pieces of armor and a basic weapon. Player-crafted goods are far superior to any available for 
 purchase from NPCs, but there's no auction or marketplace feature, so you're forced to spam the 
 chat system to buy or sell goods. Characters also have an extremely limited inventory capacity, 
 so it's generally impossible to carry enough resources or crafted items to maintain a decent mercantile 
 lifestyle.  

          There's a rudimentary ecology at work, as predators will attack herbivores they run across. 
     

  The developers plan to introduce a quest system, but right now you're limited to taking on simplistic 
 tasks, such as killing a particular number of a type of creature or finding a specific resource, 
 and these tasks offer only monetary rewards. Many of the tasks in the tutorial area can't actually 
 be accomplished, since the items you're asked to locate aren't available, or the tasks themselves 
 have broken or buggy scripting. There's actually a disincentive to teaming up with other players 
 to take on tasks, since only the player who lands the killing blow gets credit, even if other team 
 members have the same objective. Even worse, there's no proportionate allocation of experience 
 points in recognition of a character's contribution to a kill. That doesn't matter if all the characters 
 are on the same team, since they'll share the experience-point reward equally, but if they're not 
 teamed up, only the character who ultimately kills the creature gets experience points, which encourages 
 kill stealing.  

  There are other features mentioned in the manual that would help distinguish Ryzom and deepen its 
 gameplay, but they haven't been fully implemented yet. Character mounts are mentioned, but are 
 so far absent. The manual also describes guilds using immense siege weapons to conquer outposts, 
 but those sorts of battles haven't made it into the game yet. To acquire the best resources, characters 
 can team up and protect resource nodes that would otherwise be damaged during harvesting. Aggressively 
 harvesting the best resources is supposed to be discouraged by the risk that the Kami, a magical 
 race, will directly or indirectly intervene to punish such actions. But the Kami don't seem to 
 be able to intervene yet.  

  Probably the most interesting feature of Ryzom is the promise that the insectlike Kitin will likely 
 return in huge raids, and during the first month of the game's North American release the Kitin 
 did attack one race's primary settlement. But such events aren't frequent enough to ensure that 
 players can participate in them, and although Ryzom was designed to facilitate them, the game still 
 suffers from lag issues when a lot is happening onscreen. While it's cool that creatures tend flock 
 together in giant packs, it causes performance issues, as creatures frequently "slingshot" around 
 the environment.  

  Ryzom features a colorful array of creatures and environments and some great water effects, but 
 its production values generally seem substandard. The animations are simplistic and choppy, and 
 there are only cursory music and sound effects. Characters are effectively glued to the ground, 
 so they can't pass seemingly minor variations in terrain. The con system -- which assesses the relative 
 strength of other creatures -- doesn't properly indicate whether a creature is aggressive or not, 
 and gives you only a very broad indication of its difficulty level. You can't practically use the 
 "take all" function when looting beasts because their hides ridiculously contain a whole range 
 of pointless items that you can't sell or craft with, and that will quickly encumber your character. 
 There's only a single, sparsely populated North American server, and once you create a profile 
 you can't access the European servers. There are very few character-customization options, and 
 each tweak seems designed to inevitably transform your character into a doppelgnger of Gerard 
 Depardieu.  

          Major towns are large and confusing, but there's a decent automap to help you navigate. 
     

  The game is also incredibly inaccessible to new players. Aside from referencing missing features, 
 the manual inaccurately describes character attributes and doesn't explain skill functionality 
 at all. In addition to buying special abilities with skill points, you can buy individual components 
 of special abilities, called "stanzas." You can then mix and match positive and negative stanzas 
 to create additional special abilities. While it's a novel mechanic, in practice the functionality 
 variations are quickly adopted by seasoned players, but effectively make it more difficult for 
 less-motivated players to be successful in the game. You're forced to spend an extensive amount 
 of time in the tutorial area to be able to have a reasonable prospect of surviving on the mainland, 
 but the game gives no indication that such is the case. It's extremely difficult to effectively 
 solo on the mainland, particularly as a predominately magic-using character, since the abilities 
 are badly unbalanced and creatures have a tendency to attack in groups. There are also hardware 
 issues with Linksys routers and older ATI video cards, and a persistent bug traps players in the 
 tutorial training areas, requiring you to endure a lengthy reboot.  

  The friendly player community partially compensates for these flaws, and can help new players adjust 
 to the game, but it's difficult to justify enduring Ryzom when there are currently so many better 
 alternatives. In many ways Ryzom seems like a throwback to the first generation of MMORPGs, since 
 it seems to have more in common with the first Asheron's Call than, say, this year's City of Heroes. 
 If some of its more innovative features, such as the Kitin raids and guild quests, ultimately figure 
 more prominently in the gameplay, then Ryzom may merit another look, but currently it's a disappointment. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: esiaz1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about The Saga Of Ryzom I was interested in it because of it's quasi-sci-fi plot 
 and original backdrops and characters however the interest started to wane fast once I started 
 to get into the game.
  
  The first thing I noticed about the game was the absence of any gamers! - It is a barren world 
 full of NPC's and maybe a few human players, and I mean a FEW maximum 4 or 5 and that's at a good 
 playing hour like after school where servers should be packed. 
  
  Seeing that the MMO part of the game was pretty much non-existent I decided to go at it as if I 
 was playing a single player game and try out the RPG aspect of it. --- I was disappointed. 
  
  Although the points and skills system is something that more MMO's may benefit from it sort 
 of loses it's appeal when your 'custom character' is playing by himself. 
  
  customization of a character really only matters in a world where a lof of players can battle it 
 out or cooperate --- using their customizations to win together...
  
  If you're playing alone (which is all of the time.) running back to the trainer just gets annoying.
 
  
  
  That's right folks -- you can't update your character on site -- you have to run back to a trainer 
 and do it... if you don't you stay as weak as you were when you left and therefore cannot go kill 
 more monsters.
  
  So all of this running back and forth in a barren world.. full of NPC's simply gets tedious and 
 boring... 
  
  
  The game also has bad lag and frequent disconnects occur .. which I can't understand since there 
 are almost no players..
  
  
  It's too bad because Ryzom could have been a great game... - bad business and marketing killed 
 what could have been.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheotazo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Ryzom has a great community, with some of the most friendly and helpful people I have ever met. 
 The skill system is easy to master and allows you to customize your actions.
  The game performs well and lag is minimal. The graphics are amazing and the game is full of interesting 
 visual effects. There is also an impressive weather system which not only looks good, but also 
 affects what materials a harvester can gather where and when!
  Many of the bugs mentioned in earlier reviews were ironed out ages ago and the game is not 'unfinished' 
 but simply evolving, as the developers experiment with different things, many of which are suggested 
 by the players themselves.
  The AI is great and animals will travel in herds, be docile or aggressive, and fight in groups 
 or alone. The seasons in Ryzom change and with them the animals migrate to different areas.
  Ryzom is the BEST online game I've ever played and I recommend it to anyone seeking a fun and original 
 online game with a great community!
  Currently you can create a free account and play for free so check it out at www. Ryzom. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I play this MMO for about a month, and it was sometimes ago... and when I see the 5.6 review it 
 get here, I was... well, this game is nice and doing great things:
  
  - Progression system is more developped then any other MMO. Think of Oblivion/Morrowind, but linked 
 to the XP you gain while using skills rather then just using them in the void... you gain 200 xp 
 while doing 50 points of melee damage and 150 points with spells, well 150 XP go to spells and 
 50 to melee skills.
  
  - The skills... they remind me of Rolemaster. No it is not Rolemaster, but it remind me of it. They 
 just twist it in another way, but still... (as you progress in them, you will see)
  
  - Hardest MMO on the market. I rarely leave a game because I feel it was too hard, and it was the 
 case here... many players crave for this harsh world however.
  
  - Unique world, races, setting.
  
  If for any reason you like either Rolemaster, or Oblivion/Morrowind... you 
 really should gives this game a second glance before discarding it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  A lot has changed in Ryzom in the last six months, heck a lot has changed in Ryzom since its launch 
 in 2004, unfortunately not much else has changed in MMORPG's in the last 5 years. Why is it a good 
 time to take another look at Ryzom? Because in todays MMO market there is nothing but EQ type games 
 with the standard features like Elves, Dwarves and linear level based progression with raids and 
 capture the flag at the endgame.
  Ryzom offers an alternative to this. It is not class based players can freely choose skills, it 
 is open ended and NON-linear. It has a unique take on a theme, a strange fantasy/sci-fi blend, 
 some interesting and unique races to choose from and the graphics are very good.
  
  Additionally, there is the new Ryzom ring which allows players to create their own content! So 
 if you are closet/garage game designer, here is a chance to show off your talent.
  
  It is an excellent value on top of it. First, the trial does NOT require a credit card. Next, the 
 trial is unlimited in time but keeps you on a starter island. If you deside to subscribe the software 
 is basically free and all you do is start a monthly billing. Can't get much better then that.
 
  
  So if you are tied of the same old fantasy garbage with elves and dwarves killing orcs and 10 rats, 
 give this game a try, the community adds the RPG back into the MMO title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrowsun
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I started my free trial of this game because I was looking for something to take my mind of WoW 
 for a week or so. I liked the first few hours of the game. I was able to level to 20 pretty quickly, 
 so I bought a months worth of gametime. I regret that because after level 20 it gets hard. I can't 
 navigate the areas very well. The missions are a seriously underdeveloped aspect of a game that 
 is based on missions. I played AC and I am now getting those flashbacks to the early grinding days.
 
  
  I love the water effect in this game. I like the idea of being able to manipulate the environment 
 in a MMORPG. However, I am often the only person in sight in any of the cities I visited. Compare 
 the to overcrowded Iron Forge in WoW, and you begin to see the extremes of participation. I get 
 so lost trying to explore around the map, no cities to run to and no people to talk to. Missions 
 are not helpful on the mainland. Overall this is a game with a different concept, but so many flaws 
 as to not even try it. I am sad that I can't find a good second game to WoW. I need something new 
 but Ryzon is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendayn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't for everyone, as it doesn't guide you through the whole game like World of Warcraft 
 or EverQuest2. Its more like Eve as its open ended. PVP is consensual and if you don't like it 
 you don't have to do it.
  
  There are four main skills, crafting, fighting, magic and gathering. Crafting is great as different 
 quality of items and different kinds of items will make the item be unique and different from all 
 the other items. Just about each piece of armor is different from another piece and there is great 
 variety. Crafting is confusing at first but is easily learned.
  
  Whats surprised me the most is how nice the community is and how helpful they are and the Game 
 Masters actually talk to players in game (mostly answering questions or if there is a problem with 
 the server then they keep the players updated in game) . Another thing that surprised me was the 
 carnivores attacked other animals like other herbivores. Also herbivores can travel in great herds 
 of hundreds of animals to migrate to other places if they get scared away or hunted too much.
 
  
  Great game and worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyscoJuggalo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  SoR is a good MMORPG.
  
  The positives+
  
  1- It is skill based, meaning you are not defined by a preset class. You select what skills you 
 want to learn, and develop your own character's traits. You also litterally can learn every skill 
 in the game, so you achiever types will never grow bored.
  
  2- You can create custom specials, so if you want to make a special with accuracy and damage bonuses, 
 then do so.
  
  3- It is a player based economy, so none of that boring loot crap that games like WoW and EQ beat 
 to a painful boring death.
  
  4- Unlimted time free trial at the newbie Island. So play it for free and check it out yourself. 
 (Note: There are no NPC quests on the mainland like there is on the Newbie Island. So don't think 
 your hand is going to be held throughout this game, it wont.)
  
  5- Soon will be able to create your own quests.
  
  6- Good RP community.
  
  
  
  The 
 Negatives -
  
  All the Negatives are things that I think are lacking. My MMORPG philosophy is that a MMORPG should 
 be an actual world where you do what you want, here is where SoR fails to meet that.
  
  1- No player cities.
  
  2- No pet taming.
  
  3- Very linear even though it is a skill based 
 game. Your health, Action, stamina, ect Stats can be increased with each level. This creates linear 
 game play in my book. Lots of skills are just improvments on previous skills, that is very linear.
 
  
  4- No purely social skills like SWG had (Dancers/musicians)
  
  
  
  If your into WoW type games this one is most likely too complex for you. If you like complexity, 
 it's probably gonna be good for ya.
  
  Overall I say, try it. You may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ryzom simulates a vast jungle with interesting and exotic but also alien fauna and flora. This 
 world is ruled by a nature goddess called Jena. She got two kinds of gardians: magical wood spirits 
 called Kami and a highly technologically advanced species called Karavan flying in big space vessels, 
 minding their own mysterious (but peaceful) business for as long as they remain on the world (where 
 they never leave the vicinity of their vessels) .
  
  Sounds nice? So where do the players come in?
  
  The players take on the role of a member of 
 one of the worlds four primitive tribes, hunting in the woods, having fun building stuff, outfitting 
 their character, and worshipping either of the goddess' servants. So much to the backstory in a 
 nutshell.
  
  So what's wrong with the game?
  
  First of all, it is an old generation online game. Which means there are no quests or instances, 
 and 95% of gameplay are tradeskilling or grinding your way through the planets flora and fauna.
 
  
  Second of all is the roleplaying aspect. Let's be cocky. Playing some tribesman who worships a 
 mysterious bullet slinging device as a gun is fun, but only to a small lot of people, and only 
 for a short while, then it gets boring.
  
  And what remains?
  
  A grindfest with limited opportunities for roleplaying. Hence the rating. It's not a bad game, 
 for a short while, but it isn't really good either. It's old fashioned, and since World of Warcraft 
 has been released those flaws can be noticed even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ake_Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  I first looked at this game during the final beta before launch and it was sorely lacking. No tutorial, 
 no help from the community. Didn't look that pretty. It was easy to get lost with no npc direction 
 and it made you ask yourself, "Why am I hear?" Once a player says that, they move on.
  
  Turn the clock forward now to the summer 2006 and it appears to be a wholely different game. Current 
 trial is an unlimited trial on the starter island, which is a very comprehensive tutorial environment.
 
  
  Although the population of players is relatively small, they are the most mature and helpful crowd 
 I've ever witnessed.
  
  Customer service is rediculously light years ahead of any other game team. Response time is in 
 minutes with a GM popping up next to you, if need be to solve a problem. When I got stuck in a 
 quest due to my poor handling of a quest item, the GM responded in under 2 minutes., asked me to 
 fill out a ticket and then responded to the ticket within another 2 minutes. I've never seen such 
 responsiveness. This is definitely a differentiator when looking at the MMO genre and a welcome 
 one at that.
  
  Graphics rival any of the current games with excellent char, npc and mob models. Textures at high 
 settings are extremely pleasing to the eye. Water, and flora are some of the best I have seen.
 
  
  Sound is different. Rather than the pulsing music of most games, Nevraxm has adopted a naturalist 
 point of view. Carnivore howls, herbivore munching on grass, bees buzzing, birds chirping, etc 
 oll in EAX if your sound card can support that. It's incredibly immersive.
  
  Gameplay is very good. Like the father of the genre, UO, this game features skill development through 
 a series of 4 trees: fight, magic, harvetsting, crafting. Each can be levelled up to a maximum 
 of 250. I've read that that corresponds to 11k total levels if you wanted to max each subtree. 
 Incredible value for the monthly fee.
  
  The actual effort to do any of the four areas takes on a very unique approach. Each "action" is 
 made up of components called Stanzas. Each stanza can be combined to create custom attacks, for 
 example. It's simple but elaborate approach makes for some very interesting PvE and PvP tactics 
 whether solo or in groups.
  
  Mob AI is quite advanced. Herbivores travel in herds and migrate. Carnivores pack hunt the herd 
 stragglers and you! Passive mobs will approach you with curiosity and look you over. Some plants 
 and animals have symbiotic relationships and will defend each other when attacked.
  
  The PvE game is rich and the PvP game has meaning. Outposts are nodes of critical harvesting. Guilds 
 desire to craft the best gear for their members and fight for control of the Outposts. These are 
 real time battles, not some scheduled "event". Territory is important in SoR and will even become 
 more important with the Spires patch expected in the not too distant future. PvP is group balanced 
 and tactics are important due to the skill trees. A "warrior" could be a maxed magician as well. 
 Whether they attack as a fighter or magic-user is a preference and can make for some very interesting 
 PvP battles.
  
  All in all, I am surprised as to how this game advanced. Too many of us were left with a sour first 
 impression, but SoR deserves another look. If you are tired of the kiddie games, looking for a 
 solid RPG online and enjoy a tight community, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 27, 2004 8:20 pm PT
Review:  SoR, has some innovative ideas and definitly breaks away from the typical Fantasy MMO. The problem 
 is either they released it too soon or no matter how much they patch the game, it just won't be 
 a contender amongst the bigger titles comming out this year (EQII, WoW, CoH) . 
  
  I really wanted to like this game and gave it a fair shot, but lack of a decent tutorial and lack 
 of content that is not in game, but included in the manual just hurt the launch of the game. The 
 community is one of the best and very helpful for any new players that decide to pick the game 
 up, but saddly to me the game just fell short of what I think could have been a great adventure.
 
  
  At least give it a couple of months for it to workt he kinks out and get a couple of patches in. 
 Maybe by that time they will have the game up and going like they had hoped it would be at launch. 
 I mean hey, CoH was far from polished when it came out and 7 months later and a couple of patches 
 and it's finally getting to the point that the developers wanted it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 27, 2004 1:44 am PT
Review:  I went into Saga of Ryzom with a very positive attitude. I have played practically every mmorpg 
 under the sun so far. In fact i think the only ones I havent played since UO were NeoCron (saw 
 plenty on beta to avoid it) and Lineage 2 (read about 50 bad opinions to every 1 good opinion prior 
 to its full release) .
  
  I had been playing City of Heroes but finally got burnt out on the endless repition of the game 
 and was ready to go back to the roots of mmorpg game playing with real loot, items, quests and 
 perhaps even some crafting. Ryzom seemed to have this all in spades form the previews and things 
 I read about it. The graphics looked good enough from screen shots and I decided to give it a go 
 after thinking about it for 3 or 4 days.
  
  I will say at first the game gave me a pretty good impression. The graphics are pretty nice although 
 I hated the interface of countless windows. The creatures in the game seemed to be somewhat creative 
 and had nice ai that causes them to migrate to different areas and the more predatory animals actually 
 attack the more docile ones. Nice touch.
  
  The skill based system seemed pretty nice at first but after you play a while it proves to be a 
 bit to.... limited in truth. The game has a nice harvesting sytem where you can actually go out 
 and find spots to harvest amterials that you can then in turn use to craft items like weapons, 
 armor and even jewlery. It's a bit tedious and buggy in some regards but it actually works pretty 
 good overall. Too bad the crafting is not as good.
  
  Crafting is once again just a mindless sleep inducing system of clicking a thousand times to use 
 ingredients on a chance system of them combining and making something. The actual crafting interface 
 is nicely done and tells oyu what sort of items you need to make a certain object. But its still 
 just a bit too click and repeat dependent for me to enjoy it much.
  
  The infamous "Stanza" system that seemed like such a cool feature when I first started playign 
 acutally became too complicated and limiting once i really got into the game and figured it out. 
 Combat is done ok but still is not anythign you havent seen before. Yeah it may seem cool to make 
 your own attacks but in truth its not as freeform and the makers would lead you to believe.
  
  The game has some good points and for it coming from such a small developer it is in many ways 
 quite remarkable. However.... I think this game is yet one more that proves that perhaps small developers 
 should not be creating games in this genre. MMORPG's are a complicated beast. The huge companies 
 with endless resources cant get it even 80% right and the small companies that make games like 
 Neocron, Horizons and Ryzom only get it about 50% right. 
  
  Anyway.... the game has some nice features like creature ai and some nice spell effects and an interesting 
 harvesting setup. But there are just too many things that dont work right or that dont exisit (like 
 vendors to sell player goods ala FFXI and they still dont even have music or promised mounts in 
 the game yet) to really justify playing. 
  
  Right now I still feel the best mmorpgs on the market are Anarchy Online and FFXI. Both of those 
 I have grown tired of and quit while waiting for something new. I recommend you do the same.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amok
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 23, 2004 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately plaqued by weak content and numerous crashes, this potentially interesting MMO falls 
 flat on it's face when trying to make a niche for itself in a cut-throat market.
  
  Certainly, Saga of Ryzom impresses with it's high-frame rate play and well-done graphics, but these 
 come at a price of stability, and all the bells and whistles in the world won't save patchwork 
 coding.
  
  Another pro is the classless system employed in the game, but this again is overshadowed by the 
 con of very little content to support a potentally diverse economy/society.
  
  I believe that, in time, this game may come together, but I fear that, by the time it gets 'all 
 it's ducks in a row', the big boys will have come into the neighborhood and set up shop (EQ2, WOW, 
 et al) and a, by then, not-so-new, not-so-fresh face just won't have what it takes to muscle up 
 to the (high) bar.
  
  Note: the game, as of this writing, is rife with crashes/lock-ups if one is running any combination 
 of a) ATI graphics, b) AMD chip and/or c) Linksys router.
  
  Good luck if you try this game. I hope you fair better or have more patience than I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 22, 2004 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I played this game in beta all the way up to lvl 25 in alll four classes. 
  
  The biggest problem is a shortage of good equipment. There is no auction system at all. And gathering 
 resources takes way too long so after lvl 20 you will not be getting new weapons armor or anything 
 verry easilly. 
  
  Also the combat system is rather crazzy. The mobs have huge amounts of hit points and you can't 
 escape them. So a typical battle may last 4-6 minutes. If you have an add durring that time you 
 are dead. You can't run you can't escape. period. you are dead.
  
  I suggested fixes to all this but he devs said that the AI was working as planned and I should 
 run till I got to a city gaurd. All mobs can outrun you and hit you on the run quite well.
  
  Oh and the quest system is devoid of anything interesting. go kill four of these thats about 
 it. 
  
  This game is about 3 months from completion and they are releasing it now. I suggest waiting for 
 EQ2 or WoW even Matrix online. Don't spend your money on this!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
