-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sims/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.0, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,868 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Jan 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you relished the feeling of complete control of building a city in SimCity, then you will doubtless 
 enjoy the experience of building a life in The Sims. 

 Maxis' The Sims is about creating, managing, and controlling the lives of tiny computerized people 
 who dwell in miniature homes. The game's excellent music and sound effects, detailed scenery, cleverly 
 animated characters, and equally clever writing go a long way toward fulfilling this intriguing 
 premise. Yet though you can exercise a considerable amount of control over your sims' behavior 
 and lifestyles, The Sims' actual gameplay is rather limited in some respects - either by odd inconsistencies 
 or by actual restrictions placed on your actions. But to the game's credit, the most objectionable 
 thing about these occasional limits is how starkly they contrast with the otherwise tremendous 
 freedom you have to lead your sims' lives.  

 At a glance, The Sims looks fairly good, if plain. The game itself takes place entirely within a 
 small suburb just outside SimCity, and the streets, houses, and fixtures are all colorful and detailed 
 - and all in a style consistent with the SimCity games. At first, the fully polygonal characters 
 might look no better than the scenery. But if you leave them alone for even a few minutes, your 
 sims will do all sorts of things; they'll dance to the radio's music, hunker down in front of the 
 TV, or strike up a conversation. And when your sims start doing anything, they'll do so with expressive 
 animation that lends them a great deal of personality. When the music is playing, sims dance the 
 Charleston together; TV-watching sims will lean forward and gaze intently at the screen or laugh 
 out loud; and conversing sims will gesticulate appropriately as they chat, dish out insults, tell 
 jokes, and more.  

 Despite the fact that the actual dialogue among the game's inhabitants is made to sound like complete 
 gibberish, The Sims sounds superb overall. You can't make out exactly what they're saying, but 
 you can easily infer their intentions from the tone of their voices. Sims will speak, then pause 
 and clear their throats while they're thinking of what to say next, yelp in pain when they cut 
 themselves preparing a meal, or tell naughty limericks as jokes. Sims also interact with their 
 surroundings, and everything from coffee makers to toilets sounds realistic, clear, and in some 
 cases downright hilarious, like the slapstick noises of the TV cartoons. The Sims' music is also 
 excellent; even though much of it consists of vapid easy-listening, those unassuming tunes provide 
 a perfect ironic contrast in the background against whatever havoc your sims are wreaking on center 
 stage.  

 Your sims can get into all sorts of trouble depending on what choices you make in their design and 
 actions. You can begin the game with a pre-generated family of sims or create your own using a 
 number of different 3D models, more of which are constantly being made available on Maxis' web 
 site. Each sim has five personality attributes (neat, outgoing, active, playful, and nice) which 
 help determine the sim's personality and how compatible he'll be with other sims. Each sim also 
 has six learnable skills (cooking, mechanical, charisma, body, logic, and creativity) , which not 
 only affect the way a sim interacts with his fellow sims but also how well he can make use of the 
 objects in his house and how well he can perform his job. There are ten career paths available 
 in The Sims; each is best served with a sim trained in a particular combination of the six skills. 
 Once you find a job in the daily paper or online via a computer, your sim will be picked up by 
 a carpool at a certain time each day. Getting a job is advisable, since it's really the only way 
 for your sims to bring in a steady income to buy more stuff.  

 One of the most important things to do in The Sims is to buy things, whether appliances or furniture 
 for the inside of your house, or walls, windows, or even a second story for the outside. For instance, 
 a new mirror will let your sims increase their charisma, and a new stove will help them cook more 
 satisfying meals. Each product you buy for your sims' home has its own description; many of these 
 are extremely funny, and it's worth the effort to simply browse through them just to read some 
 of the better gags. There's a fair variety of products to choose from, and Maxis intends to continually 
 provide new household goods for download. In addition, you'll eventually want to expand the size 
 of your house's exterior, since a bigger house means more room for more sims and more stuff. You 
 can do so quickly and easily with one of The Sims' many user-friendly interfaces, the build mode, 
 which lets you customize, add, or remove all sorts of new walls, floors, windows, doors and more 
 with some clicks and drags. Building up a good house is important because you'll need it to fulfill 
 your sims' needs. Every sim has eight needs: hunger, comfort, hygiene, bladder, energy, fun, social, 
 and room, and each need is indicated by a status bar that fills up when needs are met, but are 
 constantly being drained otherwise. If any of these status bars drops down significantly, your 
 sims will become agitated and unhappy. And if any becomes completely empty, your sims may suffer 
 anything from a small mess (if your sim doesn't make it to the restroom) to a complete disaster, 
 as a sim who gets nothing to eat will eventually die of starvation. In most cases, a sim who's 
 suffering from neglect of one or more of his needs will usually become morose and depressed: He 
 won't go to work, will often ignore instructions, and won't interact with other sims.  

 As a result, it's important to keep your sims happy, or they'll miss out on the most intriguing 
 part of the game - interaction with other sims. Though the sims you start the game with will tend 
 to be familiar with each other, they won't know the other sims in the neighborhood. It's usually 
 a good idea for your sims to get acquainted with others, as social interaction is not only required 
 to fulfill your sims' social need bar, but it's also the key to advancing in the ranks of certain 
 professions. When your sims do meet other sims, you'll first be given the option of greeting them, 
 though as you associate with them more often, you'll find more dialogue options available depending 
 on moods, personalities, and your relationships. For example, you might try and hit it off with 
 your neighbor's wife, but if her husband sees you, you might be in for trouble. Sims will interact 
 with each other in entirely different ways depending on the situation, and given the many different 
 factors that can affect a situation, your sims can and will do something to, for, or with others 
 that you may or may not have expected. Though sometimes these situations may end in insubordination 
 or hostility, it's these exchanges and their results that truly make The Sims an interesting game 
 to play. And they'll provide you with enough motivation to continue playing, whether you're trying 
 to focus a particular sim on a specific character strength or weakness, or just trying to re-create 
 a scene from your favorite book, play, or movie.  

 Yet it's these considerable strengths that also reveal what seem to be The Sims' comparable weaknesses. 
 For starters, the flow of time in the game is strange, to say the least; even though The Sims' 
 general play interface supports camera zooming and scrolling, the camera itself handles sluggishly. 
 Likewise, many of the sims' activities - such as preparing and eating meals or using the bathroom 
 - are also unduly time-consuming. However, time itself passes quickly in The Sims, even on the 
 slowest setting. As such, to make the most efficient use of your time, you may find yourself awkwardly 
 alternating between pausing the game to catch up the camera to your sims, then speeding the game 
 up to skip through a time-consuming task like eating or bathing, then pausing again to queue up 
 your sims' next set of actions. Also, though sims have several sophisticated routines governed 
 by their personalities and moods, they also occasionally display poor pathfinding and general artificial-intelligence 
 problems - such as being unable to move, or move around, small obstacles.  

 In addition, there are instances in The Sims in which the game seems limited by its own scope of 
 chronicling only the happy home lives of its inhabitants. For instance, going to work is completely 
 bereft of player interaction - your sim jumps in the carpool, disappears for several hours, and 
 barring any random occurrences, reappears with a paycheck, and that's more or less it. You can't 
 control your sim at work or access him while he's away, nor does your sim's actual choice of career 
 path really affect his social life in any way. In addition, it really is best to keep your sims' 
 needs met at least some of the time, since purposely neglecting a sim makes him depressed and often 
 insubordinate. You can keep a sim productive and responsive to instructions by keeping him happy, 
 but you can't do nearly as much with a neglected sim; he can't become a resentful outcast shaped 
 into a vengeful drifter by adverse situations - he'll just turn into a self-pitying couch potato 
 who'll often ignore you.  

 This isn't to say that The Sims isn't an enjoyable and intriguing game, because it is. If you relished 
 the feeling of complete control of building a city in SimCity, then you will doubtless enjoy the 
 experience of building a domestic life in The Sims. And even those who didn't will still likely 
 find themselves engrossed in The Sims' bright-looking, real-sounding, and highly detailed world 
 of miniature people.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (160 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The original sims game came out in 2000, and it was one of the best games ever. You should not 
 hesitate buying this game, and i'll tell you why. In the Sims, you build a city, in which you can 
 make little people to live in houses you build completely, there are basically limitless combinations. 
 You can either ruin their lives or give them great lives, it's your choice, and either way you 
 go is very, very fun. This is definetely the best pc game to date, and it should be bought by everyone 
 in the world!!!!
  
  The Good:
  -Virtually infinite cobinations to design families and houses, and loads of cool items to discover
 
  -Dozens of differnet careers to get your sims into
  -Very, very, very funny
  -Lots of lots to build houses on
  -Good graphics and music
  -Has many expansion packs
  
 
  The Bad:
  -Not as many customization pats for characters as the other versions
  
  Overall, The originl sims is a great game that should not be missed, and it will keep you playing 
 for many hours on end. I 100% Recommend it, and it is one of the best games of all time that is 
 highly addictive.
  
  Overall, 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Audience.
  
  Final Fantasy III (review elsewhere) = hardcore role-playing with a 3D lift, who was the game? 
 Perhaps designed for those who like to live-action-role-play but would rather just stare at 3D 
 renders instead? Possibly me? FF3  audience. Nothing of sustenance without audience (case 
 in point  mainstream press and Wal-Mart buyers found the game doubleplusungood  game sold well 
 but results came back negative) .
  
  A disc that has a program called a "game" on it such as The Sims = audience (believe it or not) . 
 Wal-Mart buyers are less of potential buyers than Simish murmuring is an actual language (link 
 Wal-Mart buyers to Sim stupidity  perhaps a bit to risque for general Gamespot browsers) . *The 
 Sims is by far a hardcore game.* Takes thought, drive, and actual motivation to create something. 
 Without motivation, where does the "game" come from? The Sims = many little metagames that player 
 so chooses to create!
  
  Maintstream = term/concept that doesn't exist. Gamer levels of "hardcordity" (perfect word for 
 the perfect concept) exist only as immaterial pieces of imagined and rarely determined respect; 
 respect level to The Sims = zero. Why? "Hardcordity"doesn't exist anyway; rather, it's the idea 
 that a person will respect you (the "player" of many games, all hail the man who beat Halo 3 Legendary 
 ALONE!!!) if you show them what you have accomplished. Gamerpoints = the gamer resume of 2008.
 
  
  The Sims =/ "Hardcordity." Nothing to be won or gained (conditions of victory/defeat exist solely 
 in player's minds, ex. Putting a family in a tub and them removing the ladder is somehow fun to 
 people) . The Sims is not a game  common modern definition requires conditions to be met. The Sims 
 is a tool - conditions to be created as the player continues, used in the manners in which the 
 player so wishes. No respect to be had meeting conditions that never went through playtesting  
 Sims has no definable end, therefore, "Hardcordity" taken from the game's potential to reach the 
 entire gaming populace as elitist nerds define the game as unwanted and only bought by "Wal-Mart 
 shoppers" - again, a false stereotype. Who created the sterotype? Unknown. Creator of stereotype 
 probably didn't understand the consequences of their mistake.
  
  Halo = hardcore, yet no imagination required? Perhaps. Tactics and aiming are skills as much as 
 Sims require 2X the amount of motivation any game has ever tried to make (rarely do the tools offer 
 any sort of motivation; will a hammer ever jump up and say, "Good job!!!" No.) The Sims is big, 
 The Sims is great, The Sims is not a "Game" "Game" in any modern definition. 
  
  Ignore stereotypes. The Sims = Hardcordity/respect/et cetera. What do you need to be told about 
 The Sims that you don't already know? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  The Sims came out in 2000, actually in the last day of 2000 so it may have easily been 2001. Anyway 
 this game is probably one of the most popular games of all time and has sold more than 100 million 
 copies. That means that the game has to be pretty good. It's sort of hard and at the same time very 
 easy to describe what Sims is all about. You create your own Sim, which is the human counterpart 
 in this game, you buy a lot, build a house how you want it to be, you buy furniture for your house 
 and start your life. You can build a family with up to a number of sims and make them do what you 
 want. You have to send them to the toilet, get them to take showers, socialize with other sims and 
 also going to work. As difficult and complex at this may sound it actually is much more easy to 
 do. The game is pretty deep when it comes to building your house and sim and even when you start 
 your "social" life. But even so the game is easy to pick up thanks to it's great interface. For a 
 game like Sims graphics and sound effects aren't that important, but the feeling and the complexity 
 of the actions you have to do. Even so the game looks pretty good, everything is in 3D and the sims 
 really look pretty expressive sometimes. Besides that houses and objects within the house and outside 
 it look really good.
  As you start the game you have many choices on how you want to play. You can play with an already 
 created family or create one of your own. You have plenty of choices on how do you want your sim 
 to look like you cane also choose social skills and his star sign, which will affect his life.
 
  Basically in this game you control virtual people and have to take care of them and make them 
 do what they would do in real life. It may sound a little weird ,but for many people out there without 
 a good social life this game is a good friend. Studies has shown that this game has made lonely 
 people more happy. So if you're lonely there, consider playing this game.
  
  My Score 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Playing The Sims is all about controlling the life of a Sim (a man or girl called sims 
 in this game) .
  You must build their skills get them a career maximize their social life and keep their motive 
 bars up like "Fun" in order to keep that up watch TV or play pinball read books whateva, "Energy" 
 how much sleep you get, etc.
  In The Sims and just The Sims alone the only options in the game you have is career, skill building, 
 social life and motives, but if you get the expansions you can really expand your options to making 
 awesome house partys going on dates becoming a superstar etc.
  There is no aspiration choices like on Sims 2 so if you wanna actually achieve something (achieve 
 something as in do storymode or aspirations) in a Sims series other then just mindlessly filling 
 motives and skills, you might wanna stick to Sims 2 and do the aspirations or Sims / Sims Bustin 
 Out on console and do the storymodes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegoldies
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Highly addictive.
  Completely novel game concept.
  Fun to mess with your Sims minds.
  
  Cons:
  It doesnt stay interesting long enough. 
 
  You have to enjoy micromanagement.
  Sims exhibit questionable behavior when left to themselves.
  
  I spent the larger part of a 
 weekend entirely engrossed in the game. The trouble is that after that initial honeymoon period 
 my attention wandered. So despite all the fun I had marrying my Sims off, rising to the top of 
 my chosen career and picking fights with the slovenly neighbors, I couldnt give The Sims 
 our highest rating. It just doesnt stay fun long enough. In the end Max
  is did a remarkable job making the mundane little tasks of life into an entertaining game, but 
 the subject matter just didnt hold my attention for the long term.
  
  The Sims Review at http://intelligames. nodblog. com/the-sims-review/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  The Sims is a game released by EA in early 2000. In this game, you have the ability to control 
 a sim's life, any way you want to.
  
  The game takes place in a small neighborhood in SimCity, from where the idea for the game was inspired.
 
  
  The Sims are able to do many sorts of things, such as listening to radio, playing basketball, or 
 flirting with other Sims. The most notable thing about The Sims, though, is that they have a mood 
 meter which is adjusting continiously. Their mood depends on their hunger, bladder, energy and 
 etc.
  
  You can also create a family of Sims. You can select their clothes, their hairstyle and their personality. 
 The Sims can also follow some particular type of careers in which they can be promoted, depending 
 on the skill points they have acquired during a housechore, or while reading a book. You should 
 get a job as fast as possible, as it is the only way to earn money. You should also try not to 
 be late when the carpool which takes you to your workplace arrives. You can customize everything. 
 There is a great variety of materials and staff to choose from and place in the house.
  
  The visuals of the game are not dissapointing but they need to be worked a bit. However, the sound 
 and music of the game are the best I have ever seen.
  
  To summarize, Sims is a stunning game, from beginning to end, and it is worth playng. I hope that 
 Maxis could publish such games again in the future. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fire_wolf_br
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  The Sims was a incredible innovative game. Just look at it and you'll know why. Its ideas were 
 so successful - to that time, 2000.
  
  Eight years later, with screens of The Sims 3 popping here and there, the first game continues 
 incredibly awesome to play. You see, playing TS is still very worth, you can enjoy funny and nice 
 experiences playing The Sims. It's audio is still good. It's graphics, 50% 2D and 50% 3D, are still 
 beautiful to see and play.
  
  The Sims, without any expansions, turns into a boring experience after some hours. Without many 
 things to purchase, you always end without choices to furnish your home, sweet home. Also, after 
 some hours the game turns boring, because you don't have many things to do with ten families with 
 their lives nice (or bad, depending of your mood, will and sometimes, luck) . Hopefully, the seven 
 expansionpacks adds many things to the game, and multiplies your experience, making The Sims a 
 highly addictive game.
  
  What I said before can look like a paradox, but isn't. The Sims is boring, if you don't have any 
 expansionpacks, but it's a remarkable and wonderful game to play with all the seven expansionpacks 
 added. So, my oppinion is: don't play The Sims without at least one or two expansions, because 
 doing this can make you have a wrong analysis about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Frustration. Everyone hates it. And that's what this game is full of. Sims getting frustrated if 
 their energy level isn't perfect, Sims getting frustrating trying to repair a computer, Sims, Sims, 
 Sims. But, that's about the only problem. It's will last you for months, and after that, you'll 
 come back to it after just a little while. You guide a family from poverty to millionaire status. 
 You expand their house. You re-furnish. You re-paint. You "re" a lot of things. That's why this 
 is fun. And it's hard. Normally you have to have two Sims, to keep up their social levels, and 
 you have to keep them happy everyday. Another reason this game is fun. You can only slack when 
 they are asleep. All the other times you have to pay attention or risk a job loss, or even a death! 
 So in closing, seeing there was not many problems to cover, buy this game. Without it, your life 
 on the computer will not be complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  A realistic game made by Maxis that's totally addicting.
  You'll go from confused to pro in about five minutes, and turn into a total click addict in less 
 than an hour. Every object that can be observed and/or used is full of funny and interesting movements 
 of your Sim. When you've started to get the hang of creating and ruining lives, then you can start 
 building the homes where you mess and have fun in. You can set up the walls, plant the plants, 
 and pick the wallpaper and windows that you want, the way you want it. It's just as fun as the 
 game itself, particularly because you have to work hard over time to afford the slightest remodel. 
 As you slowly add on to your house, you'll see it take shape, taking out windows, adding doors, 
 changing carpeting and filling in the empty rooms with plants and life. It can be a satisfying 
 experience, but it can also crush you if you aren't careful. The sound of the Sims can be a bit 
 annoying because I cant understand what language they're talking about. You need to make your Sims 
 happy by fulfilling their basic necessities like hunger, hygiene, energy, etcetera. You can also 
 have a romantic or friendly relationship with other sims but the main part of the game focuses 
 on your own house, customizing and modeling ot to your liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philx3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  From Will Wright, the creator of SimCity, comes a strategy game that really hits close to home! 
 Create an entire neighbourhood of Sims and then run or ruin their lives. Help them pursue careers, 
 make friends and find romance - or see what happens when you make a complete mess of things! Open-ended 
 gameplay gives you the freedom to set your own goals and chart your sims identity. It is your neibourhood 
 they are yout sims. Whether they proper or perish iis completely up to you. Create your Sims, design 
 their personalities, skills and appearance. Build a neighbourhood of sims, design and creat rooms, 
 choose wallpaper and floor covering and even landscape the garden. Funish your home with furniture, 
 eclectrical appliance, plumbing, lighting and other accessories. Control the lives of your sims 
 as you guide their relationships and careers for better or worse. You can even tell their story 
 by creating sim web pages toshare with the world.
  A great game what you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  The world's best selling PC Game in history wouldn't miss me, this excellent game is not just an 
 ordinary one, its a masterpeice.
  
  At the Sim Creation screen, it is pretty ordinary and many more options could have been included. 
 The texture of the Sims body and the clothing are highly realistic which makes an effective character 
 for the game.
  
  When you get into the game at first, tt may seem a little 'what do you do' as you click on icons 
 and select what you want your Sim to do. But in a while, you eventually get the hang of it. Keeping 
 your Sim from getting one of the 8 bars (Energy, Comfort, Hygeine, Bladder, Hunger, Fun, Social 
 and Room) down to zero is probably only the hardest bit in the game.
  
  With 150 furniture items to decorate your house, variety may seem good in your first months of 
 play, but they eventually get repetitive.
  
  The game is purely getting to control a Sims life in a basic home, I appreciate Maxis and EA for 
 organizing such a Masterpeice of entertainment for the entire family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bamul
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, some of the sentences in this review might not make sense because I'm 
 from Poland and my English is not a 100%.
  
  Graphics
  Today I would say crappy but when it was out I'm sure it had quite good graphics for a game in 
 those years so the rating is... 9.0
  
  Gameplay
  Good gameplay. Sometimes in the game it's very hard to survive because there's not enough money 
 or food or whatever but that's the good thing about cause games have to be challenging, if they're 
 too easy then it's boring so I would say... 10
  
  Title
  Good, not great but good, simple, funny but the bad thing about it is that it's got nothing to 
 do with the things that the game is about so... 9.5
  
  Sound
  Great, funny, sometimes annoying sounds but not very annoying just a bit, I think... 9.5
  
 
  Value
  Superb value... 10
  
  Controls
  Nice, well... great controls, of course 9.5
  
  Difficulty
  I think... Hard Medium
  difficulties: Very Boring, Boring, Easy, Quite Easy, 
 Easy Medium, Medium, Hard Medium, Hard, Very Hard, TOO HARD! 
  
  The Sims is a very addictive game for people like me, who love games where you get to create your 
 own characters, it's great, one of my favourite and best games I've ever played... 10 Editors Choice
 
  
  Hope you enjoyed this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carn__helving
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  ... And before the Sims 2 you could see why. It is only retrospectively that you can question this 
 game, poor graphics, no real variation in gameplay (such as the changing life stages in the Sims 
 2) , worse jobs, lesser options and smaller lots. It is only really when you buy expansion packs 
 that the game comes alive. I originally bought the Sims Deluxe Edition, which included another 
 game with it, including other extra items. Without expansion packs it doesn't really hold much 
 on its own, as the gameplay does become rather irksome after a while. I bought Hot Date, House 
 Party and Makin' Magic expansion packs, and after playing the other ones, I do believe that I bought 
 the best ones in the series. These expansion packs opened up other options, such as a town and 
 more jobs, and the Makin'Magic pack opened up a whole other world with the Magic Portal, putting 
 a whole new twist on simulation. 
  Most people that I have spoken to, and myself, believe that there is a type of novelty and unexplainable 
 enjoyment found in controlling other beings or people, and this urge to control other people's 
 lives is fulfilled fully within the Sims. It is only from this psychological view that you can 
 see why the Sims has sold so well, and indeed has remained to be popular ever since. It is probably 
 one of the most addictive games ever, but difficult to say why, really, as there is no set direction 
 for the gameplay. To make the most of the game I would reccomend buying the expansion packs, which 
 add so much to the game and can be found very much on the cheap nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I had never played the Sims before, although i had heard of them.
  Truly i had missed out. This is an all out great family game. From the youngest to the oldest players. 
 It will be appealing. 
  Gameplay is just great. You can do anything with your sims, which is lots of fun. You can even 
 create your own family. Just like in real life every sim is different. That's the most important 
 aspect of the game. All of your sims have needs, and you must provide those needs, friends, money, 
 and even love. 
  Graphics. The graphics could have been better, but they are still good.
  The houses do look nice, and the neighbourhoods are real. 
  The sound is also good. The sims 
 speak their own language so its fun to hear. I think this is an addictive game that no one should 
 miss playing. 
  It's an all round great family game that no one should miss playing.
  I truly enjoyed playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Having got this game for Christmas years ago, I became completely hooked and lived for the release 
 of the expansion packs! Having complete control over characters appearence, personalties, accomodations 
 and every aspect of their lives means that there are endless possibilities and therefore endless 
 hours to be wasted playing! This becomes even more of the case when expansion packs are added, 
 and the amount of activites you can do are increased. Having now become a faithful to Sims 2, I 
 still think this game holds up pretty well. The graphics may not be the best, and the camera angles 
 somewhat limited, but the essence of what makes the Sims so great is still very obvious. The only 
 real irritation with the game is the infuriating music, but this is easily solved by adding your 
 own mp3s to the soundtrack! 
  All in all, it's a great game, although there is the slight danger of becoming too addicted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squid523
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The Sims game is either about destroying houses and making your Sims lives awful or making your 
 Sims lives happy and keeping the home in ship-shape condition.
  
  Make Sims, make houses and make relationships. You first make your Sim (s) you name them and choose 
 the clothes and other stuff. Then you buy a lot. This is where the game starts your Sim (s) are 
 by the letter box with no home, what do you think you have to do, let them freeze to death or make 
 them die of hunger? The answer is neither (unless you want to ruin their lives) you make a house 
 for them to live in. There is walls, wall paper, carpet, windows, stairs and doors. After you have 
 made a nice and rather plain home you will need some furniture. There is tons of stuff to put in 
 like plasma T. V's, gambling machines, even an outdoor pool. Once you have everything its time to 
 make your Sims do something for once.
  
  This is an amazing game with great music and sound effects this game is pleasing for people who 
 loved Sims city.
  
  I say 9!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Well, we find in here a poor game, with abysmal graphics and anything of money, the sims 2 its 
 too much betten then this game. in the first step we find to build a house, and that' BOOORING, 
 and that it's not good, then start to live your life, another boooring thig, because you have to 
 do everything for the guy or the family and belive to me, it's not to much fun of we can say...
 
  
  Gameplay: this game have the same mode of game of age of empires, but too much booring and a stup+++ 
 context.
  
  Graphics: that's an another annoying thing of this broken game, it haves a abysmal graphics for 
 me and i think for everyone. Sound: this game haves ANITHING of can help to be a good game, but... 
 it can't.
  
  Sound: that is the big prize of bad.. it haves a real bad fx and a terific voice anting and the, 
 we have to care of all the big family... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEis1410
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I played this game a couple years ago when everyone had stopped playing it. I wanted to see what 
 all the hype was about. So I bought it, d/l it, and started to play. I've played many Maxis games 
 like Sim City 2000/3000. After about 2 hours, I was so surprised I was getting bored. You create 
 your Sim (s) , create your house, get a job, and play the game like it's the very life you want. 
 You can practice skills like cooking or mechanical, or work out to impress the ladies. But although 
 this sounds very fun, once you speed about 2 weeks in this world, it's boring (much like real life 
 sometimes) . You come home from work, get the mail, pay bills, cook dinner, eat, study, bed. You 
 get promotions if you're in a "good" mood when you go to work, but it's extremely hard to get all 
 8 catergories into green. All-in-all, if you're into creating a new life in a video game (such 
 as World of Warcraft) , this may be the buy for you. But as for me, I need a little more action 
 in my gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I have had this game ever since it was first released in the year 2000 when I was nine years old. 
 It was super fun then, and it's still super fun now.
  
  The Sims is a game that you can play for hours on end, and you'll still never be tired of it. I 
 can play it all day until I can no longer keep my eyes open, and then I can do that again the next 
 day.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, there is always something new and fun to do on the game, the items 
 and houses are neat, the built-in characters are funny, it's easy to use, it's addictive, and it's 
 worth buying.
  
  The expansion packs that you can get are also incredibly fun and worth checking out, but you can 
 have fun with just the first Sims game ---expansion packs are not necessary, they are just nice 
 additions.
  
  Overall I'd pretty much recommend this game to just about anyone. It's hard to stop playing this 
 game sometimes because it's so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is a game published by Maxis and distributed by EA. It was the Gamespot PC game of the 
 year for 2000. And (including expansion packs) has sold over 70 million units worldwide, which 
 has made it the best selling PC game of all time.
  
  Gameplay: In The Sims you control your character (sim) and proceed through life, Getting a job, 
 getting married, having kids, etc. You also have needs which are  
 room. Gameplay:10
  
  Graphics: This is surely the lowest point in the game. Your sim looks like a creepy doll type thing, 
 who never bends their legs. (except when they're sitting down) So when their walking they don't 
 bend their legs, they just keep 'em straight. But other then the legs the Graphics are enjoyable 
 to look at. Graphics:8.5
  
  Controls: The Controls are as follows: You can click on an item in the enviroment (such as a television) 
 and tehn click on an option that you are able to do with that item. For example: If you click on 
 any part of the floor other then where your som is standing you will have the option Go Here Then 
 you click on the option and your sim will do that. Controls:10
  
  Sound: The Music and sound are creative and funny. The Sims talk in their own language Simlish which 
 sounds like never-ending Jibberish. Which is funny and entertaining. The music is also nice so 
 the sound id excellent! Sound:10
  
  Fun: THIS GAME IS SO FUN I CAN T BELIVE ANYONE WHO GIVES IT UNDER A 8.5! Fun:10 (duh)
  
  Overall: if 
 you have a computer i would highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  You are in control of nearly every aspect of the lives of the individuals who make up your chosen 
 population in the neighborhood. Characters are developed from the ground up and you infuse and 
 mold them with personalities, looks, desires, moods, urges, living arrangements, career and personal 
 choices, life styles, and reactions. Five personality traits are rated from zero to ten and include 
 basic areas of sloppy to neat, shy to outgoing, lazy to active, serious to playful, and grouchy 
 to nice. 
  
  Management in The Sims revolves around decision-making. From physical environmental layouts (homes, 
 rooms, paint, tiles, floors, walls, window placement) , to mental outlook (personalities, motives, 
 needs) , emotional makeup (jealousy, marriage, having kids) and skills (cooking and mechanical abilities, 
 charisma, mental and physical levels of development) of your Sims, you'll be immersed in their 
 daily lives. Activities include buying and placing up to 150 unique items for households and offices, 
 selling and replacing worn out furnishings, and otherwise building and maintaining the world in 
 which your Sims live.
  
  The interface is mouse-driven, with points-and-clicks that works in conjunction with a myriad of 
 development tools offered for use in establishing your Sims' environments. Placement of walls, 
 windows and doors, floor layouts in homes, terrain adjustments, water and pool tools, fencing options, 
 balustrades, columns, wallpaper, stairs, fireplaces, plants, roofing, furnishings, and second-story 
 dwellings are just some of the hands-on development options that will need your attention.
  
  You'll guide your Sims in life-development phases such as having children, feeding hungers, 
 basic survival needs, hygiene, comfort, energy levels, fun, social interaction (e. g., dancing, 
 affairs, marriage) , body-building, cooking, skill development, and even bladder control. Chemistry 
 between your Sims is a product of your manipulations as well -- slippery, smooth, introverted, 
 extroverted, positive, and negative thinkers -- all form the level and style of interaction through 
 conversations with other Sims.
  
  The Sims has a range of ten career tracks for your breadwinners to follow and each career advancement 
 requires specific skills for success. For example, a minimum-wage mailroom clerk must have Body, 
 Charisma, and Repair Skills while a person in the medical field must have Logic to go along with 
 Repair skills. There are ten levels of positions within each of the ten career tracks -- your Sims 
 can work their way up in career fields such as entertainment, law enforcement, crime, medical, 
 military, politics, athletics, science, or extreme (daredevil) .
  
  As in many Maxis simulations, the natural disaster has not been overlooked -- your Sims can experience 
 floods, fires, and robberies. Neglect, starvation, loss of energy, failure to perform basic bathroom 
 visits (they'll have to clean up the mess) -- all can affect your Sims and even stop them in their 
 tracks. Death is an option and entire families could be wiped out by complete neglect and starvation.
 
  
  Ever wanted to play a "god game" with complete control over individual characters? Now you can, 
 with designer Will Wright's The Sims. Although not multiplayer per se, you can share your Sims 
 and their houses with other fans, get skin design tools, tutorials, new wall colorings and textures, 
 and more at www. thesims. com. You can also automatically save JPEG snapshots of your Sims and their 
 statistics in the Web Pages folder of The Sims directory by using the "Export HTML" option in the 
 game.
  
  Time to get busy -- the Sims in your head are waiting to get out and now's your chance to put some 
 faces behind those little voices!
  
  The Sims follows in the footsteps of the long-running series of "Sim" games developed by Maxis 
 in the last decade of the 1990s. It takes the idea and concept to the next evolutionary phase -- 
 controlling actual Sim characters down to the lowest level of detail, and their interaction with 
 others and their surroundings. 
  
  Absence of a multiplayer feature and other gripes aside, this game provides superb gaming entertainment. 
 
  
  It could be said that The Sims, from "aspect-of-life" simulation developer Maxis, rewards you in 
 the same way that doing housework does -- with a sense of achievement. Add to your list of chores 
 making friends, landing and keeping a job, buying things for your house (including additions and 
 upkeep services) , and falling in love, and you'll get a sense of how that sense of achievement 
 can quickly become addictive. 
  
  The game starts with a quick tutorial. Even those who have never played any of Maxis' games before 
 will find that the interface is easy to learn and that the game manages to pack a tremendous amount 
 of detail into a relatively small space. Your neighborhood, for instance, is where the entire game 
 takes place. It takes up one screen, and there are only ten lots on which to build a house (or 
 occupy a house that's already there) . After you've chosen your lot and house, most of the rest 
 of the game takes place there.
  
  If you want to play the game as a newly created Sim (instead of as the "bachelor" or one of the 
 two other pre-designed families you can choose from in the beginning) , you'll have to create that 
 Sim (or family of up to eight Sims) from scratch. This involves giving your Sim a first and last 
 name, choosing his or her skin color, clothing, hairstyle, gender, and size (adult or child) . You'll 
 also to distribute twenty-five personality points, in five categories: Neat, Outgoing, Active, 
 Playful, and Nice.
  
  Your Sim's personality-point distribution makes up a large part of the AI that goes into determining 
 how the character will interact with the game world and with the other Sims in it. For fun (with 
 no impact your Sim's personality) , you can also type up a short biography for your Sim, which will 
 pop up whenever you click on his or her icon in the interface.
  
  Your Sim, like any normal person, can never have a big enough house or enough things to go in that 
 house. The options for building onto your house outnumber the things you can buy for the inside. 
 You can add additional floors to your house (and staircases to get to those floors) , choose your 
 interior and exterior wall coverings, place a number of different windows and doors, lay down just 
 about any pattern of carpet or tile that you can think of, and landscape to your heart's content.
 
  
  Not that there aren't also plenty of furnishings on which to spend your hard-earned simoleons: 
 choose any number of lighting styles, appliances, furniture, decorations, electronics, and miscellaneous 
 entertainment items, such as a basketball hoop, a chess set, or a pool table. Speaking of pool, 
 if you have the money, you can build one of those too (the kind you swim in) . Even though there 
 is a lot to choose from, some may want even more. Thankfully, the game's website (www. thesims. com) 
 regularly adds new features for you to download. As if this weren't enough, the game also lets 
 you upload your families and download the families of other players to incorporate in your game.
 
  
  There are ten different career tracks for your characters to choose from, each with multiple levels 
 of advancement and pay. All the jobs available to you at the beginning are entry level. Beginning 
 Sims can join the military as new recruits, become waiters (Entertainment career track) , human 
 lab rats (Science career track) , security guards (Law Enforcement) , campaign workers (Politics) , 
 or take entry-level jobs in one of the five other available career tracks (Medicine, Business, 
 Pro Athlete, Life of Crime or X-treme Sports.
  
  In order for your Sims to be happy enough to continue to develop, they need help micromanaging 
 their lives. Left to their own devices, they'll quickly get into trouble, missing work, leaving 
 trash all over the place, being lazy, and getting depressed. As in real life, achieving a healthy 
 balance of sociability, nourishment, rest, play, and cleanliness is not easy, and it becomes harder 
 as your Sims achieve higher levels of success and complexity. The "mood" categories that serve 
 as the scale for your Sims' overall happiness are Hunger, Comfort, Hygiene, Bladder, Energy, Fun, 
 Social, and Room. 
  
  You satisfy the requirements of these mood categories by having your Sims manipulate the different 
 objects in the game, such as a refrigerator for hunger, a couch for comfort, a shower for hygiene, 
 a toilet for bladder, a bed for energy, a television for fun, or a telephone (to invite other Sims 
 over for socializing) . The telephone can also be used to order pizza, or request a serviceman, 
 maid or gardener to pay you a visit. Also, the phone will occasionally ring on its own, with a 
 variety of seemingly random calls that range from cryptic cranks to practical boons such as winning 
 a contest or earning a reward.
  
  You'll also want your Sims to work with certain objects in their house in order to improve themselves 
 for the sake of advancing at work. They can work out on the weight bench, use their bookshelf to 
 read up on cooking or mechanics, improve their logic skills with a game of chess, or practice speaking 
 in front of one of the mirrors to improve their charisma. Higher levels of these skills and attributes 
 become necessary as the characters advance in their chosen career paths.
  
  The game mixes so many features with such good ease-of-use that nearly anyone can play nearly any 
 sort of character, with nearly any sort of lifestyle. Like most real people, though, what makes 
 most Sims the happiest is having an active social life. This means you have to invite other Sims 
 over frequently and engage them in long conversations. Sims don't exactly talk; they have speech 
 bubbles with icons that represent what they're talking about. Also, instead of words, you hear 
 a bunch of different recorded nonsense sounds that, surprisingly, convey each Sim's current attitude 
 quite well
  
  Despite the fact that there is no real game-ending objective, the challenge never fades. The game 
 remains fun after many, many hours of play. It becomes harder as you get better, and it instills 
 in you a sense of responsibility for making your Sims' lives good ones. You begin to care about 
 the character you've developed. Hearing the flies buzz around the dirty dishes they left on the 
 table, or having your Sims start crying because they're not getting enough sleep (or because they 
 wet themselves on the carpet) may instill genuine feelings of guilt, and you'll want to do what 
 you can to make their situations better as quickly as possible.
  
  Any game that can instill such a sense of compassion for its characters is something special, especially 
 when those characters are not great heroes in Earth-shattering situations, but ordinary people 
 leading ordinary lives. The Sims is sure to appeal to all kinds of gamers, hardcore and casual 
 -- the "heroes" and the "ordinary" alike. 
  
  While the colors are bright and the animations are fun to watch, the level of detail is not all 
 that it could be. Also, the zoom and rotate features aren't quite enough to give you adequate visual 
 access to everything in your house that you'd like to have access to. The variety and customizability 
 available for Sims and their houses are nice, however, with more items and skins being added on 
 the Web weekly, both by other players and by Maxis. 
  
  If you're running a largely unsuccessful game, you might end up with an annoying amount of whining 
 and crying from your Sims. Also, the buzz of flies around your Sims' unemptied trash can and dirty 
 dishes can become unsettling if left unchecked. The sound effects, like footsteps, the honk of 
 your carpool car's horn telling you it's time for work or the brassy "wah wah wah wahhh" telling 
 you your Sim just wet him- or herself are more practical than interesting. Otherwise, the Sims' 
 nonsense language is both fun to listen to and impressive in its ability to express the emotion 
 and subject matter of what they're discussing. For instance, if you direct your Sim to entertain 
 a friend or neighbor, he or she will start juggling some hackeysack-looking things and "doot doot 
 dootling" in a mock Barnum and Bailey circus-act song. If you listen closely, you might even familiarize 
 yourself with some of your Sim's favorite expressions, such as "Bettah-nu" and "Blah bloo bluh 
 blah." The sounds do get repetitive after a while; it would've been nice if Maxis worked in a little 
 more variety. The music is pleasant to listen to and always appropriate. It's even funny at times, 
 recalling some of the wide-eyed romance flicks of the 40s and 50s, with a nice mix of Leave It 
 To Beaver-esque background tracks. 
  
  There's no specific endgame condition to be met; you just expand, build, and develop as many Sims 
 and Sim houses as you can. Maybe after playing for a few years you'll get bored or exhausted, but 
 even then you'll still probably find yourself going back to The Sims every now and then, once you've 
 grown weary of your other games. The Sims rivals Sid Meier's Civilization II in replayability. 
 
  
  The manual and reference card are extremely well written, and smart and funny too. Both include 
 plenty of visual aids, whether pie charts or pictures, to help you along, and the manual even includes 
 a nice appendix with references to actual books that people who enjoy The Sims might find an interest 
 in reading. The manual is quite thorough, but the game also provides online help, which includes 
 pop-up tips, an active help-suggestion system, and an index. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is a excellent game made by EA. This was the first game that introduced maknig yourself 
 or others in a virtual life, that was realistic.
  
  The good points are that there isn't a main story, okay, so you want to get money, you have to 
 get a job. The console versions are good, but they don't come with amazing expansion packs, like 
 Makin' Magic, House Party and Super Star. This game is highly addictive, raising your family up, 
 getting enough cash to make your "dream house". The camera angles might only be at corners, but 
 ignore that, and look at the game as a whole. You can have an upstairs on the PC and MAC, but on 
 the PS2, Xbox and Game Cube you can't which limits you a bit. The console versions of the original 
 Sims aren't really good, but the Sims 2 console versions are still good, but not AS good as the 
 PC version.
  
  Overall, The Sims should not be missed by any Sim fan, like me. I've played this game inside out, 
 but don't have it, need to get it soon. If you like this review, you should get it on the PC as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latchol1Sim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Trying to simulate life in the suburbs isn't excactly an easy task, and if anyone was going to 
 think of it, it'd be Will Wright. The Sims takes people past the economy of SimCity and into the 
 depths of the pastel nightmare.
  
  Sims, as they are called, are little 'people' that speak possibly the most hilarious language I've 
 ever heard. They have needs and jobs, and you'll end up spending most of your time either increasing 
 their skills, socialising with friends, or spending very long amounts of time looking at your little 
 sims in the bathroom (for some reason, it takes sims an hour to relieve themselves) .
  
  The fact that the sim-day isn't very long, and to keep your sims needs up you need to be playing 
 close attention to them (their AI is similar to that of other games of 2000: a little buggy) , or 
 they'll end up combusting by setting the stove alight.
  
  The main bone I have to pick at The Sims is that the enjoyment stops at the house. Why can't they 
 go to the movies? Why can't you follow them to work? Why can't you go to your friends houses, when 
 they can come to you? I'm sure that the answers are of the technical capacity area, but there's 
 only so much you can do in the house, and it gets boring if you're not intending on playing it 
 casually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  So, this is the main version of the Sims, a game that is about real life in the vitual world. You 
 build your own story, you build your own life, you build your own family. You can have a great 
 house, with a pool, and two floors with expensive equipment and be rich, or you can just be an 
 everyday moron with a hard job and cheap life. It all belongs to YOU. Sims is made so you can customize 
 your world arround you.
  
  When you play, there is a great sound in the game that makes it even more interesting. Also, the 
 gameplay is also fantastic.
  
  Now get on, build a house, and enjoy life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyran87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm trying to keep these short and sweet and straight to the point. The Sims was a game I came 
 across whilst playing a demo, and back when I wasn't really the biggest gamer I didn't take to 
 it straight away. But soon after it was quite possibly the most addictive game I've ever played 
 in my life.
  
  Everything that occurs in the game you can tell has been researched to the fullest in terms of 
 how long something takes. The challenge of the game is definitely something to sink your teeth 
 into and the interaction is incredible.
  
  All in all The Sims is a great and fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evileye234
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  A good game, using virtual life combined with a little bit of fiction. The game starts out good 
 with some well made families. Getting expansion packs is good too, that's where it gets really 
 good. Basically, you can get abducted by aliens, make potions, and get pets. But what makes the 
 game really good is downloads and cheats. The game is so expandable! But every game has flaws. 
 Not many items at starting levels, no really good skins either. And only one wall piece. But we 
 can find downloads for that, cheats, patches, and expansion packs for that. But here's the stats 
 for that: Graphics: 6/10 Fun:8/10 Variety:6/10 Lifelike:9/10 Overall: 89/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in The Sims is brilliant; the game starts you off with a small neighbourhood and with 
 10 lots to build your dream house. You can create your own Sims and choose stuff for your sim ranging 
 from head to clothes and you can choose their star sign and will act like that in the game, for 
 example if your is sloppy in there star sign they will clean anything up and if they are active 
 they will enjoy sports stuff more than lazy people. The game has 70+ objects from the start to 
 build your house ranging from small black and white TVs to plasmas TVs but you have to earn money 
 to buy all the good stuff and thats when you have to get your Sims jobs. The jobs are stuff like 
 entertainment and the military. Overall the gameplay in the Sims is brilliant.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the Sims is a little plain but overall quite good, the game models 
 look nice and so does the houses and the furniture, the blend of 2D and 3D graphics adds to the 
 effect and make the game look nice. Overall the graphics in the Sims look good but do look a little 
 plain.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the Sims is great, the music you get the game is good. The Sims language (simlish) 
 sounds nice. There is some music in the game what you get from the radio what sounds good. Overall 
 the sound in the Sims sound great.
  
  Value
  The value for this game is superb, the game doesnt have any mission or objectives so you can play 
 and play for as long as you want. Plus this game has 7 expansion packs to keep the series going. 
 Overall the value for the Sims is superb.
  
  Overall experience
  Overall if you havent played this or any Sims game yet then you should try out the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkerton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  You start off, only 20,000 rich. That's right, only 20,000. Your first day in the house isn't 
 that easy, (especially paying 10 every time your lonesome needs a meal... that is, unless he has 
 a roomie) . However, you eventually find a career, make a life out of yourself and become rich beyond 
 your wildest dreams. Or at least have a net worth of about 70,000. But, enough about the bare-bones 
 basics of the game, let's get to the review.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Frankly, it's the gameplay in this game that makes the game what it is! Controlling somebody's 
 life, leading to them to a starvation induced death : ( or bringing them to water AND making them 
 drink (just like Chuck Norris taught us!) Unless you read the manual or have clocked at least 40-100 
 hours as the Sim fanatic will, this game will take you in a number of frenzied directions you would 
 never have even though possible in this game. Almost boundless, this game is!
  
  Graphics: 8\10
  The graphics in this game are extremely detailed, that is, for the items that 
 stand still. The chairs and televisions and computers all actually look identical to their real-life 
 counterparts, something undeniable. However, the animation in the game is not something that could 
 be called amazing for objects that do move. Animation that stops all of a sudden at the end of 
 the play and then returns the Sim (s) to his\her's default standing position is not uncommon for 
 this game, but still happens in a fair enough number of animations in this game. Overall, even 
 the Sims look very good in this game.
  
  Sound: 10\10
  With catchy Latin scores abound, turn on the radio, dance and sing along with your favorite song 
 in Simlish (if you can!) . A very interesting concept was having the Sims speak... in their own language. 
 Although it is almost entirely incomprehensible (Maxis has only given an explanation for a very 
 few number of words) speech bubbles adorn the Sims above their heads, letting you know what they're 
 thinking (i. e. hungry, bored, lonely, even stinky) . 
  
  Value: 10\10
  Really, just try and find a better value. The game with all eight of it's expansions in one single 
 bundle pack for only $49.99, you'd think Maxis was ripping itself off! Truth be told, there isn't 
 a better deal out there for a PC game, if you ask me.
  
  Tilt: 10\10
  Overall, I'd say that this was one of the most fun experiences I've ever encountered with a video 
 game. It will forever revolutionize Virtual Life genre games, as they had never really been an 
 emancipated genre in their own right before this. As the top selling PC-game of all time, I hope 
 (and most certainly anticipate) that "The Sims" will continue to stand tall as a totem for what 
 the words "great video game" really mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem_trick_01
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The Sims, lacking definite goals or objectives, which are common in most other computer games, 
 focuses entirely on the lives of virtual people called Sims, placing the player in control of their 
 virtual world and their daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, reading, and bathing. Although 
 players are encouraged to make their own characters, certain pre-made characters, such as the Newbie 
 and Goth family, have become popular.
  The player controls almost all aspects of the lives of a family either premade or self-created. 
 Many choices lead a player's sim to a large family or a lonely life.
  
  Instead of objectives, the player is encouraged to make choices and engage fully in an interactive 
 environment. As such, the game has successfully attracted casual gamers. The only real objective 
 of the game is to organize the Sims' time to help them reach personal goals.
  In the beginning, the games offers players pre-made characters to control as well as the option 
 to create more Sims. Creating a Sim consists of creating a family (identified by a last name) that 
 can hold up to eight members. The player can then create Sims, by providing the Sim a first name 
 and optional biography, and choosing the gender (male or female) , skin complexion (light, medium, 
 or dark) and age (adult or child) of the Sim, the personality of the Sim that is dictated by five 
 attributes and a specific head and body (bundled with a specific body physique and clothing) . The 
 player cannot change hairstyles for Sims after they move into a house.
  
  Each family, regardless of how many members are in it, starts with a limited amount of cash (&sect;20,000) 
 that will be needed to purchase a house or vacant land, build or remodel a house, and purchasing 
 furniture. All architectural features and furnishings are dictated by a tile system, in which items 
 must be placed on a square and rotated to face exactly a 90 degree angle with no diagonals permitted. 
 Walls and fences go on the edge of a square , whereas furniture and Sims take up one or more squares. 
 There are over 150 home building materials and furnishings for purchase.
  Sims are directed totally on the basis of instructing them to interact with objects, such as a 
 television set, a bathtub, or another Sim. Sims may receive house guests, which are actually based 
 on the Sims of other game files. The player cannot control 'visiting' Sims, although it is important 
 for Sims to interact with one another in order to develop a healthy social life and gain popularity.
 
  
  Sims have a certain amount of free will (if it is enabled in-game) , and although the player can 
 instruct them to do something, they may decide that something else needs to be done first, or even 
 outright ignore the player's commthe Sims are not fully autonomous. They are unable to take certain 
 actions without specific commands from the player, such as paying their bills. Thus, if left alone, 
 without any player supervision, the Sims will eventually develop overdue bills and their property 
 will be repossessed.
  
  The player must make decisions about time spent in personal development, such as exercise, reading, 
 creativity, and logic, by adding activities to the daily agenda of the Sims. Daily maintenance 
 requirements must also be scheduled, such as personal hygiene, eating, and sleeping. If the simulated 
 humans do not perform the proper amount of maintenance, they will sicken and die. Furthermore, 
 Sims need to have fun; if they don't, the fun level bar eventually lowers and they become depressed, 
 but however depressed they become, they are unable to commit suicide (they are not programmed to 
 do so) . They are, however, able to be nasty to other Sim characters by insulting them, slapping 
 them and even attacking them. Financial health is simulated by the need to send the Sims to find 
 jobs, go to work, pay bills, and take advantage of personal development and social contacts to 
 advance in their jobs. the Sims will respond to outside conditions by themselves, although often 
 the player/controller's intervention is necessary to keep them on the right track. The Sims technically 
 has unlimited replay value, in that there is no way to win the game, and the player can play on 
 indefinitely. It has been described as more like a toy than a game.
  
  There are some limitations to the first game of The Sims, most notably that children in the first 
 series never grow up to become adults, though babies do eventually become children. Also, adult 
 Sims never age (or die of old age) , and there is no concept of weekends. For example, adults and 
 children are expected to go to work and attend school respectively, every day. In particular, adults 
 receive a warning if they miss one day of work, but they are fired if they miss work for two consecutive 
 days. Children, on the other hand, can be homeschooled by having them study at home to keep their 
 school grades up.
  
  While there is no eventual objective to the game, states of failure do exist in The Sims. One is 
 that Sims may die, types of death including starvation, drowning, perishing in a fire, electrocution 
 and by virus. In this case, the ghost of the deceased Sim may haunt the building were it died. In 
 addition, Sims can leave a household for good and never return; two adult Sims with a bad relationship 
 may brawl, eventually resulting in one of them moving out; child Sims can be sent to military school 
 if their school grades remain at an F for several consecutive days. Although considered states 
 of failure, many players occasionally deliberately mistreat their Sims to observe the reactions. 
 This can be done with no consequences if the game state isn't saved.
  
  The Sims uses a combination of 3D and 2D graphics techniques. The Sims themselves are rendered 
 as high-poly-count 3D objects, but the house, and all its objects, are pre-rendered, and displayed 
 diametrically.
  
  Sims speak a fictional language called Simlish. The language is nonsensical, and owes much to the 
 improv comedians . While there is no direct translation for Simlish, many fans have attempted to 
 record and create dictionaries of often-used words. Many have speculated that the Simlish language 
 has a close resemblance to the Italian or Latin language, while others suggest that it resembles 
 Japanese. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Sims
  Startlingly original, addictive and - yes, even therapeutic - The Sims is the perfect way to mess 
 up your life, in more ways than one.
  
  In twelve years of reviewing computer games, I've come to see this job as - for the most part, 
 at least - something of an exact science. So much of game design has become formulaic and predictable 
 over the years that identifying what works or doesn't work about a particular game and why has 
 become pretty rudimentary. But every now and again something comes along which totally defies this 
 theory and threatens to redefine your comfortable ideas about what constitutes interactive entertainment. 
 And if ever there has been such a game, it's The Sims - a title which, since its arrival in the 
 PC Gamer office has brought productivity to a deadline-threatening crawl while causing those who 
 have fallen under its spell to ask themselves how taking out the trash, doing the dishes, and remembering 
 to set the alarm clock can be so damn addictive.
  
  Ironically, the last time I found myself being so strangely drawn into a game was the last time 
 anything quite like this was attempted - back in 1985, Activision and David Crane (the designer 
 best known for Pitfall! and the surprisingly good Ghostbusters movie tie-in) created Little Computer 
 People, a bizarre software experiment that was something akin to an electronic equivalent of a 
 Cabbage Patch Kid. Claiming that researchers had discovered tiny people who lived inside your Commodore 
 64, Activision published a software Discovery Kit which allowed you to adopt the little guy inside 
 your CPU by providing an on-screen house for him to move into and the tools to interact with him. 
 The concept intrigued me enough to finally fork out for the bulky and expensive floppy disk drive 
 required to play it, and I wasn't disappointed - taking care of my little virtual buddy, playing 
 games with him, chatting and watching him go about his daily life proved to be incredibly compelling. 
 Of course, I eventually forgot to feed him and the poor little guy died, but I never forgot about 
 the childhood days I spent with Marvin or stopped wondering why something which could not even 
 remotely be considered a game could keep me so enthralled.
  
  Now, fifteen years later, I find myself right back there. It was perhaps inevitable that if anybody 
 was going to take the next step in people simulation it would be Will Wright, the designer who 
 has done so much to pioneer the idea of the software sandbox with the SimCity series. And that's 
 exactly what he's done with The Sims, a game - I guess you can call it a game, although as is Wright's 
 trademark, you never really win or lose in the traditional sense - that allows you to create and 
 control the lives of virtual suburbanites. But The Sims is not so much a next step as a giant leap. 
 Whereas my pet person Marvin was a simple-minded soul - he was only ever simply happy or sad, hungry 
 or not - Wright's Sims are powered by a complex set of emotional and behavioral variables. They're 
 affected by both nature and nurture; five key personality areas (Neat, Outgoing, Active, Playful, 
 Nice) can be defined prior to their birth , and from then on, their happiness and success are determined 
 by how competently you manage their lives.
  
  The Sims is one of those games where I'm grateful to have a little extra space to write about it, 
 since there's just so much to cover - and rest assured, even after four pages, I'll have been forced 
 to leave plenty out. The scope of The Sims is truly massive. The concept at its foundation - the 
 interactive simulation of a person's everyday life and all that it entails - is ambitious in the 
 extreme, and amazingly the design does it ample justice. The lives of the Sims under your control 
 are faceted and detailed enough that, just like all of us in the PC Gamer office who have become 
 curiously entranced, you'll actually find yourself believing that you're living somebody else's 
 life vicariously. Your Sim (or Sims) becomes a virtual alter-ego through which you can attempt 
 to make real your dreams - or, perhaps, nightmares.
  
  The Sims is essentially divided into two sections - a Live mode in which your Sims work, play, 
 and interact, and a Buy/Build mode that freezes time to allow you to change the environment. The 
 heart of The Sims is a leafy suburban neighborhood comprising pre-built houses of various size 
 and value, along with several vacant lots to build new residences on. From the very beginning - 
 acquiring a house and furnishing it - you're in management mode, trying to balance your tastes 
 against the meager $20,000 you start out with.
  
  But plugging in the pre-move-in amenities is only the beginning - as more money becomes available 
 throughout the game, so to does your freedom to buy from the game's extensive catalog of furniture, 
 decorations, appliances, gadgets, and other material trappings, and to roll up your sleeves and 
 remodel the house itself with a powerful architectural tool that allows you to design everything 
 from the house's overall layout to the wallpaper, carpet, windows, and staircases.
  
  With time frozen and such a powerful and easy-to-use design tool at your fingertips, it's possible 
 to create virtually any kind of domestic abode you can imagine. Playing virtual dollhouse has proven 
 to be one of The Sims' most diverting pursuits, as well as a serious threat to office machismo 
 - normally testosterone-driven PC Gamer staffers have found themselves engaged in heated debates 
 over the merits of different wallpaper patterns and how most tastefully to arrange bedroom furniture.
 
  
  The real marrow of The Sims is to be found in Live mode, in which your happy (initially, at least) 
 little band of characters gets down to the business of living their everyday lives. This being 
 more of a computer toy than a game proper, the user is free to define their own objectives, but 
 as in real life, you're encouraged to achieve social and professional success which in turn are 
 the key factors in determining overall happiness.
  
  After putting your Sim on a career path, either by perusing the newspaper or online job listings, 
 career advancement becomes a major goal - after struggling up through the low pay and long hours 
 inherent to the lower ranks of whatever career you chose (everything from medicine and politics 
 to sports, entertainment, and a life of crime is possible) , you can start earning some serious 
 money, which can be ploughed into life-enhancing home improvements.
  
  The Sims is not exactly Taoist - it preaches an extremely materialistic philosophy in which the 
 acquisition of better and more expensive possessions equates directly to happiness. Each buyable 
 object has a positive effect on one or more of a Sim's life needs when used. The widescreen gas 
 plasma TV has a much higher Fun rating than the smaller version, for instance. And while a regular 
 toilet relieves a Sim's Bladder rating, the more expensive model does the same job while also conferring 
 a Comfort bonus.
  
  The other key goal of The Sims is to develop an active social life, and it's here - interacting 
 with other Sims in the neighborhood - that the game throws up some of its most satisfying treats. 
 Socializing is mandatory if you want to get ahead, since a Sim's social rating is one of the key 
 contributors to overall happiness and promotion to the higher career levels also requires that 
 a certain number of Family Friends be maintained (which seems more a function of game design than 
 an attempt to simulate how real life actually works, but never mind) .
  
  As you get to know the Sims in your neighborhood, you can call them and invite them over. Once 
 you've gained the pleasure of their company, you can chat, play, joke, flirt... whatever it takes 
 to get them to like you. Certain household items can help move things along - well, wouldn't you 
 be more likely to visit a friend if you knew he had a big-screen TV, basketball court, and hot 
 tub? A somewhat hokey horoscope system adds an extra layer of complexity, with astrological compatibility 
 affecting Sims' predisposition toward each other. Like me, you may not believe that the movements 
 of huge balls of burning gas hurtling through space light years away affect the personalities of 
 people here on Earth, but in The Sims, the zodiac is a very real social determinate, so ignore 
 it at your peril.
  
  Get friendly enough and Sims can become romantically inclined toward each other, and pleasingly 
 there's no preset gender orientation so you can do what you will with your Sims' love lives. You 
 need to be aware of pre-existing relationships, however - in a somewhat obvious mistake, I struck 
 up separate (and secret) affairs with the married Bella and Mortimer Goth, and then invited them 
 both over to my place for dinner. I kissed Bella while Mortimer was in the bathroom, but he returned 
 in time to see the embrace and slapped his wife and me before storming out with her in tow. Needless 
 to say, I lost two Family Friends that day and am going to have to work very hard to get them back.
 
  
  Will Wright recently described The Sims as essentially a time-management simulation, and he wasn't 
 kidding - after you've spent the necessary time at sleep and at work, you're left with precious 
 little to socialize, study, play, and perform chores. It's easy to get behind and find yourself 
 too hungry because you haven't taken time to eat, filthy because you didn't take a bath all week, 
 or even standing in an incriminating puddle of urine because you didn't take keep an eye on your 
 Bladder meter. You can hire a maid and gardener to take care of most household chores, but even 
 then it can be a real struggle to maintain a career and a social life. As in the real world, the 
 essence of The Sims is all about making decisions and prioritizing based on what you want out of 
 life. A balanced life invariably works best, and achieving that balance is the game's toughest 
 challenge. As the size of your Sim family increases, the game gets both easier and harder - easier 
 because you get more income and you can divide tasks among family members, and harder because taking 
 care of more than one Sim's daily agenda can be a real handful.
  
  It's a shame, though, that The Sims didn't explore time management on a broader scale. Many players 
 have commented that it seems strange how Sims never age. It might have been more interesting to 
 include aging, so that players would be challenged to achieve their virtual ideals within a finite 
 lifespan - including spawning heirs to succeed them. Players could keep their game going through 
 umpteen generations, with more advanced technology becoming available as the years go by, a la 
 SimCity. The game's social modeling also does not take age into account, although we all know that 
 cross-generational friendships are less common. For the (inevitable) sequel, maybe?
  
  The above criticism is just one example of a significant irony - that, great though it is, The 
 Sims will probably come in for more petty criticism than most lesser games simply because it simulates 
 something about which everyone can claim to be an expert. In my conversation with other The Sims 
 players, I've heard dozens upon dozens of minor critical observations. For example: Sims don't 
 age or get sick; it doesn't take thirty minutes to feed fish; you can play chess on your own; you 
 have to do the dishes but not the laundry; you can't own a pet (hey, even my LCP Marvin had a dog!) , 
 you can't visit other Sims' houses, they have to come to you; you don't see what happens when you're 
 at work; you can be married to more than one person at once; there are no weekends (although this 
 last one is forgivable since Will Wright and his team probably forgot that such a thing as a weekend 
 existed while developing this game) . These are all, on the surface, valid criticisms, but the people 
 who make them could use a little education in the limitations of game design, particularly one 
 that deals with a subject so broad as this. Any simulation developer has to make tough calls on 
 what to include and what to leave out - the omissions just seem more obvious when the simulation 
 is of something everybody does everyday.
  
  The fact is that, a few quirks aside, playing The Sims is one of the most curiously engaging and 
 addictive hobbies I've ever had. I've gone to bed at night thinking about my Sims, woken up in 
 the morning anxious to re-acquaint myself with them. It has that oh-so rare appeal that continues 
 to linger in your consciousness long after you've shut down your PC for the night. We've long known 
 that the idea of wielding God-like power over a virtual universe is a compelling one, but I never 
 imagined that doing so in such an everyday world would be so maddeningly consuming. Like SimCity 
 before it, The Sims has an indefinable relaxing, therapeutic quality, right down to its wonderfully 
 soothing, melodic soundtrack.
  
  My only real criticism is the lack of a multiplayer mode when it's not difficult to imagine how 
 a good one might have worked. Right now it's kinda fun to interact with other Sims created by friends 
 or colleagues (right now, for example, I'm somewhat concerned that Lisa Renninger's alter ego seems 
 a little too friendly with my virtual wife Chris) , but I would've liked to be able to hook up with 
 somebody online and become virtual room-mates or something. Or perhaps I could become a burglar 
 in an online neighborhood, stealing stuff from other people's houses and furnishing my own with 
 it (it could be a real riot when I invite everyone over to my place for a big party!) . But again, 
 I have a pretty good feeling that Will Wright is way ahead of me on this one and already has much 
 of this stuff laid out for a sequel or expansion pack. In the meantime, just go buy The Sims. Ultimately, 
 reviews are supposed to serve as buying recommendations, and in twelve years of doing this, I've 
 never been able to make a more unconditional one.
  
  -Gary Whitta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  The Sims PC game is alright to pass the time... when I first got it I was hooked... but after a 
 while I grew bored with it because it was too limited, nevertheless the Sims hosts many fun and 
 enjoyable features.
  
  The whole idea of the game is to create and raise you own Sim neighbourhood. You have to get your 
 adult sims a job, buy them furniture for their house and basically, keep them alive and happy. 
 There is a wide range of furniture to choose from, such as Plasma TVs, and it is fun to decorate 
 a house.
  
  The music while you play is OK... you can't really hear it that clearly. There is also an option 
 to play your own music on the music players.
  
  The Sims interact which each other, like talking, going in jacuzzis, flirting, giving gifts and 
 proposing. They even have babies if you play your cards right.
  
  However, I got a little bored- mainly with the fact that I couldn't make enough money to really 
 pamper my sims, so I used a few cheats... which worked out nicely ^^ but I still found the gameplay 
 a little limited. For example, the kids HAVE to go to school n if they don't, they get taken away....... 
 also the sims tire easily n need a rest too soon... they also get dirty easily and in the end I 
 got really annoyed with them. So annoyed infact, that I stuck em all in a brick wall enclosure 
 and they starved to death. Whilst I felt immense satisfaction watching this, I was also swamped 
 even more in boredom... they take AGES to die.... n perhaps i experienced a smatter of guilt as 
 I looked at their tombstones.
  
  Anyway... this game will keep you entertained for about two weeks I think... so if you have a 2 
 week holiday coming up where you have nothing to do... buy the Sims.... actually don't waste your 
 money on that.... get Sims 2 instead... or save up for a DS coz they are worth every penny!!! :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tud123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  *Create, manage, and control computerized people called Sims.
  *Design, build and decorate their homes.
  *Build up their skills to help them advance in their 
 job.
  *Create a family of Sims to live together, and watch them interact.
  *Keep your Sims happy by watching the motive bars to see what they want/need.
  *Control your 
 Sims social life, when they eat and sleep, and what type of job they have.
  *Throw parties, have babies, get married, make friends, and so much more!
  
  How fun can it 
 be to mimic everyday life? You already have to take care of your own problems, who needs more to 
 worry about. The Sims is surprisingly addicting. You'll find yourself working to get your Sims 
 to fall in love and have a baby. Or perhaps you'll want a Sim to work towards a fulfilling a career. 
 By downloading user created objects, wallpaper, and skins, the game will stay fresh and fun. I 
 know taking care of boring chores in a game, that we have to do in real life, doesn't sound very 
 amusing, but give it a chance. You'll spend many sleepless hours perfecting your Sims home and 
 relationships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  The sims is one game that rarely will get boring...
  
  Using cheats doesn't hurt either!
  
  The sims as we all know is a virtual game that comes as close as possible to virtual life. 
 You can create a family, build and rearrange a house, and make love in the bed! LOL
  
  But seriously... this game is barely flawless for its time.
  
  Make sure you buy expansion packs 
 too! Vacation and Hot Date make the sims a lot more interesting as well. So in all, the Sims was 
 one game that owns a lot... i mean just killed most games out at that time. Without the sims... lots 
 of companies would be richer xD... but Maxis... you've done well son! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This opened up another world to video games. Giving your player lots of options to choose. So its 
 actually a really cool game. You first have to start a family pick the name and how they look and 
 all that. Then you have to move them into a house already built or you get to build one which is 
 fun. You get over 70 things to decorate and build the house with. For this your low optioned of 
 decorating but if you get newer ones you will get more options and a ton of them to. After you 
 move in you will have to live a great life. Meaning getting jobs, moving up in your career, having 
 kids, watching out for fires and robbers, getting money, upgrading the house, making friends, throwing 
 parties, just a lot of stuff you will do. O yea buy a car just a ton of fun stuff you can do. And 
 this is still has what no other game has a chain of games built of one game!
  ( lol forgot have a romantic relationship too and fill your up your aspiration goals) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapsak_45_182
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  I find that the Sims is pretty fun it is not amazing but still good. I find it a casual game. I 
 can play it, get bored and a month later I'll start playing it again.
  The graphic are good for their time but now there's better. The sound are pretty good; Example: 
 when I Sim gets up from a chair it sound like someone getting up from a chair but it's talking 
 sounds cheese.
  I wouldn't buy Sims one I'd just buy Sims 2 for PC. But I think it's still pretty good game.
 
  Thank you for reading and have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  well this is where it all started with sims a great fun simple family game . lots of play time 
 and fun. But on my computer this game slow but i know its not slow on other comupters . lots of 
 things to if you have the expansion packs , witch are super fun. Graphics are ok for its time but 
 are not outstanding .
  Gameplay is a little slow at sometimes. Sound it great with some nice music to play with. Value 
 it worth the price witch is about $100 dallors with all the expansion packs .
  so if your after some old time fun there give the sims a try and how it all started 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NHLfreak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This is about life, as his name states is a Life Simulator.
  
  The game start when you create a character or a complete family. Beginning as a single is mor fun 
 IMO. Then you have to create your home nothing fancy at the beginning because you don't have lots 
 of money. As in real life you can't survive if you don't have money so you have to get a job, and 
 increase the stats in order to ascend in the branch you selected. But that is not all, you have 
 to eat, sleep, shower, study even go to the W. C. and make new friends so your character is in a 
 good mood and go up easier in the job.
  
  Once you had a good money income you can upgrade your house and add furniture and items for your 
 fun. Make party's and even fall in love get married, have children and make a family bigger. You 
 have to be carefull because you can start a fire, or get robbed and many more events that can happen.
 
  
  This a game that will keep you busy and entertained for a lot of time. It doesn't have any ending. 
 Well you can say it has an ending if your character dies before getting a family but I know that 
 won't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: german84
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 24, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Hello again!! Now I will write about one of the games which have revolted the World: The Sims.
 
  
  Its graphics now look a bit ot-of-dated, but it is only due to the high standards we are used to 
 see nowadays. Despite the fact The Sims is practically 2-D, some really amazing creations have 
 been sent to the world wide web to a hundred websites, only devoted to this revolutionary game.
 
  
  SimCity was nice to play with also, but it kept us wondering what if we could ever live in a Sim 
 City? The Sims was the obvious answer: Make a family and friends, get a life, make it succesful 
 or ruin it... it is up to you.
  
  Human life is actually a very interesting topic: Not even today have we been able to ultimately 
 understand what happens inside us, but we like to fantasize about it... We dream of recreating 
 it... an we enjoy it. The Sims' creators have tried their best to recreate how a human lives, yet 
 on a very basic level of needs' satisfaction.
  
  Sometimes, even while I play The Sims2, I decide to change it for The Sims CD, and give it a try. 
 It is incredible how fun can this old-game still be!!
  
  The Sims 2 went a bit further on most aspects, but these lines are dedicated to the father of the 
 genre: The Sims. I take my hat out, and bow to it. Good Luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kennybenny15
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is were is all started. The Sims. came out in year 2000. It was very fun for the people who 
 tried it at that time. Then they came out with expansions. My favorite would have to be Superstar 
 because it is the only thing that is actually challenging and fun. Well now as I am posting this 
 I think this game needs every expansion to keep it fun. I play it still sometimes but not as often 
 as The Sims 2. I think this game should not be forgotten. I mean what lead us up to The Sims 2 
 or 3 anyway. Overall with the expansions and whistles this game is not that bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  --Well, seven years ago, Maxis and EA released a life simulator, called, The Sims. Millions of 
 people bought it. Why? Controlling somebody's life is... FUN? Yes, it is. Let's find the reason...
 
  
  --As I said, it's a life simulator. You make people, put them in an area/house, and control them. 
 It's really simple and extremely entertaining. Making a family has very limited choices. You choose 
 the head, the costume and Sim's horoscope. It's limited. It's simple. It's BAD.
  
  --After making a family, everything starts. Your family has 20.000 Simaleons (or dollars) . You put 
 them into an area or house. Let's continue with putting them into an area. Let's build our family's 
 house! Build section is detailed well and it's easy to make superb-looking houses. And I MUST say 
 that songs are superb. Aw, classical music! --After you build your house, you have to put something 
 in it, right? It's limited but enough. Okay, let's LIVE!
  
  --Controls are easy. You use the mouse and click on an object and click a command. It's simple!!!!
 
  
  --Graphics aren't superb but they suit to the game.
  
  --In the end, buy this game if you haven't yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: songi360
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game was not very interesting when i first saw it, but let me tell you, it's awesome AND educational. 
 Want to learn more? go to simsThe idea for The Sims is thought to be drawn from Will Wright's experience 
 in the 1991 Oakland firestorm, when his house and many of his possessions were burned down in the 
 fire. [3] [4] As such, Wright was required to move his family elsewhere and rebuild his life; these 
 events led to Will's inspiration of creating a simulated game about life. The game is also loosely 
 based on SimCity, another computer game designed by Wright in which the player must manage a city 
 and its citizenry, dubbed Sims. The idea of simulated people led Wright to believe that he could 
 program and design the perfect construct of the main aspects that a computer or video game possesses.
 
  
  Wright originally proposed the idea of a virtual dollhouse to Maxis in 1993 while the idea was 
 still in development, although the proposal was met with skepticism by staff; [verification needed] 
 computer hardware during the period was not thought to be capable of running such a simulation 
 smoothly. In 1995, Wright was offered an opportunity from Electronic Arts to continue developing 
 the concept and game so that EA could publish it. [verification needed] Development of the game, 
 initially dubbed Project X, commenced in 1995. [verification needed]
  
  After production for the game finally began in 1995, Wright was interviewed about his idea in a 
 PC Magazine article published around 1995, in which he talked about the chance for players to control 
 a computer generated character in their own environment. [verification needed]
  
  In 1997, the name of the game was changed from Project X to The Sims as a reference to Will Wright's 
 earlier Sim games, which had been relatively successful in the early- to mid-1990s.
  
  [edit] Gameplay and design This screenshot of The Sims shows a large family inhabiting one house. 
 The focus is currently on the sunglasses-clad character, who can be identified by the green diamond 
 or plumbob over his head. His portrait is highlighted in the control bar. By looking at the color 
 of the diamond and his statistics, the user can see that he is currently very content. Instead of 
 objectives, the player is encouraged to make choices and engage fully in an interactive environment. 
 As such, the game has successfully attracted casual gamers. The only real objective of the game 
 is to organize the Sims' time to help them reach personal goals.
  
  Sims are directed totally on the basis of instructing them to interact with objects, such as a 
 television set, a radio, or another Sim. Sims may receive house guests, which are actually based 
 on the Sims of other game files. The player cannot control 'visiting' Sims, although it is important 
 for Sims to interact with one another in order to develop a healthy social life.
  
  Sims have a certain amount of free will (if it is enabled in-game) , and although the player can 
 instruct them to do something, they may decide that something else needs to be done first, or even 
 outright ignore the player's commands. Unlike the simulated environments in games such as SimCity, 
 SimEarth, or SimLife, the Sims are not fully autonomous. They are unable to take certain actions 
 without specific commands from the player, such as paying their bills. Thus, if left alone, without 
 any player supervision, the Sims will eventually develop overdue bills and their property will 
 be repossessed. The player must make decisions about time spent in personal development, such as 
 exercise, reading, creativity, and logic, by adding activities to the daily agenda of the Sims. 
 Daily maintenance requirements must also be scheduled, such as personal hygiene, eating, and sleeping. 
 If the simulated humans do not perform the proper amount of maintenance, they will sicken and die. 
 Furthermore, Sims need to have fun; if they don't, the fun level bar eventually lowers and they 
 become depressed, but however depressed they become, they are unable to commit suicide (they are 
 not programmed to do so) . They are, however, able to be nasty to other Sim characters by insulting 
 them, slapping them and even attacking them. Financial health is simulated by the need to send 
 the Sims to find jobs, go to work, pay bills, and take advantage of personal development and social 
 contacts to advance in their jobs.
  
  The inner structure of the game is actually an agent based artificial life program. The presentation 
 of the game's artificial intelligence is advanced, and the Sims will respond to outside conditions 
 by themselves, although often the player/controller's intervention is necessary to keep them on 
 the right track. The Sims technically has unlimited replay value, in that there is no way to win 
 the game, and the player can play on indefinitely. It has been described as more like a toy than 
 a game.
  
  That The Sims reflects aspects of reality makes the game itself of note, especially as virtually 
 every prior entertainment program used one or more aspects of fantasy to entertain (from Disney 
 characters to alien ships) . Simple, real-life situations, such as adopting children or forming 
 relationships replace merely earning points and advancing to the final boss level. 
  
  .com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  While I originally played The Sims on the PS2, I decided to give the PC version a try to see what 
 started it all. I must say that it probably would have been better to go with the PC version first. 
 The Sims seems to startle me, even to this day. I still love playing The Sims for endless hours, 
 despite the age of the game. Even though the game is almost a decade old, it will still always 
 be one of my favorite games.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Even for its day, these graphics were not the best. The graphics are 2D mostly with some hints 
 of 3D in them. While the detail is not that great, the environments themselves are colorful and 
 do look vibrant enough to attract someones attention. However, the lack of and real 3D objects 
 make the visuals seem somewhat shallow. 3D at the time was not new and if it was, the graphics 
 may have been rated a little higher, but then again, The Sims is not really how the game looked, 
 but how it played.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  The sound is fantastic. To begin, the music score is excellent and very original. Personally, the 
 music does not borrow from nay other score I know of, but the music sounds great. Secondly, the 
 individual sound effects for almost every object in the world sound almost exactly like the average 
 object in the real world. The Sims will even hum, when cleaning up dishes, or taking out the trash, 
 etc. Third, the Simlish language is very well done, and constructed superbly. Its almost impossible 
 to make out what the Sims are saying, but the quality of acting itself is superb all on its own. 
 Thats really all there is to the sound. The sound is simple, but superb. Gameplay- 9/10
  For its time, the Sims was the most innovative game of the year. What the concept of the Sims 
 basically is, is creating a family of little computer people, and watching them live out their 
 lives. During this phase, your Sims can do anything from cooking, cleaning, taking out the trash, 
 studying, watching TV, playing on the computer, calling up and inviting friends, throw parties, 
 pay bills, and just about everything that is possible to do in real life. It also almost completely 
 essential that at least one Sim goes and gets a job to bring home income for the family so they 
 can use it for things like buying new possessions, paying the bills, food, etc. Bills come very 
 three days, and if they are ignored, they continue to build up until that particular family receives 
 a visit from the Repo man. Sims can also gain skills so they can cook better meals, repair broken 
 objects more efficiently, create better works of art, etc. Your Sims may even receive random phone 
 calls for various subjects, and theres even a possibility that he/she won an award and receives 
 a certain amount of cash along with it. Sims are social creatures and with that comes a deep socializing 
 system to compensate for that. At first, the Sims start out with only a few socializing options, 
 but as the relationship progresses, more options become available, and eventually, the options 
 move in and marry appear on a neighbor if the relationship is high enough. However, it is up 
 to the player to fully satisfy the other Sim before attempting any of those stunts. Then theres 
 the build mode, which lets players either build their own house (s) from the ground up, or modify 
 an already build one. Everything is customizable from the structure of the house all the way to 
 the individual paint on each wall section. The deep gameplay continues from there on as well, with 
 the ability to put trees and bushes on the lot as well, while creating a garden of sorts. Had enough 
 with one family for a day, or just want to move them into that bigger house they always dreamed 
 of? Its even possible to evict families. After that, you can either evict them and empty the house 
 or just evict them. Then theres the option to bulldoze the lot in case players get bored with 
 a particular house. There is just so much to do and see in The Sims, that it can keep almost anyone 
 busy for endless hours per day. Despite all these great accomplishments, there are a few bad spots. 
 When the free-will mode is enabled, your Sims seem to disobey any orders given when they are in 
 a bad mood. The Sims also seem to be obsessed with the bathroom and everyone of them consistently 
 goes. Other than that, there really are no faults. In the end, The Sims is truly a great game with 
 much much potential to succeed for generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-Sektor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is the first installment of The Sims series and it seemed like the game was unfinished. 
 There were little objects, little clothes, little of everything! The creators were bargaining on 
 their expansions. For 30 bucks, I felt ripped off. But I did my best to make this review fair.
 
  
  The gameplay could be good or bad. You can never win, but you can lose but death. No matter what 
 you do, there is no way of winning. No matter how many millions you have or how many Sim kids you 
 have, you're still playing. There is no screen saying you won. It just goes on forever and ever. 
 The Sims don't age, so once a kid always a kid, once an adult always an adult. Only Sim babies 
 age and they turn into kids where they eternally a child. This may be nice for people who want 
 replayability, but some want to reach certain goals like completing a game.
  
  The objective is to keep your Sims happy, satisfying their needs like using the toilet and having 
 relationships. Each Sim has a customizable personality during its creation phase. That effects 
 how they live.
  
  The graphics are choppy being the Sims look like legos and are pretty ugly. The objects look ordinary, 
 nothing special. The soundtracks are nice like classical and jazz. Thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil-PK
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooooooo fun cause you get to build an outragious house, create your own family, and 
 then live in your house, marry people, make friends, get your skill points up, and lots of other 
 fun stuff. There are TONS of objects to put in your house..... with or without all of the expansion 
 packs.
  I think there are about 7 or 8 expansion packs- livin large, house pary, hot date, vacation, unleashed, 
 online, makin magic, and superstar- yep, thats 8 not including the first The Sims, and i have all 
 of them except superstar. Anyway, GET THIS GAME! Its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rccars411
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Maxis is famous for making simple, yet highly addicting games. I've seen this title before, my 
 sister has played endless hours locked in her room. So, I figured I'd give it a shot myself. You 
 start out a pretty basic life, $20k, no job and no house. Its your duty to pick a prefab house, 
 or buy a property and build your own house. From there on, you seek employment, build up on relationships, 
 and improve yourself. Yawn!
  
  The gameplay is extremely slow and boring! Get a dead end low paying job, and build up from there. 
 You have to tell your sim to do every little dang thing, try to balance relationships and emotions. 
 Thats what the whole game is about! Again, YAWN!!!
  
  I really tried to give the game a chance, after about 40 minutes into the game, I couldn't stand 
 it. I'd rather sit down and play a bible game, mind you, I'm atheist! Honestly, if you have no 
 life and no friends, this game is for you. It gives you the ability to sit in front of the computer 
 to build up the life you NEVER had and never will have. There is absolutely NO reason that this 
 game should have gotten the ratings its received.
  
  So to pretty much sum this up, if you see it on the shelf, leave it. I really wish some plague 
 would attack the sims rendering them with out an immunity so it would end the series in an extremely 
 painful death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeM08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game started it all for me. It began with watching it in awe, and then buying the game and 
 playing it for hours on end! The Sims started a series that everyone wishes they thought of before 
 the people at Maxis, but no one did! This is one of the most creative and fun, addicting games 
 that are out there! It really opens up your creativity, and makes you think what you can do to 
 make things different. It's just amazing at how much detail was put into this game to make it what 
 it is today. The Sims makes you think about all of the creative aspects of architecture, and also 
 the creative, fun, funny, bad, and cool things about life. This game has amazing atmosphere to 
 it, and really puts you in the perspective of observing somebody's life. This is hands down a purley 
 Fun and Timeless game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this before TS2 came out. I logged quite the amount of hours on this game. It 
 is such a cool game. I mean, who doesn't like being able to make a miniture, simulated family and 
 have them live their dream life or their dream nightmare? I however wouldn't advise actually playing 
 without first trying the tutorial. I did that and I seriously wondered why my sim died. Then I 
 realized I forgot to feed her. The base game is probably pretty rare by itself so you'll have to 
 get the complete collection (hey you get the base game and seven expansion packs for one price) 
 but it was such a fun game. I've played from 2002 to 2006 and let me tell you it rocked my world. 
 I may upload it and have another go at it. In the time that I've had it I've probably clocked about 
 100 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I had 20 something dollars in my hand and it was a choice of elder scrolls III or this, and well... 
 i thought the best selling game for the pc can't be bad right? Well i was partially right. This 
 game hasn't aged so nicely and it's surprising that it's price was once around 40. Some of the 
 game's odd quirks will be funny for a few minutes and then they will start to get annoying fast. 
 Like the simspeak that drove me insane! Even real monotone dialogue would have been better. Music 
 is pretty nice, especially w/ the piano, guitar, radio feature. Little secrets are hidden all over 
 the game but you'll find it all eventually by yourself. If you like to invest time in a sims neighborhood, 
 this game will be altogether more fun. You can use many themes for houses and neighborhoods and 
 even names to spice up things. The only complaint i have is the lack of noncaucasian faces that 
 don't suck... the clothes are all splendid, but yeah there is a problem w/ ethnic facial diversity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brn819
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Horrible grafics tho it was amazing when it was made...
  
  amazing game tho
  
  Everythin about it is good tho sims 2 is sooooo much better
  
  GET SIMS 2!! FORGET ABOUT THIS 
 AND GET SIMS 2!! SIMS 2!!! SIMS 2!!!
  
  bit still amazing.. creators are GENIUSES!!
  
  Pros - great funtiture VERYYY ADDICTING, good clothes made by teh smartest ppl evur! :D Cons- not 
 as good as sims 2 (derr :p) And you can't understand wat they r sayin.. y does it have to bb in 
 a made up language??
  
  IN conclusion its good not as good as sims 2 (incase u hvent noticed :P)
  
  so yeah... itz 
 preeeeeeeety m-azing... liek the candy but better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coyote_sprit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Sims and SimCity both great games made by Maxis are always addictive but with Sims you cant stop 
 playing it's a curse all of the game is a challenge worth playing.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10 - The gameplay is well built but it can be very hard sometimes to control multiple 
 people. For instance making sure that your kids get to bed on time can be very hard if the adult 
 has to go and do something make sure you don't speed the game up extremely high or you may get 
 shafted.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Sims has good graphics but they could be better in some areas of the body they 
 don't smooth together so the character could look very blocky in some areas of his or her body.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 - Maxis usually does good with putting the sound system together and this won't disapoint 
 and if it does you can just take some mp3's and put them in the music folder via C:/program files/maxis/sim 
 and look for music.
  
  Value - 9/10 - If you ever need something to pass up the time or just to do play Sims the system 
 requirements are very low so you can play without glitches and it is just fun.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - 10/10 - If you really like Maxis' SimCity series then this shouldn't really disappoint 
 I liked Sims and I'm a big SimCity fan don't pass this up just because the goals have changed.
 
  
  Play Your Heart out.........!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: When I first started playing this game I got addicted. I loved the graphics and how I 
 could control almost all aspects of my Sims life. The modding community is spectacular and you 
 can find just about everything you could imagine to add to the game. The characters actually talk 
 so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. There's a lot of stuff you can buy for your 
 sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick from 
 many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, (which you 
 will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours to let your 
 imagination run wild in.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welch16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  An extremely addictive game!
  
  This game changed pc games as we know it. It invites you to become a domestic god/goddess- and 
 lets face it, this game can be MADDENING!!!
  
  To be domestic is to be tolerant. When it comes to keeping your family intact, it becomes too much 
 and sometimes you feel like you will lose your mind! However, this adds to the challenge of the 
 game and why its so liked.
  
  The goal is to have a successful family, home and employment. There is a lot of managing- you have 
 been warned! You are the mother/father of this game so you have to deal with every aspect, such 
 as cleaning (which you can hire a maid for if you have enough money) , making sure your Sims hygiene 
 and room is up as well as their hunger and energy. Let's not forget you have to be social and have 
 fun. There are items you can use to increase the stats of your Sims and interactiing with others 
 Sims. Speaking of which, that is probably the most difficult is getting your Sim to get along with 
 others. Its not all peaches and cream. You also do simple everyday things in this game that you 
 would normally do at home.
  
  Another thing that makes this game so original and wonderful is their language: Simlish. No english 
 or spanish but simlish. Its incredibly funny and ridiculous in a good way. You get to modify your 
 house, which is always fun and there is a lot to choose from. My problem with this game was the 
 glitches it had (and some of the later titles had this same problem) . Although its something you 
 see sometimes, its an eyesore and annoying. Not all cd's have the same glitches (they may have 
 fixed that by now) .
  
  Overall, the Sims, i would like to call it, the beginning of addictive computer gaming as we know 
 it. You will hate it, love it and go MAD!
  
  P. S. You will now understand your parents pain......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  i couldnt shut down my pc i coudnt... this game hadn't an end... i was so kid so easily addictive 
 to this game...... FF i played 2 in max 3 hours per day...
  but this game? this game i played 5 6 or 7 hours a day.... it was so addictive... so original so 
 cool so great
  
  this game is really amazing... with his originality, the characters... and the expansion... hot date 
 holyday houseparty all great adds on !
  
  this game had almost everything and it was very funny and a unique sensation playin this game at 
 that time...
  
  the graphics are nice for 2000
  the sound are amazing the funny voice of the characters... the objects, everything
  the gameplay 
 are very easy and nice too
  this game its a classic....
  a completely classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Can you believe that I've waitied until this late in October to just get The Sims Complete Edition? 
 Well, I've got it and as I popped the 4 discs into my computer I couldn't help but feel excited 
 to live out a human lifestyle. I began to bulid my house then create my sim and it hit me- this 
 game is most certainly like none other before. From the detailed house customization to the astonishing 
 realism of how the sims respond and act, this game went from 'Hmm, sounds like a cool idea' to 
 'I NEED MY COMPUTER NOW!'
  
  That's how fun this game is.
  
  Buy it and enjoy it because I have a feeling that this masterpiece will NEVER die. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Sims: FACT: The Sims was the best selling PC game of all time.
  The Sims started a revolution. It is almost a perfect game.
  First of all, its not as in-depth 
 as The Sims 2. Ya, I know, ITS 2006 YOU DUMB @$$! you say. Well, ithis was The Sims 2 of its time, 
 does that make you happy? Well... lets discuss some other things. Like, good things. Well, it started 
 a whole new type of game (Dur...) and it is VERY, VERY CHEAP. So go to the store, buy it now. Go. 
 Now. GO OR I'LL KILL YOU!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Sims is a fun game. It's really fun. In 200 this was one of the most innovative games made. Now 
 you can find lots of sims, starting with SIMS 2 to SimCity, but they are just modified versions 
 of the Original game. The style is cute, the actions even cutter. It is kind of difficult keeping 
 their life estabileshed, couse those guys can make your life a hell if they skip your control! 
 But this game is Nice for our time, and Great for it's time. I played it a month before and enjoyed 
 it, surprisingly! i think everybody will LIKE this game, nothing more, nothing less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _sCythE-
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  i think this is quite possibly one of the most fascintating intricate game ive ever seen. this 
 is way better than The Sims 2 by far. i actuallly returned that game after only playing it for 
 30 minutes! its just not the same. BUY THIS GAME! ITS DEFINATELY WORTH IT! And by now, this far 
 into it, 6 and a half years later, its probably in the bargain bin at Gamestop for 10.99!! I used 
 to play this with my sister when it first came out. I was little then; she almost had them all. 
 I just played it on the computer on my free time. But looking back at it, I honestly thought it 
 was the coolest game ever. And right now, im only 14 years old!! i was only 8 when i was playing 
 that awesome computer game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  This is the best game that Maxis has ever made so far because now instead of controlling a whole 
 city you can control the lives of Sims living in a house and the whole neighborhood. The graphics 
 look mostly good but the bad thing is that sometimes you can see Sims walking through objects and 
 that can ruin it. The sound is ok even though you will hear many of the same sounds again. The 
 gameplay is ok even though you can't really be there when you Sim goes to work and sometimes they 
 can be too damn slow to furfil their needs and this can cause more problems for you, plus you also 
 might get bored waiting for more money to come in to buy another object you can't afford yet. If 
 you have never played or heard of The Sims games series yet I would reccemend you to buy this game, 
 otherwise just buy the Sims 2 for the PC or other counsels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_wutang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  This is still the best pc game on the market and it is even better then the sims 2! This is just 
 the best game when you first play the game you are having alot of fun but this game is unic because 
 after playing the game for a while most game on the market are going to be a little boring but 
 not the sims you can go and play the sims for hours and just have plain fun and that what its all 
 about if you ask me!
  
  This game will alway be the best on the market and the sims 2 are not even close to be as good 
 at this game!
  
  The Indigo game is the closest i have ever seen as good as The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I first bought this game back in 2002 and I've been playing it since The Sims 2 came out. This 
 game is really addictive and the most entertaining games I have played. The AI in this game is 
 superb but at times the Sims tend to be a little dumb, like when they need to eat or go to the 
 bathroom. I especially like how the characters interact with eachother and how I am able to control 
 every single aspect of their life. One thing I wish that would of been in the game was real dialouge 
 instead of the gibberish the people would say. But I guess real dialogue was way too much to ask 
 more for games at that time. This game is outdated so I suggest you pick yourself up the Sims 2. 
 But be expected to lose a lot of sleep when playing this highly addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The Sims For PC.
  
  Ive never been a very big fan of PC games, preferring to stick to the consoles such as the Playstation 
 and the XBOX 360 . When I heard my friend describe it, though, I was skeptical, but gave it a chance, 
 and was I glad I did! I was instantly hooked, and the next day, I flooded her with questions, miscellaneous 
 ones that she had to struggle to keep up with. 
  
  Gameplay : You control the lives of your Sims, their romances, their daily activities, their jobs, 
 their personalities, their very own existence. Your main objective is to fulfill their needs, Hunger, 
 Bladder, Relationships, Comfort, Fun You must keep every one of them above the alert mark. If 
 you neglect to fulfill one of them, Bladder for example, your Sim will response in a unique way, 
 either dashing to the bathroom or going right there on the floor. When that happens, your Sims 
 bladder is full again. It doesnt sound critical, right? Wrong, every action that you make has 
 a chain reaction, when that happens, your Room Rating will instantly drop, you will have to clean 
 up the mess, and your Sims Hygiene level will drop drastically, and you will have to take a shower 
 or bath to raise it again. 
  You also control your Sims relationships. Hold multiple affairs, commit infidelity, stay single, 
 get married, have a baby, all of that is possible with the Sims. You work your way up the relationship 
 ladder, from just plain, simple, boring talking to more active things such as Entertain and Joke, 
 to intimate things such as Back Rub and Flirt, to the ultimate sign of affection, the Kiss. However, 
 with everything there is a consequence. If you Flirt with someones husband or wife, however, there 
 will be some angry and hurt feelings, are perhaps even a slap. That might be amusing to watch, 
 but its certainly not amusing to cope with! Your Sims Relationship meter will drop, and there 
 will be sour feelings that will take time to eliminate. If you are caught kissing someone that 
 is not currently single, there will be a slap from either side, and also sour feelings. However, 
 you can avoid that by doing all of your things in a private room. 
  Now, you can also control your Sims personalities! At the beginning of the game, you must Create 
 a Sim, their name, and their personalities. There is 5 categories, and only twenty-five points 
 to spend! Equally divided up, that will be five points per category, making everything average, 
 but wheres the fun in that? You might want to make a very neat, yet grumpy Sim, or a very lazy 
 and nice Sim. Anyways, you 
  You dont just get to control your Sims lives and personalities, you also get to control their 
 very environment! Start off in a n expensive house, start off with a small plot of land, start 
 off with a house already built, or start off with just an empty piece of land, yours to make, yours 
 to create. There are also prices for the houses and lands, and you start off with seemingly little 
 money. Therefore, buying a little house and working your way up the chain can be better than buying 
 a very large house and not having any money for furnishings. 
  You can also get jobs, like in real life. You get promoted by meeting the requirements set of you, 
 and you will need Family Friends to get promoted. You can make friends around the neighborhood, 
 although often you might have to make another Sim family in order to do that, you cannot befriend 
 people from another neighborhood. You can chose your careers, and each career is different, with 
 different job times, different pays, and different requirements! As in real life, you try not to 
 be late for your job or youll get fired. The carpool arrives for you exactly 1 hour before you 
 start your job, so get in there within that hour (harder than it sounds, Sim hours are very fast) 
 and youll be on time for your job. 
  One of the very few flaws of the Sims is the time. It speeds by so quickly that youll find yourself 
 with the carpool right in front of your house and you havent even caught a single wink of sleep 
 yet! You can speed the time up, but you cant slow it down, but eventually youll get used to the 
 fast pace. 
  
  
  Sound : The music is original and exciting, but listening to it for hours might get a little tiring. 
 Just turn off the volume if that happens. Unlike other games, this does not handicap you because 
 you cannot hear the cues, so turning it off is fine. If you are one of those people who cannot 
 stand quiet, pop in one of your favorite discs, crank up the volume, and bring the house down. 
 Its amazing that Maxis thought of this, while so many other companies could not figure out such 
 a simple thing. 
  The sound is as good, if not better, as the music. Every single noise, from flushing the toilet 
 to the beep of the timer of the microwave to let you know that its finished, is just like reality. 
 The only gripe I have with this is that the voices of the Sims are like gibberish, you cannot make 
 anything out of it, even if you set it to English. A minor setback though, and it does not prevent 
 the game from higher scores. 
  
  
  Graphics : Best. Graphics. Ever. To. Be. Seen. On. A. Computer. That much is said for the Sims. 
 Even though it cannot match the graphics of the Playstation 2 and the X-Box, it is still stunning. 
 An eye-shocker, Sims has blown all of its competition away. The lines of the face, the furniture, 
 your clothes, even the background! Its so intricately sketched, you will not believe your eyes. 
 
  
  The Sims learning curve is a bit steep, I suppose. It takes about 2 full hours to completely learn 
 the design of the Sims. It might seem confusing at first, but dont be fooled. Once you grip the 
 concept firmly, the world is yours to command. 
  
  The possibilities are limitless. You can play the Sims again and again without getting tired of 
 it. Why? Because you never repeat the same experience twice! Build in different neighborhoods, 
 fall in love with different people, design a different house, create your Sims differently. 
  
  Yeah, theres a reason why the Sims is so popular, theres a reason why its available on almost 
 every single gaming system you can think of, including Gamecube, X-box, Playstation, and Macintosh. 
 Theres a reason why theres more than 15 games based on Sims alone, and theres a reason to fall 
 in love with it. Be warned, however, that the Sims is so addictive, you just might have to chose 
 between virtual or reality life. Get lost, theres no harm done. Let your imagination soar, theres 
 no harm done. Build houses, get jobs, become a millionaire, destroy cities, you can do all of that 
 with one simple game. Play as god, mayor, or just your plain simple self with the Sims. Buy this 
 game, its worth the money and beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcube2402
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Back in middle school, Most people I knew would play this game almost everyday and even talk about. 
 But now, no one talks about or play it that much, but I still play the game. This game is very 
 worth getting, since you create your family into regular or freaks and you can make them do anything 
 by helping or just ruining their lives. You have to get their stuff but earning money is by going 
 to work or just simply cheat for it, its up to you on what happens. This game is worth getting 
 once more I say it, and also bu the expansion packs to make it more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick225
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a game that doesn't try to copy all of it's predecessors. The Sims is unique, and that 
 is what makes it so good. 
  Manage a family instead of a death squad. Advance your cooking skills rather than your accuracy. 
 Run to answer the phone, not to disarm explosives. Find jobs, not nuclear launch codes on your 
 computer.
  Those are a few of the many differences between the Sims and your normal game. It's actually completely 
 different. 
  In the Sims you control a virtual character as he/she gets a job, marries, builds a house, and 
 cooks dinner. To put it simply, you control a person as he goes through life.
  It can get somewhat repetitive after a while. Wake up, shower, eat, work, watch TV, sleep. 
  
 The graphics aren't top notch in today's standards, but they'll do OK.
  The sound is boring, and it almost gets annoying after a while.
  But overall, the Sims breaths 
 fresh air into a stale gaming community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  well look at it this way sims is life you feed him etc but can't u do the same things in life and 
 have lots more fun?? i'm not saying that this game is bad but still they could have put mini games 
 or something to really entertain you not just looking after him just get a real pet sure its messer 
 but its also way more fun if u like these sort of games then get sims 2 it fixs up a few things 
 that the sims 1 couldn't deliver now beings my ratings
  
  Graphics-9
  
  They are pretty good but the sims or the people have a choppy feeling to them so its a 9
  
 
  Sound-6 
  
  Not much in anyways and the music in here gets boring fast
  
  Gameplay -6
  
  Just look at my intro
  
  just get sims 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game. This is the original of a list of great games. Lots of cheats to get 
 money. You can create your Sims life are you can kill there life's. A lot of items. Fun building 
 tools. Lot of thing you can do to your sims. Many cool jobs that they can get. This is just really 
 great game. It is so original. Lots of things can happen to your sims they can be robbed, house 
 catches on fire, adducted by aliens, and die. In this game you can piratically do anything you 
 want to your Sims. Overall this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netforce0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Welcome back simulation KING MAXIS. This is one of the greatest games i ever played. Although its 
 kinda old now and there are many other things that have outdone it, this game still holds a special 
 place in my heart. This is one of those games loved by young, old, male, female, black, white, 
 and anybody in between. 
  
  If you haven't played this game yet i suggest you do. This is the most innovative idea from Maxis 
 since Simcity came into existince. Thats still a fun game also. 
  
  In The Sims you can create your own family, succeed or fail in a career, have children, even be 
 GAY!!!! pretty weird how it wasn't very controversial. Considering all the issues we have today 
 haha. For it's time this game was perfect. I even figured out how to put my own music in place 
 of the normal radio music. This game was awsome with all of the updates and the mods you could 
 do. 
  
  I still know some people that prefer this version to the SIMS 2. Thats because the orginal game 
 in any serios is always seen as the father or the greatest.
  
  All in all this is a great game considering there really is no storyline becuase you are the storyline, 
 and there is no real goal becuase you make your own goal.
  
  So go ahead and give this CLASSIC a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonkie101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ever thought your life was worthless, and wished you could dream up the perfect family, and have 
 it be there when you woke up? Ever thought about what the perfect house would be like, but then 
 never actually be able to build it or buy it? And ever wish you had whatever you wanted, but realizing 
 youll never have the money to afford any of it? Well now all of that is possible with The Sims; 
 a virtual reality simulation thats also an architectural sim and an interior designing sim, so 
 you can create the perfect family youve always wanted, build that perfect house, and fill it with 
 everything youve always dreamed of.
  
  But, just when you thought nothing could go wrong, technology puts a restriction on the fun. Even 
 though you can build a large two-story house fit for a king, with more computers and TVs than 
 youll ever need, theres only a limited number of items you can use to build and buy.
  
  The vacant land you can buy to build your fortress of solitude on does come in a variety of shapes 
 and sizes, and each at a variable cost, but sometimes just isnt enough space for the home you 
 had in mind. You cant build on a slope or uneven piece of terrain, and cant even build downward 
 at all. So you can forget about having a basement to protect you from the storm thatll never come 
 (but nice to have just in case anyway) or your own gravity room like at C. O. S. I. You can only have 
 a main floor and an upstairs, but that should really be all you need to make your dreams come true.
 
  
  You do, however, get a variety of paints, wallpapers and carpets, to ensure that each room is as 
 different from another as possible. You can make a bedroom to look like it belongs to a child, 
 teen or even an elderly couple with a love for art. There are more things to place on the walls 
 than a museum would know what to do with, and enough lights to make your own Vegas. But, sometimes 
 they do seem too plain and boring after you build enough houses and need to use them over again 
 because theres not enough.
  
  On the plus side, everything sounds like it should. Toilets sound real when flushed, sinks sound 
 like water is flowing correctly, and music sounds like music; not just beeps and chimes. Sims don't 
 have actual voices though. It's all just random gibberish. But that's actually a good thing, as 
 real voiceovers can get very repetitive and annoying so much to the point that the attractiveness 
 of the rest of the game is brought down.
  
  And, not everything is as perfect as it seems. Showers and dishwashers to breakdown and leak, stoves 
 and grills catch on fire, and computers and TV's can blow fuses. But all this just makes it more 
 realistic an experience, since after all; you do need some sort of challenge. And even with the 
 cost of the dishwasher and cost to repair it, you also get charged for water and electricity too. 
 But, you can get a job to pay it off, and even get motivated enough to try fixing it yourself (which 
 will need skill points you can get from reading manuals or hands on experience) .
  
  And, there are a variety of jobs your sims can have, each with a different pay rate and chain of 
 promotions if you do well at work. You don't however, get to go to work with your sims. They leave 
 an hour before scheduled time, and come home after 5-8 hours with a paycheck everyday. But it's 
 worth it to have the extra cash.
  
  Overall, you can seem to put enough imagination into the design of the houses, families and decorating 
 sense to have a whole neighborhood of unique individuals. And, this is not just a game for entertainment; 
 you can also use it to show your design creativity, whether its to become an architect creating 
 blueprints, director building movie sets, or a home decorator showing you have a good sense of 
 style and taste. Whats more is that all this is made possible with one program, on your home computer, 
 all thanks to The Sims, which you'll have fun playing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is flawless. The graphics are great. Everything looks like what it is and looks good. 
 The sound is really cool. After a while youll know excactly whats happening just by listening. 
 The games learning curve is really steep but once you figure things out its fairly simple and everything 
 is fairly instinctive. The gameplay is revolutionary. You can do whatever you want. Try and get 
 a job and work your way up the career ladder or. Cheat and build your dream house. Its fun to make 
 a house and just have chaos. Anything can happen. Your whole family can die in a fire if you forget 
 to put in a smoke alarm. You can starve yourself and so on. This games value is unprecedented. 
 This game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPERheroes_DP
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  gameplays good since you got alot of items to buy and you can build a mansion or anything you want. 
 you can make a big family or you can make a bachelor living by his own. their is alot of job opportunities 
 you can go into. you can make them filthy rich or stinking poor. you can make the sims' life happy 
 or miserable.
  
  graphics is heavily out-dated and looks very unclear. 
  
  not alot of sound in this game except their language (which becomes repetitive) and some music 
 from the radio and tv.
  
  you get alot of stuff for very cheap. check gameplay for reasons why its a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Let me cut to the chase. I enjoyed the Sims for some time before I quickly lost interest. I have 
 3 expansion packs and none of them kept me playing much longer. I think a main reason is because 
 of what each expansion is aimed toward. First off, I didn't want to make my sim a "superstar." 
 And I didn't want him to be a "magician." And to make matters worse, the job I get I can't even 
 go to, unless it's that superstar thing. The screen just stays at your house the whole day. There's 
 just too many flaws in the Sims for me to say I enjoy playing it. After a while there's so little 
 to do that it gets boring, no matter how much stuff you download.
  
  I haven't gotten the Sims 2 and I probably won't, considering a lot of people get the same feeling 
 of boredom after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  amm so the game : THE SIMS its a great game because
  its a new stuff that no one played befor . . . you are making a family
  and you can build them 
 a house and you are putting every thing there like you want and you are sending them to job and 
 school and all that stuff are very fun
  because you are like the god of them.
  you are telling them to eat when they are hungry and when to go to the bath room.
  and when to 
 clean and when to fix and this is realy fun but its getting board realy quick and why?? because 
 they aren't growing up and dies when they are old . . . so you are old the time doing the same 
 stuff and nothing change . . .
  and thats somthing that gett boring very quick and then its not that fun . . .
  so its nice in 
 the begining but then its getts board and you don't wanna tuch this game any more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolandReeve
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  The Sims is a revolutionary game that allows you to take life into your own hands. It starts out 
 with you making a family or playing a already created family and buying a house or a plot of land. 
 Once you get into the land you can build a house and then start putting in wallpaper and furniture. 
 Then you can watch your family grow. You can have children and watch them grow into kids. You can 
 get good jobs and work your way up the ladder. Your sim should have a lot of knowledge and good 
 surroundings. The expansion packs allow an extra pack to the game. They give you more objects and 
 more jobs etc. You should check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to review the original Sims with all its expansion packs, since I'd rather not rate each 
 pack seperately.
  
  The Sims is a fabulous game with a lifetime (pun definitely intended) of choices to make, things 
 to do, and money to grab. With the most open-ended gameplay that exists, The Sims was such a fantastic 
 game that became even better with the expansions, and of course the sequel The Sims 2.
  
  This is one of the most addictive games that has ever been made, since you can do anything (almost) 
 that you want to do. The Sims construct is fantastically designed, allowing for new experiences 
 with each new file, and lets players come back for new and interesting games constantly, even years 
 later.
  
  The graphics were good for late 90's, not fabulous, and since there were no cinemas, it gains no 
 points there. Really too bad, the graphics are pretty much the only things holding the game back 
 (except of course the looping soundtracks) . The sound wasn't great either, just the same looping 
 over and over and over (you get the point) .
  
  In short, The Sims is a must-have, even with its faults it's a fabulous game to play. Buy it now 
 if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a very addictive game. There are so many fun cheats and glitches and they make the game 
 much more fun.
  Basically you build a Sim, build him or her a house, buy them stuff, get them a job and make them 
 live well or bad.
  If you use the rosebud cheat, the game will be MUCH more fun. You can buy anything and it will 
 make the game easier.
  The reason a person would keep playing this game is too buil full relationships with other sims 
 so you cna get a baby and get married. I only made it to the baby part thus far but since it is 
 hard to get done, you will play this game a lot.
  
  The Good: Lots of events that will make you play more
  The Bad: very repetitive after a while
 
  The Ugly: The Sims : {P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  You control your little person from when it goes to the loo to when it goes to work, or if she 
 even has any friends. When they eat, when they sleep, everything. Perfect....
  
  Graphics- All right, you can see basically everything, except for when they take a restroom break 
 and shower, (but I bet you can get codes or cheats to get rid of the blur outs) And everything 
 is realtively easily to see.
  
  Sound- Good sound, except for some of the tv programs and talking does tend to get a little bit 
 annyoing after a while. Oh well, you don't have to watch the same thing over and over, and you 
 can do other things too.
  
  Playability- It takes some getting used to, getting your Sims happy, but after a few hours of trial 
 and error, you will be able to keep them realtively happy and realtively well funded.
  
  Replayability- There are many different things you can do in the Sims. The replayability is excellent.
 
  
  There is no muti-player, which would make this game rock. Hopefully in Sims 3 they will give it 
 some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AriKorzeniow
Rating: 3
Date: May 25, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was harsh in my review of The Sims on the PlayStation 2, but not without reason. Seriously, how 
 they managed to ruin such a game amazes me. Luckily the original game is twice as good as the PlayStation 
 2 version. The same problems still exist though, such as different activities taking a lot of your 
 time etc.
  
  The graphics, sounds and music, and controls are far more superior here than the porting to PlayStation 
 2. All in all, this is a more enjoyable experience than any other Sims game. 
  
  Like I said, all the problems that makes the Sims what it is are here, thus drawing the rating 
 backwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  The Sims is a great game for the PC, its simple but yet shockingly great and adictive.
  
  GOOD: Create your own family, earn money to buy things, never ending, so much things to do, Effective
 
  
  BAD: it tends to get abit repetative, graphics aint at its best.
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Create your own family, create your family, what ever family you have you'll have much fun with 
 this game cos of its high adictive abillity,
  Pick up the paper and get a job with propper wages and buy things with propper prices, your family 
 will get hungry so feed them, they'll get dirty so clean them, depending on how you look after 
 the family depends on how they'll turn out
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are good but im sure they could've had better out door desgins and better module desgins 
 and the graphics aint as good as you think it'll be
  
  SOUND-
  Same with the sound, the sound aint as good as you think it is, but it does focus on realy life 
 so it is better like that i guess
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  this game ran out of gas real quick for me, and thus i dont play it any more, but if you really 
 like this kind of game, than i suggest that you buy it or the sims 2 now, as they are very good. 
 but the makers of the game must have not thought the move objects cheat through, because you can 
 see the people naked if you know how but i not telling you. that is one major downside of the game 
 is you are very young, and are trying to convince your parents to let you get it. but it is hard 
 to figure out how to do this, and so it isnt that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The Sims.... A Classic now only because Sims 2 was released awhile back and tons of expansions have 
 already been added to the Sims aswell.
  
  Graphics: Now for game made in 2000, These are some pretty nice graphics, The objects such as; 
 Couches, T. V's, Fridges, ect ect.... Are off the wall, The sims seem to be a tid bit blocky but 
 I was able to see past that and recognized it for the incredibly unique game that it is. All-in-all, 
 Sweet graphics.
  
  Story: Here's the fun part, NO STORY! I love this real flow of sand-box game play. Just keep them 
 Fed, Give them rest and make sure they are entertained, Blahblah, Stuff a real person needs to 
 live. All-in-all= Just play and appreciate it.
  
  Sounds: The music in the background was unique and interesting, I'd always find myself humming 
 with it, It's just so mood-setting. All-in-all, Fun good healthy music.
  
  
  
  All-in-all- Awesome simulator with new aspects on.... well.... life in general. Play it and love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinygrin
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  My first dose of addiction to the sims, began when I went over to my friends house, she owned the 
 game, and we we're playing with a family of sims, anyhoo, this was ....2000, and six years later, 
 I've been a true fan to this game still but now playing the 'sequel' to this addictive game 'The 
 Sims 2'.
  The characters we're hilarious, The simlish language, I learned overnight. I did kill sims at first 
 here and there, but than, playing with them, was a fun thing to do! The servobots, the vacations 
 they would go on to, the dates, the woohooing, and of course, the amazingly famous 'Goth Family'! 
 For some strange reason, I had a strange obessesion with the youngest daughter of that family 'Cassandra'. 
 She was adorable! I am in love with this game, and alhough I haven't played the original in years, 
 it's just amazing that this was based on the idea of dollhouses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbmariogc3s
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I am going to say this right now. This is easily the best game made by maxis, and is the best PC 
 game ever made. This game has the best gameplay, and the re-playability is one of the best parts 
 of the game. The custom content that the fans released for the game is what makes this game great. 
 this offers almost an unlimited amount of "game" to the game. When you have this with most, if 
 not all of the expansion, packs, then the game can be described as Huge. The graphics could be 
 a little better, but for 2000, it is still good. Overall this game can be contender as one of the 
 best games of all time, on any system, and has the largest fan base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  The Sims is based of a franchise of games where the user gets to take control of their world. From 
 cities to ant colonies to hotels, the sim-games focus on building to gain profit to spend on more 
 construction. The Sims takes a similar concept to start a life and really have fun with it.
  
  First you need a house. Once that is out of the way, your character needs to get a job, make 
 some money, and buy possessions. Once you have that taken care of, you can try to get the attention 
 of others in the neighborhood and maybe find love.
  
  The graphics are fairly good in this game. The images are simple enough to represent people but 
 complex enough to show emotion and action. The sound is a little suspect. The background music 
 is soothing, but the characters never actually talk. You are stuck with people who communicate 
 through bubbles and grunts.
  
  The game offers hours of gameplay and the opportunity to go online and meet up with friends. There 
 are also numerous downloads for new furniture and other objects.
  
  The codes are pretty humorous, so they are worth a look. Overall, I would say that the series has 
 really taken off, but the original game is still going to be seen as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syrensongs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  When I first saw The Sims released in January of 2000, I was mildly excited. It was an instant 
 success, but I didn't see what all the hype was about. I mean really, what could be so interesting 
 about watching a virtual person use the toilet and cook an omelette? The more I heard about it, 
 however, the more intrigued I became, and finally I bought it for its original $40 price (a fortune 
 to me at the time) . 
  
  I hadn't thought it possible for a game to live up to everything that people said about it - because 
 talk is cheap, you know? The Sims, however, defied even my high expectations - I was instantly 
 hooked. I must have played the game for at least 5 or 6 hours a day, for three years. Never before 
 and never again have I been so addicted to a game. A warning to the casual player - if you value 
 your job and your social life, do not buy this game.
  
  Otherwise, I would highly recommend it. With relatively good graphics for its time (which don't 
 particularly matter anyhow, as they are overshadowed by the highly absorbing gameplay) , a lovely, 
 catchy musical score, and lovable little Sims who obey your every whim, what's not to like?
  
  The Sims is a milestone in gaming history, and is still highly playable even after the advent 
 of its sequal, The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sims for the PC is the first virtual life game I played in my life. And I really think Maxis 
 did a great job in making my first ever virtual life game enjoyable. The game really never ends, 
 it goes on and on and on forever. You control, sims. Sims are just like people in real life, you 
 tell them what to do, where to do it, and how to do it. For example, you can tell them to sleep, 
 or take a shower, or even play on the computer.
  
  Just like in real life, your sims need a job. You can find one by looking in the newspaper, or 
 do what I do and look on the computer. The computer has more jobs to look for. And, you can be 
 promoted or demoted in your sims job. They go to work every day, then leave their house for a few 
 hours, come back, you get their daily pay, then do whatever until they have to go back. Your sims 
 can skip a few days of work, but skip too much and you're fired!
  
  Not only can you control adults, but you can also control kids in the game! The bad thing about 
 htis is that they never grow up, they stay as kids forever. So every morning, you have to wake 
 them up, and get them ready for school. If they miss school, or go to school in a bad mood, their 
 grade will go down. If they go to school everyday in a good mood, then their grade will rise. The 
 grades range from a F to a A. If they get a F and keep it for a long time, they will go to boarding 
 school and leave the house forever.
  
  You can also take care of babies, if you don't take care of them then a child care person will 
 drop by and take him/her away. The graphics in the game are okay, but could be a lot better. The 
 gameplay is not very good, you do the same things over and over each day so this area can be improved. 
 The sound is good, your sims dont speak in english (or any other language) but instead they speak 
 in simlish (a weird voice you cant understand) . The music from the radios are also very good. The 
 value of the game deserves a 10. It can get boring after awhile, but you can never actually beat 
 the game.
  
  If you want to play a virtual life game, then The Sims is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mace_Windu91
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Sims? Well, when I first bought Sims, I thought it was gonna be great, being 
 able to control a family of people and watch what they do and make them do pretty much whatever 
 I wanted them to do. But when I actually played the Sims I soon found that they only did what you 
 wanted them to do when they were in good moods, and your 'social' meter was always down because 
 I couldn't find time to talk to the neighbours between work and meals and trying to get more skills. 
 I wouldn't recommend this game to ANYONE, I'd recomment the second version, now theres a good sim 
 game. If has MUCH better graphics, more social options, AND you get days off work, aswell as payed 
 holiday days (depending on how well you work) . But this isn't about Sims 2, so back to Sims. Don't 
 buy this, even if you already have, try and sell it as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuberGM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game back in 2000, I was 16 years old. I played that game and only that game 
 all year long. Graphics weren't amazing back then, but for the time - THE GAME ROCKED!! 
  
  Now... I'm going to review just the original Sims and not the rest of the expansion packs, the 
 way it's meant to be done:
  
  Again, good graphics. The whole quasi-3D system takes some getting used to, because you can also 
 rotate the screen however you need to. You can zoom in and out, which is nice. It comes with plenty 
 of items/objects to sit on, play with, sleep on, eat off of, or set things on. The quasi-3D view 
 makes it easier to build your house, I think. Yes, I'm going to compare it to The Sims 2 and say 
 that I liked shopping and building in the original Sims more. Maybe because the angle and zoom 
 was just right to see everything you needed, whereas in the Sims 2, you'd have to rotate, zoom 
 in, and pan things more often - which can become a hassle sometimes. 
  
  The sound effects are great. The conversations are hilarious. I've even done "Sim-talk" with my 
 best friend, because we've played the game for so long, we know what they mean when they say "sool 
 sool!" 
  The music is great too. It just grows on you. The Sims 2 music didn't grow on me as much. I think 
 that Will Wright actually did a study to prove that a certain song makes you design things better, 
 because the build and buy song modes are perfect for each. 
  
  There are plenty of things to keep you occupied for quite a long time in the game: building relationships, 
 building your 2-story dream house, buying things for your dream house, buying things for your relationships, 
 interacting with everyone person and object, having a job, having kids, sleeping, eating, pooping 
 - this game has got it going ON! This game was revolutionary for it's time, and I think deserves 
 a better rating the sequel. Kudos to Maxis for creating such a great game for a broad audience 
 that just love to do about anything in a game. Let your creative mind go WILD!
  
  Oh, and the support to modify anything by downloading all kinds of things online can really personalize 
 your fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBrookbank
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, I was at a Best Buy in Indianapolis. I had never been a huge fan of 
 the SimCity games, but I took the time to pick this game up and take a look. That was one of the 
 best moves I ever made. This spur of the moment pick up and buy led to me finding one of my favorite 
 games ever, and was my first step into computer gaming. Now that all of the expansion packs and 
 The Sims 2 have been released, this game may seem slightly outdated, but it is still a very fun 
 game in my opinion. One game I will definitely show my kids later on in life. This game had almost 
 endless replayability, allowing you to create (or destroy) and manage the lives of different Sims, 
 each with different stats that you chose in the beginning. You could allow these Sims to be bums, 
 but eventually you had to get them a job or they would starve to death (unless you knew the money 
 code!) . You also had the option of increasing different skills like creativity or mechanical ability.
 
  
  All in all, a very fun game that I would definitely recommend to anyone even slightly interested 
 in video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  The Sims is not just one of the greatest PC games of all time but it is one of the greatest games 
 out of all of the consoles. The originality in this game is staggering. The gameplay is so original 
 and even though many say that the gameplay can eventually get repetitive, there is always something 
 to do. More things to do, people to make, people to met, careers to follow and more.
  
  The graphics on this game I am not saying are absolutely amazing but they are once again original. 
 When you see the graphics of The Sims, you know that that is The Sims. The sound is amazing with 
 so many different sound effects and even lots of music. This is a truly marvellous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legandary_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Whoever thought makeing little mini lives would be fun? The folks at maxis.
  
  Yes, I know I'm at least six years late with this review, but I don't care.
  
  First: Gameplay.
 
  
  The gameplay is the highest point in The sims. Suprisingly, making lives is just so fun... and addicting. That's 
 right, try playing The Sims for the very first time. You shall lose much sleep. The gameplay is just 
 about everything you do in life, such as get a job, buy stuff for the house, go to bed, eat, etc. It's 
 just suprisingly addicting.
  
  Sound:
  
  Wacky. From a woodpecker sound to "ajooba doo soo", the sims has WEIRD sounds. The little sim people 
 have a own language called Simlish, which is basiclly gibberish, but fun to hear sometimes.
  
  Value: This game is a near perfect Simulation, and should be in any Simulation fan's base of 
 games.
  
  Graphics: Lowest point in the game. Of course, I can't blame the sims. It's nearly a 6 year old game. Don't 
 expect much here.
  
  Final score:9.0
  
  (Note: Although the sims is good, I suggest you get the second one.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  For anyone who liked building a city in simcity, but also for those without a life, or at least 
 without a normal life.
  To say this game is good would be an understatement. Even without all the add-ons, the sims is 
 a masterpiece. Bringing up a virtual family is the coolest idea anyone ever had.
  The graphics, whether you are zoomed right in or right out, are superb. Nothing is prerendered, 
 as every detail depends on what you've got in and around your house or farm or... whatever. Nothing 
 goes fuzzy at all, and everything has its own action, and you can even see the plugs and switches 
 on lights, ovens and microwaves.
  The soundtrack is great. During loading screens, on the building or on the buying screens, the 
 music is great. It's obvious why they don't put music on whilst playing the game-because they want 
 you to make the decision. You can buy a stereo and put music on! You can also download your own 
 music onto it, but I'm not telling you how because it could crash your game.
  Finally, the gameplay... there's no plot except live. The gameplay is excellent. You really feel 
 in control of all situations, whether the baby is crying or the cooker is on fire. You feel amazing 
 and really pleased with yourself.
  A superb game with no limit to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  There are some games that will go down in history forever. The great legends of gaming. The ones 
 that will be remembered forever for simply being awesome. Pacman. Space Invaders. Doom. GTA. Games 
 that broke the boundarys and offered something new. Well the Sims will be one of those games. There's 
 just something about it that makes it impossible to stop playing. I dpn't know why, in theory it 
 should be the most boring game in the universe. Eat. Sleep. Pee all over the new carpet. Nothing 
 massively interesting, but it's just plain fun. Theres something about those little people that 
 makes you want to keep playing. And if it wasn't for the Sims 2, I probably still would be playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Maxis indeed got it right the first time, the second game is way to complicated while this just 
 screams buy me. the graphics all do look like painted pictures but it fits well with the cartoony 
 style items and houses. this game was tremendous fun and is just easy enough to play without getting 
 annoyed about the amount of things to do. the music is incredabily annoying as it sounds like the 
 inside of 1950's elevator jingle which sucks ass but the game is indeed allot of fun. if you can 
 rum music in the background then your set. but there is almost an unlimted play time as you can 
 keep getting better jobs or a wife or boyfriend whatever like. have kids get rich and buy a new 
 car. this game has allot to give but the console veriosn is actully better due to the weird story 
 mode type of gameplay included. 
  this game is cool enough but maybe wait until you can get add on packs aswell like busting out 
 or on holiday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  AHH WHAT THE HECK?! buying the sims... WAY TO MUTCH get the sims 2 if u buy sims you will want to 
 get the add ons... all like 12 of them its way to mutch to spend just to play ONE game even the 
 sims 2 is to mutch because it already has like 2 or 3 add ons for it! i dont think the sims is 
 worth it i just dont realy get into it as mutch as i feel i should for the cash i spend just to 
 play but if 200 is chunk coins for you go and give it a try i jest dont think its worth while at 
 all thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karinka19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is something that I would have never thought of. This game is justjustawesome. Hell, revolutionary! 
 Its so simple. I love this game to death and will probably buy all of it upcoming installments. 
 But that idea soon fated after Sims: Superstar. I just got tired and didnt want to give them anymore 
 of my money dammit! Like I said before I love this game and I will always be a Sim fan even if 
 I dont buy anymore of its products. I would also like to thank hackers. You guys are what make 
 the gaming world go round. May God (or whoever you worship) bless you now and forever (insert closing 
 prayer comment here) . Ive downloaded everything I could get my hands on. And now my Sims are just 
 like human. They can do anything and I mean ANYTHING. Overall I give this game a A++. Thank you 
 developers for being innovative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is like the greatest simulation game. The Sims 2 is also a great game. The only thing 
 they did to The Sims 2, is add more stuff, and more stuff do. But people should look back on how 
 this wonderful idea was made up, by playing the original Sims. When I first got it, it was a little 
 tricky on how to build your house and create your Sim family. But after I got use to the controls, 
 I would never get off the computer. Yeah it was that great of a game at that time. _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I played this when i was like 11 years old. It took me a while to learn the basics, but I got i 
 learned easy. This game was just a basic, fun game. No game has let you control a family, and let 
 them eat, sleep, work , and other stuff. When you think about it, this game is really realistic, 
 and it deserves something. Given the fact that it was game of the year, it should go sown as one 
 of the best games in PC history. The game isnt really deep, so i understand why maxis made expansions. 
 Most of them add something important, but Makin Magic was just a silly idea, and it was really 
 fun. If your looking for something to add on to this try these Expansions:
  
  -Livin Large
  -House Party
  -Hot Date
  -Vacation
  -Unleashed
  -Maknin Magic
  -Superstar 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Before answering this question, one must first fully establish the nitty-gritty of The Sims' premise. 
 Set as the resident omnipotent deity of what almost looks to be a SimCity subdivision, players 
 must first breathe life into a series of digital social entities, be they a single man or woman, 
 a dating couple, roommates, a standard nuclear family, or even a commune if desired. You then select 
 one of ten lots, either purchasing the house located therein, or building one yourself using your 
 newly created family's standard allotment of $20,000. Items, ranging from the necessary to the 
 superlative, are then purchased and placed within the building in accordance with your whim, and 
 possibly your Sims' aesthetic wishes. You are then free to watch as your pseudo-human creations 
 go about their existence as they eat supper, watch television, deal with neighbors, and prepare 
 to go to work. You can even zip from house to house, witnessing the antics of the Sims within, 
 and may even take pictures for that family's scrapbook if you so desire. The real meat of the game, 
 however, is only truly discovered when you take matters into your own hands, and actively direct 
 their decisions and actions, playing in equal measure Jiminy Cricket and God. This is sometimes 
 preferable since, depending on your Sims' personalities, they might be too sloppy or lazy by nature 
 to advance their stations in life on their own. This is where you come in, ensuring that their 
 basic aspects of life are adequately managed and tended to so that they may perhaps come to know 
 a happier, more satisfying existence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21026653326730518904890992042421-Charger923
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first games i had gotten for the pc, the game is like real life but you can 
 do what ever you want to.
  you can build your own mansion, build a pool in your living room or whatever u can think of. If 
 u havent played this game yet, u need to get off your ass cause this game kicks ass big time. Yes 
 it takes awhile to learn the controls but it is fun as hell.
  I suggest you try it, the graphics are great and u do whatever the hell u want, no time limits 
 nor missions. So like i said, if ya havent played it, get off your ass and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  YES!!! although the game is getting on a bit and the age might put you off, this is a very fun 
 and addicting game to play... because it is old the graphics obviously aren't as good as newer 
 versions of the game, but because it is quite old this also means that it is very cheap. Plus if 
 you are unipressed a bit you can buy expansion packs, which you can add onto the game to improven 
 it... the game is basically the life of a person - you firsly design and make you person, you then 
 live its life. You can do nealy anythink a normal person can do; eat, drink, go to the toilet, 
 watch tv, dance, get a girlfriend/boyfriend, throw paties wash, clean up, and much much more... 
 it is a great game to play. But the only downside is that there is no action and thrills in the 
 game but it hasn't been made for them type of players, if you aren't so sure i would rent it first 
 but i am sure you will like it... have fun playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I played this when i was like 9 years old. It took me a while to learn the basics, but I got i 
 learned easy. This game was just a basic, fun game. No game has let you control a family, and let 
 them eat, sleep, pee, work , and other stuff. When you think about it, this game is really realistic, 
 and it deserves something. Given the fact that it was game of the year, it should go sown as one 
 of the best games in PC history. The game isnt really deep, so i understand why maxis made expansions. 
 Most of them add something important, but Makin Magic was just a silly idea, and it was really 
 fun. If your looking for something to add on to this try these Expansions:
  
  -Livin Large
  -House Party (dont really need it though)
  -Hot Date
  -Vacation (dont need 
 it but its fun)
  -Unleashed (MUST HAVE)
  -Maknin Magic (MUST HAVE)
  -Superstar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is probely one of the first best game I have ever played. Today, this game totaly sucks, but 
 thats becouse the sims 2 has came out. But before that, this game took us all with storm. Its one 
 of the best selling pc game in the history, and I don't disagree. The best thing in the game, which 
 may be the reson that is selling so good, is the freedom. The freedom the control many perons life 
 in your way. Its yust amazing. I will not recommed at all to buy this game today, then I would 
 buy ts2 insted.
  
  The best game in year 2000 + + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims. Oh what great gameplay it has. The Sims manages to capture everything you want a game 
 to be. You play as... er... well, I don't know what you play as! You play as a controller for the 
 sims, and you must make your own sims, your own house, and now control your sims for your idea. 
 Will they die? Will they win an award? You must control the sims and see.
  
  You see, the sims has got some weird voices, but still, very good. the music from the radio is 
 superb. As ever. In a weird voice. You have a lot to control your sims. You can make them eat food, 
 go to the bathroom, sweep the floor, listen to some cool music, read books, go outside, sit down, 
 go to sleep, paint a picture, play a game, go to the table, get a job, die, look at some fancy 
 artwork, run, play video games... it's got the lot.
  
  You can skip the time in The Sims, when your sleeping is the best place to do it, and your Sim 
 has some 'needs'. These are your friends. Well, next to your friends in real life. The 'needs' 
 section is what your sim needs more. Is he/she dying to go to the toilet, or does your sim need 
 to have fun, or just lie down and take a nap? You decide. This is what makes the Sims realistic.
 
  
  Well, when I said 'realistic', the graphics aren't. But the graphics look crisp, and I need to 
 give that an eight. It isn't artistic, but, you know... overall, The Sims is a great game that 
 only lacks a few graphical problems, and on that, I am dying you to buy this game. Even if it is 
 sold out. (Get the complete collection.) Now.
  
  It is BETTER than: City Tycoon: NYC (PC)
  It is WORSE than: The Sims 2 (PC)
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  + you make it, you control it. Balls of fun.
  - your sims might be a sucess, but mostly not.
  
  Graphics:
  
  + good character design, 
 there.
  - a bit too shabby.
  
  Sound:
  
  + humerous, and cool radio music.
  - the voices MIGHT be annoying.
  
  Lifespan:
  You'll go through all the levels in a week, 
 but there is more to come back to.
  Minutes 10/10, Hours 9/10, Days 8/10, Weeks 7/10, Months 7/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnoy_dude25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Eeeek! It's the Sims!!
  
  The Sims offer various, seemingly infinte, possibilities right in the tip of your hand. It is in 
 fact, like playing God. 
  
  You could kill a Sim, keep him alive, dress him up, make him eat... basically everything that a 
 normal person does. 
  The first time I played it, it was pretty overwhelming.. but in a good way.. no a great way!
  
 
  You get to build houses... load it up with stuff... like paintings statues and all this other kinds 
 of crap... it's just soooooooooo good!
  
  Never have I played something so addictive!
  
  You could also set fires! and there's death! A burglar, watch out!
  
  In the end, it captured 
 everything I was hoping for and much much more... This game is meant to be played .. not just by 
 gamers ... but everybody!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Most people would like this game. If you buy this game you have to buy the expansion packs or else 
 it would get boring quick. There is lots to do in this game. Although some of it is boring, it 
 is pretty fun over all. This game opens up unlimited possiblities. Creating people is even fun. 
 I enjoy this game and I think any of you big gamers would too. I suggest buying this game and the 
 expansion packs. It is really fun. I hope this review helped you. If it did please Suggest this 
 review. Thanks alot for reading!
  
  -John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  
  Are you a real familiy-man ? Then this will be your favourite game. You're in some kind of city 
 with around 15 places to place your created family. Or you buy a house ... or you build one on 
 your own. You can buy evrything what a normal family needs on/in a house and ... evrything what 
 a crazy family needs. Yu have to help them on a job, send the kids to school, let them clean the 
 WC and make some good and bad relations. Give them food, let them sleep ... Now, the people have 
 some kind of feelings, you have to keep them from being depressed so they do evrything what you 
 command and so they can earn money with their job. If your character is happy you can train him 
 in some things so he can be promoted and earn much more money to use for the daily needs. The gameplay 
 is great and doesn't bore fast.
  
  The sound is bad. You hear some obscure and strange sounds when people talk to each other. If you 
 flush the WC or use another object you will hear another bad sound.
  
  The graphics are good for a strategy game, released in 2000. But ... that doesn't mean it can't 
 be better. For the rest I wanne say it's really funny and cool (especially if you get the big villa 
 with the beautifull garden) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  A highly addictive and deeply satisfying game that not only defines its genre, but it highlight's 
 it. A large range of customization, countless items and looks for your sims as well as a vibrant 
 and corky world that pulls you in and keeps you in.
  
  Not only being a fine piece of stand alone software, but it branches out into many expansion packs 
 that polish and sharpen it to a really amazing game. Many interactions and reactions, it creates 
 all the tools needed for you to create a dream life, of whatever you desire.
  
  Whether your ambitions are to become an eccentric millionaire, start a family and have a two story 
 house or simply live and see what happens, this game really provides.
  
  It comes with few flaws, that are a sometimes tedious and bland enivorment that fill both restricted 
 and lifeless. However, with proper time management and patience it really does shine. 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  With so much to do, and such a high level of customization, all of this as well 
 as maintaing a happy healthy sim can become tedious at points, but always seems to provide some 
 joy. 
  
  Graphics - 10
  Simple but satisfying, and they contain some memorable magic within them. As well as many really 
 great looking objects.
  
  Sound - 8
  Often bland and annoying, but it does have some classical feel as well as vibrant atmosphere
 
  
  Overall - 9.5
  A highly addictive game that always manages to keep itself worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  The first time I installed this on my computer I followed the tutorial, which seemed interesting 
 enough, and then began to play. But it wasn't long before I was put off and decided to unstill 
 it. The problem for me was the backdrop, that landscape that I hate the absolute most in the world: 
 suburbia!!! I'm decidedly anti-car (in most cases - I don't deny they have some particualr uses, 
 but I've gotten along fine without one for seven years) , and the fact that the car is a central 
 character by default in the Sims was quite revolting. But my complaint would be deeper than that. 
 It all just seemed so typical, so correct for the setting. It seemed... suburban!!! A couple years 
 later, after I was no longer the videogame debutant I was when I first tried the SIms, I gave it 
 another try. Again, no luck. So I gave it to a friend of mine to try and he was instantly, and 
 I mean instantly, addicted. So there you go. No accounting for tastes. He liked helping his little 
 families progress in their virtual lives. The concept seemed interesting to me too, but in practice 
 it was dreadful. Maybe that was because of the limited setting in which these lives took place, 
 and I would've preferred a broader range of locales and lifestyles, but maybe not. Until a blending 
 of the Sims and Simcity comes out, I won't know. There isn't one of those yet, is there? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatakoko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Great game, i dated alot i loved that game its the only thing is that i hate to go to work in the 
 sims i got fired but the stove burned but i cant find the extinquisher so my house burned down. my 
 cousin says the game is  
 relation ships where great to until the lady was happy...... the relationship level was like 90% 
 and thats a lot but i spend a lot of time in that game.. my house is a 3 story house im a millionare 
 in that  
 house was very big my people live there
  that's all i have to say for now  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Every so often a game will come along that is totally new. The Sims is in this category. Unlike 
 the majority of games which are, lets be honest here, rehashes of games that have come before them, 
 The Sims was at its time of release unique and revolutionary.
  
  Going one step further from the Sim City games, The Sims allows you to control the lives of your 
 own virtual families. It's a damn addictive game that is inventive, funny, and is based around 
 a premise completely different from anything that has come before. 
  
  Now if a sequel hadn't been released I would find it very difficult to come up with criticisms, 
 as The Sims 2 takes everything one step further and is practically unbeatable. Maxis will struggle 
 to make the same size step forward to a Sims 3, if it were ever to happen.
  
  In terms of gameplay this is a fantastic game. Your Sims have certain needs that will keep them 
 happy, and it is up to you to maintain these needs so that your Sims will be successful socially 
 and job-wise. It is important for Sims to have a career as this is the only consistent way of gaining 
 money to buy new and better stuff. The top-of-the-range products are often funny, genuinely helpful, 
 and will make maintenance of your Sims easier. 
  
  The graphics are not stunning but it is a colourful and attractive looking game. The camera panning 
 and angle adjustments tend to be slightly unresponsive, though there are no other significant glitches 
 in the game, and I have never had it crash on me. 
  
  Aside from guiding your Sims to through happy lives this game can also bring out your vindictive 
 side, where you may subject your Sims to a lifetime of misery, toilet embarrassments, social failure, 
 and ultimately premature death. This method of playing the game is not recommended though as it 
 will soon become boring. It is much more fun to actually work hard to make your Sims succeed, thus 
 allowing you to spend time building them luxurious mansions furnished with the best products. 
 
  
  The sound is really good, and really enhances the fun feel of this game. The Sims themselves speak 
 in a nonsensical language, though it is possible to see what they are talking about from the images 
 in the speech bubbles. The background music through the loading screens is effectively elevator 
 music, though it is upbeat and cheerful enough that it shouldn't become irritating. Indeed this 
 style of music has become synonymous with Sims games. 
  
  Sim couples can have children, either through adoption or more natural means. These children will 
 never grow up and will exist forever going to school and playing with toys. Short of seeing your 
 virtual creations experiencing the miracle of childbirth there is ultimately no point to the children. 
 It is good when they are babies though as this is when the game is most challenging. The babies 
 require frequent attention in a variety of forms from their parents for three successive days. 
 This is hard work as the babies will begin their insidious wailing usually while your Sims are 
 busy looking after themselves, thus leading to grouchy babies and grouchy, unresponsive Sims who 
 are desperate to eat, sleep, and use the toilet simultaneously but have to feed their little bundle 
 of joy instead. The danger is that if baby is left unattended for too long a social worker comes 
 and takes the baby away, so it is necessary to give them priority over the needs of your adult 
 Sims.
  
  Apart from growing from baby to child, your Sims will never age, which is a major flaw in the gameplay. 
 It means that there is nothing to work towards. This issue is resolved in the phenomenal sequel 
 though. Indeed, now that the sequel has been released the original Sims game becomes a little redundant, 
 as all of the little gameplay problems have been addressed in The Sims 2, and it generally is a 
 much more complete, intelligent and rewarding game. This is no discredit to the original at all. 
 I can therefore only really recommend this game to people new to the franchise completely, as if 
 you are familiar with The Sims 2, you will probably find it too much of a step backwards to then 
 play The Sims. This was the original though, and it is a groundbreaking game. It is one of the 
 rare games that does something completely different from anything else, and is seriously addictive. 
 It is possible for the lives of your virtual people to become more important than your own almost! 
 I have certainly lost many, many hours of my life to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is a game that almost everyone has heard of and I like the game. But after a couple of 
 addicting hours the game just looses something and becomes very monotonous.
  
  Gameplay: Basically you are a god in this game. The main premise is to create your Sim and drive 
 them through life. You build them house, buy them furniture, get them a job/send them to school, 
 feed them, etc. This game gets very addicting quickly but after a few short hours I found myself 
 really bored. Many people including myself make our own little hells for certain Sims, like not 
 feeding them or causing them to burn to death, I found myself doing that more than playing the 
 actual game. It just gets boring playing a game where you have to tell the character when to take 
 a **** I loved this game for the first couple of days but really got bored with it. Many people 
 forget to take care of themselves while they are taking care of their Sims. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but not fantastic. The houses and furniture look okay but after 
 awhile it just gets dull looking at the same thing for hours.
  
  Sound: The sound and music are good except the Simlish that the characters speak gets very annoying 
 after awhile, why couldnt they speak an actual language?
  
  The Sims is a revolutionary game that is fun for everyone but after awhile it got really boring 
 and I just quit playing. But I think ever person should experience this game at least once. Dont 
 forget though that The Sims 2 is out now so pick that one up if you are wanting to buy a Sims game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomer_TV
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  This is the original Sims that started it all! You get to make a household and control their llives.
 
  This is a good game that I remember playing. It has some twists to it. The thing that I don't 
 like so much is that they never grow older. Kids always stay kids meaning you have to take care 
 of them forever. The game doesn't get boring fast though. With a great deal of raising families 
 and jobs, Sims is for anyone. Along with the game, you can build a house. The building options 
 aren't that great though. It has things that it needs, and things that it has already.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkl1ng
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  OK, I've heard about The Sims before, but never had I actually played it. I bought a copy, and 
 it was actually a large dissapointment. The fun in this game was all sucked out of the fact that 
 (you can do all this in real life) . Also, the fact that the game never ends makes it somewhat POINTLESS 
 to play. I found myself amused at this game, and nothing more. It was more addicting to screw around 
 with the massive SDK tools, though.
  
  Pros: good intuitive gameplay, well thought out, good SDKS,
  
  Cons: not that fun after a while, 
 "Why am I doing this on a PC?" feeling
  
  Overall, I would recommend it to people who enjoy simulation games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10/10
  The gameplay in the sims is just like the gameplay in Sim city, except u build a family instead 
 of a city. I thought this game would suck horribly and i didn't know if it would work at all. Not 
 only did it work, but it worked better then any Simcity game i have ever played. You start off 
 by making a family (customizing looks, personality, etc.) , then you buy a piece of land and start 
 building a home. My favorite part of The Sims is definatly building my house and expanding it as 
 i progress in the game. When ur house is built, u start living as your family. You can get a job, 
 go to school, be a hobo, hire a maid, get robbed, get killed, burn down your house, see ghosts, 
 become depressed, become social, host a party, get drunk, get married, have a kid, the list goes 
 on. It is quite challanging to keep everyone in your family happy so, if u like a challange i say 
 go for it.
  
  Visuals - 8/10
  The visuals are pretty decent, there is a fair ammount of detail in all of the characters and furnature. 
 But they aren't perfect or suberb.
  
  Audio - 7/10
  There is music to fit every mood conveyed by the sims, which is a huge plus but, some of the music 
 is down right annoying. Shut off the sound annoying.
  
  Value - 8/10
  Sims will keep you hooked for a long time and its a great game to pick up and play again down the 
 road.
  
  Overall, The Sims is a great game for all ages and most people. If u like Simcity style of games 
 you will, without a doubt, love the sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmater
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  This is just the greatest game i have seen for a long time. The Sims 2 is also a great game but 
 i like Sims 1 better. Buy it play it. Try also some of the add-ons to this game, they are so cool. 
 Super Star is my favorite because it is so cool to be a super star. Can i say more ? You most buy 
 this game all like Sims, you can play for at hole day if you want to and it is not boring. I can 
 not wait to see Sims 3 then it comes out in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  As far as graphics go, the Sims have outdone themselves. All you need is a decent videocard with 
 all the update patches/firmware downloads. All the scenes are smooth, without any twitchiness, 
 so a very "lifelike" experience is enabled for the player.
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Although there are quite a few sound effects available in this game, I feel that more variety could 
 have been put into it and also, some of the effects don't really fit into the scenario. For example, 
 two sims talking on the phone, and one rejects the other, there SHOULD be an unhappy objection, 
 but instead, there are usually cheerful responses! What's up with that?!
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay is superb from the moment of starting a family... up till the moment that you've exhausted 
 most of the capabilities of the Sims. Also, it can get quite tedious having to control EVERY aspect 
 of the Sims' life, such as going to the bathroom, going to bed... In the long run, this means that 
 there are usually 15 minutes of fun with neighbours and such, but then follows an hour of boring 
 household chores.
  Overall, this game's VERY addictive for the first 20 hours or so, but after you get used to buying 
 all the varieties of appliances (and there are loads) , and interactions with the people, the game 
 gets quite repetitive, without a basic storyline or even a timeline for the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The Sims has to be one of the games that can entertain you forever. You control every aspect of 
 your Sim's life, from your job to whether you want to marry and have children, or simply be the 
 neiborhood pimp. No two characters are ever the same either, so the replay value is unbeatable. 
 There is also no way to "beat" the game, so you'll never have to go through the same thing twice. 
 If you have a computer but you don't have The Sims I honestly don't know what you are thinking. 
 When I first played this game I thought it was the coolest because all you do is live out your 
 characters life, and I still think that today. And The Sims isn't some weird fantasy game that 
 has you living some fake life, The Sims has you live out the life of a regular human being. So 
 have fun and go out and buy this game. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_weightman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Sims brings the gaming world to life. You are in control. You get to start a fire, play the 
 guitar, work out, cook dinner, and more importantly make friends with the hot neighbors next door.
 
  
  This game is the first of its kind. It delivers quality and dependability at a very reasonable 
 price. Being a fan of the SimCity series, I couldn't help myself with this series. What more could 
 you ask for? Not requiring the newest graphics card make this game the must have for anyone interested 
 in gaming. No matter what genre you play the most, The Sims series is a great game whenever you 
 want a break, or whenever you want to develop the next great household in all of Sim-land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  The Sims is a very well known game that can be fun for all ages. It is a simulation of a family 
 and their lives. This includes jobs and financial issues, as well as social interactions with friends 
 and neighbors and amongst the family. The gameplay is good... it is easy to control the family 
 and customize the people and the houses. This game was made in 2000 or so, and the graphics are 
 not that bad. The sound is alright and the people talk in a special Sim language so you don't really 
 know what they are saying, but it is translated into symbols that appear in speech bubbles. You 
 can buy this game for cheap, so the value is great. There are tons of expansion packs, which also 
 are a good thing for this game, however you may want to consider buying the newer Sims, Sims 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  wow after seeing this The Sims again, it makes me wanna play back the game. i mean installing back. this 
 game packs a lot of human normal lives stuff, going to work, play around ur house, do funny stuff. or 
 even flirt with ur neighbours and so on! wow not juz tat if u dun play the expansion. the original 
 is the best also! the items are a heck of lot. and preferbably make a swimming pool and enjoy swimming 
 around haha. juz keep alert on ur character's status. if he/she needs toilet, a s a p go for it! so 
 ur hygiene status increase rapidly. and if u build a better home, ur worth status i think will increase 
 a lot. always eat ur nice snacks/meals to increase ur food status. owh and lastly u can go around 
 ur neighbour click each of them and play. try the game! its no disappointment as the creator of simcitys 
 is the most creative i can see from the virtual life creation. inspire the art and follow the greatness! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good the Bad and the Ugly
  
  The Good: a fresh concept, ability to live through game sprites and do or build things you normally 
 could not. The chance to be a God!
  
  The Bad: Major stability issues, after I reached a certain point in the game it suddenly went haywire 
 and I would have to uninstall it. It might have been a problem with my computer. While there are 
 a great variety of things in the game the game play does get repetitive. Getting started is very 
 tedious and takes a long time. 
  
  The Ugly: A lot of expansion packs but none of them add in any real way to the replay value of 
 the game. 
  
  Verdict: You decide!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonacastagno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  The first time i played it seemed qwite hard but you get to know how he goes in no time. when i 
 started i just could not get away from it. as if it is addictive! If you find it boring just try 
 out the many expansion packs or even download a cople of extras (Great downloads on this website) 
 And if you get just so stuck maybe try out the diferrent cheats. What i thought was really great 
 that because of the amount of detail you can make your sim look just like you. If your wana game 
 with a bit of strategy, you have gota try this! Rating:8.9
  
  Italian babe
  Sim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most selling game in the world and its not so weird. The game is very fun 
 to play and everything is working well. Sound effect is good to, but ur sim is talking on a language 
 that no one can really understand. The graphics is good and it looks real most of the times. You 
 can enjoy this game for a long time and many might even take this out of the shelves. This game 
 is really good and reavolutionary. This game is really good and should not be missed by anyone 
 and you dont even need a really good pc and thats good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Queen_Umeko
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Ok I can spend an entire day just playing the sims, making them fall in love, seeing them eat and 
 use the bathroom, forcing them to clean up the house "devil horns growing up on her head"
  
  Sometimes it feels like we do live in a sim world, like there is somebody somewhere creating 
 a world and making us do the stuff they want us to do.
  
  Rofl who knows! XD
  
  And when you know some of the cheats it gets even more fun :P
  I have yet to try the other games 
 for it, but the games where I come from are pretty expensive, one good game can go for like 500 
 or close to 1000 sek.
  
  I love games where you can use your imagination and paint the house as you wish, like me I put 
 pink wallpaper on the outside to give it a cooler look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeloader12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:33 pm PT
Review:  THis has been the number one pc game of all time. And now it is just a good game on the shelves. 
 This game's score would be better if he sims 2 did not exist. The graphics have obiously aged and 
 now look butt ugly and pixalated. THe audio is the same but it isnt as inspiring aas before when 
 a playstaion was the equvalent of a super computer. Which was a hell of a long time ago. The gameplay 
 is still solid and good but like i said you can have better with the sims 2. You can spice up this 
 gae by buying the complete collection which can be yours for 40 dollars. That this game and seven 
 expansion packs. And of course it wont leave a big hole in your pocket like the sims 2 and its 
 expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far the best in the series. The graphics were really great for their time. Being 
 able to make your own characters and houses is a very fun and satisfying. You can put over 500 
 items in or around your house. You can get married, have children and soo much more. Only thing 
 i really dont like is keeping the sims happy. I mean its tedious trying to keep them happy and 
 to do tasks, and i mean like everyday tasks. Overall this game is a must have even for people who 
 think they will not like it. I thought it would be horrible and I ended up loving this game and 
 adding it to my top 5 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionimia
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is both fun and addicting I play it for hours with ever noticing the time. It's really 
 fun to create family, friends, or enemies because you can do so much with it, especially with all 
 the expansions. With all the Furniture, Home stuff and pets, magic, fame, fortune this game is 
 like real life. But just remember, its only a game, but a fun game so dont go to far playing it. 
 I'm buying The Sims 2 for Christmas and the University Expansion and I hope it's better then The 
 Sims because the Sims is already the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  What you do is that you basically start a family, either make them sucessful or make the burn in 
 hell. But after that, it just get boring. Graphics are decnt, sound in this game sucks. Why would anyone 
 want ot hear a Sims lauguage? All I can hear is Bla Blab Sha Looo Whatever..... Controls are quite 
 difficult but OK. There is also a limited space to build your dream houses unless you buy the expansion 
 pack of course. For those who love being a tamer, this game may suit you and also for those who like 
 to just builing houses or beiung god for a while. So, better rent it first to see if you reallly 
 enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spodo_Kmodo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:36 am PT
Review:  Again... It's and old game so don' expect a lot from the graphics, but for the year 2000, they're 
 suprisingly better than the other games.
  
  The first in a series, came after Sim city, to let you control the SIMS, NOT THE CITY, which was 
 revolutionary in the gaming world, it actually let you control someones life without having to 
 do a load of hard work, so burn your dolls house, (or recycle it :) ) , 
  
  Just like almost all sims games, they walk funny, they talk funny, they look funny, this one more 
 than the others!! But, you CAN have custom made pools, you CAN have second floors, and YES, there 
 is a money cheat :) .
  
  The sound is good for an old game, with crickets at night and birds in the morning.
  
  The 
 value is fantastic, because you can keep on making houses until you run out of space, then you 
 can still delete an old house of yours
  
  So if you have a dolls house... Buy this game
  
  If you hate dolls, give it a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  Well, the first time I saw The Sims 1 was when I was in Collage. My Lecture was playing it and 
 it looked like really good fun. I got a copy of the first Sims and I was hooked. I bought all the 
 Expansions and I was in love.
  
  Although I didn't really use Sims as a Simulation as I was supposed to. I used it for just creating 
 cool houses. I had my sim do all kind uf new stuff just for fun. He never worked. He had a lot 
 of money and could buy all kinds of stuff. Thank you cheats. 
  
  With every expansion came some cool new features and I wanted to try all of the. So I went to all 
 the town lots, went on all the dates, got the pets, went on vacation, has house parties and my 
 fave, did magic. 
  
  Everytime I played a new expansion I was impressed with what they thought of. I thought "Well they 
 can't do any better than this. It's not possible". Guess what. It is possible. The Sims 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basil131
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is so cool .
  Now sims 2 and all its expantion`s are coming out it wont be as popular but sims 1 is always going 
 to be my favorite game.
  i have rated this game 9.4 .
  It has been rated teen but i think it is sutible for 7+.
  The one bad thing is the rotation because 
 you can never get the right veiw.
  This game now has 7 add ons and they would be a good idea to buy aswell. 
  Post Youre own reveiw 
 on gamespot free and fun to write .
  CHEATS.
  There are many cheats for this game but thew are most difficult to remember . Example: Rosebud!;!;!;!;;!;!!
 
  Thanks for reading this reveiw about the Sims 1 .
  
  By Alastair Reed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The idea of taking care of a family and telling them what to do. your pretty much god. the voices 
 are funny and just building your dream house is a dream come true. its challenging and addictive. 
 very innovative. there is no end but at least you could play forever. creating your person and 
 even putting your face is weird. getting them married or even making them hook up with somebody 
 secretly. there is so much you could do that you just need to spend hours on it. just give it a 
 try. you'll see why it is the greatest game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viscious_dude
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  whats so great about this game? i have this game and to be honest i cant see whats so great about 
 it! reasons for not liking it:
  
  1. there is no aim whatsoever! even in simcity there were scenarios you could complete. in this, 
 you can't do anything other than mess around with your sims all the time, or if you want, get them 
 better jobs and speed them along the way to the dead end which you get to when youve bought all 
 the items and have the best job!
  2. its boring. after an hour or so, the gameplay becomes more of a chore than a pleasure, and considering 
 the reason above, it all seems very futile. 
  
  it has a few redeeming features however, such as the ability to exchange families with others online 
 and download new items, but other than that, thats about it. 
  i guess this game works for some people. but not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  if u are lookin for the best simulator out there u can look no farther than the sims. there is 
 no way to explain the game except well just a simulator of life. it gives u a chance to escape 
 from the real world and run a life u have always dreamed of. its easy to use and it runs so well, 
 it is well designed and u will have very little problems running this game. now even though it 
 give u the ability to have a dream life it doesnt mean that its a walk in the park. it takes time 
 work and money to get to the top which is not an easy thing to be doin. u have to be careful not 
 to get your sim killed, and with a little hard work and careful spending of youyr money your could 
 be promoted through your job ranks, build the house of your dreams, and get married to a special 
 someone. the expansion packs add an excellent source for hours upon hours of extra entertainment, 
 and u will never get bored with the game, with infinite replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TycoonTim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  The Sims is and was a great game. I only say "was" because the oringinal is obsolete due to the 
 release of The Sims 2. I personaly think this is one of the best PC games known to man. The whole 
 "scheme" of this game is to create a character and then lead a life with that character. Basically 
 its like playing the game of "Life" on your PC in 3D and you can actually see the people. You can 
 buy items, marry your neighbor, have kids, get promoted to the highest rank in you job and much 
 more. What adds to the gameplay is the incredible realism. Yes sometimes the characters movements 
 are a bit strange but other than that they are realistic. A superb game over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This was horrible. I just didnt like it, I mean graphics were ok and there was a large variety 
 of items, but maybe i'm just not interested in other peoples lives. I mean if I wanted to control 
 everyones life then I would become a super-villain bent and mayhem and world domination, or George 
 Bush. This was just terrible, the only way to enjoy it is with cheats which isnt something I normally 
 do. Its just not my type of game. So anyway, if you think you might like this then by all means 
 buy it. Ummmm.... 1 2 3, the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  The sims is a very good simulation game and it is one of the best sellers too but why is it a great 
 hit this is why...
  
  When the sims came out it was really intresting how they made the game with polygons. Well the 
 graphics are really good but there are some things which need to be sorting out like the sims well 
 they are people like us but ultra visual gaming needs more things. 
  
  The gameplay is perfect what ever people say it is good but the strange thing is why is there no 
 aging? why do your sims be a kid for its rest of eterity? this caues the game to get boring people 
 can easily get bored of it so something needs to be fixed!!!!
  
  Expansion makes the sims better and cooler, 7 ep's wow what a bunch!!!
  still the game has good 
 graphics and gameplay and it will be the classic gameo f all time!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game. Yeah its kind of basic but still pretty fun. The gameplay is good, 
 You can keep on growing your family for ever and ever so thats good. The cahracters actually talk 
 so it is fun to hear their conversations. Theres a lot of stuff you can buy for your sims. You 
 can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick from many jobs 
 for your own Sim. You can have friends over, exchange presents and many other thingd too. So this 
 game is the begining of a great franchise, which you do not want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skppy1225
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is simply amazing. The concept, design, everything! I will now break these things down 
 into categories:
  
  Difficulty: All you do is move the mouse and click things. What can be easier?
  
  Learning 
 Curve: Once again, all you have to do is click things. Easy enough for anybody to enjoy.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are excellent, having said it's a 2001 game. If you don't think these 
 are good, then go look at the NES or Genesis and see what you think is better.
  
  Sound: This game probably has some of the most unique sound anywhere. Every single song is sung 
 with just a bunch of jibberish. The Sims speak their own language, called "Simmish" or "Simlish", 
 and it is just a bunch of nonsense.
  
  Fun: Fun is the important factor to this game. There is more to the game than what it seems. You 
 have to be able to find a job, get a husband/wife, and even start a family if you are a bachelor/bachelorette. 
 The next thing to worry about is your skills. You won't be getting anywhere in your career unless 
 you can get the Sims' skills up somehow. You must also keep track of the mood that the person is 
 in by letting them eat, go to the bathroom, be relaxed, be nice and clean, have lots of energy, 
 be in a nice environment, and have a few days where they're not felling "alone." Going to work 
 in a bad mood will not get you a promotion. Go to work as happy as Ned Flanders and you'll be sure 
 to get a promotion in no time, providing you have the right skills and enough friends. Oh, you 
 mean I never mentioned friends? Your Sims make them and they need to keep them to get promotions. 
 Seems alot harder now, doesn't it? It may be harder, but the basic concept is still easy and fun!
 
  
  Overall: Overall, The Sims is a truly great, great game. If you have never played it, I suggest 
 you try is as soon as you can. It's great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  For anyone who liked building a city in simcity, but also for those without a life, or at least 
 without a normal life. To say this game is good would be an understatement. Even without all the 
 add-ons, the sims is a masterpiece. Bringing up a virtual family is the coolest idea anyone ever 
 had. The graphics, whether you are zoomed right in or right out, are superb. Nothing is prerendered, 
 as every detail depends on what you've got in and around your house or farm or... whatever. Nothing 
 goes fuzzy at all, and everything has its own action, and you can even see the plugs and switches 
 on lights, ovens and microwaves. The soundtrack is great. During loading screens, on the building 
 or on the buying screens, the music is great. It's obvious why they don't put music on whilst playing 
 the game-because they want you to make the decision. You can buy a stereo and put music on! You 
 can also download your own music onto it, but I'm not telling you how because it could crash your 
 game. Finally, the gameplay... there's no plot except live. The gameplay is excellent. You really 
 feel in control of all situations, whether the baby is crying or the cooker is on fire. You feel 
 amazing and really pleased with yourself. A superb game with no limit to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renii
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought it was pretty good, but it was kinda annoying building the houses and when 
 i first played i didnt know there were cheats for money, so I was suffering and i thought it SUCKED! 
 But know i know theres special cheat codes, its better. I cant imagine what i would be like wasting 
 my money on a game that i sucked at, where the stupid misery clown kept coming and being a pita! 
 I just got the sims 2, well not just but I know my Bf got it for me for x-mas, and they wont give 
 it to me till dec. 1 x [ but I cant wait, i've been reading FAQS ahead of time, and they make the 
 game sound awsome. And in a few days i'll be getting the Sims, unleashed! PETS! I can't wait. But 
 so far i already have had to hot date and the house party. So yupperz. Overall this game was really 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  When I was a teen this game was fun. I'm not so sure what to say about this game so Ill just blabber 
 on. One thing from this game that strongly relates to life is routine. I wish my characters in 
 the game could buy and own a gun to defend his or her home from that dang burglar that always tried 
 to steal the TV or Computer that my Sims had. Instead I had to put a burglar detector in strategic 
 places that would sound off in enough time before the burglar would take the Sims stuff and the 
 police would show up. I built houses I thought were Awesome but my Sims didn't. I have a lot of 
 stupid-negative stories about this game, but all in all it is a good game to have fun on and I 
 recommend it for ages 13 to 18. The scoring I have for this game is what I would have given it 
 when I played it more than 5 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilirith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game caught my eye one night in Wal-Mart, ever since then I can't put it down! I got to create 
 a Perfect Sim with the job in the crime career. Where else can you get paid to be a criminal. The 
 Sims has about 15-20 different career paths to choose. But the thing I like the most about it is 
 you can design your own home. You can make it just the way you like, you can make a castle or a 
 log cabin. The reason I love this game so much is that you can play the game the way you want too. 
 Kinda like Burger King! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Actually one of the big games in the industry that revolutionized the simulation world because 
 hey it simulates life itself. The first time i played it i could not believe that life is that 
 interesting and boring for some ways, well until the other sim expansion came out which is really 
 excellent in bringing out the real fun in the game. But this game really set it high with its innovative 
 gameplay and the realism it brings to the gamers out there who are stuck 24/7 playing violence 
 and distruction. Well its an irony that most of the gamers have no life in the real world and this 
 game brings out what they're missing virtually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedchou
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is a game where you can build your dream house. My most fav. part of it was its music. it 
 sounds nice,
  But it's quite hard though, you never get enough money useless use the cheat codes.
  One of the 
 best games I ever played.
  
  
  
  
  
  The words below are just to fit in for the minimum of 100 words:
  dafsdar awehaewga aewgubawiegbweibgaiuwebaweg 
 eagew awe eawgiaweo iaewhgoiwaeogibaweoi bwei bawoiegoaiwegoawe eawha akengaen i i i ienmgk k kk 
 eoa oa elg lel lkel le owoego l oek o eoaeogadafsdar awehaewga aewgubawiegbweibgaiuwebaweg eagew 
 awe eawgiaweo iaewhgoiwaeogibaweoi bwei bawoiegoaiwegoawe eawha akengaen i i i ienmgk k kk eoa 
 oa elg lel lkel le owoego l oek o eoaeogadafsdar awehaewga aewgubawiegbweibgaiuwebaweg eagew awe 
 eawgiaweo iaewhgoiwaeogibaweoi bwei bawoiegoaiwegoawe eawha akengaen i i i ienmgk k kk eoa oa elg 
 lel lkel le owoego l oek o eoaeogadafsdar awehaewga aewgubawiegbweibgaiuwebaweg eagew awe eawgiaweo 
 iaewhgoiwaeogibaweoi bwei bawoiegoaiwegoawe eawha akengaen i i i ienmgk k kk eoa oa elg lel lkel 
 le owoego l oek o eoaeogadafsdar awehaewga aewgubawiegbweibgaiuwebaweg eagew awe eawgiaweo iaewhgoiwaeogibaweoi 
 bwei bawoiegoaiwegoawe eawha akengaen i i i ienmgk k kk eoa oa elg lel lkel le owoego l oek o eoaeoga 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spore_9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Considering from when the game was developed, it has a great graphic. The best thing about this 
 game is how it was designed. It was design by Will Wright, one of the greatest Game God. It is 
 an non-violence game with a style of playing that worths buying. I would include it at the top 
 3 best game of all time. With a 16 millions copies sold of its original game, it became the best 
 selling game of all time. If you include all the expansion pack, there are 54 millions copies sold. 
 I guarantee that this game worths buying ( I'm already addicted to this game and The Sims 2)
  
  PS The next ambitious game developed by Maxis and designed by Will Wright is Spore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best simulation game you will ever find you cant say this games not cool its made me 
 happy from 2001-2004 its totaly rock, a must buy it i say so my self not as good as halo or fear 
 but id say its in my top 10 best games that i own, ill i can say is this game grows on you like 
 you really good game and i would highly recomend you try it at friends house or buy it and i cant 
 wait for the sims super pack when you can get all the sims 1 series at once for 40.00 $!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is without a doubt the game of the 20th century.
  
  The Sims is the most original game of the 29th century, for the first time you could create persons (Sims) 
 and watch they living. 
  The house building is great, you have at your disposal a huge amount of tools to fulfil your architectura 
 desires. When the house is done you will have to fill it with all you want, from sofas to televisions, 
 everything. 
  When you have your house done it's time to make friends and maybe marrie and have kids. Of course 
 you will need money (Simoleons) , to win money you need to have a job, you can choose a career from 
 the computer and from the journal, each career needs some attributes, like charisma, logic, each 
 career as different levels, of course you begin from the low level and you try to reach to top 
 level where you will win lots of money. The best thing about this game is the open-ended, there's 
 no end to the game you can play it forever!
  
  The gameplay is very easy and good to play. The game excellent graphics. As for the sound there 
 are very great music from dance to rock and even country. Value of the game is superb and i played 
 it for lots of hours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmaster13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  The Sims. The simulated life. Not the best of ideas, yet amazingly it works. Many people would 
 think doing what you do in normal life on a computer game is just plain stupid since you don't 
 have to dosh out money to do it. How wrong are they. . . .
  
  The Sims is one of the most addictive PC games around. I got it for christmas, and my parents had 
 to get me away from that screen using bribes and a triffle. (I love triffle.) Basically, in this 
 game, you control a family of sims. You must lead them through careers, love and children. Their 
 mood depends on a number of different needs, including food, fun, and bladder.
  
  Through this game, you must earn skills by studying. These help towards your career. The better 
 at the job you become, the more money you earn, and the more promotions you get. There are a number 
 of items you can buy, gouing as low as a mirror, and as high as a pool table.
  
  Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, (which you will have if 
 you are reading this) buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage_Of_Crow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This is about life, as his name states is a Life Simulator.
  
  The game start when you create a character or a complete family. Beginning as a single is mor fun 
 IMO. Then you have to create your home nothing fancy at the beginning because you don't have lots 
 of money. As in real life you can't survive if you don't have money so you have to get a job, and 
 increase the stats in order to ascend in the branch you selected. But that is not all, you have 
 to eat, sleep, shower, study even go to the W. C. and make new friends so your character is in a 
 good mood and go up easier in the job.
  
  Once you had a good money income you can upgrade your house and add furniture and items for your 
 fun. Make party's and even fall in love get married, have children and make a family bigger. You 
 have to be carefull because you can start a fire, or get robbed and many more events that can happen.
 
  
  This a game that will keep you busy and entertained for a lot of time. It doesn't have any ending. 
 Well you can say it has an ending if your character dies before getting a family but I know that 
 won't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALOMONKEY2552
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  The sims is a simple yet very fun game. The sims lives are up to you, and you choose what you want 
 your sim to look like. Its like a life simulator. You can manage to be a rich , happy sim, or a poor 
 , struggling sim. The outcomes are endless. I have enjoyed playing this over and over again creating 
 new and unique sims. The Sims is a great way to get off stress and have fun. The downloads are cool 
 , having new objects. And the expansion packs make the game even better. The coolest part is seeing 
 your sims come home and seeing how much money they made. In the end, I recommend this game for some 
 good old fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  I was never into Maxis simulation games before this. They never really seemed to take my fancy. 
 Building up a society just didn't seem like much fun in my opinnion. The Sims proved me wrong. 
 The Sims is a game that holds a uniqueness. It is perfect in almost every way.
  
  You begin by creating a family. You then choose a plot of land or a pre-made house. From there 
 on, there are many, many choices to make. What job will your Sims have? Will the man work, will 
 the woman clean the house? How many kids will you have? When should you buy a new fridge?
  
  You control your families lives. Everything they do is scripted by you and you alone. You can 
 order them to find a job, or you can keep them unemployed and broke. Whatever it is you wish, it 
 is your command. The Sims is a simulation of life. It gives you a chance to start a pretend life 
 where you can do anything you wish. How about burning yourself down? That's possible too.
  
  There are many items that your Sims can purchase. You build your own house, from floor to ceiling. 
 You can add the windows and the doors, choosing which ones to suit your taste. You can then furnish 
 your house with hundreds of well-made items. You can choose different kinds of fridges, computers, 
 tables, chairs, beds, and even garbage bins. All of these items are open to you so that you can 
 choose what kind of life your Sims will lead.
  
  The Sims is one of the most unique games ever made. You experience your Sims lives, and can then 
 live out your own. Maxis have always been the masters of simulation games. The Sims is no exception 
 to their superb career. If you own a PC, and want to have fun, The Sims is there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virgo89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This strategy game is the closest to teaching you about real life. In the game you have a home, 
 and a family if you choose. You have houses to choose from or you can build them, but first having 
 to create your self. Now that part about life that comes in, you hav to get a job, to pay bills. 
 Maintain a good mood, like eating, using the bathroom, showering, ect. If you dont let them use 
 the bathroom and stuff they will get angry, not to mention you should study. You can reador study 
 the books to lern mechanics, cooking, talking skills and so on. If you dont know how to cook, there 
 is a chance your sim will burn down the house, or at least everything in it. Now having a job, 
 you will need to raise your sim's skills anyway, if you want premotion. When you get premoted their 
 are certain skills you will need to raise, and after time you will start to need friends. What 
 makes that hard is your work hours, when your job changes, you hours change, which is kind of hard 
 because when your off, your friends might be working. You can go to malls and things to buy clothes, 
 and gifts to give to neighbors and friends. If you eventually meet someone you like, you can have 
 a child eventually, and if you neglect them childservices will take them away. So it teaches you 
 about life, trying to maintain friends, or make enemies (lol) . I think this is what makes the game 
 so fun, because it is so close to real life. It is addictive, and you will want to play constantly, 
 but it is a time killer if you are bored and have the time. This is a great game I think everyone 
 should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraGhost82
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2004 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Basically, The Sims is just about building a family, and controlling their lives. it's very simple, 
 but very fun at the same time.
  
  All the gameplay is controlling your family. You can either buy or build a house, and let your 
 family live in it. They make frinds, can get married, have kids etc. You get a job and make money 
 to buy stuff, and all this can be very fun.
  
  Graphically, The Sims looks alright, it looks good for when it was made, but isn't the greatest 
 looking game now. The frame rate, is pretty bad, and is often glitcy, but it's forgivable.
  
  In sound, The Sims is very good. Your Sims don't speack english, the speack a sim language. 
 You often don't need to know what they are saying, and text boxes appear with what they say if 
 you do. Almost everything sounds good, it's hard to find something that doesn't, but you might 
 occassionally find something.
  
  You could play this game for a while, it never really ends, your sims can die, but you can create 
 another family, and move the dead family out. There are only so many places to live at, but what 
 is there is enough. Eventually, you will get bored of this game, it may take you a while, it may 
 take you 10 minutes, but very few people will actually love this game for all time as they did 
 when they first played it. The Sims is a very fun game, and should be played by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2004 2:09 am PT
Review:  One of the most succesful games of all time, one of the modern classics, and also the best, most 
 innovative gameplay, that is still being unsuccessfully imitated (Singles, etc.) .
  Breaking it Down:
  
  Gameplay: It was unique when it came about, but also it was very well 
 done. The game sold this much, and is still selling, because of this aspect of the game. We all 
 know it, so I won't explain it in detail. Basically, you pick a sim or a whole family of Sims, 
 build a house or buy a house, decorate the interior, and move your Sims in. It might not sound 
 like much, but the depth that this game has is unbelievable. The jobs, the furniture options, the 
 random events like fire and bulgrary, the family friends... it is detailed!! 
  
  Graphics: They are gettiing on in age. Pick up The Sims 2 if you are looking for eye candy. Still, 
 they are good enough to not get in the way of the gameplay, so it isn't that big a deal. The animations 
 are done very well, and are funny only when they are meant to be funny. The fact is, the graphics 
 should be something that you shouldn't worry about that much. 
  
  Sound: Same goes for this. The background music is good and goes with the mood of the whole game. 
 It definetly helps get you really concentrated on the game. The gibberish that the sims make can 
 get annoying though. 
  
  Value: People are still playing this in extended periods of time. Even if you do quit playing for 
 a while, you will keep coming back to it for the sole reason that it is so fun. I think that this 
 game or its expansion packs can be the best investment gaming-wise for anyone out there. 
  
  Tilt: The game is stable, fun, and also very easy to begin playing. There is a lengthy manual, 
 which is a fun read. I found myself coming back to this game over and over again (that is, until 
 I bought the Sims2) . I recommend this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Welcome to The Sims, the best selling game of all time. Maxis boss Will Wright's 
 brainchild, originally titled Doll House, The Sims allows you to "play god" and control your own 
 simulated person, lovingly titled "Sims." You decide when your Sim wakes up, goes to bed, showers, 
 eats, plays games, reads, gets a job, paints a picture, casts a magic spell, goes out on a date, 
 what possessions his house has, what his house looks like, everything. You create them, give them 
 a house, and let them live, either completely controlling them, or by sitting back and watching 
 them live there lives on there own. Spawning 7 seperate expansion packs, The Sims has become the 
 best selling game ever for a good reason, constantly giving your small Sims new people, objects, 
 jobs, skills, looks and locations to keep them entertained forever
  
  Gameplay: In The Sims, you first start off by creating your Sim. You chose there name, skin color, 
 sex, head and body looks, and then assign them personality points, such as Neatness, Playfullness, 
 Outgoingness, etc. Once your finished with your Sim ( or Sims, if your making a family ) , you move 
 them onto a lot. You can either move them into a prebuilt house, or on to an empty lot where you 
 can build there house yourself. Either way, you start off with 20,000 Simolians, the standard currancy 
 of SimCity, which you can spend on whatever you wish. From here on in, everything is up to you. 
 If you build your house on your own, you chose where the walls go, how big the rooms are, where 
 the doors and windows go, where the room goes on the lot, everything. You chose what type of wallpaper 
 and flooring goes up, you chose the type and color of the room, if you have flowers, bushes, tree's 
 in the yard, and where they go. You chose the furniture you want and place it in the house, whereever 
 you want to ( although, your Sim will be picky about the objects, he may not like some of them, 
 or may not like how big/small ur house is, and how its been laid out ) . Once your finished making 
 the house, your Sim will go inside and begin his life. If you have the Free Will turned on, he 
 will go about his life on his own, doing what he wants, when he wants to. If not, you can decide 
 everything for him, controlling his every move. Your Sim has several meters depicting there needs. 
 If you see there hungry, or sleepy, feed them or make them sleep. If you dont, your Sim may die. 
 Thanks to the numerous expansion packs, in addition to your Sims abilities to lounge around and 
 play games, and go to work, you can go downtown, go out on dates, goto resturants, shop for clothes 
 and gifts, buy food, buy pets ( cute lil things ) , go on vacations, and use magic spells and charms. 
 One of the best parts of The Sims is that its very customizable. You can create your own Skins 
 and Heads, so you can litterally put YOURSELF into the game if you want to. One of the most customized 
 things tho, are Objects ( which consist of all furniture and household objects which you can buy 
 ) . You can create your own objects or edit existing objects ( if you have the know how and the 
 programs to do so, its not hard ) . You can change how you interact with objects, make new objects, 
 change objects colors, you can edit the game right down to the smallest detail, which really makes 
 this litterally a "God Game".
  
  Story: o______O if the other SIM games didnt have a story, why would THE SIM game?
  
  Graphics 
 and Sound: The graphics and sound in The Sims are and have always been the key to the game. The 
 graphics of the game are very well done, and the animations are fairly humerous. Sims interactions 
 to people and objects are very lifelike and accurate. For sounds, the sounds all work in very well. 
 You can add your own music to the game, which is very nice. Your Sim speeks in Simese, which is 
 gibberish to us, but fun to hear them chattering away with each other when they talk.
  
  Replayability: Duh? The Sims is an open ended game, and has extreme replayability. Your Sim doesnt 
 grow old so you can keep playing with him for years, making him gain skills, work, get a dog, fall 
 in love, get married, have kids, give him an entire lifetime.
  
  Final Recommendation: The Sims is the best selling game of all time for a very good reason. A game 
 where you control the life of small, Simulated People. The Sims has spawned 7 expansion packs ( 
 Livin' Large, House Party, Hot Date, Vacation, Unleashed, Superstar, Makin' Magic ) , a Macintosh 
 version, several console versions, handheld versions, and a sequel. The Sims is the brainchild 
 of Maxis founded Will Wright, a simple game once named Doll House, which rose to become The Sims, 
 the best selling game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstunt504
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2004 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game hasn't been done before to be the god and control every move and every choice they make 
 to electronics to they relationships. This game brings customization to a new level and does it 
 well. Building houses, decorating the inside, and creating your sim. You will be sucked into this 
 game. This game was the 2nd computer game I bought, because I grew up on consles, RC Tycoon wa 
 the first. But I see why this is the best selling pc game ever this game will have you buying all 
 the expansion packs. While for 2 years I only see one and only one flaw maybe not a flaw but the 
 creator did want to save it for Sims 2. The problem was your kids could not grow up but they have 
 put that into the sims 2. Overall this game is worth your money and your time and u will enjoy 
 it. The best thing is that when u thought you've seen it all u can download new items or skins 
 or buy a expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2004 10:51 am PT
Review:  Are you a real familiy-man ? Then this will be your favourite game. You're in some kind of city 
 with around 15 places to place your created family. Or you buy a house ... or you build one on 
 your own. You can buy evrything what a normal family needs on/in a house and ... evrything what 
 a crazy family needs. Yu have to help them on a job, send the kids to school, let them clean the 
 WC and make some good and bad relations. Give them food, let them sleep ... Now, the people have 
 some kind of feelings, you have to keep them from being depressed so they do evrything what you 
 command and so they can earn money with their job. If your character is happy you can train him 
 in some things so he can be promoted and earn much more money to use for the daily needs. The gameplay 
 is great and doesn't bore fast.
  
  The sound is bad. You hear some obscure and strange sounds when people talk to each other. If you 
 flush the WC or use another object you will hear another bad sound.
  
  The graphics are good for a strategy game, released in 2000. But ... that doesn't mean it can't 
 be better. For the rest I wanne say it's really funny and cool (especially if you get the big villa 
 with the beautifull garden) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralPatton7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 3:58 am PT
Review:  The Sims by far is one of my favorite games of all time. The gameplay is seemingly endless and 
 you will spend hours upon hours trying to keep your sim happy socially and emotionally. Who knew 
 that living a second life would be this much fun. I suggest getting one of the Deluxe editions 
 because, even though the original is very fun, these make it even better. The games are very cheap 
 but just as fun. This is definitely a must have for any gamer wether or not they have been PC gaming 
 for years or this is their first game on the PC. This was my first game and now, five years later, 
 I'm still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CitizenKane-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2004 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is one of the greatest and most innovative games ever to grace the PC. This game is truly 
 amazing and original. The concept of controling virtual people's lives was in the very back of 
 the greatest minds until Will Wright actaully did it. The gameplay in the game is truly amazing. 
 The control ove the people's lives goes very deep. You can control when they eat, sleep, take a 
 bath, what items they purchase, what job to get. You can buy them houses, make one of your own 
 for them. They can interact with other sims in the neighborhood. If you don't take care of them, 
 their lives will suffer. If kids don't get good grades in school, they get sent to military school. 
 If the adults don't go to work, they get fired. If they don't have a job and have no money, they 
 items in their homes will get taken away. They will be sad if they don't have friends. They can 
 even get married and have a kid. Alos in case you were wondering, yes, your sims can be gay or 
 bisexual. The controls go really deep. The graphics are also pretty good. The things are well detailed. 
 The animations of the sims are well done also. As you have figured, the sound is good do. That's 
 the thing about The Sims. Everything in this game is either good or great, nothing bad. Another 
 great thing besides the gameplay is the overlal value of this game. You will be playing this game 
 for a long time. I still play it today. If you love PC games, I HIGHLY suggest you pick this game 
 up immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2004 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most interesting games to come out for any platform. Concept behind 
 the Sims is pretty much same as Simcity, but instead, you play around with people's daily lives. 
 The idea is very simple, pick a character, move in to a house, get a job, make money, and spend 
 the money on things you want. You can create up to 4 characters and make them live in the house. 
 While sharing everything in the house, you can make your character like/dislike any roomates. For 
 the first time ever, the character can have some sort of emotions, for example, if your character 
 falls in love with someone in the house, they could be thinking about each other while doing something 
 else; or when some one dies, you will notice that charaters will miss them or cry while thinking 
 about them. This is an interesting game, and i think i could explain things better if i had the 
 game to show it. There are plenty of Sims on the market, and i suggest starting out with this one; 
 otherwise you will be missing out on one of the finest games ever made! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
