-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Ship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/theship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative premise blends shooter conventions with a murder-mystery theme.
 Quirky sense of black humor makes for laugh-out-loud murders.
 Wide variety of makeshift weapons.
 Shipboard maps feature inspired art-deco visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Griefers can fairly easily mess up online games.
 Solo mode is pretty much abysmal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 552 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mindscape
Developer: Outerlight
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Apr 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This wildly different take on Quake, The Sims, and Clue is off the wall and innovative. 

  Cross-genre games typically take a walk on the mild side. You usually get something to the order 
 of role-playing-game leveling up in a real-time strategy game, real-time-strategy combat in a role-playing 
 game, or maybe a few adventure-style puzzles in a shooter. Generally, the more a developer hypes 
 hybrid gameplay, the more predictable the game itself is likely to be.  

           Uh, who's supposed to be killing whom here?     

  But that's not the case with The 
 Ship, a Steam-distributed game for the Source engine formerly available as a free Half-Life mod. 
 Unlike a lot of its hybrid predecessors, this multigenre multiplayer game from Outerlight really 
 is something completely different. While the game draws on identifiable sources such as Quake, 
 The Sims, and Clue, it mashes these elements together with a few new ideas to create an innovative 
 experience that doesn't play like any of its inspirations. It isn't perfect, due partly to a barely 
 there solo mode and partly to the depths to which griefers will sink, but it does prove that there 
 is room left for original ideas in game development.  

  The basic idea behind The Ship is that you play out a murder mystery on a luxury liner that's decked 
 out in the art-deco style of the 1920s. But this isn't an adventure game, despite the Agatha Christie 
 premise. A first-person perspective and maps loaded with narrow corridors and small rooms make 
 the game feel like a shooter, although instead of blasting everyone in sight, you're assigned to 
 kill a specific victim on the sly for cash, and his or her current location is updated at the bottom 
 right of the screen every 30 seconds. Instead of blasting away with shotguns and BFGs, you mainly 
 do your dirty deeds with improvised weapons such as golf clubs, letter openers, barbecue tongs, 
 and croquet mallets (the more clunky the weapon, the more money you get for using it in a murder) . 
 Secrecy is paramount, as you're locked in the brig for a minute or two and fined whenever you're 
 spotted wielding a deadly weapon or offing somebody by closed-circuit cameras or guards (your visibility 
 is indicated by an eye that turns green when in the clear and red when being watched) .  

  Of course, you're not the only murderer on your ship. An unknown fellow passenger has also been 
 given the job of killing you, which means that while you need to keep one eye out for your victim, 
 you have to keep the other looking around for the stranger trying to smash your face in with a 
 rolling pin, gut you with a knife, impale you with an umbrella, or cave your head in with a wrench. 
 Matches are cat-and-mouse games where paranoia is paramount, since you never know which of the 
 other players has your name on his or her hit list. You can even ramp up the goofiness by changing 
 clothing and putting on hats and eye patches to disguise your appearance if an assailant or victim 
 gets a good look at you.  

  And then there are bodily needs. Just like The Sims, The Ship requires you to sleep, grab a drink, 
 eat a meal, converse with other people, hit the bathroom, and entertain yourself with reading or 
 dancing. Fail to do so, and you suffer some horrible fate, such as dropping dead due to starvation, 
 soiling yourself, going nuts because of a lack of human interaction, or turning into a pile of 
 dust due to dehydration.  

  Once an action is started, you can't stop, either. This means that you inevitably wind up killing 
 and getting killed in some pretty choice situations. Finally give in and visit the toilet, and 
 the door might be kicked open by a chick with a pool cue. Take a nap, and you might wake up torched 
 by a flare gun. Hit a vending machine for a much-needed soft drink, and you might get your throat 
 cut with a straight razor before you take a sip. Every match features loads of moments that make 
 you laugh out loud, even when you're the one being thumped on the head in the john. The whole situation 
 is gleefully nihilistic and absurd, with the craziness being accentuated by killers and victims 
 who often look like scrunched-up caricatures of gangsters and flappers from the Jazz Age.  

          Refuse to catch some z's on a regular basis, and you might just fall asleep at the worst 
 possible moment.     

  Five different modes of play offer variations on the above formula, but only three are really worth 
 playing. Both the one-on-one duel and deathmatch modes seem ill suited to the deliberate style 
 of play that The Ship is best at, so you're best off with elimination, a cautious game with players 
 battling to be the last one alive; hunt, a free-for-all where you respawn again and again and are 
 assigned different targets in timed rounds in a quest to accumulate a set amount of cash before 
 the clock expires; and a solo-only arcade variant. Actually, you're just sort of stuck with arcade, 
 a single-player option with moronic bots who prefer taking naps to trying to kill you, as it is 
 crucial to learn the layout of the six relatively complex ship maps (which range from the small 
 steamboat Atalanta and the little cruiser Batavia to huge luxury liners such as the Andrea Doria 
 and the Cyclops) before venturing online against human opposition.  

  And online is where The Ship really sets sail. Gameplay is extremely addictive once you get over 
 the learning curve and adjust to the more methodical pace, which requires more sneaking and feinting 
 than the typical online shooter. It's tough to stop playing. You'll typically either get on a great 
 run and not want to stop after whacking three or four victims in a row and accumulating some fantastic 
 weapons. Or, you'll get offed foolishly a couple of times in a row while eating a bag of chips 
 or peeing and furiously keep going to exact revenge.  

  Matches hinge on players taking the game seriously and going after only their targets, though, 
 which means that you will frequently be sabotaged by jerks who want to play Lizzie Borden and hack 
 everybody up with an axe. Lengthy time spent in the brig after each unauthorized kill does cut 
 down on griefing, though, as does automatically booting players with negative scores (you're also 
 fined for each unnecessary kill) . Most matches feature a mature crowd of people out to play the 
 game, not get their jollies out of wrecking things for everybody else. But there are still enough 
 idiots out there that it's impossible to get through an hour of play without getting killed a couple 
 of times for no reason by clowns who think they're deathmatching. Outerlight and Valve have a boot/ban 
 system, but it doesn't seem to be enough to completely get rid of troublemakers.  

  There are some other quirks, as well. The server browser lists only the map and number of players 
 in each game, skipping vital information such as the mode of play and the length of rounds. Kill 
 descriptions in-game often drop the actual characters' names for ERRORNAME. The video sometimes 
 stutters, online and off. Wash your hands once, and the water bubbles around your torso never go 
 away, which makes you rather noticeable to victims and killers alike. And even though the art-deco 
 visuals are stylish and the ships are gorgeously appointed with period furniture, interiors are 
 often murky. It seems as if Outerlight was going for a vintage, sepia-toned appearance to enhance 
 the quasi-1920s setting but took this idea too far and made just about everything brown and muddy. 

          Ship interiors are often beautifully appointed but awfully dim and murky.     

  Audio 
 adds a lot of atmosphere thanks to old-time music parodies (listen closely to the lyrics) playing 
 on cabin radios throughout each ship. But the actual murder mayhem often plays out in complete 
 silence. Killings might as well be taking place in the vacuum of space. This can be very annoying, 
 as you often can't hear the footsteps of some goon running up behind you (on a hardwood deck, no 
 less) swinging a boat oar. Even gunshots are muffled. Someone can be blasting away at you from 
 across the bow of a ship, and you might not even realize what's happening until you're a corpse. 

  But even while these problems are troublesome, they're minor. The Ship is one of the best and most 
 innovative multiplayer games available right now, particularly at its cut-rate price of $20, and 
 it is developing a considerable online fan base, so you can find a server loaded with players any 
 time of the day or night. This is one cross-genre game that really deserves the hype.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The Ship. A mod for Half-Life 2 is now a game. But is it good? It's Ok.
  Story:7/10: You get a free ticket on a cruise ship, by mysterious Mr. X, but there is a catch. 
 You must kill someone on the ship. It's pretty basic.
  Gameplay: 6.8/10: The gameplay is what you would expect. You get a quarry to kill, and must kill 
 him/her, but you too are ALSO being hunted. You will probaly survive cause of the bad AI. Anyway, 
 you must find a weapon to kill the quarry with. It gets pretty boring after a while, but when you 
 do find a weapon, you must use it to kill.
  A Sims-like gameplay quirk is your needs. You'll need to go to the bathroom, socilazie, sleep, 
 eat. etc. This gets REALLY annoying, as you always have one need to tend too to many times, but 
 if you don't take care of yourself, you die. 
  
  Another aspect is security. If a camrea sees you or a guard sees you, you'll be sent to prison. 
 Which gets boring as you wonder around jail, waiting for precious seconds go by. Then there is 
 online. I don't even know if anyone is playing online, cause I've seen NO ONE! So, that means you'll 
 be playing alone against the stupid AI. Over, and over again.
  Graphics: 6.1/10: The graphics are ok. They are pretty bad though. Characters look generic, faces 
 look generic, the works. Not a graphical powerhouse.
  AI: 2.0/10: Where do I begin? Even on the "Hard" setting, it's still to easy to win (on Deathmatch, 
 expect to win by a large margin) . Sometimes they just stand around, doing nothing. Most of them 
 don't even have weapons to attack you with. Easy win!!!!!!
  As if this review could not get longer, there is Steam. I was new to Steam. I hated it. Installing 
 it was a test of paitence.
  So anyway, check you're bargin-bin, or read some reader reviews if you might think of picking up 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxtonW
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  The Ship is one of my all time favourite games, and it's been that ever since I stumbled across 
 it on my Steam profile about 2 years ago.
  
  The graphics might look a bit chunky, but I can assure you that the gameplay makes up for it.
 
  
  The Ship is set on various cruise-ships that are replicas of ships from the 1920's, so don't expect 
 to find any very modern weapons lying around everywhere. Instead of fighting it out with Desert 
 Eagles and Flashbangs, you'll be pounding your quarry with frying-pans or paddles, stabbing them 
 with kitchen-knives and BBQ forks or even shooting them with a good ol' Tommy Gun.
  I have only played the multiplayer version of this game, so I can therefor not review the single 
 player version of this game, yet.
  The only really bad thing about this game is that the player base is very small, so it might be 
 hard to find servers without any bots depending on where you live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mshake0329
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  You are on a cruise with a free ticket given to you by a mysterious Mr X. You find out that you 
 are assigned a passenger to kill and a passenger is out to kill you.
  Kill or be killed. I was excited to get this game but was sadly let down. The game play is pretty 
 good. The unique way of killing your fellow passengers are fun for a while but gets boring so easily. 
 You have a variety of weapons to choose from such as a fire Axe, Knives, Guns, etc. The WORST part 
 about this game is The Sims like feature where you have to take care of your characters every need. 
 Its such a pain trying to kill someone when you have to go to the bathroom or are getting hungry 
 and abandon your hunt for the certain amount of time it takes. Every 30 seconds its updated where 
 the passenger you must kill is located but still is sometimes hard to spot them. This is a unique 
 game. Its fun for about 40 minutes. I'm glad i paid $10 for this and nothing more. Buy it if your 
 in desperate need of a new, cheap game i guess, Otherwise stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a different kind of FPS. The story takes place on a ship that belongs to some rich dude 
 who out of a sheer boredom hijacked it to the Bermuda Triangle and pitted the passengers against 
 each other. The winner survives. But wait, you can't just go around killing everybody, you get 
 one target that you must eliminate while becoming a target for another passenger. But that's not 
 all, you can't just hack your target to pieces with a kitchen knife or BBQ her with a flare gun, 
 you have to do it without attracting any attention. But wait... this becomes a bit repetitive... 
 like any living person, you also have to satisfy your daily routines like sleeping when tired, 
 eating when hungry and releaving yourself after having too many beers. Sounds like a plot for a 
 game of the year? It should. But something got in the way of the developers (budget cuts, those 
 damn underpaid Indian programmers set their sweatshop on fire again, hurricane in Kansas, etc.) 
 and the game came out seemingly half-done. All this mix of different genres FPS, sims, RPG sometimes 
 does not click with each other. My guess is that developers should've stuck with just one genre. 
 I bet putting such an ambitious game together is a bit more dedicated project than the developers 
 hoped to be. Nonetheless, I still managed to waste quite a few hours online getting rid of my fellow 
 travelers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DXfan101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  well... lets see
  
  it was awesome b/c, i found it
  at gamestop from about 10 dollars.
  and you can play online for free!
  this is a great game, its not to hard...
  but its not easy, 
 like on online...
  its like "yes!, i killed him!" and the next thing you know
  your on the floor. 
  so you have to look every where
  i mean you never know how going to jump 
 out and get ya!
  
  well heres the bad part...
  the stats can be annoying at times...
  but... if you can look past that its an awesome game
  
  so over all, i give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinmh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and it&acute; s orignal the graphic is really good, and when you play the game 
 you just can&acute; t stop playing. The team elimintation is the best mod for me becuse itlike working 
 in a team and it&acute; s fun too. The only thing that makes this game not a 10 is the single player 
 mod, it&acute; s a bit too short and easy but Outerlight only had 8 weeks to develop it so I can 
 accept that, but otherwise amazing game buy it, it&acute; s well worth 20$. Or even 15$ for only 
 the multiplayer version. And my favorite map is connemera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Boy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  This is a game that I had never heard about until it came on Steam and I decided to try it the 
 first Free Weekend. I was immediately hooked.
  
  The reason this game is so fun is because it's a challenge to get into, there's lots of stuff to 
 juggle such as your needs/quarry/hunter and finding weapons. This concept is fun to discover in 
 your first few hours of playing and remain fun although in a different way once you get good at 
 the game.
  
  Some people wouldn't see this as a game that could remain interesting over long periods of time 
 and I was one of them but it really is, it's one of those unexplainable truths. A little like why 
 Counter-Strike still keeps thousands playing after so many years.
  
  The game has beautiful music taken from the 1920s and give the game enormous levels of charm together 
 with all the art assets. It's not going to blow you away with its graphics at first but you'll 
 start to notice more and more detail as you keep playing and come to realize it really does look 
 absolutely breathtaking.
  
  I've even made 2 custom maps for this game, it's that good, I spent hundreds of hours developing 
 for it and I would still do so if it wasn't for the low pay-off because the one real down-side 
 is that not that many people play it.
  
  If you're even remotely interested in this game, pick it up, it's dirt-cheap and while I can't 
 guarantee it'll float your boat if it does you'll be in love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  The menus to the game are somewhat of a Steam standard. They may be a different color than other 
 Steam games, but there essentially the same. What sets them apart is the naming. To play online 
 is called Join A Cruise , to go into the settings is called The Engine Room . It's not a huge thing, 
 but it is a nice touch.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Ship is by no means horrible, but definetley not one of the prettier games out there. The characters 
 themselves lack detail and look very bland. The colors are plain and there isn't a lot of variety 
 in clothes for the NPCs. The level design is something that does get praise from me. The game takes 
 place in the 1920's and the interiors of the ships really make me think I am in that time period. 
 The furniture, and technology (minus the cameras) also back up that feeling. The weapons also lack 
 a lot of detail and are fairly simple looking. Overall the source engine makes The Ship look as 
 pretty as the designers let it. I think it could of been better but maybe the developers were going 
 for a certain style so I am giving them a little leeway.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound on The Ship was forgettable, but not bad. The lack of voice acting made the game a little 
 quiet and for this day and age is a little weird. The weapon sounds were a little similar I found. 
 I would expect that getting hit with an axe would sound more differently than getting hit with 
 a pipe than this game lets on. There is one sound effect I will give praise to, and that is the 
 sound of defecating. It is very disturbing so kudos to Outerlight for that. The background music 
 gets annoying after a few games mostly because it's all the same for the most part. Just like the 
 clothes of the characters, variety would of helped.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The basic concept of The Ship has made me more paranoid than any game I have ever played. Knowing 
 that there is some person hunting me throughout a ship and not knowing who, is a complete mind 
 f***, and I love it. The Ship plays very easily. if you have played any first person shooters than 
 you won't have a problem adjusting here. There is a suprising amount of depth to this game. You 
 must eat, drink, shower, use the washroom (with the creepy sound effects) , and stay sane through 
 reading or social contact. You pay for the food and what not using money you earn by killing your 
 assigned target. You are given their name and last know location every five seconds or so you know 
 where they are, just not what they look like. As you get closer to a person their name appears, 
 which presents a problem. The someone you might be approaching could either be the person trying 
 to kill you, or they might get the idea you are trying to kill them. If you kill someone who isn't 
 your target for no good reason, you lose money. if however they draw down on you first, you are 
 in the clear to off them. You can pick up any money they have as well. There is also a bank you 
 can deposit earnings into (1920s cruise ships must of had ATM's) . Stealth is the key in this game. 
 Not only must you not be blatantly obvious to your target about your intentions, you must not be 
 caught on camera doing the deed. Yes, these 1920s cruise ships also have video surveilence in certain 
 areas. You will be sent to the brig for a short stay if caught. This all adds fun for me because 
 it makes you think and plan as well as hunt. Arcade shooters where your goal is to decimate everyone 
 on a level is nice, but so is this.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  This game supports up to 16 players on a level. there are a few different types of gameplay, and 
 at least 6 different cruise ships so far. It provides much fun for a good amount of time and the 
 only thing that would bring me back more often is stat tracking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game is just super duper.
  
  Its soooo original there is nothing like it and its something thats new, well made and perfectly 
 delivered so its not original and confusing its original and... great!
  
  The whole needs system just brings the game one step closer to the player. Allbeit frustrating 
 at times this is a key element in the game and is in my opinion one of the most outstanding features 
 of The Ship. The challenge of looking after yourself whilst also trying to kill someone and being 
 hunted by someone, AND all in a timelimit is so suspenssful its like hunting a cheetah, being chased 
 by a raptor and busting to do a wee all at the same time.
  
  The secrecy, the planning, the hiding, the realism, the exploration, the discovery, the bloodlust!! 
 This game is the first and best in a line of new, and massively indulgent games that we are seeing 
 being made so much for the nintendo consoles, but on PC!
  
  Really great game - ESPECIALLY when youre chasing your friends around a 5-deck cruiser with a katana 
 in a dress while youre in a LAN cafe filled with angry fat kids screaming at the person next to 
 them for killing them with a frying pan whilst having a nap on a chair... beautiful.
  
  cheers
  
  tommy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Story: The millionare Mr. X wants to play a game... involving murder and decete.
  
  Graphics: 20's style art, source engine.
  
  Audio: Decent voiceovers, no real in game talk
 
  
  Missions: Kill your target, everyone, survive,
  
  Controls: Common FPS setup
  
  Features: Unique setup of Clue Vs. The Sims. Clue- you must kill unsuspecting victims on a hunt 
 for $, Sims- Must do bodily fucntions, eat, sleep, drink, all your daily needs.
  
  A. I.: Not the greatest but works fine.
  
  Loading Times: Average.
  
  Multiplayer: Best 
 with friends, a blast when you whip a person you know with an umbrella, great MP moments.
  
  Requirements: If you can run Half-Life 2, you can run this.
  
  Weapons: Pistols, Thompsons, 
 Rifles, but then the more unique such as meat freezers, hooks, umbrellas, katanas, flare gun... you 
 name it.
  
  The Good: Amazing and hilarious multiplayer moments.
  
  The Bad: Glitches... but they are being fixed.
  
  The Ugly: Nothing this game is just plain 
 fun.
  
  Replay Ability: MP is plentiful replay time, single player not so much.
  
  The Bottom Line: Get this $10 game on Steam if you want a unique and different multiplayer experience 
 with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is so entertaining it's hilarlious, watch a girl wacking another person with a fire axe 
 is just so funny.
  Gameplay: Great multiplayer, so suspenseful you never know when someone can slash you with a claymore. 
 Satifying when you actully kill someone. Takes alot of practice to play multiplayer. Single player 
 is basically a tutorial. However not enough tutorial for multiplayer.
  Graphics: Counter Strike: Source with no Anti Aliasing, enviroments are well done. Ships look REAL.
 
  Sound: The 1920's music in the background is always fun to listen to. Screaming while attacking 
 and explosions are good sounding. Weapon sounds are that good. Value: ALOT OF replay value will 
 entertain you for A LONG TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdeeth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I originally heard about this game a year ago when I bought Counter-Strike Source from a Steam 
 advertisement. Not thinking much of it, I came across it yesterday and I've got to say, this is 
 a game. Chasing someone with an axe, only to run into one of the safe zones like the dining room 
 or cafe is one of the most fun/awkward experiences ever. Public places where there are NPCs, or 
 lots of players will get you instantly arrested if you pull out a weapon so you'll end up sitting 
 down and having a drink with you're would-be assassin. The characters are great, little east Asian 
 women in straw hats suddenly pulling out samurai swords is so ridiculous its great. Since you can't 
 walk around with a weapon drawn for fear of arrest, you never really know what anyone else is packing 
 until clinch time. This makes for added tension because you're target might be hiding a machine 
 gun under that turban, or nothing at all. Finding weapons is a big part of the game because you 
 start with nothing. You will have to search through luggage and sneak into crew quarters to find 
 things. You might find an umbrella or a razor in a suitcase, or a candlestick on a table. Sneaking 
 into crews quarters can get you arrested but there might be a rifle or something well worth the 
 risk. Great game, doesn't seem to be a big community though, that would be the only downside. You 
 can always find a game, but sometimes you'll find yourself playing a level you'd rather not due 
 to lack of options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperrussell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  I started playing F. E. A. R. but got bored pretty early on. I started playing COD2 singleplayer but..... 
 I don't know, it started to feel like homework. I started playing S. T. A. L. K. E. R. but didn't want 
 to commit.
  Could it be.... I'm bored by First Person Shooter's!!!!! I need a new game to play with my LAN 
 buddies. Imagine a game like the old Commodore 64 game Spy vs Spy, how good was that!
  Wait - What's this.... This Ship! Kill someone whilst someone else on the ship is trying to kill 
 you and you don't know who! Genius.
  
  Ok, enough with the carry on. 'The Ship' is FUN, it's a well needed change from the run of the 
 mill FPS's that keep rolling out of the factories of un-creative game houses.
  
  In some ways I think this game was made for me. I love cheesey murder mysteries - I love cluedo. 
 I even had a board game called 13 Dead end drive that had character artwork exactly the same as 
 this game.
  
  The new game types look great. You could probably find faults with this game, maybe if you tried 
 to think of it as something it's not trying to be, but for me this is a game that 20 years from 
 now people will talk fondly of - Much like I still do about Spy vs Spy!
  
  oh - DO NOT JUDGE THIS GAME BY THE SINGLE PLAYER - it's a tack on - the game is designed purely 
 for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Burke
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I just bought The Ship yesturday. I played it all last night, online and off. So, this review 
 will be broken down into three sections-
  -Online
  -Offline
  -Misc. So, to begin with the online play, it is intresting. I played my first match last night, 
 annoced that this was my first time playing this game online. After I sent out that message by 
 hitting Enter to my teammates, i was greated by Hello's and Welcome's . So far, as I have seen 
 today, the community of The Ship is quite friendly. And I have played with over 100 people within 
 the last fifteen hours. But, as usual, there are probably some n00bs on here that kill anyone they 
 see. And that brings us to my next section.
  Basically, you can't just kill anyone. You have to take into account the guards, the cameras, then 
 witnesses, and the weapons. A weapon must be possesed by you in order to take out an enemy. While 
 I was in the Engine Room of this one ship looking for weapons, I saw one of my enemy's. We both 
 saw each other, then kept on going along with our busisness. There are about six game modes on 
 Online play. Hunt, Team VIP, Team Elimination, Deathmatch, something to do with One on One, and 
 Arcade. I forgot what it was. Anyways, I have played Hunt, Team VIP, and Deathmatch, and Arcade. 
 Let me first say that Deathmatch sucks, and It is filled with n00bs and b****'s. Hunt is probably 
 my favorite, because it is exactly what Mr. X says in the begininng, you are paired up with someone 
 on the ship. You have to kill the person you are paired up with. The thing is, is that someone 
 else is paired up with you, which means they are trying to kill you as you're trying to kill someone 
 different. You will not be able to know mainly anything about your person, except their name and 
 their gender. Their recent location is updated every thirty seconds. At the bottom-right corner 
 of the screen, you'll see a black figure . No, i am not being racist. There is a shape of a person, 
 and their figure is nothing but black color. Once you locate the person you designated to kill, 
 the black figure will turn into their face, letting you know that you have seen them. After that, 
 the computer (if you turn on console, you'll see that it is Mr. X saying everything on the screen... lol) 
 will give you everything you need to know about your target. If you are not sure which weapon to 
 use to kill your victim, the press the default button of M . That will give you a list of Mr. X's 
 weapons that pay the highest when you kill them. Ex.
  Flare gun-$5567
  Shovel-$5543
  Revolver-$4323
  And so on. So if you were to find a flare gun, and kill you target successfully, 
 then you'll obtain $5567. But be aware that your target may revolt at you and kill you.
  The next game mode is Team VIP. On every team (which is two teams) there is one VIP. You aim is 
 to kill your opposing teams VIP in anyway. Once again, you may use the M button. This time there 
 are basically three teams, but only two of those teams can kill. The third-party team, as I like 
 to call them, are the passengers. They may set up traps for one of the teams, but not kill them. 
 One good advanage about being a passenger is that you count as a witness, so if there are no guards 
 around or cameras, you can still send a person with a weapon to the brig . You can also play by 
 yourself on your own server with bots, just like on Counter Strike. You can still play everything 
 normal liek as if you were playing on another's server.
  
  Okay, now onto Offline mode. This is just continueus missions. They are hard, to a degree, of course. 
 I have played mission three and four over and over again because I keep failing, wether it is a 
 need (I'll get to that in the next section) or it is a security measure discovering me. I have 
 not gone past mission four, but I'll update this section later on that.
  
  Okay, now for the misc. stuff. First, the graphics. They suck. They look like cartoons. But don't 
 let that bring the game down. The storyline is actually easy to follow. I got used to the game 
 within thirty minutes, thanks to its tutorial. The needs is the most creative thing yet.
  If you have ever played The Sims, then you know about the needs catagory. Well, this is the same 
 here. You have to take care of yourself, while watching your back and trying to kill someone. If 
 you fail to do so, teh result will be fatal, from contracting a disease (don't ask me) to turing 
 into a pile of dust. There are serveral levels to notify you about your needs. You overall have 
 seven needs. they appear in the form of a clock, with a color wheel moving clockwise from twelve 
 o'clock. If you press the default button of N , the HUD will display all of your needs, in order 
 of urgenticy. When the color wheel gets to fifteen percent, or three o'clock, the figure showing 
 that need will appear on you HUD for about 10 seconds. When it gets to thirty percent, or six o'clock, 
 the figure will stay on your HUD. When it gets to forty-five percent, or nine o'clock, the figure 
 will turn yellow, and a sound will pulse. When it gets to fifty percent, or ten o'clock, the figure 
 will turn red and you'll hear a double pulse. When it gets to sixty percent, the figure will turn 
 purple, and the sund will rapidly pulse, telling you that you need to take care of your need or 
 suffer the consiquences. After about five to ten seconds of the figure being purple, the neccessary 
 consiquence will be taken, which will be fatal. Another thing is the sound. It can get quite glitchy, 
 but it'll repair itself fast enough where action is not neccessary. I have heard and seen glitches 
 with the AI bots, but so far, I have came across none n my game.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, but becomes boring doing the same missions over and over because 
 of my/your ignorance. Luckily, the multiplayer makes up for the stress, then you can successfully 
 go back to playing story mode. Arcade is fun when you put on no clip and all weapons . Overall, 
 this is a great game, for a great price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  The Ship is one of the most interesting games I've played in a long time. It combines elements 
 of classic shooting action, stealth, strategy, melee combat, comedy and gameplay of the iconic 
 Hitman stlye.
  
  The Ship is primarily an online game with many different game modes. The default and most interesting 
 gamemode is Hunt in which you are given a target who you have to hunt down and kill, you will be 
 given their last known location and a map of the ship to find them but you will not be shown their 
 face until you find them and talk to them. Once you have found them, you need to follow them into 
 an area with no cameras, guards or witnesses and then deal with them efficiently. The whole time 
 you're doing this, however, someone is doing the same to you - so watch your back!
  
  Everything must be done inconspicuously, don't let you target know you're following them, if they 
 get suspicious and guess right they can kill you (kill someone who is not your hunter or target 
 and you will probably be kicked from the server so you have to make sure you've got your facts 
 right before hacking or shooting away) . What is so clever about the game though is the needs system 
 which is almost exactly the same as it is in the Sims. The longer you live without respawning the 
 harder the game gets as your needs get higher and higher. You may need to go and have a drink and 
 something to eat but then you need the toilet. So you go to the nearest lavatory - devoid of cameras 
 and guards - and then get hacked by your hunter with a fire axe. So the needs system can get a 
 little irritating but without it the game wouldn't work at all.
  
  The other game modes in the game include deathmatch and team deathmatch, ellimination and VIP which 
 all work in the same way as any other FPS except you still have the cameras and guards to think 
 about.
  
  The graphics, seen as the game runs off Source, are very good but are an interesting take on the 
 engine - the graphics are very resemblent of a Pixar movie and are, as such, very nice and cute 
 on the eye and even more fun is the 1940-50's setting of the game which makes for some nice touches. 
 The sounds in the game are similar to the graphics, cute and quircky with irritating little 40's 
 jazz tunes and posh voices to accompany your trip.
  
  All in all, the game gets very repetetive. very fast, but for only $15 off Steam, who cares? So, 
 buy it if you're bored and have some cash spare but if you don't have money to spare don't rush 
 out to the shops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews here on gamespot and seeing the videos on the homepage... I feel that 
 this is a very interesting game with a great twist. It is a combonation of a few games put together. 
 FPS/The Sims/Clue. First... the gameplay is that you are on a ship that has been considered lost 
 out to see and is several thousand miles away from it's last know position. This Mr. X character 
 then announces that you and the other guest will take part in a game he has developed where in 
 you are given the name of one of the other characters on the ship that you are to try and kill. 
 Sounds easy eh... well that is just the start. Not only are you given the name of somebody to kill... 
 but you as well are being hunted while you hunt! So you must keep your eyes open and be on the 
 constant move for you as well as the person after you are updated on each others location about 
 every 30 seconds. You can use any of the multiple different weapons on board to kill your person 
 you are after. You are also given a price sheet that tells you how much you will earn in your bank 
 account for each type of kill.
  
  Now it gets better. While you are on the prowl... and being stalked... you must maintain your sleep, 
 hygene, stamina, and social life thru meters that let you know when you need to eat, sleep, go 
 to the bathroom and shower and alot more. Interaction with other characters is also a must for 
 social skills as well. If you fall behind in any of these tasks... you are basically going to pay 
 dearly with your life or in some other way. Also if you get seen by any of the crew or by security 
 cameras or other people committing a crime... you will find yourself in the jail and get fined 
 heavily! The case you earn from each kill is used for food and drink and other things... so you 
 need to make sure that you are very cautious about how and where you commit the crime.
  
  You also can purchase new clothing and other items to disquise yourself so that your stalker can 
 walk by you and you remain unnoticed. I have only played for about 2 hours now but do find this 
 game alot of fun. There is an online version you get when you purchase the full game that allows 
 you to play against other people all over the world... thus making the game alot more fun I hear. 
 I also see that there are several ships in the game and not just the first one so that as well 
 should add to making this a great game to play.
  
  The graphics are not outstanding but still are very nice. Nothing too flashy here just well done. 
 The graphics kind of remind me of the original Alone in the Dark but with a modern twist to ramp 
 them up. THere is not alot of stuff laying around to clutter the scene... but more just decorative 
 here and there. I am running it on a very high end system and have the graphics turned up all the 
 way with all of the options and am having no problems at all. It would seem that the developers 
 main goal was the gameplay and not the graphics so much. That personally is fine with me because 
 so many times do you see a game that has awesome graphics but a horrible storyline. This seems 
 middle of the road for both. I did however like the sound effects over the ship as you play. Things 
 seem very realistic when you enter a bathroom for instance and you get that echoing sound effect... 
 then you enter a lounge and get that deafening effect. Very well balanced is what they did. I even 
 noticed that when you hear music and walk away you can hear it way off in the distance as you leave. 
 Very nice touch there.
  
  Check out the listing here on Gamespot... make a decision for yourself... but from the reviews 
 I have read and the gameplay I have done... I personally think this game is well worth the $20.00 
 I payed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandiam
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I can't say much because I can't bring myself to play it again after only about 2 hours of play. 
 The game sounds great on paper but just isn't executed well. The single player was cheap and uninteresting 
 and I quit playing when a quest very early in the game just repeated itself over and over. The 
 multiplayer was just constant running in circles over and over while you chase someone who is chasing 
 someone else. I finished every game with zero kills because I could never find my target. Meanwhile 
 other people are killing anyone in sight (something you are nto supoosed to do) and spending half 
 the game voting to kick people out opf the game. not just kicking offenders, but I'm voing to kick 
 you because you voted to kick me kind of time wasting childness. Uggh.
  
  My scores are not accurate but I would have to play again to know what they should be and I don't 
 want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaNOLA
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  But seriously, who wants to be that? No one ever made a movie about a hit-man who can't get from 
 one end of a cruise ship to the other without having to eat, drink, crap, wash his hands, and sleep. 
 Why not? Because no one would watch that movie. That movie would suck.
  
  I mean it - you actually have to do all of those things or end up dead, and you have to do the 
 frequently or you will parish. Really, Mommy? If I don't wash my digital hands after taking a digital 
 dump, I'll die? They all have their own prompts going off at different times - it's like stalking 
 prey while strapped with ten pagers going off constantly. The thought behind the needs system is 
 that it keeps the game moving by forcing players to move around the boat - but that's where the 
 game designers misjudged. There is a big difference between keeping the players moving and keeping 
 the gameplay moving. I found that actual gameplay ended up taking a distant back seat to the interminable 
 feeding of the beast required of the needs system, and that's a shame, bacause I really enjoyed 
 just about every other aspect of this game - especially the environment and atmosphere design. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game for one could become really good which i hope it well as it does has somthing in it. 
 But there seems that alot more could have been done to it. Its not that ship is a bad game , its 
 just well arfter the 4 kill or death your thinking to your self why .
  
  Ok so that the little intro out the way lets get down to it. The Gameplay at times can be really 
 good and sometimes can be boring. One moment that pops out. was going to the medical room and stealing 
 some items that could be used to good use. And and other times your well seeping. I haven't total 
 seen all the ways to kill people as i bet there some fun ways to do so without actully touching 
 them but im not 100% sure. There are guns as well in the game but there not that amazing. My fav 
 weapon has to be the sword.
  
  Theres also alot that could be added like one thing that sticks out in mind is making your own 
 person to run around and kill people with as the models that are in there now don't look great. 
 A nice feature thought is the size of the ship which can make it pretty hard sometimes to find 
 who u got to kill plus theres the fact that someone where in the ship theres someone trying to 
 kill u to. But what i just said most the time never happens as is seems a large amout of people 
 don't actully know how to play the game and just end up killing random people and getting kicked, 
 There also seemed to be problems with lagg on a lot of server as most people where getting it. 
 I feel there could (replaces with Should) be some kind of guide to help people learn about how 
 to play the game.
  
  The graphics Are pretty dam good but the models look very poor and with lagg problems it can be 
 pretty anyoning. But its the little thing that stand out the most like the water in the swiming 
 pool which i was really impressed with. The ship are pretty different as well which is nice to.
 
  
  Sound wise these game falls short as it tbh is'nt that great all thought the music is a nice add 
 which maes the game feel in the time that it meant to be set. But sound wise its the biggest let 
 down with the game.
  
  Amazing thought that arfter all i said i till feel like playing it as there is a good game somewhere 
 in side there. But with lagg problems and such it can put you right off. In fact i had more fun 
 playing singleplayer them multiplayer which i really hate. Now i left somthing out till the very 
 end apart form the poor sound there one more thing that the game does'nt need and that making it 
 into a sim game.
  This is one of the most Anoying parts of the game as it takes you away from playing the game it 
 self. I really feel that the Developers really need to chat about getting rid of it as it would 
 be a big improvement. There seems to be a lot of problems with the game which should be fixed as 
 if everything was done up you could say that the ship would lead the way for a new type of puzzle/strategy 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j8a1f3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  The Ship is a multiplayer FPS set in the 1950s 60s era on various cruise ships. You play as a guest 
 on the ship; your aim is to assassinate any given person. You too are also being hunted. Players 
 are rewarded for making stealthy kills and are punished for being caught to killing the wrong person. 
 The method you use to kill your target is up to you; there are various items that can be used for 
 example fire axes, flare guns, kitchen knives. As well as hunting down your acquired target you 
 must also take care of your bodily needs; eating, drinking and sleeping etc.
  
  Gameplay wise The Ship makes for a refreshing approach to the FPS genre. The emphasis has been 
 moved from making fast paced kills of the first thing that moves; to hunting down your one target 
 and following them to a suitable place for their execution. The inclusion of fulfilling bodily 
 needs gives the player more to think about but does seem to slow the already slugish pace of the 
 game down to pretty much a standstill.
  
  The visuals aren't anything special but certainly do the job, there is even a lack of options for 
 changing most graphical settings showing that not too much emphasis has been placed here.
  
  Sound very rarely makes or breaks games but certainly can provide a fantastic sense of atmosphere 
 in a game; as shown within the COD series. The Ship provides a fairly quiet experience; players 
 will hear footsteps and occasional playing of very much outdated music although fitting for the 
 time period set , this again adds to the snail paced gameplay.
  
  Available on STEAM for a very reasonable price means that even if your not satisfied with the game 
 it won't leave too much of a dent in your wallet. Due to the online nature of the game there are 
 no demos available for download but if you must try before you buy then wait for the STEAM free 
 weekends or play on a friends account.
  
  The Ship provides players with a fresh change from the common place FPS style of gameplay and is 
 certainly worth playing if you; like many others are beginning to tire of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Within minutes of play I find out that this game requires me to do things like eat, drink and strangely 
 enough, pee and well, you get the idea. I even found a colostomy bag minutes into the game which 
 was said to be handy for going in my pants! I'm sorry but that wasn't quite what I was expecting 
 here.
  
  Yes, it gets better when you get down to actually hunting your quarry and avoiding being killed 
 yourself but the superfluous baloney could have and should have been left out. I would like to 
 see this extraneous stupidity yanked right out of the game and just condense it down to the core 
 gameplay that can be fun here. I do not need a passenger experience simulation, I just want to 
 hunt and be hunted thank you very much. You even have to do things like sleep in beds or chairs. 
 What the heck? I was hoping for a game to keep me awake, not require me to sleep!
  
  Otherwise, it's a source engine game and looks decent, the sound and music were ok. The mumbled 
 unintelligible conversations you can initiate with other passengers are another dumb example of 
 lame attempts to create more ambience here than there needs to be. Either give them speech or make 
 them mute thanks. I could care less really if they aren't trying to kill me and aren't the one 
 I am seeking to kill (in the single player mode) .
  
  Maybe it's me but I would far rather enjoy the core gameplay on a ship with weapons aplenty, etc. 
 and have at it without the other fluff. It turned me off so much so that I uninstalled it in fact. 
 I think they lost me completely when I opened a container and was supposed to be happy about the 
 convenience of finding a colostomy bad. In fact, I know they lost me right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shugo89
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the game's overall concept is good, but the actual game itself isn't. I've played 
 the trial version, and I must say that after half an hour of playing, I was more annoyed than overjoyed. 
 When sentenced to jail in this game, the fines are ridiculously overpriced. You'll always be in 
 debt. Also, the gameplay is slow. In order to play this game, you'll have to have a vast amount 
 of patience. The characters themselves also run in an unrealistic manner. After two seconds of 
 jotting down the hallway, they tire. To give you an overall general idea of that the game really 
 is... lets just say its a fusion between The Sims and a first person shooter. Not only do you have 
 to concentrate on not being killed and killing those around you, but you also have to worry about 
 your own personal hygene. This feature may have been put in to help balance out the gameplay, but 
 to me its just sort of an annoyance. Another thing about this game I didn't like was the multiplayer 
 online servers. The lag was ridiculous. I couldn't even move my character three feet. True, the 
 problem could have been my computer; but the majority of people in those servers clomplained they 
 were experiencing lag as well. In conclusion, this game is not something I would buy with my own 
 hard-earned money. In the future, I predict many updates and game patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmen_Ghia
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  In case you didn't know, this whole game was started from a Half-Life 1 mod of the same name. It 
 won some awards and was pretty popular for a time, so the developers decided to make a full game 
 out of it. Oh, what a great decision that was. When I first downloaded the mod a few years ago 
 I didn't like it so I deleted it only about a week after the initial download. It wasn't until 
 I saw this game being advertised on Steam that I decided to try the mod out again. After playing 
 the mod for what it's truly for, I began to notice how much potential this game had. Not too long 
 after I downloaded the mod, I bought this game, and for the most part I was pretty impressed. The 
 biggest thing that disappointed me was the annoying bugs, but through updates they were able to 
 fix all the major bugs, and now the game is probably how the devs imagined it. Speaking of updates, 
 that is one of the best parts of this game: it can only get better and better because of new weapons/maps/gameplay 
 tweaks, and bug fixes added to the game through the updates. The gameplay pretty much goes like 
 this: a mysterious individual named Mr. X has let you on one of his luxurious replica 1920's ocean 
 liners, but it turns out there's one catch: MURDER! You are given the name of another passenger 
 on the ship who you have to murder, but watch out because there is someone else out to get you. 
 It's not that easy, though, because you cannot whack your quarry (or victim) in front of any security, 
 or too many witnesses watching or you will miss your chance on killing him/her and get sent to 
 prison right away. In order to keep people from camping in front of security the whole game, there 
 is a great remedy: refreshing your basic needs (eating, sleeping, pooping, etc....) , which will 
 keep you on the run trying to reach a bed, or toilet or whatever, in time, unless you want to suffer 
 the consequences (which is usually death) . There is a vast variety of weapons in the game (and 
 probably more to come) ranging from mannequin arms to barbecue forks to Winchester rifles. You 
 do not spawn with any weapons, so you must search the ship for them in various places. So people 
 don't use the same powerful weapon over, and over the is MFK (money for kill) , which is how much 
 money you get when you kill someone with it. When you kill someone with a weapon, it's MFK will 
 go down a lot, and weapons that are hardly every used will have much higher MFK. Money is like 
 points in this game, so the person with the most money in the end wins. Griefers are hardly an 
 issue in this game since they are fined a lot when they kill innocently, and they get kicked automatically 
 when they owe too much money to the bank. Graphics: Simple. Nothing special, especially for the 
 Source engine, but it has a nice cartoony style to it, and the maps all have great detail.
  
  Sound: Not too much sound, but when you are by a radio you can hear 1920's music that is usually 
 pretty funny (but sometimes a bit annoying) .
  
  If you have played the Half-Life 1 mod (if not go try now if you have HL1) and liked it even just 
 a little but, then you will probably absolutely love this game. The Ship may not be for everyone, 
 especially people only interested in very fast paced games, such as Counter-Strike, but I know 
 I converted a couple CS player to The Ship, so that's not totally correct. With an added note, 
 it might be a good thing that not too many CS players play The Ship because this game has a great 
 community, and I know a lot of CS players aren't very mature (I'm not stereotyping every CS player, 
 just the ones who need to grow up) . Not enough people play this game, and it's a shame, so, if 
 you haven't already, go out and do us (The Ship community) and yourself a favor, and buy this wonderful 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irogon767
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The ideas behind The Ship while refreshingly original are quite simple. You, a man or woman have 
 been invited by Mr. X to an all expense paid cruise on one of his fine 1920s era cruise liners. 
 There just one small catch to this seemingly wonderful trip. To earn your free cruise you have 
 been given the name of one other passenger on the cruise ship whom you must find and secretly murder. 
 Sound simple? Not quite because someone else on the boat has your name as well. The Ship in simple 
 terms is a game of cat and mouse between sixteen players.
  
  Though the concept behind the game seems very simple the learning curve turns out to be quite steep 
 if you are not familiar with the original mod that was created using Half Life. As there is no 
 in game tutorial to speak of, the average player might be easily put off after being murdered three 
 times in a row with a baseball bat. Once you get past this hard (albeit short) learning experience 
 the game turns into a highly rewarding experience. An interesting feature that appears in The Ship 
 is the addition of needs. Quite like The Sims you will find your self needing to groom, feed, and 
 entertain your character while in the midst of the game. While this may sound bad in concept it 
 actually prevents the occurrence of camping and can lead to some interesting kills because of the 
 inability to cancel an action while in the middle of performing one.
  
  The Ship turns out to be more methodical in nature then your average first person shooter. You 
 must take into consideration your next action and the possible chance of you being killed or killing 
 your target because of it. In turn the winner of a round is not based on the amount of the kills, 
 but of the originality of them. For instance while running down a hallway after your quarry shooting 
 a Tommy Gun may sound like a good idea, you will earn less money then if you had taken a swing 
 with a tennis racket.
  
  To track down your target in some of the massive ships you are given a brief location of them every 
 30 seconds. This adds the need to keep moving around the ship at a constant pace when possible 
 to avoid your hunter. You are also provided with a floor plan of the entire ship, which in your 
 early days of playing you will find yourself constantly opening to check your location in relation 
 to your Quarrys.
  
  You will find as you search through certain drawers and cabinets new attire that you can use to 
 change your appearance. Veteran players will find if they have failed killing their quarry numerous 
 times changing the clothing of your character can stop your quarry from recognizing you the next 
 time you walk past.
  
  Though the speed of the game is overall a well made decision it also brings a few small problems 
 with it. Currently there are only two game modes that are worth playing if you are interested in 
 experiencing The Ship as it was meant to be played. Hunt and Elimination, Elimination is the slower 
 paced mode of the two. When you are killed by your hunter you respawn but no longer as a participating 
 player, but as a passenger in which you still need to fulfill your needs but no longer play until 
 only one last player stands and a new round begins. The way this mode is set up can create a dull 
 experience to players who are killed out early in the game and must wait for the game to conclude 
 which may take a significant amount of time in many cases.
  
  The second game mode Hunt is quite the opposite of Elimination. When the first kill occurs a timer 
 starts warning other players that they only have ninety seconds to kill their quarry before a new 
 round starts. This causes mass panic in which you find yourself running through corridors to find 
 your quarry before the time has run out and you are left without a kill. While this eliminates 
 the cause of boredom between rounds, it also takes out the idea that dieing really pulls you from 
 the experience and only makes you want to try harder and make better decisions to live. To each 
 their own as you will most certainly choose which game you prefer and stick with it.
  
  The Ship also comes with a single player experience where you may play against the computer instead 
 of human players. The mode might has well been left out because of the terrible A. I. In September 
 when the game is released to retail stores Outerlight promises a full single player experience. 
 Due to legal obligations they will have to charge a small fee to those who have already purchased 
 the game on Steam.
  
  The variety of ships that you will traverse while completing your evil deed is quite large. While 
 there are only six ships to choose from when joining a game each one is distinctly different in 
 both appearance and size. Each ship also holds a vast amount of secrets which you will find as 
 you play the game more often. They provide special weapons you may not normally be able to find 
 on a regular basis.
  
  The Ship was created with the Source Engine the same that was used to create games such as Half 
 Life 2 and Counter Strike Source. With this in mind The Ship is not a graphical powerhouse you 
 may come to expect from any source engine game. This may sound like a letdown though it does not 
 have the slightest effect on game play. Instead of ultra-realistic graphics, Outerlight chose to 
 give the game an original art style that has an almost cartoon flair to it. Ragdoll Physics do 
 make an appearance though you end up not noticing the effects as much as you might while playing 
 a faster paced shooter.
  
  While sound does not make a large appearance in The Ship it is still noticeable while walking through 
 the ship you may pass by a number of radios or even live musical bands. Many of the songs are parodies 
 of music from the 1920s era. The music was a nice touch but otherwise the sounds of the game are 
 fairly standard to what you might expect.
  
  The Ship is a refreshing experience after being plagued with mediocre shooters and the like. Though 
 some flaws are present most can be easily fixed with a patch. At the price point of 20 dollars 
 there truly is no reason not to give this game a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzaneski
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing to be honest, its a great game if you want a break from the endless shooting 
 and explosions from Counter Strike or Day of Defeat. The Ship has impressive replay value because 
 of its vast variety of weapons, characters, ships, secret areas, and killing methods. Every time 
 I play it I find a new type of weapon or hidden stash of weapons. The killings can sometimes be 
 full of laughs, such as trapping them in a steam room, dropping a life boat on their head, or lighting 
 them on fire while they are trying to take a poo. The Ship is pretty much the Sims with a killer 
 twist to it, because you have to fill your needs like entertainment or sleep but you also have 
 to watch out because if you don't tend to your needs, you might fall asleep at the wrong time! 
 (Example: If you don't bother taking a nap here and there your character will fall asleep right 
 in the middle of walking around giving your killer a chance to take you out while you try and recover 
 from your loss of sleep) . The game has some bugs that they need to patch up such as stuck animations, 
 sometimes your character will sit down on a chair but when you get up, the animation will be stuck 
 in the sitting pose so you will be a floating while sitting on some invisible chair (It looks funny 
 but gets annoying) and MindScape has said that they will be adding new classes like the Crew and 
 Passengers later for more gameplay options. The music in the game is sort of a 1920s-40s theme 
 but to some people that can get pretty annoying fast, it doesn't bother me, but my friends hate 
 it! This game is fun and enjoyable, and most people that have gotten it has liked it (I have too) 
 but don't read this review and decide, make sure you hear other peoples opinions too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hob0j0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Like most people, I couldn't decide if I should take the chance of wasting $20 on The Ship, when 
 I could just buy Day of Defeat or something that I knew was a good game. Then the other night I 
 decided to buy the game. After one round of play, I knew I would be enjoying this game for a long 
 time. And I played all night long.
  ----------The highly addictive game play allows you to play the same map over and over with out 
 getting bored. Just the feeling of capping someone while there on the John is what makes the gameplay. 
 It is even more fun if you are playing with some friends. There are so many ways to kill people. 
 but mostly it is melee weapons unless you are good at traps and stuff.
  ----------The graphics aren't very realistic. More of a cartoony-humor look, but they look very 
 nice not comparing them to games like F. E. A. R. or CS: Source. The water in some maps is probably 
 one of the best waters I've seen.
  ----------The sound is great, but not the best. Sometimes the music can get annoying but that is 
 simple to fix under options. The Ship is well worth the $20. I can play for hours on and continue 
 to play it and I dont get bored. This isn't super fast paced and you can't just kill anyone you 
 see or else you will be fined. There really are no bugs in the game. The only one I have seen was 
 when there was lag and someone was floating around the ship still sitting on the crapper, or something 
 like that. It only happens sometimes and really isnt that bad. Oh, and if you like ragdoll deaths 
 like I do, don't worry there is plenty of it. Don't worry about wasting your money on this one. 
 It is worth every cent! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
