-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sting!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sting/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: neo Software
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 1, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Entertaining gameplay overcomes a strange presentation and awkward design in this lighthearted burglary 
 simulator. 

  For criminals, crime may not pay, but the entertainment industry has sure done well by it. Countless 
 films and TV shows have tapped into the supposedly glamorous and alluring side of crime, making 
 stylish, romantic rebels out of mafiosi and art thieves. Of course, the game industry has tried 
 to muscle in on this thematic turf, but with less obvious success. Now, publisher JoWooD is taking 
 a stab at the crime genre with The Sting!, a lighthearted burglary simulator that manages to be 
 entertaining despite some real weaknesses and peculiarities.   

  The game's name is actually a bit of a mystery itself. Other than a shared theme of crime, the 
 game has nothing to do with the classic 1973 film  The Sting , which stars Robert Redford and Paul 
 Newman. Though you wouldn't know it from the anglicized title, The Sting! is actually the sequel 
 to Austrian developer neo Software's 1994 DOS and Amiga game, Der Clou! (which means "The Crux" 
 or "The Highlight") . Like the original game, The Sting! sends you back to the 1950s for a life 
 of comic-book-style crime. You play as Matt Tucker, an ex-con who apparently learned little in 
 the big house and can't wait to get back into the burglary business in the game's setting, a city 
 called Fortune Hills.   

  Your overall goal in The Sting! is simple: carry out progressively harder heists and make off with 
 as much loot as possible. The more cash and valuables you swipe, the better tools (crowbars, lock 
 picks, drills, and so forth) and larger getaway vehicles you can buy, which will in turn let you 
 carry off even more stolen goods. The basic gameplay is divided into a real-time component and 
 a planning segment, but not in the same way as a game like Rogue Spear, as you might expect. Instead 
 of planning a mission and then carrying it out in real time, you use the real-time component to 
 explore the city, sell loot at the pawnshop, buy a new getaway vehicle at the auto dealer, or meet 
 new thugs who might join you as accomplices.           Matt chooses equipment and accomplices before 
 a mission.    

  The heart of the game actually plays out at Matt's hotel room desk. From here, you're presented 
 with a number of buildings to rob, like a museum or a ritzy hotel. Then, using a VCR-style control, 
 you act out and record a virtual robbery of the building in question. You go through the motions, 
 breaking into safes and sneaking around to avoid making too much noise or being spotted. Each shop 
 owner or security guard has a bright cone of light representing its field of view, and these cones 
 show through walls and floors, so you can track them easily in multistory buildings. There's also 
 a meter that shows how much noise you're making when prying open a window or jimmying a lock on 
 a cabinet. If you think you might have been spotted or heard, you can just rewind the plan to any 
 point and try a different tactic from there. If you're not sure what to do next, you can stop the 
 action at will, and time will freeze temporarily while you assess the situation. No matter what 
 happens, you can't get caught while planning since Matt is really back in his hotel room the whole 
 time.   

  Once you've devised a plan that you like, you then view it as a noninteractive movie. Here, you 
 just watch or fast-forward to the end, and that's it. You'll now see for sure whether your plan 
 worked: It's easy to think you were successful while planning the robbery, but you might later 
 discover that you tripped an alarm or were seen, putting an end to the mission. Just as you can't 
 really "lose" while planning, a failed execution of your final plan doesn't really hurt you: you 
 won't have to face the authorities or trigger-happy store owners. (For that matter, the game doesn't 
 feature any violence at all.) While it's dull to watch a movie of what you just carried out in 
 the planning stage, the planning itself can be mentally engaging. The Sting! isn't about action -- it's 
 about pattern observation, evasion, and cleverness.   

  Controlling Matt or his accomplices is generally easy. The third-person camera can be zoomed and 
 rotated easily with the mouse, though walls and other objects can block your view at times. You 
 can also switch to a first-person view temporarily. Objects Matt and his accomplices can interact 
 with will become highlighted when you move the cursor over them. Then, when you hold down the mouse 
 button, the game will display icons for actions such as talking, manipulating, and observing. Having 
 just a few logical options like these streamlines gameplay and keeps you from having to guess what 
 you're supposed to do at different junctures. Taking a cab or talking to other characters, like 
 the clownish pawnshop owner, Ali, is equally simple thanks to the game's straightforward menus 
 and dialogue trees.           You'll break into museums, hotels, and other buildings in The Sting! 
     

  Though it's a game about crime, The Sting! is presented in the style of an illustrated children's 
 book or cartoon. For instance, each character's proportions are all grotesquely exaggerated, so 
 Matt's chin takes up half his head. Taxicabs are strange bulbous things that bounce as they chug 
 down the road. The game also uses lots of simplified colors and textures, which help create a gloomy 
 city as a five-year-old might imagine it. But that's not necessarily a bad thing, as the graphics 
 can be charming -- at least once in a while. Also, a few of the little details, like the streetlights 
 glowing in the fog, are pleasant, though far from spectacular. Unfortunately, The Sting! occasionally 
 has severe clipping problems, which sometimes place two characters in the same spot at once. And 
 like the game's graphics, only bits and pieces of the game's sound really stand out, like the jazzy 
 music score that brings Henry Mancini's compositions to mind but doesn't really match their quality. 
 The game is less emotionally involving than it could be since its sound effects are infrequent 
 and dull, and you hear voice-overs only during the intro movie and cutscenes.   

  The Sting! has a cartoony, childlike presentation that doesn't fit its subject particularly well 
 and also makes you wonder who JoWooD is trying to appeal to. The Sting! looks and, in many ways, 
 plays much like a more complex version of the Chicken Run game adaptation, which was geared toward 
 young players. Some older players might be turned off by the cutesy visuals or just not find them 
 appropriate to the gameplay. The complete lack of violence also reinforces the idea that The Sting! 
 is in some ways a kids' game. There's nothing wrong with an all-ages game, but here, the overall 
 effect is a bit schizophrenic. Even with the questionable atmosphere and strange real-time/planning/movie 
 setup, The Sting! does offer an enjoyable amount of tension and mental challenge as you creep around 
 stores at night and run for cover when guards stroll by. The strategies you'll use to play the 
 game certainly aren't particularly deep or complex, but simple entertainment is hardly a bad thing, 
 and more often than not, The Sting! provides plenty of it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vinumohan
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 12, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The Sting is a wonderful game which is a sequel to the very old game The Clue developed by neo 
 Software Produktions and I enjoyed a lot playing it. It is basically a strategy game in which your 
 are a burglar and your missions (which is ofcourse burglary) are to steal from different buildings 
 atleast the minimum loot given. You begin the game as the lead character Matt who has just got 
 released from jail and is planning to start his life again as a thief. You were once a good thief 
 and had your skills developed under a mentor Sinclair. If you have played The Clue then this game 
 is very much different from it in all sorts as Sting has engrossed the changes that have occured 
 in gaming since Clue's release and I even hesitate to call it a sequel.
  
  You can begin by playing the tutorial. After the tutorial you get yourself directly into the game. 
 After collecting your tools you move out of your home to meet your old acquaintice Bruno who will 
 give you all the information about the changes that have come to the town fortune hills. You can 
 know from him about places where you can buy tools, sell your loot, buy/sell cars, how you can get 
 new accomplices and other sorts of stuff. You can ask him to guide you to places also. You can 
 ask him to join you and after that you will hear a harp like sound and he has become your first 
 accomplice. From here on the real fun begins. Bruno will guide you to the place a gas station from 
 where you can begin your exciting life again. This is the first mission or place from where you 
 have to steal. You can peek through the windows and see inside the building to gather enough information 
 about the valuable things such as paintings, objects, safes, desks etc.. Just move the mouse over different 
 things while you are peeking and which are highlighted are those which are your possible loots 
 or objects containing them. Also you can walk around the building to see if there are more safer 
 and less watched entrances. Now you can get back to your home and from the desk there, is where 
 you plan your missions, edit them and execute. This is the fantastic part of the game which makes 
 it exciting. You can begin a new plan upon which you will see a interface where you can select 
 your target building, getaway car, your accomplices to accompany you in the burglary, tools for 
 you and your accomplices etc.. Choose everything carefully as it matters a lot. For eg:- each person 
 has different capabilities, Matt may be good in locks but not in safes, carrying capacity differs 
 from person to person and also cars. Tools also differ in their abilities like a crowbar can be 
 used for windows but not for safes etc... You have to select your tools, accomplices etc.. according 
 to the needs for a particular building so that you can steal from all possible objects like safes 
 and return with maximum loot possible. After selecting all these you can begin to create your plan 
 on which you will find yourselves and your accomplices standing near your best possible entrance. You 
 can begin recording your plan. You will have to evade all securities in the buildings and adjust 
 your timing wisely, open objects with tools that dont make much sound etc,,, and create a plan 
 such that you can get out with maximum loot and unnoticed by the guards or others in the building. 
 You can save your plan after you have finished and replay it and see if you have got it perfect. 
 When you are satisfied you can execute it and enjoy your plan evolving to success. The winding 
 option allows you to fast forward your plan in execution so that you can avoid wasting time watching 
 it taking place in normal pace. On each and every location/building you will be given a minimum 
 loot to get. At first you will find it easy as you need only Matt with simple tools already in 
 his possesion but with succeeding buildings you 'll find the difficulty increasing a lot. You will 
 have to evade more guards and persons, get more loot, alarmsystems come into play, you will have 
 to use more accomplices and better vehicles to increase your teams abilities and carrying capacity 
 and you will have to use them wisely in your plan too. You will be given a set of buildings at a 
 time. On completing them you will be given the next set which will have increased complexity. After 
 a successful burglary in a building you can go to the pawn shop where you can launder your stolen 
 money, sell the valuables etc.. and get cash in return for your mmm.. hardwork. You may find others 
 who will trade for more money if you are lucky. You can go to the cardealer to buy cars, trucks 
 etc with more speed or carrying capacity ,sell a car etc... Dont forget that moving around in the 
 town is also important as you have to gather information about the buildings before you steal from 
 them. You can move to distant locations using taxis which saves a lot of time than walking to them. 
 The most important thing is you get accomplices from the town. Sometimes people standing in the 
 street may be interested in joining you and also there are locations which are sure bets to get 
 them like Brazil bar, Old brazil bar, Bully's pub, Sammy's pub and the harbour. You can use the 
 tool trader to get new tools where you will see more sophisticated ones with time. Also you can 
 sell your worning out tools here and buy new ones. These are the all the main things about gameplay.
 
  
  The game controls are very easy and the tutorial is damn good that within no time you can learn 
 the controls and other things. Just follow the guidelines carefully. The important things are: 
 You can move to a place by double clicking there. Hold the right mouse button pressed and move the 
 mouse to rotate and change the angle of the camera. Turn the mouse wheel to change the zoom and 
 to move the camera closer to or further away from Matt. On the bottom of the screen you can see 
 three different symbols. N with the arrow is the map which shows you all your targets. The map is 
 very useful as you can make Matt walk to a locaton by double clicking on it. Other areas of interest 
 are marked in blue. The cash symbol shows your cash balance and the backpack contains all your 
 tools and loot. You can interact with any person or object in the game as follows. Move your mouse 
 over the person or thing and they will be highlighted. Press the left button and three symbols 
 will appear. Keep the button pressed and move on to the symbol you want. !? is to talk, hand to 
 pickup objects or operate doors etc.. and lens to look into tables, estimate values or peek through 
 windows etc..
  
  The graphics are good for a game of this genre but you will have a feeling of gloominess as the 
 town seems to be darker than you expect. The game has a good view distance adjustment and you can 
 reduce delays for tool tipping (which shows details about tools and persons in your planning interface) 
 as suited for your system. The graphics requirements are not at all a problem just a DirectX 8, 
 16MB graphics card and 64MB memory.
  
  The sound is the only drawback i see in this game as I couldnt hear any background music although 
 the readme mentions about it. I downloaded the game and maybe some files are missing. The game 
 has many plus points. The gameplay is exciting and you seem yourself engrossed in it for hours. 
 Also its uniqueness makes it stand out from the other games in its genre. Another main important 
 aspect I was really impressed with, is that you will find no target buildings similar which is 
 a main reason for making a game boring. This was very much needed in a game like this and makes 
 it very challenging. You will find nothing similar in two buildings everything differs from the 
 rooms to the guards style in rounds etc..
  
  The exciting gameplay and uniqueness covers up for any drawbacks in the game but anyway I will 
 mention some I 've noticed. Rarely the characters may not go to places where you click and these 
 maybe in very time dependent situations while creating your plan. This is due to mainly the camera 
 angles at some places that you cannot entirely see the place where you want to move to. Another 
 main problem is there are some bugs in the plan creation but they do not repeat often. You may 
 encounter most of them only once.
  
  Overall I enjoyed playing the game very much and I 'm sure anyone who likes strategy games will 
 be thrilled with the gameplay and mainly the uniqueness of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbixp
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  "The Sting!", known as "Der Clou! 2" in Europe, is a essentially 
  a burglary simulator. At its heart, it's a time-based puzzle.
  
  You play Matt Tucker, fresh 
 out of jail for burglary. Your mentor
  Sinclair was recently arrested for breaking into Ministry of
  Light. You are eager to get back 
 into the trade, so you start
  small. Get the right tools, hire the right accomplice, use the
  right getaway vehicle, and don't 
 get caught!
  
  The game has three modes: city mode, planning mode, and run mode.
  
  City mode gives you the freedom to explore the city. You can
  walk about, or if you have money, 
 flag down a taxi (for $5) and
  go anywhere in the city faster. If you meet a unique character,
  some of them can be recruited 
 as accomplices (provided you made
  the right conversation) . Others may provide clues, or buy your
  "items". You will also need to 
 get the right tools (of the
  trade) , like crowbar, axe, lockpick, and more. You will also need
  to get a getaway vehicle (though 
 one is provided at start) . You
  can also scout the potential targets.
  
  Once you have gathered the appropriate tools and accomplices, you
  can start your plan by engaging 
 the planning mode. Select you
  target, your get away car, and accomplices. Then select among
  your available tools (3 to each 
 person, subject to carrying
  limit) . Keep in mind each person has a carrying limit also, and
  some loot (and tools!) can be 
 heavy. Once all has been
  configured, you start record your plan, where you plan the move
  of every guy, down to each individual step. Click on a spot to
  move there. Click on object and 
 you can inspect or use. Click on
  the bag to get a tool, then click on object to use tool on
  object. The clock will run until 
 the action (or movement) is
  completed but it can be interrupted. If you don't like the
  movement, hit "back" and record a different one. Switch among
  different accomplices as needed. 
 Avoid guard's "view cone", and
  don't make too much noise. When you have gotten enough loot to
  satisfy the minimum, get back 
 to your getaway vehicle.
  
  In the run mode, you pick one of the plans and "run" it. Now
  you'll see how well does your plan work. You have no control over
  the action during run mode, 
 but you can simply try again by
  editing an exiting plan if the current plan fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a really good game. I bought this a while back, and completed the first few levels 
 no sweat. But then, once you get to about level 10, it starts to get really hard, and the only 
 way i could complete the levels were to read walkthroughs. The way you play this game is to record 
 a plan by telling people where to go, and recording it. Then you play it back, and if you dont 
 get caught, you get all the 'bounty' that you collected on your way. There are some flaws though, 
 such as characters not doing that you asked them to do (like you ask them to go through a window, 
 but they just stand outside it walking in circles, even though it worked in the plan) , so some 
 levels are extremely irritating.
  
  Overall though, this game is good value for money, and it has a storyline which is quite good. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
