-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/simsonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 365 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Modern Online...
Date:     Dec 18, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For now, The Sims Online lacks many of the options that made the original game so intriguing, and 
 doesn't really replace them. 

 The Sims Online is the online version of the best-selling PC game in history, so you might expect 
 it to be a guaranteed success. And while it does take everyone's favorite little computer people 
 in an interesting new direction, at this point in time, there's much less for players to do in 
 the online game than in the original game. In the original game, you are the creator, designer, 
 and controller of an entire neighborhood of computerized people, or sims, and you're free to build 
 and tear down homes, and give various orders to your family of sims, as you see fit. In The Sims 
 Online, you play as only one character, with very few options and very limited control over your 
 environment, and since the game takes place in a persistent world, you can't simply tear everything 
 down and start over from scratch when you want a change of scenery. The Sims Online also currently 
 lacks several features -- such as a functional player-driven economy -- that probably should have been 
 implemented and tested before the game was released to retail. Then again, The Sims Online is enjoyable 
 enough for its various social interactions. If you're the sort of person who enjoys chatting with 
 other people online in chat rooms or message boards, you'll enjoy using The Sims Online's great 
 variety of expressive and humorous character animations to interact with other players.        
    Instead of creating a virtual house and household, in The Sims Online, you start with only one 
 sim.    

 Starting a new game in The Sims Online seems easy enough -- you create a male or female sim from a 
 series of different heads, bodies, and skin colors and then jump into one of the game's different 
 towns. Just as in the original game, your sims will be limited by their own needs, such as hunger, 
 bladder, and energy, so you'll need to periodically drop everything and eat, take a bathroom break, 
 or sleep. However, from there, things aren't quite as clear-cut. You might intuitively think that 
 the first thing you should do is buy your own lot to build your own house, but as things stand 
 right now, it's not a very useful option. All sims start with a bank balance of 10,000 simoleans 
 (The Sims' equivalent of dollars) , and building even a small house filled with standard amenities, 
 like restrooms, beds, and a simple refrigerator, will completely exhaust your starting balance. 
 It's currently a much better idea to visit a house that was built and furnished by other players 
 and then attempt to join up as a roommate, or just visit houses to improve your skills and make 
 money so you can save up for a place of your own.   

  Currently, the most efficient way to make money is to improve a certain money-making skill for 
 your sim (based on the original skills of charisma, body, logic, mechanical, creativity, or cooking 
 from the original game) and then repetitively use a "job object," such as a telemarketing phone 
 or a chemistry set. Unfortunately, improving your skills is a repetitive task in and of itself, 
 and you'll frequently walk into a richly furnished house and find that instead of throwing a lavish 
 party, all the players in the house are frantically playing chess to improve their logic skill. 
 Though in some cases, everyone else will be too absorbed building their skills to talk, you'll 
 still be able to use these meetings as an excuse to strike up a conversation with other players. 
 However, making money isn't much more interesting -- though a few of the game's job objects, such 
 as the pizza machine, require the cooperation of several players at once, they're about as repetitive 
 to use as skill objects are. Job objects and skill objects are much more effective when used in 
 groups. But that means that trying to improve your skills or make money at home by yourself is 
 so slow and so inefficient by comparison that it's essentially the "wrong" way to play -- for instance, 
 you can improve your skills 10 times faster in a group than you can alone.           If you try 
 to build a house alone, you'll barely be able to afford a tiny, poorly furnished home.    

 As such, much of The Sims Online's gameplay consists of going to different houses and using other 
 peoples' skill objects and job objects repeatedly in groups in the hope that you'll eventually 
 be able to save up enough money to build a similar house of your own. But the game's economy is 
 currently so underdeveloped that houses stocked with a number of the same objects are both the 
 only way to make any money and the only real thing you can spend money on. The game's development 
 team has stated that it has plans in the works to further develop and diversify the game's economy. 
 However, after spending hours with your sim's nose alternately in a book studying mechanical skill 
 and at the grindstone feverishly carving lawn gnomes for money, you'll probably agree that these 
 forthcoming additions should have been implemented and tested during the game's beta phase, before 
 the game was actually released.    

 It's difficult to avoid comparing The Sims Online with the original game, especially since the two 
 games look and sound virtually identical. Nearly all The Sims Online's characters, objects, music, 
 and sound samples have already appeared in The Sims and its various expansion packs. The game's 
 graphics are still colorful, and the animation of the blocky, polygonal 3D sims is just as clever 
 and funny as it's always been. Then again, if you've been playing The Sims for a while, you'll 
 probably have a hard time getting excited about looking at the same old graphics and listening 
 to the same old sound samples, many of which are extremely dated, since they've been around since 
 2000. And just like the original game, The Sims Online has a sluggish camera that scrolls extremely 
 slowly. The Sims Online seems to have slightly better pathfinding for its sims -- they're much better 
 about traveling from one place to another past obstacles and doors, though they'll still occasionally 
 get confused by a single chair blocking their way.           A common sight in The Sims Online. 
 Many players use skill objects at once to increase their skills.    

 Unfortunately, The Sims Online also has a number of issues that weren't a problem in the original 
 game. The Sims Online is currently plagued by brief but annoying periods of lag, even over a broadband 
 connection, though its performance has improved since release. Furthermore, The Sims Online itself 
 seems much more restrictive than the original game. For example, because the game's world is persistent, 
 you can't build or tear down houses and lots whenever you wish -- in fact, it'll take you quite a 
 while to save enough cash to even build a decent house. You can't build a sizeable house unless 
 you have some roommates, so you'll have to agree on a house layout, rather than just building what 
 you want. And just about every sim you'll meet in the game will be controlled by another human, 
 which opens up opportunities for socializing but removes the random, computer-controlled sim behavior 
 that helped make The Sims such an intriguing game in the first place.   

  Then again, for some players, the social interaction is more than enough reason enough to play. 
 If you've ever visited a chat room or an Internet message board and had fun adding jokes and smiley-face 
 emoticons to your messages, you may find The Sims Online to be your new chat room of choice. The 
 Sims Online's many humorous animations and sound samples take the emoticon to the next level. Instead 
 of replying to a funny message in an Internet forum by typing, "Ha ha, that was funny," you'll 
 actually be able to make your sim express your feelings by performing one of many different animations 
 that let you chat and role-play as a certain kind of character, and you can even unlock new social 
 animations if you improve your skills or make new friends online. That is, as long as your character 
 is reasonably polite to other players, doesn't violate the game's terms of service for player behavior, 
 and takes frequent breaks to eat, sleep, and go to the bathroom. Just like in the original game, 
 you can't create an "evil" sim by mistreating it, as a starving or exhausted sim will simply become 
 useless and refuse to follow orders. And if you attempt to play as a rude, offensive sim, you may 
 find that other players will get upset at you, rather than play along. Many house owners will often 
 throw parties in which your sim can use group objects to interact with other players, and these 
 serve as good opportunities to meet with other sims and even incorporate them into your friendship 
 web, an online network of friends that measures how popular your sim is in the game. However, the 
 friendship web, like the game's economy, doesn't seem developed enough to be worthwhile at this 
 point in time.           At least The Sims Online has amusing character animations to help you 
 chat with other players.    

 For players who aren't already fans of the series, The Sims Online probably won't offer enough to 
 persuade them to keep playing and paying the game's monthly fees. Even though it had tremendous 
 potential, The Sims Online currently isn't a complete game -- several of its features are incomplete, 
 and the game itself seems rather limited as a result, despite the fact that it affords you plenty 
 of opportunity to chat with other, like-minded players. Though the game's developer plans to make 
 many additions to the game, for now, The Sims Online lacks many of the options that made the original 
 game so intriguing, and it doesn't really replace them.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I don't play The Sims Online anymore and haven't for nearly three years. However I did 
 play TSO for about a year in beta and roughly five years after beta.
  Really, I'm surprised TSO is even still going. I can't imagine what's keeping it alive after all 
 this time. When I played, sure, TSO was fun. However there wasn't a lot to do. Once you got a bunch 
 of money, got a bunch of skills, maxed your lot size and decorated your house... there wasn't a 
 lot left. After that the game turned into a 3D chatroom and really I felt it hard to justify paying 
 for another chatroom.
  
  Of course, when this game was released, the graphics were pretty darn good. But now adays the graphics 
 don't have much to offer, and look down-right bad. But that aside...
  
  The TSO could be so much more but really, it doesn't have that much to offer. If you like The Sims 
 it's worth trying out, it really is, and it is a lot of fun. But don't expect to be able yo play 
 this for years on end; there's just not enough there to keep someone playing. The only reason I 
 played for so long was because I made some of the best friends I've had on that game, and I do 
 miss them.
  
  Like I said, if you like The Sims give this game a short, it is worth playing. Just don't expect 
 to play it for a long, long time. It doesn't have as much to offer as the offline version does, 
 that's for sure.
  
  And yet, I wish they'd make The Sims 2 Online ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Such a great concept but It just didn't live up to what I thought it would be. I left 
 after a couple of months of gameplay and went back to The SiMs and The SiMs 2. I would buy The 
 SiMs 3 online though. Like I said great potential but just fell short in the end. I might not be 
 a MMORPG player but I thought CoH and CoV was much better and more exciting.
  The Bad: It just got old, bland and boring after a few months. Read above for more thoughts.
 
  
  Gameplay:5.0
  Graphics:5.0
  Sound:5.0
  Value:5.0
  Tilt:5.0
  Singleplayer: N/A
  Multiplayer:5.0
  
  Conclusion: Not much more I can say, you will have to try it for yourself 
 but for me it just isn't worth a monthly fee to play. I wanted to love this game but it fell short 
 in so many ways for me. Disappointed : (
  
  My Score:5.0 Mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamburguler
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most happiest, addicting games ever made on the face of earth. While its 
 not as good as all of the original Sims, it's still one of the greatest freaking games out there. 
 I have made thousands of friends over this game, and its not about to stop. Though, many people 
 have stopped playing this game, still, its a great game and many still play it. There are still 
 large joints that people come to party at, and these places make the game a wonderful experience.
 
  
  Cheers, and see you on The Sims Online!
  
  Play or die.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clrblue
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the ONLY MMORPG I know of that you actually need something else to do (like read a book 
 or surf the Web or paint your house) while playing the game. If you don't, the boredom can overwhelm 
 you. While the idea was awesome, EA strayed way too far from the original game and TSO is not like 
 The Sims or The Sims 2 at all. Mostly people like to hook up and well, that's just sad. I had GREAT 
 expectations for this game and beta'ed it for like 3 or 4 months before it came out. And it just 
 never got any better. EA also has no intention of listening to their fan base about this game. 
 And I just think that's unfortunate. If you're going to play TSO, just remember to have another 
 game open so you can play it when your Sim is "skilling" for hours and hours. Then you should be 
 fine. Unless you think paying $10 a month to play something besides the game yo purchased annoys 
 you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uzi805
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 12, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I got excited when I found out that I could finally play the Sims online and talk to people. Then 
 I got kind of disappointed if you want to know why keep reading.
  
  Gameplay: Well there isnt much to do then watch your sim study all the time and talk to people. 
 And good luck trying to find a party because mostly everyone will be either 1) Studying or 2) Making 
 money. And all of the objects in the game are overpriced forcing you to study more and make more 
 money.
  
  Graphics: Well its look kind of like the original one with a few new animations. And the variety 
 of clothes and faces are amazing. But some of the graphics look kind of choppy and a bit weird.
 
  
  Sound: Well theres sevral music "Stations" to listen to like rock, rap, techno, beach, sci-fi, 
 country, country dance, horror and Latin. A very good collection of songs (Maybe 4 songs in each 
 station) but like they say "If you heard it once then you heard it all before" and thats the case 
 for the music because once you heard everyone at least once youll wish you can put your MP3's 
 in the game witch hopefully actually happens .The sound effects. Because sometimes sound effects 
 sound out of sync and many other problems
  
  Value: Well its average because to some its worth more than it is. But since I bought it for 10 
 bucks on eBay I think thats how much its really worth.
  
  Final Word: A very good game to buy if youre into doing the same routine almost everyday.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchtropico
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2005 3:09 am PT
Review:  The Sims Online is a good game!
  BUT if you didnt like the offline sims DONT play this.
  I loved the sims and the sims online was ok, But for the price its a little much.
  Its 9.99 us 
 a month and its jest the offline version of the sims with a built in chat room and some extra objects.
 
  Some one could make a patch that made the sims 1 online and save us all some money.
  
  I have to admit that when i first started playing i loved it but after a wile the fun war off.
 
  
  Ohhhh and some people simply STUFF up the game! If you play this game look out for spamers. I know, 
 I was spamed out of 10K game money and was not happy. So be carefull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 20, 2005 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Save your money! The only thing this game is good for is a frisbee for your dog. This is THE worst 
 game I have ever played. I have been a fan of the offline sims game and expansion packs but the 
 online version is a disaster. It's a glorified chat room where hardly anyone talks, and when they 
 do you might find 10 minutes of interesting conversation for every 10 hours of play. Meanwhile 
 you stare at the screen while your sims do all those boring things you can speed up on the offline 
 version you can't speed up here, like reading. The only way this game would be fun is having enough 
 money to build your own decent business, but it would takes months of boredom, tedium, and stress 
 to reach that point. First you spend 8 hours real time watching your sim study (no wonder hardly 
 anyone chats, they turn away from the computer and watch t. v.! Who can stand to watch someone read 
 for 8 hours?!) Then to make money you repeat the same tedious tasks over and over. You can make 
 money faster by being a roommate in a busy house, but then you're a slave to the game, because 
 you're obligated to the house owner to play all the time to help clean, keep the place open, etc. 
 No thanks, I already have a job and I don't need another boss... Don't expect this to be a simulation 
 either. There's nothing "realistic simulation" about a huge room full of wide open toilets. Also, 
 immature brats instant message you and harrass you for no reason, and you can't report it. Not 
 my idea of fun. If you're a gluton for punishment and enjoy torturing yourself buy this game. Otherwise 
 RUN AWAY from it! By the way, it's impossible to trade this game in anywhere after you've played 
 it and found out it sucks, no one will take it. I threw mine in the trash, where it belongs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenny_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2004 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Online is unlike any other MMORPG out there, it is a very unique game. Basically the game 
 is where you play the sims, chat with friends, and have loads of fun! You build your skills and 
 make money and you make houses. With the new updates virtually every month the game is always changing.
 
  
  I am a sim named Matt Williams in Dan's Grove, this is the first city i have ever lived in the 
 game. I met friends from the very first house i walked into and they are still true and loyal friends 
 to me today. Also with the new city being opened about a month ago, a lot of new gamers have come. 
 The new city is more challenging then the rest and it is really tough. The objects cost more, when 
 you move from house to house your sim gets tired and so on... it is also a lot harder to make money, 
 unlike other cities. 
  
  I love this game, it is probably becuase i am a huge fan of The Sims and all of it's expansions 
 and the new sequal. I advise you to not overlook this game. And take my advice and at least give 
 it a shot. For only 9.99 U. S funds a month, where could you go wrong, as most MMORPG's now are 
 costing 14.95 U. S funds. But please give it a shot, i garuntee you will not be turned away from 
 the thousands of players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatty1692
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2003 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game getting greater, ive been playing for almost a year now and i am still playing! 
 try saying that about the original sims, try saying that you have played every almost every day 
 (even if for a minute) . It is about to go through a big change, it is about to get jobs, these 
 jobs are just like the original sims except you actually go to your work and get money with other 
 people! i cant wait. This game has come a long way and many people that play it now dont hate it 
 since they have added SO much and much more coming in october. I cant believe some people reveiwed 
 an unfinished game, most of these reveiws were from back in January when there was nuthing much 
 for some people to do. Its a good game, i swear.
  
  see you online!
  come visit me :)
  
  Beatty 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
