-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Bon Voyage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/thesims2bonvoyage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Both vacation resorts and tourism areas have plenty of amenities.
 Far less emphasis on fulfilling your sims' needs.
 More items to collect for completists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minor camera issues from Sims 2 still remain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 726 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Sep 4, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bon Voyage is a worthwhile expansion that makes plenty of neat little additions to The Sims 2.

  The Sims series' unique formula of simulating the lives of little computer people as they live, 
 love, and go to the bathroom has been successful more or less from the start. Both the original 
 game and the solid sequel, The Sims 2, have consistently stayed interesting, thanks to a never-ending 
 stream of expansion packs. And Bon Voyage, the latest expansion for The Sims 2, adds a good amount 
 of variety and some handy new options that make managing your computerized families' lives even 
 easier.  

           Bon Voyage offers three different vacation venues with plenty of amenities.      

 
  The focus of this expansion is vacations -- specifically, moving your family of "sims" out of the 
 house and checking them into a fabulous resort hotel, then hitting one of three different vacation 
 spots: sunny beaches, tea gardens, or ancient ruins. At these vacation spots, your sims try out 
 leisure activities, collect souvenirs, and interact with the locals, who may teach your sims new 
 "social" gestures specific to the area.  

  Even though three vacation venues may not sound like much, each setting offers multiple hotels 
 with different price ranges, but all of them have enough in the way of basic services to help your 
 sims survive their off-time. The better resort hotels have swimming pools, hot tubs, and other 
 relaxing activities, but they all have handy, round-the-clock room service to feed your hungry 
 sims; beds, showers, and TV sets to take care of their fatigue, hygiene, and entertainment needs; 
 as well as plenty of other guests to socialize with. Since going on vacation suspends the regular 
 flow of time from their home and professional lives (so they don't have to worry about missing 
 a day of work) , staying in a hotel makes life much easier for your in-game family.  

  Once you're settled in a hotel, you can take a cab (or hoof it) to a nearby tourist lot. There's 
 a decent variety of tourist areas for each venue, including shopping and recreation areas where 
 your characters can collect many different items, such as fresh fruit from the local market, or 
 hidden treasure from rummaging through the cabin of an abandoned pirate ship. There are plenty 
 of new social interactions and new activities to try at these venues as well, such as building 
 sand castles or swimming in the oceans, which make excellent group activities. This helps shift 
 the game's focus away from always worrying about your sims' needs (making sure they aren't hungry, 
 tired, or bored) and makes it easier to focus on getting your virtual family into a fun-filled 
 group activity quicker. And the ample population of other sims at both resorts and tourist areas 
 provide plenty of opportunities for characters to network, make new friends, and learn new social 
 gestures (such as bowing, which the kimono-wearing locals at the tea garden can teach you) .  

 
  When your vacation is over, your sims check out of the hotel and can return home with plenty of 
 mementos. Aside from purchased or scrounged souvenirs, which may appeal to pack rat players who 
 simply must collect everything, your sims may have photos taken with the game's new photo camera, 
 which lets you snap family photos (or ask a kind passerby to get a group shot for you) . In addition, 
 if your sims had a great time on their vacation, they'll be able to choose useful bonuses to their 
 abilities on returning home, such as increased productivity at work, faster skill learning, and, 
 perhaps most useful, an additional slot for their immediate "wants" -- the short-term personal goals 
 each sim carries around that, when fulfilled, can lead them to true happiness.  

            Having a great vacation can let you unlock additional bonuses for your sims.      

 
  The expansion looks and sounds about as good as you might expect from the consistently high-quality 
 expansion packs we've seen for The Sims 2. The tourism lots and the resorts are all very colorful 
 and look very different from the standard neighborhood lot, though some of the higher-end, amenity-packed 
 resorts and some of the tourist areas, like the winding, mazelike temple ruins, are sometimes a 
 bit too crowded with objects and people, so sometimes you'll have to play with the camera a bit 
 more to keep tabs on your family. Since the game still lacks much in the way of further optimization, 
 the sometimes-sluggish Sims 2 camera still has a tendency to slow down when there are lots of objects 
 onscreen, especially at crowded locations. Fortunately, you can edit any of these vacation lots 
 to your liking if you care to. The expansion's music is as upbeat as ever, and some festive holiday 
 tunes have been added that fit seamlessly into the game, along with the new nonsensical "simlish" 
 voice samples your characters will make as they try out new activities like playing pirate or meditating. 

  Most of Bon Voyage's additional content comes in the form of lighthearted and handy extras that 
 don't seem to fundamentally change the way The Sims 2 is played. Still, the expansion adds enough 
 variety and ease of use to be worth playing. Obsessive Sims 2 fans will probably want the expansion 
 for the collection-based gameplay and the prospect of bonus want slots; casual Sims 2 fans should 
 enjoy just getting out of the house and taking a holiday.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rahlink
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoy this expansion pack. Fortune Sims love owning vacation homes and a vacation 
 is a great way to raise the relationship scores of Sims who have left the family nest. Being able 
 to swim in the sea is an added plus, not to mention the sheer beauty of the beachfront property. 
 
  
  Many of the vacation items can be used in the regular community lots, which allows food kiosks 
 to now be available in the local mall and saunas at the local gym. The jewelry and souvenir displays 
 can also be used in the local stores.
  
  The tea ceremony set is also another item that can be used within the regular hood, not to mention 
 the rustic hot springs which reminds one of the hot tub but can also be used by children. 
  
  Being able to have beaches in the regular hood is an added plus. Sims love going to community 
 lots with beaches and they also love living on the beach. This expansion pack is a definite keeper. 
 The only downside is an Apartment building cannot be placed on a beach lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Leaving behind the struggle in business world of "Open for Business" or the concern about studying 
 in "University", "Bon Voyage" (BV) gives you a chance to enjoy the relaxed and pleasant feeling 
 of tourism. In this version there are three resorts: Three Lakes, Takemizu Village and Twikkii 
 Island. All these locations are designed in detail and each has its distinctive feature, so what's 
 your choice: a beautiful beach in sunshire, a Japaness garden or some ancient vestige? Anyway, 
 you will inevitably meet several special characters that only appear in BV including the Bigfoot, 
 Ninjas or even pirates. Besides, there are plenty of other tourists producing a boisterous atmosphere. 
 Although everything looks charming enough, there is one thing you can't forget whenever playing 
 The Sim: your Simolean. BV offers all classes of hotels so that your sim can find one suitable 
 to his/her budget. 5 or 4 star hotels look quite luxurious and equipped with every high quality 
 conveniences, but if you want to save your money, go on, at least don't let your sim sleep on the 
 streets!
  
  BV not only succeeds in creating a new environment, but also allows your character to participate 
 in many new activities. Besides strolling, shopping, taking photos... the most interesting in this 
 version is to take part in adventures through which your sim can gain some new skills. For example, 
 on the Island, s/he can learn the local dance and perform it at any time, even after returning 
 home. If choosing the beach, you will play an interesting game in which the interaction between 
 sims is required to build a complete sand castle. Each resort offers some secret puzzles. Solve 
 them and you can bring one of the special character into your family. If more lucky, the present 
 may be the bewitching dolls making others like you better.
  
  Generally, BV retains the traditional elements of the series while trying to add new details to 
 attract players. It's suitable for every fan of The Sim, and also for people who don't have a chance 
 to take a real summer tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Bon Voyage is yet another expansion pack of the Sims 2. This time it features the gameplay 
 of a well-deserved vacation. In this game, there are three new locations your Sims can discover: 
 The lush mountains, the sunny tropical beaches and the exotic Far East.
  
  To start a vacation, you have to book a vacation with a phone or a computer, set your depature 
 time, your length of stay and your travel buddies, and you are set to go. Once you arrive to the 
 vacation lot, you have to check in to a hotel to stay overnight, or you can choose to camp out 
 for free. If your Sims are rich enough, they can even buy a vacation home for themselves.
  
  Each vacation lot offers different and unique types of fun and culture to learn and some games 
 to play. From axe throwing to mahjong, hotsprings to soothing massages, fire dancing to tea sipping 
 you can certainly find something to enjoy for everyone in the family.
  
  The fun is not over once your Sim family returns to their mundane lives. If you have a great vacation, 
 your Sims will enjoy a certain amount of benefits that helps their career, skill building, relationships 
 and so on. Otherwise, your Sims will suffer some stress for not enjoying their vacation.
  
  Of course like the previous expansion packs, new objects, building tools and clothes are included 
 in the game. A player can even add some jewellery to doll up the Sims like bracelets, rings, earrings, 
 piercings (ouch!) and necklaces.
  
  The downside of the vacation is the cost. The hotel fees, travel costs, food and tours may burden 
 most Sim families, especially that they are just starting up.
  
  To conclude, this is definately a nice expansion recommended for everyone who thinks their Sims 
 are all work and no play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The focus of this expansion is vacations -- specifically, moving your family of "sims" out of the 
 house and checking them into a fabulous resort hotel, then hitting one of three different vacation 
 spots: sunny beaches, tea gardens, or ancient ruins. At these vacation spots, your sims try out 
 leisure activities, collect souvenirs, and interact with the locals, who may teach your sims new 
 "social" gestures specific to the area. 
  
  Even though three vacation venues may not sound like much, each setting offers multiple hotels 
 with different price ranges, but all of them have enough in the way of basic services to help your 
 sims survive their off-time. The better resort hotels have swimming pools, hot tubs, and other 
 relaxing activities, but they all have handy, round-the-clock room service to feed your hungry 
 sims; beds, showers, and TV sets to take care of their fatigue, hygiene, and entertainment needs; 
 as well as plenty of other guests to socialize with. Since going on vacation suspends the regular 
 flow of time from their home and professional lives (so they don't have to worry about missing 
 a day of work) , staying in a hotel makes life much easier for your in-game family. 
  
  Once you're settled in a hotel, you can take a cab (or hoof it) to a nearby tourist lot. There's 
 a decent variety of tourist areas for each venue, including shopping and recreation areas where 
 your characters can collect many different items, such as fresh fruit from the local market, or 
 hidden treasure from rummaging through the cabin of an abandoned pirate ship. There are plenty 
 of new social interactions and new activities to try at these venues as well, such as building 
 sand castles or swimming in the oceans, which make excellent group activities. This helps shift 
 the game's focus away from always worrying about your sims' needs (making sure they aren't hungry, 
 tired, or bored) and makes it easier to focus on getting your virtual family into a fun-filled 
 group activity quicker. And the ample population of other sims at both resorts and tourist areas 
 provide plenty of opportunities for characters to network, make new friends, and learn new social 
 gestures (such as bowing, which the kimono-wearing locals at the tea garden can teach you) . 
  
  When your vacation is over, your sims check out of the hotel and can return home with plenty 
 of mementos. Aside from purchased or scrounged souvenirs, which may appeal to pack rat players 
 who simply must collect everything, your sims may have photos taken with the game's new photo camera, 
 which lets you snap family photos (or ask a kind passerby to get a group shot for you) . In addition, 
 if your sims had a great time on their vacation, they'll be able to choose useful bonuses to their 
 abilities on returning home, such as increased productivity at work, faster skill learning, and, 
 perhaps most useful, an additional slot for their immediate "wants" -- the short-term personal goals 
 each sim carries around that, when fulfilled, can lead them to true happiness
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Ovarall I do like this game however, the Vacation spots are limited. I really were hoping for a 
 few more then what we have. As always the greatest thing about this game is your ability to create 
 the perfect hotel for you vacationers and additional shopping or lounge lots. Another great feature 
 is unlocking all of the momentos. You get to invite people on vacation and go on tours and have 
 great room service. I also like the special abilities the sims get when they return from vacation. 
 This makes it easier for then with thier relationships and with their Jobs. There is still many 
 more cool things like Booking a Vacation or Honeymoon in Advance and learning new customes of greetings 
 when you get to your vacatioon spot. Still you can buy soveiners and eat special foods and purchase 
 a Vacation home which saves you money on a hotel faires. And that's about it for this game. Could 
 be better but good enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: only-in-dreams
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  With this expansion you can send your Sims on vacation, one of three vacation areas. While there 
 they can learn local the local ways, by mastering gestures or learning a new massage technique. 
 As well as this they can explore hidden locations and purchase thoughtful souvenirs, and buy jewellery 
 from earrings to watches to accessorise any outfit. There are new outfits on sale in the stores 
 that help you to blend in with the locals that you can buy for your Sims, such as grass skirts 
 and kimonos. Game play is made more interesting with this expansion because there are set goals 
 that can be achieved by your Sims while on holiday, these range from trying the local food to taking 
 part in local activities. While your Sims are away they can take photos of those special moments 
 and create an album to shear with family and friends back home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The Sims are on vacation! It's about time we can go out of the neighbourhood and head off to the 
 island or head up to the mountaintops, but still, I prefer to not have a timeline when at my vacation 
 home!
  
  Graphics ~ (8/10) ~ Nothing special. The same as all of the other Sims 2 games.
  
  Audio ~ (9/10) ~ I have to say, when new games are released, I really like to listen to the 
 new music they release. It is a welcome change from listening to the same old music over and over 
 again. Though the music got very irritating easily, I love change!
  
  Gameplay ~ (9/10) ~ I absolutely love the new feature of vacationing. I also love the idea of having 
 a vacation home, much better then just living at home!
  
  Very good add-on. If you want to get some add-ons, you want this one, and Nightlife, those are 
 the absolute best of the two! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_rune1984
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Like I said it's fun except it included SecuROM without my knowledge nor consent. And yes they 
 have a right to protect their product but they don't have the right to ruin other peoples computers. 
 If you go to TheSims2. com and read the BBS there you will be bombarded by posts about the damage 
 done to CD and DVD drivers, system crashes ect. I personally don't burn Cd's or DVD's so I do not 
 know if SecuROM has effected my computer or not (frankly I'm afraid to find out) . But that aside 
 you do get a lot of new items activities and social interactions. You can even get Big Foot as 
 a room-mate. Once the patch is out it will be worth getting as long as you are aware of the SecuROM 
 and are ok with it being included. I'm fine with it, the only problems I had with this SecuROM 
 thing is that I was unaware of it's installation and, the only way I ever found out about the program 
 was from the BBS and the panicked posts made by countless people who now have computers that are 
 basically been fried and rendered useless by it. Another thing that bugs me is that the anti-piracy 
 program can not be un-installed or removed without reformatting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  OK I've been playing The Sims 2 since it came out and I have to agree with Gamespot's score of 
 8.9 for the original game but here is the catch... with Bon Voyage I would have to give the original 
 The Sims 2 the score of 9.5 since that with this expansion the game is so near perfection, it's 
 amazing!
  I mean I knew this add-on would offer hotel vacations and all but to my big surprise you can do 
 one of my favorite things also: go outdoor camping!!!
  Now I'm gonna go buy Nightlife since I'm totally hooked on that game... I even grew bored of playing 
 WoW since the beginning but with The Sims 2, I don't know why but I can't stop playing that game, 
 maybe its because of the AI or the awesome gameplay but Maxis really redefined the world of video 
 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Ive had mixed feelings about Sims 2: Bon Voyage ever since I heard about its existence. While 
 I was thrilled to hear that vacations would make its way back into the game I was also disappointed 
 to hear that vacations would make its way back into the game. A confusing notion you may ask? I 
 say this since based upon Sims: Vacation game-play I was expecting another similar expansion that 
 adds a lot of cool stuff to do for about the first week or two and then sits idly in the game with 
 only rare use once the novelty of taking a vacation wears off. I will admit that just from the 
 first few days of play Bon Voyage it far exceeds Vacation in many ways. But this is to be expected 
 just from how Sims 2 has surpassed Sims in many ways. After a few weeks of game-play here is what 
 I decided on for ratings.
  Gameplay: 8
  EA did a great job of reinventing the vacation idea in this expansion. There is wide customization 
 on how long the vacation can be, when to go, where to go and what you can do once you are there. 
 Just dont forget to take your towel! For non-Hitchhikers Guide fans please ignore the last comment 
 as it has soared right over your heads like a depressed android on cocaine. There are numerous 
 hidden actions to be found and while some are corny they do at least give a distinct feel to each 
 vacation area. Secrets also abound in each area and it provides gamers with a fresh bit of exploring 
 to unlock them all. When its all over though, I fear the novelty will wear off for many fans, 
 even for the most hardcore Sims fans. Once every area has been visited, every action gained and 
 every secret is unlocked there really isnt much to do while on vacation but to redo everything 
 you have already done. While being able to use your new found actions back at home and even buy 
 many of the nice items found on vacation lots, theres just nothing else to do with a vacation 
 once its all been done. I compare the vacation lots to the downtown lots in that once youve had 
 your fill of them you will likely not use them again just to avoid all the long load times just 
 to access them. If your load times are not so long, or have found enjoyable activities to do during 
 such load times, maybe this wont effect you and the novelty of vacationing will stay strong for 
 months. Just keep in mind that there are a finite number of things to do in this expansion and 
 many of them are only available in certain vacation lots.
  Graphics: 9
  While you see the standard Sims 2 fare of graphics weve come to love, this expansion does go one 
 step further in the layout of the lots. Many lots were constructed in a way that really took advantage 
 of the beautiful graphics Sims 2 can offer. If youre fortunate to have Sims 2: Seasons installed 
 the lots get even better as each season contributes its own signature color changes enhancing the 
 beauty even further.
  Sound: 10
  Again you will find the same standard in sounds as we have come to expect: good music remastered 
 in simlish. One notable stand out this time around is the Surf music. This genre just fits so well 
 with the Tiki Island beach lots and I never get tired of listening to these songs. Great job on 
 this one EA!
  Value: 6
  I hate rating a Sims game so low in value, especially one that I plan to use for several movies 
 later on. But viewing the expansion in the angle of just strict as designed game-play I just dont 
 see the lasting power. Yes it is great going on vacations and there are some fun activities to 
 play with and discover. But once youre done with it and you can only go back and do it again with 
 so many families for so long before you get tired of it. The objects added are fun and interesting 
 but honestly theres not much in it that I found the game couldnt stand without. Being able to 
 swim in the ocean and build seaside lots might be the most profound change I did notice but again 
 its not something that changed the game so profoundly that it just couldnt be played if I didnt 
 have it right away. When it comes right down to it, if youre into vacations and just have to have 
 every expansion then the value is there. If you find your game just fine the way it is now the 
 value will be much lower and you can probably get by without it until prices come down or even 
 not get it at all.
  Tilt: 8
  I put more into the tilt since there is where I see the game beyond what it was designed to do 
 in the first place. The actions that are added provide a great asset to movie makers and I highly 
 recommend that anyone who does shoot movies to get this just to have access to the new items and 
 actions. The seaside lots are great for adding a difference to the boring old land locked lots 
 but you need to watch the price on them as just the base land value is pretty steep. Going on a 
 vacation is a great break from the monotony of every day Sim life and until you do get bored with 
 it they do provide a good deal of fun. The bonuses you pick up from a good vacation are a nice 
 addition too and can help push a family along in their goals when that little push is needed. Bigfoot 
 was another great addition on the creature sim front and will make a good addition to any family 
 who is looking for a hulking beast to lumber around with. I havent found much use for the jewelry 
 option yet, but its another nice option to have access to. There is a decent amount of interesting 
 stuff to play with in this expansion but it all boils down to just how long it will hold your attention.
 
  Overall: 8.2
  Buying this game revolves primarily around just how badly do you want to have vacation options 
 for your sims. There are plenty of good actions, items and new additions to waste time with but 
 eventually the novelty will wear off and the vacation lots will be rarely used. For avid Sims gamers 
 it will likely take longer for this novelty to wear off and I highly suggest to such fans that 
 they pick this expansion up without haste. For those who love their game (or despise their game) 
 as is you really need to take a long hard look at what you will be getting here. If past expansions 
 wore off on you quickly, dont expect any change here because thats exactly what will happen. 
 When the prices fall and this expansion shows up in the bargain bins that may be your time to pick 
 it up as you will find the additions are nice to have at the very least. I for one have enjoyed 
 playing the expansion so far, but I can honestly say that in a few months I will likely only visit 
 a vacation lot when a family is just so darn boring that only a trip to do the same vacation themed 
 actions again will cure it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoylentGreen183
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  The concept for this expansion pack interesting, and something I believe I would enjoy if it were 
 not for the obvious bugs that should have been caught and fixed prior to release.
  
  1) It is not possible to initiate any dining actions like flirt steal a bit while eating at one 
 of the food stands. If you attempt to the sims will jump out of their seats, fall to perform the 
 action, and be unable to resume eating their meals.
  
  2) During eating at a restaurant, random people will attempt to steal your food making it near 
 impossible to feed your sims.
  
  3) The ninja will often teleport himself into locations where he cannot be reached, or move. Instead, 
 he will stand there and complain that he is stuck.
  
  There are numerous other bugs, but those are the ones that irritate me the most and seem so obvious 
 that I do not understand how they could have slipped past the testers.
  
  My 2 cents, what 6 months for a patch before installing this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landsmarshall
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This expansion, for those of us who could happily spend our lives traveling, is more fun than most 
 of the others. But it is more than a bit buggy, and until you've checked out some of the online 
 forums and chats you will have trouble creating your own getaway paradise. Which you will want 
 to do.
  
  It also slows the game down a good bit (perhaps have all the other expansions as well is contributing 
 to the overload) . In a large hotel, when all the rooms are full, even at slow speed it goes in 
 fits and starts. I m playing on an Alienware with a pretty sizable setup, though it's a year and 
 a half old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterskywalker
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 keeps on throwing out expansion packs and although they are not always fantastic they 
 do add some interest to the game. Bon voyage is fairly interesting and although it is basically 
 different lots (vacation places) it does at some meat to them. If you get Bon Voyage i highly highly 
 highly recommend getting seasons as well because it adds life to your vacation. (If I were only 
 allowed to get one though I would get seasons) . Anyway there is 3 vacation lots. Beach, forest/camping 
 and middle east. They all look unique, unique features, and all have something you can bring home 
 with you. For example you can sunbath and swim in the ocean in the beach area, you can camp in 
 the forest area, and you can play a game and make a wish at the middle east area. There is also 
 3 secret lots which you can go to after finding a map and things you can learn. You can learn local 
 greetings, (Hang lose, chest pound, bow) . You can also learn a massage form each area which you 
 can use on the massage table (you can buy one) . You can learn 2 dances and one exercise thing. 
 And finally you can learn harder more interesting things such as teleportation and firedance (dancing 
 with fire sticks) . All the dances and gestures you can teach to others, but the firedancing and 
 teleportation must be learned at the vacation lot. 
  For people who like bages they add a badge system of badges you can unlock by doing certain things 
 on vacation.
  
  Finally if you have a good vacation you can gain a temporary bonus when you return home. 
  
 
  The game overall is pretty satisfying if you want your sims to go out and have a break from home. 
 It may not be the most interesting, but vacations can be fun and a good distraction. 
  
  This game is no seasons or nightlife, but it is fun while it lasts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiImKrystal
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I love Bon Voyage its so exciting when your away from the house or downtown!! I love the fact that 
 you can actually go into the ocean. Learing all the stuff from the locals is really fun to and 
 i love that you can teach that stuff to your kids too!! The only thing i get mad about is the fact 
 that its kinda hard well it is hard to find the secret lots but wateva!! The Beach vacation is 
 my favorite though. I love that you can get tan, build sandcastles, and find all kinds of stuff 
 when your digging in the sand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Just Great. This time around the game adds: Bigfoot, Vacation, Oceans, Ninjas, tons of thousands 
 of new items, new memories, new turn ons turn offs, jewerly, Japanese themes, new talent badges, 
 ways to get married, hotels (even though you cant own them if you have open for business which 
 sorta stinks) , and tons more of stuff. This expansion is the greatest and is even better than Seasons. 
 The only thing bad about the exp is that it is the biggest file of an expansion so it can make 
 the game relativly sluggish sometimes. But it i still very, very, very, very, very, very, very 
 fun and addicting. A must buy for pretty much everyone! Bigfoot rules!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman13579
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 Bon Voyage is really a fun one. It adds more than pets and mabye a bit more seasons. Bassically 
 you can send your sims on a big vacation to 3 places and can create your own. You can spend your 
 time in a hotel or in a vacation home. Money ofcourse can be very pricey and you must make a wise 
 choice. My first holiday was to Twiiki Island and it was a blast! You can go on tours, go in saunas 
 and loads more like to the beach and explore the pirate ship and buy things to remember your holiday.
 
  This in my opinion could be one of the best expansion pack in the sims 2 history and this game 
 is all about having fun!
  This is a great game for any Sims fans to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  For the fans of this game , the sims bon voyage is going to be interesting adventure , but to me 
 it didn't have much difference to the previous packs . the graphics are the same as ever - not 
 very good ( like the previous games ) . This game is really waist of time . According to me it 
 is pretty boring game , but this pack enchants a little this game an it maybe has become a little 
 playable . In my opinion it is playable game but if you have enough free time . I won't recommend 
 this game to anyone . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  It appeared in previews and alike that lots of features had been removed from the orignial Vaction/On 
 Holiday expansion pack. But actually some cool features have been inserted. Building Sandcastle, 
 three amazing islands to explore, secret maps, the package. Actually this could be the game which 
 i am going to give a high review for, for a non-maxis made game. Because both Pets and Seasons 
 were by EA i would have been disappointed, but actually Maxis got a little bit in the making, and 
 EA made Castaway. This is actually good because the differences show. Theres lots of new items, 
 NPCs, neighbourhood, hotels, tents, etc. They really have thought about this game over time, and 
 im happy with it. You should buy it. It does have a long load time to begin with, but thats because 
 its a big game. It will eventually speed up, to a roughly average sims loading time. It has a launcher 
 which is handy but only really for people who just either want to play the game or not, not reading 
 the latest news. But still get it, you won't get many problems (you can make hotels and own them, 
 oddly enough, and toddlers and pets can't come, but thats alright, what would they do anyway but 
 complain about getting down the stairs!) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
