-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2 Seasons
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/thesims2inseason/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New seasons add useful group activities.
 Fishing and farming offer a relaxing change of pace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weather effects add welcome cosmetic changes, but don't fundamentally change gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Feb 27, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Seasons doesn't add a lot of groundbreaking stuff to The Sims 2. And you know what? That's actually 
 OK. 

  By now, you've probably heard about The Sims. It all started with a little idea of controlling 
 the lives of autonomous characters called "sims," and it took off in a big way to become a best-selling 
 game series on multiple platforms -- and on the PC, the series became infamous for its many expansion 
 packs. The Sims 2 Seasons is the latest one, and unlike the last few expansions, this one doesn't 
 add a zillion ambitious new features that make the game more complicated. Instead, it adds seasonal 
 weather, crop farming, and some new group activities that can actually make the challenging gameplay 
 of Sims 2 a more relaxed pastime. For players looking for a slower-paced experience that doesn't 
 require you to keep track of the ins and outs of an in-game business -- or constantly watch a hyperactive 
 pet -- this is a good thing.  

          Yes, with The Sims 2 Seasons, your little computer people can finally make snowmen.    

  Like the name of the expansion suggests, the primary addition that Seasons brings is... seasons. 
 Specifically, weather and in-game events that correspond to different yearly seasons; in winter, 
 for instance, snow falls, water freezes, and your sims can make snowmen. Certain seasons are more 
 conducive to certain types of behavior than others; for instance, sims tend to be more amorous 
 in summer.  

  You can manually change the current season in your neighborhood whenever you like. The season changes 
 are heralded by new graphical weather effects, such as stormy weather and falling snow, that look 
 quite good and change the look of your sims' neighborhood all year round. Many of the new seasonal 
 activities are actually very useful, since they can fulfill your sims' personal needs (or "motives") 
 for both social interaction and fun, and a good snowball fight also helps them build relationships 
 with one another. Since much of The Sims 2's gameplay revolves around taking care of your little 
 computer people's various motives of eating, sleeping, and going to the potty, these new features 
 should be appealing to anyone who has found the series' micromanagement aspect a bit frustrating. 

  The same can be said of Seasons' new group items and its new agrarian gameplay. Seasons lets your 
 sims become farmers and plant crops in the field; well-tended and watered plants eventually bear 
 fruit (or vegetables) that can be sold at market or converted into a variety of juice drinks that 
 can supercharge your sims, fulfilling their hunger and energy needs as well as letting them create 
 goofier formulas like love potions. The expansion also lets you turn any nearby bodies of water 
 into fishing holes, and it has a variety of fish and bait that your sims can use -- again, while 
 standing around with other sims, chatting away and building relationships while they wait for a 
 fish to bite. Once caught, fish can either be mounted on a wall as a decoration or cooked up to 
 provide powerful hunger bonuses.  

          See? Bass! Seasons lets your sims try their hand at fishing and farming the land.     

 
  Like the seasonal activities, these additions help streamline the need-based gameplay of The Sims 
 2. While the fishing and farming aren't incredibly deep, they do add the kind of simple, relaxing 
 busywork you might have seen in such console games as Animal Crossing and Harvest Moon (as well 
 as in the Vacation and Makin' Magic expansion packs for the original Sims game) . Compared to the 
 frantic pace of The Sims 2's usual gameplay of juggling relationships, motives, pets, careers, 
 and finances, they're a welcome addition. The expansion also adds several pricey new social objects 
 you can purchase for your sims' home, such as an in-house bowling alley or roller skating and ice 
 skating rinks, which cost a fortune in the game's imaginary "simoleons" currency, but help your 
 sims improve their "body" skill (which aids them in certain career paths) while having fun and 
 socializing with other sims who join in.  

  Seasons also makes various other minor additions, such as new career paths to follow and new wardrobe 
 choices to reflect the different seasons (such as snug winter outerwear) , and these are all presented 
 in the exact same distinctive style that you've come to expect from the Sims 2, with its colorful 
 graphics, expressively animated characters, upbeat music, and the enthusiastic "simlish" gibberish 
 language that all characters speak. But the main attractions are the seasonal gameplay and the 
 new farming and fishing gameplay. They may not seem like earthshaking changes to anyone who isn't 
 already a Sims fanatic, but they're certainly a welcome addition.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: narutorulz111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 seasons is a great add-on. You may think, "How is it sooooo great?" They have new items 
 and you can make snowman and catch butterflies in the spring! You can even make snow angels. One 
 thing is though you do not want to stay out in the snow for serveal hours, or your sim will freeze 
 up and stay like that for a few hours! In the spring you can catch butterflies and put them in 
 a jar to give to a friend or put it in your house! This game is really good and is a great game 
 to buy. I highly recommenced it. It's really fun, watching your sims grow throughout the seasons 
 and play all the new games and interactions. This was my first add-on to the Sims and I have to 
 say it kept me playing for a long time! There is even plant people! (Though I'm not sure how they 
 become plant people, I beavlive you have to use a certain type of soil a lot or just be garden-crazy!) 
 I highly suggest you buy this game... and of your not sure, you can always rent it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  There is now weather in the Sims! First off, you can choose the weather patterns for each of your 
 neighbourhoods. For example, it can be summer all year round for your desert neighbourhood. Or, 
 if it's winter, it can be snowing down on your sims forcing them to wear a big jacket or gloves. 
 You can get the flu, or even sunburn so you need to stay indoors quite a bit.
  
  Now that all sounds and looks good, but the only 2 gameplay improvements is really the gardening 
 and fishing aspects, which is quite big difference to be honest. I love hw if your family runs 
 low on money they can simply go fishing and sell the fish or to go gardening and (after a long 
 process of taking alot of care of the plants) selling them off.
  
  Another addition is the garden club, which you can call in the "Services" section of your phone 
 and they will send a representative around. When they come around, you can talk to them like any 
 other sim, buy a potion which cures you being a PlantSim (Common side effect from excess gardening. 
 It switches your moods to Love, Light and Water. They are all pretty self-explanatory. Love is 
 to talk to people, Light is sunlight and Water is showers etc. Their skin turns green and they 
 get root-like hair, wearing just these green robes. To turn to a PlantSim is really quite humorous) 
 or you can request garden club membership.
  
  When you request membership, the representatives will start inspecting your garden, rating it and 
 dropping in in your chat box to drop little comments as to where you can improve or where you excel. 
 They can take into account how sparse your garden is, the quality of your plants or trees, and 
 whether they're bug-free or not.
  
  When it boils down to it, Sims 2 Seasons is a pretty good expansion pack that i'd recommend to 
 anyone that thinks the aforementioned gardening and gardening club sounds cool, or if you're just 
 a huge fan of the sims and want all the decent and beyond expansions, and though it adds very little, 
 what it does add makes up for that. I give the Sims 2 Seasons a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMelissaxpopx
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Spring, Summer, Fall and Winter; we all have a favourite season, and now so can your sims! This 
 expansion pack portrays many different charactaristics with each changing season, including skill 
 building increase in fall and relationship increase in spring.
  
  Also now your sims have temperatures which improves how realistic the game is but can, at times, 
 get annoying. For example your sims can overheat after exercise and set on fire, or after being 
 outside in snow even for a short time in winter clothes, your sims can freeze.
  
  There are also new activities for your sims like ice skating, fishing and bug catching, which definately 
 give your sims more to do.
  
  I personaly love the new furniture and other decorations, it all has a very country look. There 
 are also new rewards for your sims to explore, and the garden club with even more rewards.
  
  On the whole, this game is definately a great addition to the Sims 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlondeSakura
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Though it started out with a few bugs, it makes up for it in what the pack contains. Tons of new 
 items, plus the weather addition makes the game a lot more interesting.
  
  The items in the pack adds a whole lot more to do for your sims and more designs. The new careers 
 are also interesting, as is the damages the weather can cause to your sims (from sunburn to electrocution 
 to being frozen to death) . The new garden feature adds one more thing for your sims to do, as does 
 the new fishing aspect. The new outerwear clothes also make your sims more unique. The new features 
 such as ice skating, playing catch, building snowmen and splashing around in the pool gives you 
 even more activities for your sims to enjoy together. 
  
  Overall, the expansion pack adds a whole new dimension to your sims game and will make you enjoy 
 it even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Even though I purchased all the other Sims 2 expansions, none of them ever seemed worth writing 
 a review about. They all were pretty well self explanatory and just from looking at the title I 
 figured most players could immediately decide if it was really worth the money and time. Sims 2: 
 Seasons breaks the monotany of what the past few expansions have done: add one major changing aspect 
 and then put lot's of stuff in as filler. The addition of seasons, and their associated weather 
 patterns, are the main change of course. But what is not usually mentioned is the numerous new 
 social interactions, skill boosts, relationship boosts, and job boosts that come from the seasons. 
 Visually you will see all the expected color changes from a change season. You see this change 
 not only on the lots you play but also in the neighborhood screen too. Also included are a few 
 new objects, outfits (most notably the outerwear used in fall and winter) , the fishing talent, 
 the farming talent, and of course a new "freak" sim in the form of Plant people. The best part 
 of this expansion, however, comes from just how well it blends in with the other expansions. From 
 University to Pets, every part that was added before is changed with the various seasons that you 
 move through. On the downside, expect a few bugs particularly when you first start playing the 
 game with a family used in a previous expansion. The weather effects didn't seem to slow down game 
 play at all, but on a system below or right at minimum specs it might happen. Expect to do more 
 yardwork around your lot too, especially if you plan to try out the gardening portion. Overall, 
 like any expansion it's up to the player to decide if the new gameplay aspects are worth the hassel 
 or not. From what I've seen, the gameplay does change quite drastically but on the whole it's for 
 the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  The Sims games have always been addicting, plain and simple. Even without the numerous expansions, 
 they would still be great games. This Sims 2 Seasons is the latest (I think) Expansion pack for 
 The SIms 2. The game's graphics are O. K. on the default settings, but once you turn it all up on 
 high, it looks great. The gameplay is realativly the same, but with a few subtle changes. There 
 is finally weather, which should have been in it in the first place, and there are seasons, hence 
 the name The Sims 2 Seasons. They also added the ability to grow crops, just like in The Sims Makin' 
 Magic. Finally, they added some new clothing to the mix. Overall, I'd consider this one of those 
 $10 "Booster Packs" EA so fondly makes for BF Games, but it is worth the $30, but not the "Expansion 
 Pack" title. Overall, it gets a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Best EP for Sims 2. I thought it would be boring and just cool to look at but what each season 
 adds to the game play makes the Sims even better than they once were. Not only are the graphics 
 great but the new stuff is fun and the interactions are better than ever! Now there are more group 
 activities. There is a completely new neighborhood; so, if your bored with the old ones there are 
 new people and homes to play with. The neighborhood even includes the plant sim (so you don't have 
 to keep trying to get the new type of sim) . Don't pass the opportunity to play; you'll become attached 
 once you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonGirl2008
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Seasons has a great add to the main Sims 2 features. It adds seasons and weather effects, 
 like snow, rain and hail. It also adds new Sims creatures, like Plantsims. When you get Sims 2 
 Seasons, you can plant your own greenhouse or farm. You can also put new decorations in your gardens, 
 in order to join the local Garden Club. The Sims 2 Seasons is the Expansion Pack that adds also 
 many new objects and actions. 
  In the new Sims 2 expansion pack, you can do activities in the country, like chase butterflies, 
 fish and others. All in all , The Sims 2 Seasons is a really great expansion pack and it's worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well Another anticipated Expansion Pack from the Sims 2 , Seasons. And I honestly feel they did 
 better there. My favorite part of this game is the realisim of the sound of thunder. When I first 
 head it, I thaught it was really thundering outside. Visual effects are also pretty good here too. 
 The Garden lover that I'm I enjoy all the different crops you can grow and the ability to fish. 
 Not to mentiion you can sell all these prducts as well and start some sort of garden business. 
 The Fishing in a pond is quite cool also. I especially like the fact that you can make it one season 
 all year round. This is paricularly cool for those of us who wish that the weather would always 
 be spring or fall. Another great quality about fishing is that when you cook salmon fish and catfish 
 they give you 100% Hunger satisfaction even if you ownly have a 2 or 3 cooking level!!! Other than 
 that the game is pretty cool. I'm certainly happy with it. And I hope other will be too!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Sims 2: Seasons allows players to guide their characters through life while watching their world 
 change around them. With such weather effects as snow, thunderstorms, and hailstorms, Sims can 
 sing in the rain or get struck by lightning. Each season comes with a variety of activities, skills, 
 and clothing to prepare each Sim for the elements outside their home. In the Spring, gamers may 
 begin planting their garden and then tend to it during the summer until Fall harvest.
  
  Sims can play in the leaves, chase fireflies, and have snowball fights. Sims are affected by the 
 changing of the seasons and can also experience frostbite, a sunburn, and allergies. To combat 
 these unsavory seasonal effects, players can adorn their avatars in earmuffs, gloves, sundresses, 
 winter coats, and raincoats. Sims 2: Seasons ships with six additional careers to follow including 
 journalism, gaming, adventures, law, education, and music. Reward items and skill building objects 
 are included to help Sims gain the necessary skills to advance in their chosen career.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11mwmarshall
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the sims for years and when sims 2 came out I had to get, so far I have all 
 the expansions packs and this game is addictive. I can sit there and play this game for hours and 
 never get board. This expansion pack is great because you can see the weather change, new items 
 and you can pretend you live on the islands or in canada with the weather. There are also downloads 
 for this game so you can customize the way your sims live to what you like and more. I would only 
 play the game with all the expansion packs like nightlife, university, open for business etc. I 
 will rate this game a 10/10 and everyone should go out and try the game and if you are a sims fan 
 buy this game now if you dont have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintha2002
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Sims 2 Seasons, I was not that excited. Weather and seasons were cool 
 prospects, but they were not that mindblowing. Sims 2 Seasons provides a lot of items, ranging 
 from a totally useless salt and pepper shaker to fruit trees that actually need to be tended to. 
 Also, Sims are also required to take care of their temperature, whether in summer or winter to 
 prevent heatstroke or frostbite. But what I was most annoyed at was that Sims always change their 
 clothes to Outerwear (raincoats and the like) whenever they leave their house. I would have liked 
 to see more substance in the game, perhaps a community lot (communal garden) where Sims gather 
 to socialize and grow plants, rather than cheap overlays on the original game to show that it's 
 raining or snowing.
  
  Architecturally, Sims 2 Seasons adds a new twist by allowing users to create greenhouses, or houses 
 with floorlength window panels. Also, a new creature is added, the PlantSim, who is an ordinary 
 Sim who just happened to use too much pesticide and comes like a plant, needing sunlight, water 
 and love. But aside from that, there's not much in-depth gameplay that comes with Sims 2 Seasons.
 
  
  Sims 2 Seasons is more geared toward the avid Sims 2 player, who wants anything and everything 
 possible for his or her Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Don't take me wrong, seasons are a great addition to the universe of the Sims. However, you soon 
 get fed-up by the recipe.
  
  At first, you'll be amazed by the new graphics, but soon enough, you won't care. You'll even forget 
 what season it is. And each weather is so short that it doesn't change much after all, especially 
 if your Sims are inside.
  
  Also, the actions linked with the seasons get pretty repetitive and often take priority over the 
 aspirations of the Sims. So, in summer, EVERY Sim will want to play Marco Polo. In winter, everybody 
 will want to have snowball fights, even if there isn't snow. Every fall, Sims will be obsessed 
 by skills and in spring, by lovers... or gardening. You'll just end up making them fall in aspiration 
 failures by ignoring their wants because you'll refuse to have clones all doing the same activites 
 over and over.
  
  About gardening. Seriously, I never saw plants that asked so much attention. And for what? Juice. 
 Or sparkling food. Juice is... useless if you want my opinion. The efforts aren't worth the result. 
 As for the sparkling food, it makes Sims fat! Sims who eat fresh food shouldn't be thinner than 
 those who eat that pre-made food? They like it so much that they over-eat!
  
  And plantsims are just boring. I usually love Sims creatures. Made a vampire-plant for some challenge 
 and left it wandering under the sun... it didn't even die! They don't sleep, they don't eat, they 
 are ugly... Can't go to the university either. And they are extremely long to make in the spraying 
 way... No, plantsims are no good.
  
  Now, the winter clothes. Cute at first, but once you realize that all your neighborhood is wearing 
 the same coat... well, it gets pretty repetitive. By the way, ghosts wear winter coats... Weird!!!
 
  
  Finally, some extreme deaths are coming a little too often. It is not rare to find somebody burnt 
 in the hot tube, or frozen after having made a snow man. And children are a bit too easily taken 
 by the social worker... for jumping on their beds. Seasons is definitely one of the less interesting 
 expansion of the Sims 2. If you're a fan, you'll want it anyway, but it won't be the expansion 
 that really changes your game, it will just add some graphics. That's it. For 45$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  If you read my Sims 2 Pets PC Expansion Pack review, (which 3 people agreed with me) , i mentioned 
 how bad that expansion pack was. No really sense of Pets, no pets shows, and mainly, loads of features 
 from the first pets expansion pack have got lost in the post
  
  So i was getting rather excited about this expansion pack...
  
  GOOD POINTS - Seasons, Growing 
 plants BAD POINTS - Weather Effects
  
  Now loads of you are going to say, hey that's not fair for the weather effects to be bad but the 
 only reason you say that is because of the amazing discovery of snow. This is something which makes 
 you change all seasons to winter because you never play snow in a computer game before. You can 
 build snowmen, roll in snow, and wear these really rubbish clothes to go outside in. Now think, 
 if they took the snow out of the game, would you think its a good games, no. Because all the other 
 weather effects aren't as fun as snow. Summer is like the original season, but a bit more dangerous, 
 Fall is a couple of leaves falling of trees, Spring is a rainy season, and Winter has snow. See 
 that is what your paying &pound;20 for. 4 seasons with 4 effects. And then, a few more items, the 
 planting facilities, the garden club and a penguin. Overall i think it is a improvments, but EA, 
 let Maxis develop it again, they are best guys for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Its great to have weather and seasons in the Sims 2 and it may not have that many new objects but 
 you know what? Thats OK.
  
  Its been long awaited for the Sims 2 to have weather and seasons and this is it!
  
  Its worth 
 the price and its new animations to the Sims are great too!
  
  Now there are seasons you can allways go outside and make a snowman or snow angel, even have a 
 pool party iin the summer and have the dissappointment of rain.
  
  This expansion is a 9.3 rating for its great efforts!
  
  The graphical side of this expansion 
 isn't so great because most of the animations for rain and snow are just on your screen and not 
 actually in The sims enviromnent but it still has the feel of real seasons!
  
  It benifits you to have the Pets expansion also for the Seasons expansion as you can also see the 
 pet side of the weather, going outside in the rain and shaking off indoors or just seeing them 
 playing in the snow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  A great addition to the Sims 2. If you have a great computer.
  Now The Sims is the most successful franchise up to date and EP's (Expansion Packs) and SP's (stuff 
 Packs) have been coming out. The latest addition is The Sims 2 Seasons. If you dont have a great 
 or good computer then you will not enjoy it much. Graphics 9 out of 10
  The Graphics are great. If its raining then you can see water on top of your Sims roof. If its 
 hailing a little too much the ground turns white as those sim killers keep falling. Leaves fall 
 in fall and it snows in winter. In which they added Lighting. If its fall you get an orangeish 
 background for fall and if its about to rain you get cloudy skies. Anyway its good. The reason 
 it isnt a perfect 10 is that you will need the best computer to fully enjoy it. Also with the 
 new EP they added Fish in the water (will be explained in the Gameplay section) and pool reflections. 
 If your computer can handle it. If your computer cant handle it then you can still fish just you 
 wont be able to see them. Sound 10 out of 10
  The sound has been good for the seasons. In winter you can hear the Howling wind and in spring 
 if its raining you can hear the rain and maybe some lighting to. Keep your volume low for when 
 its thunder storming. Since its very loud like real thunder. If its hailing you can hear the 
 pellets hitting the roof. The Sims still speak simlish so nothing new there but they did add a 
 lot of attention to the detail of it.
  
  Gameplay 8 out of 10
  Ok now in Seasons you have your basic seasons. Spring, summer, fall, winter. Spring increases Romantic 
 interactions, summer is the time for friends, fall is the career building time, and winter is there 
 for you to tie your family bonds. Also with the game they added a temperature bar. So if you go 
 outside in winter in your undies chances are you are going to get cold. So then your temp bar decreases 
 and if it reaches the bottom your sime will freeze. So thats why they added the Outerwear clothing 
 category. SO in Winter your sim will atuomatilcy dress in there outerwear for winter. So if your 
 in summer get out of those outerwear and change into that summer clothing. Uless you want to have 
 heatstroke. Seasons last 5 days and they transaction like real wether. The snow wont magicly disappear 
 right away. You might have to wait a bit for the snow melts away. Roof are very important now. 
 Us simmers have always forgotten are roofs but since raint doesnt fall you didnt have to worry. 
 But now that Rain does fall it is a big issue. So unless you want your sim to freeze to death whuile 
 using the bathroom ok then. The EP also adds 6 yes 6 new careers. Gamer, Adventurer, Journalsim, 
 Music, education, and Law. Now those annoying little lakes now have a perphes. When you make your 
 pond wide and deep enough fish start appearing (if your computer can handle it) and you can now 
 fish in which there is a new talent badge for fishing. So when you catch fish eat then or mount 
 them on the wall. Another great feature is Leftovers. Your sim spent the whole day cooking Lobster 
 for the Headmaster and now your just going to throw it away. Well now a new feature lets you put 
 always leftovers. In which anybody (excluding babies and toddlers) can grab the leftovers. So no 
 more starving children. Gardening is also a big inclusion. You can garden many different plants 
 and fruit trees to get some tasty fruits from them. When you harvest them go ahead and toss them 
 in the Juicer and get many different juices with many different affects. If you dont want that 
 pesky snow or hail to destroy your plants just make a green house. If your plants get infested 
 with bugs then spray them dead or the greenhouse. Beware, Use to much pesctside and you to might 
 become a Plant. The reasons I gave gameplay 8 is that the temp bar gets in the way of things. If 
 you use the Hot tub your Sims will get hotter and hotter till them spontansly combust (yes it can 
 happen) and constantly your Sims will take showers since showers put the temp bar at a confurtable 
 temp which gets very annoying. Also many glitches as well but in case everything is good.
  
  Seasons is a great EP with some problems but Patches will come out to fix them. But for now 
 if you have a nasty computer dont get this. If you have a great computer you will have the most 
 fun ever. Final Score-9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simgirl89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Best EP for Sims 2. I thought it would be boring and just cool to look at but what each season 
 adds to the game play makes the Sims even better than they once were. Not only are the graphics 
 great but the new stuff is fun and the interactions are better than ever! Now there are more group 
 activities. There is a completely new neighborhood; so, if your bored with the old ones there are 
 new people and homes to play with. The neighborhood even includes the plant sim (so you dont have 
 to keep trying to get the new type of sim) . Don't pass the opportunity to play; you'll become attached 
 once you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChunkyMilky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Ok well, you must be woundering ''Aww geez not another expansion pack for The sims.''Well do I have 
 news for you! This expansion packs is suprisingly one of the best ones to buy up to date. If your 
 the type of person who doesn't want to blow a bunch of money on expansion packs this is the one 
 you absolutley need to pick up. The concept of this game is so simple yet so satisfying, the name 
 says it all... Yep you got it The sims now has seasons. When you first play the game you will notice 
 there is a neighborhood River Blossom hills. Just a neighborhood to start you up with the new content 
 and such. And well judging by most of everyone who first starts up the game they will probaly pick 
 the Create a family button well im just assuming that aspect. Oh don't forget the ''Does this expansion 
 pack comes with new things to wear?'' thought. The answer is yes. There is a new wardrobe section 
 called ''Outerwear.''This helps your sims too prevent from freezing there asses off. We'll too get 
 into more realistic matter roofs are finally important. Put one in to prevent your sims from freezing, plus 
 you wouldn't want to have snow in your house would you? Ok, now this is were the fun and addiction 
 comes in. Feel like making that snowman with your family in the cold? Go right ahead. Or do you feel 
 like catching some fish for that special meal? These are the new activities you and your family 
 can have in different seasons. Gardening, yes don't let me forget about gardening. By far the most 
 addicting part of the game, whether your harvesting crops or trees for a more special meal for your 
 sims this is a really fun and addicting feature. Don't get me wrong I don't have much of a green 
 thumb myself but I love it.
  
  For all the rest of the new features in this game I left out figure it out by yourself. The sims 
 2 seasons is really a great expansion pack and it really suprised me when I first got the copy. It 
 will probaly do the same for you. Buy this expansion it gives sims such a new look and feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  A very good and brilliant game but it's nearly the same as sims 2. They have just putted the seasons 
 in. It's not bad to play if you have nothing to do but it would be better if they have added that 
 no other game has. I think it's quite good. The routine is quite the same as in sims 2. I would 
 buy this game if it would have a little more than the sims 2 original. I don't say nothing like 
 no don't buy it it's a rubbsih game. I'm just saying that its nearly the same as the sims 2 original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superyumi16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 itself is a great game for people who want to make movies, make simulations or just 
 want to be creative in video games. The Sims 2 Seasons is an expansion pack that I love, since 
 you can change seasons the question I've been asking Maxis to make since the first Sims 2 game 
 out. I think how expanding it works, is that if they get the requests from the players. But back 
 to the Seasons, they have a variety a new colors, clothes, and items. The Sims can actually snowball 
 fight! This is game is extremely worth playing, get the regular sims 2 or get the the sims 2 Deluxe! 
 It's awesome, mark my words. I give it a A-! Happy Simming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldorey1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  One of the best EPs ever. It has the brilliant weather effects that creates a very realistic accent 
 to the game. There are more things that are worth to check out in this game than the other EPs 
 like tending a garden, fishing, and other fun stuff.
  
  It's easy to learn, even with the complicated and short seasons. Of course, for people who are 
 having a bit of trouble with the game can always search for some hints and cheats.
  
  Unfortunately, like its earlier Expansion Packs, the default Maxis created objects are easily replaced 
 by custom content from all users alike. But since The Sims 2 is actually allowed to be customized, 
 there is still a lot to explore about the game before you get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toldale
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  This exspansion pack just makes The Sims 2 games even better bringing, the highly anticipated weather 
 feature to the game. With great lighting added to reflect different seasons and actually snow and 
 rain which doesn't sound much to a person who has not played the sims 2, but to the fans this is 
 a massive step forward which makes the game more realistic and certainly more enjoyable. It also 
 brings many hiden features such as plant people if your sims get too addicted to gardening, (then 
 again who doesnt) . It offers players a lot more to do in the game like snowball and water balloon 
 fights and many many more features, their is also a temparature bar which is related to the selected 
 sim which you must monitor to avoid freezing or burning, which is fun to watch for a bit but then 
 you feel a burst of guilt, not really. Freezing is so funny.
  
  Overall the best exspansion pack to be out for the sims 2 bringing many great features and different 
 careers etc. If you have the sims2, this exspansion pack is a must have, it adds a whole new dimension 
 to the game. Fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kennybenny15
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Season consists of many more objects for your sims to relax in including slides for 
 pools, more outer cloths, new tables, chairs, and more.... There is Summer, Winter, Fall, and Spring. 
 I usually start my year out with Summer in The Sims 2 Seasons because Im natural to Summer above 
 all seasons but Fall is my favorite. I hope you will enjoy this not only because your sims will 
 get burried in snow, leaves, rain, or get sunburnt, but the many items it has to offer. The EP 
 should have went along with The Sims 2 Bon Voyage which is the vacation one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing I would like to tell about Seasons is that it's about the weather, with a changing 
 weather pattern you will have to do different things everyday. Instead of the same old routine 
 day in and day out you might have to change your routine because of the wheater. One other thing 
 is that with these new weather patterns is that you can&acute; t plan ahead, you thought you could 
 celebrate a new spring with a free day and a bbq? Well think again, the spring is not sunny and 
 mild all the spring season and the winter is not snowy and cold all the time. Sometimes, the winter 
 tend to stay an extra day or two just like in real life. One other aspect with the snow pattern 
 for example. You kid is way behind on homework or slept in so he can't have breakfast, guess what, 
 it snowed so heavy last night the school is closed today. Gamespot says the wheather will not change 
 gameplay that much, well think agin. The weather can ruin or save you day.
  
  Fourth and the biggest change in gameplay (for me) is that is Seasons you can fish, grow your own 
 crops, have a compost pile (well it's more of a machine) and actually try what it's like to live 
 independantly without having to work or go to the grocery store. This is also the part that actually 
 allows you to change game , don't think Sims , think Harvest Moon , if you got hooked on the addiction 
 for Harvest Moon in the SNES days you will relive this experiance becaue it's more or less the 
 same game if you choose to play it this way.
  
  Last I would like to round of that with these weathers you will get a whole new view of the gameplay. 
 The snow is falling ouside and you sim is sitting in front of the fire with a cup of java. With 
 Seasons EA can claim that Sims is THE life simulator. Seasons give the touch of reality needed.
 
  
  Thanks for reading.
  Mackan 52 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riverhippo
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 25, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  If you could only get one expansion pack for The Sims 2, this would be the one to get. This adds 
 so much new content, new options, new mini-goals and things to do. This expansion made me break 
 out of the old shell of fulfilling needs and gaining skills that I still had not lost from the 
 original The Sims because there is SO much perfectly-executed content; you will never get bored!
 
  
  As for the features...
  
  Weather - snow, rain, heat, cold, hail, thunderstorms, etc. that we've been wanting for eternity.
 
  Seasons - four seasons that you can rearrange and repeat any way you want. Each season has its 
 benefits such as increasing skill rates or relationship boosts.
  Objects - a country collection that old grannies might like. it seems like the whole EP was made 
 for grannies, but you play awhile and it's certainly not the case.
  Neighborhoods - no new sub-neighborhoods this time, but there is a new neighborhood called Riverblossom 
 Hills with some nice pre-made lots and families
  Activities - my favorite part! Introduced with Seasons is gardening, which takes up a lot of your 
 Sims' time, but is worth it in the end, making the food from their fridge much more filling. The 
 remnants of the more filling foods can be stored for later with the new LEFTOVERS feature. Fishing 
 is another way to get great food. Both fishing and gardening have corresponding talent badges. 
 In the winter when the ponds freeze over and your fruit trees go dormant, activities include snowmen, 
 snow angels, snowball fights, ice skating ... and there are other activities such as playing catch 
 or roller blading that are available outdoors in any season.
  
  There's plenty more to discover, and I'm not even sure I've done it all yet! A word of advice: 
 BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bucey
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Wow, just wow.. You have the ability to grow crops, play in the snow, throw parties in the hot 
 sun and rake up those leaves and throw them around. The fun all adds up when you have the other 
 expansion packs. There are tons of things to look forward to! Skating, fishing, farming and EIGHT 
 new career tracks!! I still have to wait for the other seasons. Just kept thinking what activities 
 my sims can do. Thats what keeps the excitement and fun up!
  The addiction to it is unknown. I just ENJOY clicking and clicking in the Sims world!
  
  You 
 know, get a good (if not, decent) PC to get this game running great. If you have the crappy sort, 
 beware of lag and long loading time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scholtz
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Hi. I also want to ask about the one sim in River Blossom Hills
  that looks like a human plant.
  If anyone could do me the favour of sending me an e-mail
  at 
 hettascholtz@absamail. co. za.
  And if someone could also send me the Sim Maid File
  program that you use to upload downloaded items into
  the game at the same adress above and thanks 
 to everybody
  who will help me.
  I am also truly addicted to all the sims2 games and hope
  to see the sims3 series very soon.
 
  My Home number is (012) 6618524
  And my celphone number is 0761693857
  And i also hope that most of us can get together for a LAN
  somewhere or even at my house in
 
  Rooihuiskraal so contact me if anyone can have a LAN
  any time between next weekend and the next School
  Holiday.
  PLease contact me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasondavis1524
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Its addicting, but its still the Sims. It is cool however to make them have a snowball fight. Its 
 hard to stop playing! There are a few new items that it adds, Like the weather station that you 
 control in the rewards bin. Useful if you want to meet a aspiration. Good expansion but I wish 
 is didn't cost so much. Seems like it could have been in the 20-30 range. Make sure your roof is 
 on good because it can effect the Sims inside. Placing a coat rack by the door and using it makes 
 your sims put on their outerwear when they exit the house. The gardening tool under build is useful, 
 but I can only get my sims to grow tomatoes?? I guess I have to do it for a bit before they grow 
 other things? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Virgo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Sims from day one. When the Original Sims keep. And I was a true die hard 
 Sims player. And then the Sims 2 came out.. I am my love for the game has gotten deeper for the 
 Sims. And for them to have them bring in the realness of the elements, that we deal with on a day 
 to day bases. That put the Sims 2 on another level. There are not that many games have the elements 
 that just happen on a random base. You never know what kind of weather you are going to get. And 
 that to me is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, when you are always living in the summertime, it isn't too bad, but now that we can have 
 winter, I always live in the winter and spring.
  
  Gameplay (9) ~ The gameplay brings some definitely needed additions to the game. Also having the 
 new items, and seasons brings the gameplay to such a high mark.
  
  Audio (Undefined) ~ Its the SIms 2, the audio doesn't change
  
  Graphics (Undefined) Same as 
 above, the graphics didn't get better, or worse. Though, I do enjoy having people get mad enough 
 to get into a cat fight or two...
  
  Overall, the games are awsome, and this is a much needed addition to the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeQueen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Sims fan every since they came out with the very first Sims game. I have played 
 MANY Sims games over the years not only on the computer but on the PS2 also. I think that the Sims 
 2 Seasons just adds a whole new element to the previous Sims games, because the developers are making 
 this game more realistic with each new Sims game that they make!! Now, I bought the Sims Pets game 
 for the PS2 and it was fun for a few days, but I quickly grew tired of the repetitive nature of 
 the Sims Pets game and the fact that the only two places you could go was to a very small pet park, and 
 to your house and that was it!
  
  Now when I bought the Sims 2 Seasons game for the PC I was THRILLED because I couldn't wait to 
 play it because it was so different and unique, other than anything I had seen out on the video 
 game market! The first time I played this game, I couldn't put it down because it was SO MUCH FUN!! 
 I LOVE the fact that there are different seasons on here as the game suggests, and you can build 
 snowmen in the winter, catch fireflies, go swimming and get a tan but don't let your Sim character 
 stay out in the sun too long, because they will get sunburned!! The biggest reason I love this game 
 is because you get to decide what you want your Sim character to do, and this game doesn't seem 
 so, Rushed, or, Hurried, like other Sims games do! Anotherwords, I have found that in playing other 
 Sims games, you are expected to do this and do that and climb up the corporate ladder, have a family, raise 
 children etc... The Sims 2 Seasons was so much more laid back because your Sims characters FINALLY 
 GET TO RELAX and enjoy themselves whether it is going fishing, working in the garden, building snowmen, or 
 just catching fireflies, your characters don't seem so pressured to do everything on a time limit!!
 
  
  The only complaint that I do have is why don't the Sims developers make MORE SIMS GAMES available 
 for the PS2 or the now popular PS3?? I mean we would like to see ALOT MORE Sims games available 
 on these consoles, and the computer games are alot of fun, but us console players would LOVE to be 
 able to play the Sims game on our Playstation consoles too!
  
  If you are looking for a fun game where your Sims characters can just slow down and enjoy their 
 time with their family, or just enjoy spending time fishing or whatever, than this game will be well 
 worth the money!! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ankarts
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Its not the best Sims 2 game ever, but still!  
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love 
 it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagurlpink2006
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I think that it is the best game. Pets was alright- but Seasons is the best out of all the very 
 recent ones. It does not take any time to learn to play, and it has many new clothes, obejcts and 
 interactions. I think it is so fun. I can`t wait until they come out with even more sims games. 
 The games Maxis creates are so fun- especially this one. If your trying to decide which expansion 
 to get- this is prolly one of the best- and you don`t have to worry about uninstalling any other 
 expansions- it dosen`t mess up any other games- which is GREAT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnTooDeaMan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game is really good even if there wasnt much stuff added.
  
  The Good: The game has seasons which is one addition and it also has weather change, (rain, hail, 
 snow) , You also get some new careers like Game Designer which when you get a chance card in that 
 career you can earn 65000 by making a decision to put aliens in it. The game also added another 
 apiration point reward. A device that change the weather or the season. The game also makes it 
 were there is a reason to be sick, For example in the winter time.
  
  The Bad: Didnt added a lot of stuff but that is ok. But I would like to see more stuff added to 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Now The Sims is the most successful franchise up to date and EP's (Expansion Packs) and SP's (stuff 
 Packs) have been coming out. The latest addition is The Sims 2 Seasons. If you dont have a great 
 or good computer then you will not enjoy it much. Graphics 9 out of 10
  The Graphics are great. If its raining then you can see water on top of your Sims roof. If its 
 hailing a little too much the ground turns white as those sim killers keep falling. Leaves fall 
 in fall and it snows in winter. In which they added Lighting. If its fall you get an orangeish 
 background for fall and if its about to rain you get cloudy skies. Anyway its good. The reason 
 it isnt a perfect 10 is that you will need the best computer to fully enjoy it. Also with the 
 new EP they added Fish in the water (will be explained in the Gameplay section) and pool reflections. 
 If your computer can handle it. If your computer cant handle it then you can still fish just you 
 wont be able to see them. Sound 10 out of 10
  The sound has been good for the seasons. In winter you can hear the Howling wind and in spring 
 if its raining you can hear the rain and maybe some lighting to. Keep your volume low for when 
 its thunder storming. Since its very loud like real thunder. If its hailing you can hear the 
 pellets hitting the roof. The Sims still speak simlish so nothing new there but they did add a 
 lot of attention to the detail of it.
  
  Gameplay 8 out of 10
  Ok now in Seasons you have your basic seasons. Spring, summer, fall, winter. Spring increases Romantic 
 interactions, summer is the time for friends, fall is the career building time, and winter is there 
 for you to tie your family bonds. Also with the game they added a temperature bar. So if you go 
 outside in winter in your undies chances are you are going to get cold. So then your temp bar decreases 
 and if it reaches the bottom your sime will freeze. So thats why they added the Outerwear clothing 
 category. SO in Winter your sim will atuomatilcy dress in there outerwear for winter. So if your 
 in summer get out of those outerwear and change into that summer clothing. Uless you want to have 
 heatstroke. Seasons last 5 days and they transaction like real wether. The snow wont magicly disappear 
 right away. You might have to wait a bit for the snow melts away. Roof are very important now. 
 Us simmers have always forgotten are roofs but since raint doesnt fall you didnt have to worry. 
 But now that Rain does fall it is a big issue. So unless you want your sim to freeze to death whuile 
 using the bathroom ok then. The EP also adds 6 yes 6 new careers. Gamer, Adventurer, Journalsim, 
 Music, education, and Law. Now those annoying little lakes now have a perphes. When you make your 
 pond wide and deep enough fish start appearing (if your computer can handle it) and you can now 
 fish in which there is a new talent badge for fishing. So when you catch fish eat then or mount 
 them on the wall. Another great feature is Leftovers. Your sim spent the whole day cooking Lobster 
 for the Headmaster and now your just going to throw it away. Well now a new feature lets you put 
 always leftovers. In which anybody (excluding babies and toddlers) can grab the leftovers. So no 
 more starving children. Gardening is also a big inclusion. You can garden many different plants 
 and fruit trees to get some tasty fruits from them. When you harvest them go ahead and toss them 
 in the Juicer and get many different juices with many different affects. If you dont want that 
 pesky snow or hail to destroy your plants just make a green house. If your plants get infested 
 with bugs then spray them dead or the greenhouse. Beware, Use to much pesctside and you to might 
 become a Plant. The reasons I gave gameplay 8 is that the temp bar gets in the way of things. If 
 you use the Hot tub your Sims will get hotter and hotter till them spuntansly combust (yes it can 
 happen) and constantly your Sims will take showers since showers put the temp bar at a comfurble 
 temp which gets very annoying. Also many glitches as well but in case everything is good.
  
  Seasons is a great ep with some problems but Patches will come out to fix them. But for now 
 if you have a nasty computer dont get this. If you have a great computer you will have the most 
 fun ever. Final Score-9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the Sims 1 Sim fans have wanted weather in their game. Well Maxis finally listened and 
 we got The Sims 2 Seasons. Much more than just weather but full length seasons that affect all 
 of our sims. Not only does the weather look great in the game, it really does change the way you 
 play The Sims 2. From getting heat stroke in summer to freezing in winter your sims now have to 
 dress for the weather. The seasons also affect your sims in a few ways... Spring helps those romances 
 come to life faster, summer lets you build relationships with friends faster, fall helps your work 
 by making skills go faster, and winter helps family relationships go faster. Great addition to 
 the game. Following the work idea from fall comes 6 whole new jobs you can get your sims. Though 
 not to much new with them you can get some cool new award objects for them. While your sims arn't 
 working they can also no start a garden and join the local garden club. While gardening takes time 
 and can be hard work, it's well worth it. You can stock your fridge with your newly grown plants 
 which will then make better meals that raises more of your sims moods faster while eating the food. 
 You can also juice your new fruits and make different kinds of potions. Or for those meat eaters 
 our there you can go fishing in the pond and make several new fish dishes. To much gardening though 
 will however turn your sims into a new creature... the plant sim. A green creature who can spawn 
 babies and only have 3 needs, love, water, and sunshine. You'd expect nothing less from Maxis. 
 Weather and gardening arn't the only things The Sims 2 Seasons adds. You also get over 125 new 
 objects following a country chic theme and some new socials for your sims like playing catch or 
 catching butterflies. All in all The Sims 2 Seasons doesn't let down. For those not all crazy about 
 weather there is still of other things to do in the game, like having gardens and the new jobs. 
 While this game does need a good computer (the new weather can make some lag) it is well worth 
 it to add to your expansion pack library! Sim On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Seasons is an expansion pack to the very popular Sims 2 game made by Will Wright. If 
 you like the Sims games than you will probably liek this game. It biggest edition is it adds seasons' 
 which basically means you have weather now. So yes it now rains, snows and there is lighting and 
 such. The Snow does actually cover the ground by the way and things can be struck by lighting. 
 There is a new type of sim now too one that is like a plant that needs sunlight and water to survive 
 which ass a new dynamic to the regualr tasks that normal sims have to to do to survive. All and 
 and all though the seasons do not add as much as you might think because unlike real people the 
 sims do not associate events or activites with them like we do. For instance in the winter you 
 might be thinking about Christmas, sledding,... ect. While the sims do have a few new season related 
 activities, like snowball fights it really isn't a big event. It is however nice touch to the game 
 and probably something that should have been there from the start much like night and day. So thiking 
 along those lines I do like it, but just don; t ecpect it to add as mmuch as say, pets did. If you 
 are a fan of the Sims games you were proabably going to buy it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 seasons explains its name, the seasons are in it.
  It doesnt only add the seasons to it, but also lets your sims farm and fish to make profit which 
 reminds me of sims 1 unleashed.
  If you thought that was all, it adds some minor stuff too, like jobs and items.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Seasons are a new interesting idea
  +New objects give the game value
  +6 Careers added
  -More bugs to be found, especially when playing university
  -FPS goes up with the amount of expansions 
 installed
  
  Graphics:
  +Graphics remain the same +New seasons graphics
  -Winter and rain makes the game lag more
  -No real improvements
  
  Sounds:
  +Simlish sounds 
 still ok
  +Some new decent music
  
  Value:
  +Combined with all the sims 2 games, its great
  +Replayablity forever
  -More bugs then before
 
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall nice presentation
  +New interesting ideas
  +Easy to play
  
  If you're a real sims fan, i recommend this one, if not choose for yourself
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Well we are now into the 5th EP of the Sims 2 already! it seems like yesterday you were still playing 
 Sims 2 and asking questions about what future EP's will bring and most Sims 2 fans were shocked 
 to see Sims 2 Seasons come out...
  
  Again the title explains for itself... seasons!..... the first time ANY other Sims game has ever 
 had so instantly you know your gonna get something different and expect it all the time...... So 
 you get Spring , Summer , Fall and ofcourse Winter...... these seasons are all playable during your 
 playing time and can be changed all the time so you can have for your first season Spring and then 
 Winter then Winter again and then Fall and have no Summer! which really doesn't sound worthwile 
 but in the end you'll enjoy it!
  
  There are a couple new add ons if you will to the game, new carrer paths (law , education , music 
 , adventure , gamer and journalism) which add a whole new depth but they feel a little rushed. 
 In other games you would have a nice long well done on promotion and now they would have around 
 4 lines saying what your next job is and feels pretty lame to say the least.
  
  Also thier is new badges your sims can earn which are gardening and fishing and these ones are 
 what just the master ordered they really are easy to achieve rather than waiting hours on end for 
 your sims to work a cashier e. t. c. so thse ones really help you through the game and is easy!
 
  
  Problem with this game again the fact that you will only play this game for about round 2-3 weeks 
 or more! and stop and wait for the next EP where as with Sims 2 you would play it non-stop because 
 it was OH MY GOSH!! the graphics , gameplay , wants/fears! you know..
  
  Maxis and EA have put together another good expansion pack and that's the thing so far we haven't 
 seen a GREAT or superb EP for a long time and will be interesting to see where maxis and EA go 
 from here!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first The Sims game came out, the creators and developers have made sure that they 
 push realism of everyday life into their game, and just when you thought it couldn't get any more 
 better, the first expansion pack came out, and another, and another, until eventually we wondered 
 just what else they could expand on. What else? Seasons!
  
  The Sims 2: Seasons brings all 4 seasons to your Sim's world, and although it doesn't have amazing 
 new features, it still adds that touch of fun we've come to know and love from The Sims. Spring 
 brings showers to the ground, Summer forces families outside to play, Fall inspires your Sims to 
 rake and jump, and Winter drops quite a lot of the white stuff for everyone to enjoy. In the midst 
 of all this is temperature, weather channels, gardening, and fishing. The activities we all associate 
 with the seasons is here- and yes- you can catch fireflies.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2: Seaons is perhaps the first Expansion Pack to bring small yet exciting changes 
 to the game. Outdoors has never been funner, and where else can you make a snowman in a game? That's 
 right- in Seasons and Seasons only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey_18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game is a really great expansion pack. why? because it has a lot of different types of background 
 effect of the weather. it also have a new npc character The Penguin . which it is a really kool 
 pet that comes around your lot when you have lot of fishes or have alot of heavy snow in your lot. 
 Althrough this game has a great detail graphic. I love this latest expansion pack so much i hope 
 later in the future the author who make these game will surly develop more different feature expansion 
 pack. Have a good time to others who also play The Sims2 Seasons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to be honest I was not all that enthused at the beginning when they talked about this, 
 but to be honest this is a very essential part of the game. It is all coming together I must say. 
 Glad to have the seasons added to this. Now it is even showing more realism than before. Although 
 this particular expansion pack may not have a whole lot of items. It does bring more realism to 
 the game. Thank you Maxis for this....
  
  Now is anybody ready for some Superstar??!! Hope everyone has a great rest of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UzEE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  What was the last Sim Game you played, which included seasonal changes. Exactly, Its been a while, 
 even more than that. As far as I can remember, the last game was SimCity Classic. So the franchise 
 finally took a much awaited turn and incorporated seasonal weather into the greatest PC game of 
 all time. Your Sims moods are also dependent on the weather, and changes as the weather changes. 
 And the list doesnt stop there, your wants, fears and sometimes relations will also be affected. 
 . The beautifully rendered weather effects, though dont do much, are a fun to watch.
  
  The Sims can now enjoy seasonal changes like snow or hail. You can have snowball fights or you 
 can go out to catch fire flies. The CyberPeople can also make their own snowmen. If you have Pets 
 installed, you might be visited by a Penguin in the winter. Among other activities, you can now 
 stomp in a puddle and take a sun bath
  Fishing and farming have also found a way into the big league. You can now fish at almost every 
 water body you can find and can grow your very own vegetables. These can be sold of at the market, 
 or turned into various potions and chemicals your Sim can use. There is also a gardening club and 
 an option to create a Green House.
  
  Among other updates, the Sims can now choose from six additional career paths, like Pro Gamming, 
 Adventure, Law, Music, Journalism, and Education. Each career path has its own additional career 
 rewards. The game also includes 100+ new items for your Sims to buy and try. They include all sorts 
 of things from a weather controller to a skating rink to a hard metal electric guitar. And finally, 
 you may want to change into something warm before stepping out in the cold, or you might catch 
 a cold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good even if there wasnt much stuff added.
  
  The Good: The game has seasons which is one addition and it also has weather change, (rain, hail, 
 snow) , You also get some new careers like Game Designer which when you get a chance card in that 
 career you can earn 65000 by making a decision to put aliens in it. The game also added another 
 apiration point reward. A device that change the weather or the season. The game also makes it 
 were there is a reason to be sick, For example in the winter time.
  
  The Bad: Didnt added a lot of stuff but that is ok. But I would like to see more stuff added to 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  There are many new things Seasons bring to the table in the Sims 2. Below are just some of new 
 things that I've noticed.
  
  1) Gardening And Farming
  One of the main highlights for me is the gardening addition to the game. There are 6 plants that 
 can be planted and grown with 3 different tree types that could be harvested. Produce can be harvest 
 (and sold via OFB business) or sold directly. Harvesting the best quality of Mouthwatering produce 
 and making juices out of them can see your Sims gaining many different benefits. Start planting 
 away and work on the Gardening Badge that will unlock more plants as your Sims go along.
  
  2) Seasonal Weather
  Another highlight is the different seasons your Sims can experience! You 
 need a reasonably good graphics card here to fully enjoy the visual spectacle of the different 
 seasons especially Winter. New activities can be done outdoors depending on the season (Winter: 
 Snowman, angel, snowball fight, etc...) . Also, Sims now have a body temperature meter that relates 
 to the season. Too cold and they will freeze to death, too hot and they will start to burn up! 
 Take care of their temperature when outdoors! The best thing is, you get to select what type of 
 seasons you want for your Sims in different neighbourhood. You can have Winter or Spring all year 
 round if you want to!
  
  3) Fishing
  Like gardening, fishing is a talent that can be gained through badges too. Each badge gained will 
 unlock new lure that can attract and catch bigger fishes. Sell, cook, restock or mount on the wall 
 your prize catch! Whoever said fishing doesn't pay off? =p
  
  4) New Items
  There is a slew of new items in the expansion. The juicer machine, coco drink machine, ice rink 
 and coat rack are just some of the new items. There is an additional Aspiration reward item that 
 can change the season too!
  
  5) New Careers
  A whooping addition of 6 new Careers are added into the game. Adventurer, Education, Gamer, Journalism, 
 Law and Music are the much welcome addition to the Career pool. And not forgetting, this means 
 there are 6 new Career Reward Items to unlock!
  
  6) Plant Sims
  If you have been aware, each Sims 2 game comes with a weird but special type of Sim. Sims 2: Aliens, 
 Uni: Zombies, NL: Vampires, OFB: Servos, Pets: Werewolves and now, green Plant Sims! They have 
 some different Need requirements and abilities. Imagine the weirdest of weird combination Sims! 
 Entertaining doesn't quite describe the fun!
  
  7) Others
  There are other new interactions and stuff waiting to be discovered (put away leftovers, catch 
 fireflies/butterflies, tying in different hairstyles to different outfits, etc...) and probably 
 more that I've yet to take note of.
  
  In all, this expansion provides many more hours of entertainment to the game and coupled with the 
 other expansions, there are some many possibilities that are open for play. My opinion? Get this 
 expansion if you are undecided on which of the other expansions to get! It would not disappoint 
 you, I promise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlabadie88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  Right away, you're either still playing The Sims or you're not. This is for those of you who are. 
 The changes this expansion pack brings can only be appreciated by those who play it regularly. 
 If you've played it since it's inception, you know that weather has been waited for for a while. 
 It's finally here, and Maxis has incorporated the actual gameplay with the weather. There is something 
 unique to do each season, such as gardening in the spring, or having snowball fights in the winter. 
 There have been a lot of handy group activites added that help with progression too. For example, 
 your sims can play Marco Polo in the swimming pool, which builds body skill at the same time. The 
 other major addition are the six new career tracks, which add more new approaches to the game. 
 These include, Gamer, Journalism, Adventurer, Education, Law, and Music. Each have their own new 
 chance cards as well.
  This expansion adds something completely new to the game, although the weather effects will lose 
 their luster over time, probably sooner rather than later. Subtle additions do help with gameplay 
 though, and there is enough here to last until (hopefully) another expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I dare to say adding weather conditions is the number 2 request from Sims fans after Pets. I'm 
 very happy that they did a very good job on the gameplay of the game, such as providing more activities 
 thoughout 4 seasons and social interactions that are still comical to look at.
  
  The first thing you will see improvement is the graphics. The sky changes according to season and 
 the weather, and also the increasingly impressive effects of rain and lightning during thunderstorms, 
 snow during the winter and the leaves of the trees change during winter. Just looking at the surroundings 
 change as seasons come and go is very breathtaking.
  
  The seasons are not just added asthetics to the game, it can simply take a toll of the lives of 
 the SIms. Sims can get too hot in the summer or freeze to death in the winter. Spring blossoms 
 romance, Summer enhances friendships, Autumn makes skill building easier and Winter bonds the family. 
 Basically this expansion pack is not sided towards Sims of certain aspirations unlike other expansion 
 packs did.
  
  Tons of activities offered in this expansion, most of them have assiociations of the environment. 
 Growing crops and harvesting them, fishing, snowball fights, snowmen building, play in piles of 
 leaves as well as catching butterflies and fireflies. There are also a lot of objects that keep 
 Sims entertained such as the pool slide for the newly improved swimming pool, skating rink, a juicer 
 for making delicous juices and so on.
  
  What I felt unnecessary is the inclusion of 6 new career tracks in the game, which I think it is 
 fine without them as players are always don't see what are they doing while they work. Thus there 
 is no significance in the game.
  
  All in all I think this is the expansion pack everyone is waiting for. This is definately a must 
 buy for Sims fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeroTow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Most hardcore sims fans will know that weather was expected in the base game but had to be taken 
 out due to problems with raining in houses. Well they did say we could expect it later on-and its 
 finally here
  The Lighting and weather effects are simply amazing, it almost makes it feel like a different game 
 instead of the usual static environment.
  This Expansion pack like most go hand in hand with the rest, for example if you have Open For Business 
 you can sell the produce that you harvest in seasons.
  If you buy one expansion pack it has to be this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndyanem
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Head outdoors for year-round fun with your Sims! New seasonal activities await your Sims including 
 snowball fights, chasing fireflies, jumping in leaf piles, and more. Strengthen family ties in 
 Winter, let romance bloom in Spring, deepen the bonds of friendship in Summer, or fast-track your 
 career in Fall. Your Sims can now explore new careers and master new talents throughout the year, 
 but beware freezing, sunburn, sneezing, and other unexpected weather effects! Dress your Sims appropriately 
 or face the consequences!
  Features:
  
  Dramatic and detailed weather effects.
  
  Benefits from each season.
  
  New activities for your sims to take place in.
  
  Gardens 
 for your sims to harvest from.
  
  New talents for your sims.
  
  Six new careers.
  
  New clothes for each season.
  
  Fun new items.
  
  Min System Requirements:
  The Sims 
 2 Seasons is an Expansion Pack and requires The Sims 2, The Sims 2 Special DVD Edition, or The 
 Sims 2 Holiday Edition for PC to play. Check to make sure you can run The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The title says mostly everything about this expansion pack, The four seasons come into the game 
 and change your Sims game play, The graphic effects are really great, lightning changes with every 
 seasons, rainy days on spring and autumn, dry sunny days in sumer and of course, snow for winter.
 
  Not only your Sims can have fun with the many new interactions for each season, they can also 
 dedicate to harvest the grounds by planting crops and harvesting orange, lemon or apple trees.
 
  One little improvement is that the game now let's you choose a hair style to be used with each 
 outfit.
  Like any other expansion pack it brings new objects to furniture your house and new clothing and 
 hair styles to change your Sims' look. But even when all of this seems pretty exciting be prepared 
 to give an upgrade to your PC, specially if you already experienced some lags with Pets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colton_blue
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Players of The Sims 2 have long craved more depth to their virtual people's environment, and were 
 most likely thrilled by the announcement that Maxis was developing an expansion pack dedicated 
 to seasons. The premise is great and lofty, but the execution is unfortunately lackluster.
  
  During the production of The Sims 2, screenshots were released, in which Sims were struck by 
 lightning in their hot tubs. As all Sims players are aware, weather was not included when the game 
 was released in September, owing to technical issues. This raises the question: were seasons to 
 be included initially anyways? It makes sense that they should have been, because this expansion 
 pack feels like it's adding not only slim to none, but something fundamental to realism. And this 
 is one of the main problems in Seasons; it adds simply too little to the game for its price tag.
 
  
  The seasons themselves are for the most part adequately represented. Each of the four brings a 
 new tone to the world that is notably different than the eternal summer present in the base game. 
 In fall, trees will shed leaves. And that is the scope of fall. It's sort of boring. In addition, 
 each season promotes a different sort of activity. Fall makes it easier for Sims to develop skills. 
 In spring, Sims can be more quickly wooed and romanced. Springtime features rain. Summer is the 
 time to make friends. During gameplay, social interactions increase relationship points faster 
 than in other seasons. And finally, we come to winter. This is without a doubt the most anticipated 
 season, for its vast contrast with the ever boring summer. Winter falls flat. Completely. The graphics 
 for snow are poor at best, and the accumulation of it is all but gradual. There seem to be two 
 main stages; one of light snow that covers the ground and one of heavier snow. The two stages are 
 interchangeable, and it's quite ugly. This season features many a graphical glitch, at least to 
 some. Zooming in and out, patches of green grass appear on various areas of snow in an annoying 
 spasm.
  
  It's sort of depressing that one of the best features of a game with such a wonderful, promising 
 premise is the ability to designate hairstyles for different outfits.
  
  The music is really charming and delightful to listen to. This is another of the pluses.
  
 
  All in all, it has its good points but it is a disappointment in every sense of the word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Storm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I have barely gotten into really playing Seasons, I've probably only spent like 2 hours 
 doing so and already I feel compelled to write a review. First, there are a bevy of awesome new 
 objects (including an ice rink, sweet) , a new sim thermostat (to keep an eye on how hot or cold 
 your sim gets) , new social interactions, new clothes, and the best of all.... ALL 4 SEASONS!! which 
 you can set to your own preferences. So my few minutes into the game I was amazed at how much the 
 sims like to go outside and play now, and I was waiting for it to snow when finally it did. Very 
 cool. The snow falls down on everything even custom/downloaded objects.
  I was also amazed at how STUPID these sims are getting, its like they all have the Homer Simpson 
 syndrome. With every passing expansion they get dumber and dumber. Examples; 1. Sims will still 
 swim in outdoor pools in the winter. 2. Sims will have water balloon fights outside in the winter. 
 3. Both of these above things are the STUPIDEST things to do in the winter months. (and out door 
 hot tubs will NOT warm them up) 4. The weather forcaster is hardly ever right!! (i guess it depicts 
 real life)
  
  I'm still waiting for the glitches, you know there will be a few or 40. It boggles the mind on 
 how many glitches these expansions have, EA has only been making these for how many years now... guess 
 that's where the intelligence of the sims come from...
  
  Still a very cool (pun intended) addition to the Sims 2 games, and finally something different 
 (unlike pets, or nightlife which were just slight changes to sim 1 expansions to make them seem 
 different) . I like the fact that we get to have expansions that had the fun of the first one but 
 Seasons is FINALLY something truly different and unique. Of course with Seasons you will find a 
 bit more lag in the game unless you have a super computer beyond this universe. (that is saying 
 you have all the expansions and stuff packages as I do) .
  
  I can't wait to see what happens to my sims if I leave them cold, so far one has only turned blue 
 and since I hadn't saved my game yet I didn't want to see what would happen. Can't wait till summer, 
 which unlike where I am right now, can happen whenever I want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Well, i was quite surprised when i start to play. It's really a kickass expansion. Adds so much 
 new things, you almost can't count them. Decoration objects are so cool, it's so much of them, 
 and i swear i didn't even dare to try adding all of them. Really awesome. From farming to modern, 
 for children to kitchen stuff &gt; (IMO the best) . Weather is very nice balanced. (you can always 
 change that if you wish) then, farming, awesome, did just saw how it works. really outstanding 
 and fresh. Harvesting fruit, what could possibly go better?! Making snowmen in snow? Or whatching 
 that your sim wouldn't freeze outside or be burnt because of the sun? It's your decide. IMO really 
 great.
  
  What surprised me, are those sounds. I know you already know music is one of the best. Every x-pack, 
 new music. Sweet! But not only that. What surprised me really, was the sounds from nature. Yes, 
 you heard right. When there is winter, there is wind blowing really hard, snow falling, and believe 
 or not, it feels just right. Then when rain falls, those STORMS. Really loud. Great, and hearing 
 a rain.
  
  Yes, and this is not all. All other, but even just that it's great. Really, worth every dollar 
 you give! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  playing this expansion pack shows dat sims is progressing slowly but surely (if u know what i mean) .. 
 This makes sims look more realistic....
  
  before life was jus kinda boring the same weather everyday... but with this expansion pack thereare 
 different weather (rain) plus as the name states different seasons (winter, spring, summer, fall) 
 .... and clothing to suit every season....
  
  i luv the introduction of the curved shaped pool u can construct .... major props there plus the 
 slide ....
  
  the ice wrink u can buy, but to me there is no where u can install it, it's too big (gonna try 
 still) .....
  
  now u can sow and harvest your own crops (apples, eggpplants etc) during the spring/summer...
  
 
  there are also new occupations (journalist, law) to name a few...
  
  haven't got time to play it much.. when i do i'll add on more fascinating features about this expansion...
 
  
  can't wait to see what the creators introduce in the next expansion bt primaryily in sims 3.....
 
  
  overall this expansion rocks ..... worth buying....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strifedaniel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Before this expansion pack, something was wrong in the world of the Sims. It was subtle and can 
 go undetected for new players but for veteran simmers like me, its easy to notice. The weather 
 is always sunny! And what is wrong with this you say? Well for one thing, many of us live in parts 
 of the world where we have seasons and weather. But in the Sims, the weather seems to be perpetual 
 spring/summer like the post apocalyptic world of Evangelion where there are no seasons. But now, 
 everything seems to be solved. The weather is fantastic! Fishing and gardening is fresh! And new 
 careers rock! What more do you need to know?
  
  I own ALL the expansion packs and stuff packs for Sims 2 and I gotta say this is one of the better 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallonebrownme
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  sims 2 seasons adds flavor to an already good base game. i love playing my sims then all of a sudden 
 it starts raining. the best part is now your sims cam look out the window and they will to see 
 what the weather is doing outside. you can now work in the garden also with your sims then there 
 is the new pool designs and all new socials that encourage and change as the seasons change. the 
 weather to the games adds realism because instead of it being summer all the time the game will 
 rotate the seasons unless u manually control the weather which u can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Even though I purchased all the other Sims 2 expansions, none of them ever seemed worth writing 
 a review about. They all were pretty well self explanatory and just from looking at the title I 
 figured most players could immediately decide if it was really worth the money and time. Sims 2: 
 Seasons breaks the monotany of what the past few expansions have done: add one major changing aspect 
 and then put lot's of stuff in as filler. The addition of seasons, and their associated weather 
 patterns, are the main change of course. But what is not usually mentioned is the numerous new 
 social interactions, skill boosts, relationship boosts, and job boosts that come from the seasons. 
 Visually you will see all the expected color changes from a change season. You see this change 
 not only on the lots you play but also in the neighborhood screen too. Also included are a few 
 new objects, outfits (most notably the outerwear used in fall and winter) , the fishing talent, 
 the farming talent, and of course a new freak sim in the form of Plant people. The best part of 
 this expansion, however, comes from just how well it blends in with the other expansions. From 
 University to Pets, every part that was added before is changed with the various seasons that you 
 move through. On the downside, expect a few bugs particularly when you first start playing the 
 game with a family used in a previous expansion. The weather effects didn't seem to slow down game 
 play at all, but on a system below or right at minimum specs it might happen. Expect to do more 
 yardwork around your lot too, especially if you plan to try out the gardening portion. Overall, 
 like any expansion it's up to the player to decide if the new gameplay aspects are worth the hassel 
 or not. From what I've seen, the gameplay does change quite drastically but on the whole it's for 
 the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile1992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  We've waited for this so long, actually, since The Sims was released. Seasons is another great 
 expansion pack, with lots of new features, including the seasons (duh) , awesome weather effects 
 (snow, lighting) and new family-activities like new pool games, building snowmen, skating and many 
 more. Also, your sims can now grow plants, trees and vegetables (and juice, sell or cook them!) , 
 and if you're good in it, you will turn into new type of sim. If you have TS2, buy this. You'll 
 love it. And your family will love it.
  
  Shortly, Seasons is easy to learn and play. Friggen addictive game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luluaprilbuster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  This is the best expansion pack yet. I played all day and I am still up at 2:30. I tried to sleep 
 but, all I could think about was the game and I must talk about it and submit screen shots I did 
 while playing. I was so amazed at the colors of the sky before it started to rain and when it was 
 raining it just blew my mind. The reaction of townies at the roller rink was so funny I couldn't 
 stop laughing. They we're all looking out the windows and raising their arms up in the air because 
 of the rain. The colors in spring are warm yet a wind blows as I see on the scarecrows scarf. It 
 is still chilly in the spring and sometimes a little dusting of snow happens. The fall is beautiful, 
 too. The leaves fall from the trees and it rains alot with lightning and thunder crashing. I only 
 have 512 ram and I thought I would need an upgrade but, I really don't. My community lots sometimes 
 have up to 20 people on them without cheating so, I feel that this is great even if you only have 
 as much ram as I do. I do have a higher end graphics card and updated drivers, that might be helping. 
 All in all this pack is wonderful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendon_34
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Seasons, brings something different into what used to be the everyday grind of skills, 
 making friends, and promotions. Weather is extremely fun, you can build Snowmen, Snow Angels, have 
 plant sims, etc. This is so much better then pets and I just uninstalled pets because it was a 
 bad expansion.
  
  So what I'm saying is, this is by far the best and most meaningful expansion. I love owning my 
 Farm that sells fruits. Snowstorms are really cool, and you can just see how great the game is 
 even from the screenshots. Fishing is also nice and there are some nice easter eggs and suprises, 
 but I won't say anything else. So go ahead, buy the game and see how good it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  As far as expansion packs go, the last few Sims add-ons from EA have been rather disappointing. 
 Open For Business added a much-needed independent career option, but little else, while the content 
 of Pets was pretty much summed up in its title. It seemed like the days of good-value packs where 
 not only did you get an expansion but a host of added features (I'm talking about cars, people) 
 were long gone, forsaken for the cash cows that are stuff packs.
  
  One of the things I always do when I get a new EP is to go through the catalogue looking for new 
 objects. This is usually a good indicator of how good the pack is. Seasons should not disappoint. 
 Obviously there are the new tables, chairs, lamps etc that come with any expansion, but there are 
 quite a number of totally new objects - the best ones being the ice skating and rollerblading rinks. 
 These come in two sizes, and you'd be pretty hard pressed to fit the big one on any but the largest 
 lots. It appears that a Sim's skating skill is linked to their body skill, but once they're ranked 
 high enough they can do all sorts of tricks. One notable addition is the new toilet (finally!) , 
 which will please all of those fans who are sick of just having two johns for their Sims to choose 
 from. Also, Sims can now place objects on their roof, so there's a weather vane and lightning rod 
 (but no satellite dish or antenna) . A pleasant surprise was the new fountain, which is placed in 
 a pond to create a pretty cool effect. The gardening aspect looks pretty good, it's simple enough 
 to set up but should provide quite a bit of gameplay. Like the toy/robot/flower making in Open 
 For Business, what you can grow is directly related to your gardening skill. Your Sims start off 
 being able to produce tomatoes in their vegetable patch, and then strawberries, beans, cucumbers, 
 eggplant, peppers and so on, as they gain gardening badges. Like all other badges, these take absolutely 
 forever to acquire, and there is no meter to show you how your Sim is progressing, so you don't 
 know how long until they reach the new level. Sims are also able to grow oranges, apples and lemons 
 from trees. The quality of your produce depends on how well you care for it. You can add quality 
 by fertilizing the soil, spraying for bugs, watering and weeding regularly, as well as planting 
 inside a greenhouse. Produce can be sold, eaten, juiced or composted to return as something else. 
 Be wary though, gardening will take up a lot of time, depending on how much you want to grow.
 
  
  Related to the gardening is the fishing aspect. Your Sims can now cast a line into any pond and 
 try to catch something. Fishing also uses the badge system with its painfully slow progress, and 
 the higher your badge the better bait you have access to (and thus the better chance you have of 
 catching a good fish) .
  
  The time management is one aspect which is really coming into play now that we have Open For Business, 
 Pets and Seasons. You really do have to choose what your Sim is going to do - they just don't have 
 enough time to run a business, take care of plants, have a career, look after pets and make a family. 
 While in the base game you could pretty much do everything, that's no longer the case unless you 
 turn aging off.
  
  The visuals and mechanics of the seasons are fantastic. This is the first real graphical update 
 that The Sims 2 has had since it was released. I started my game in Winter and got a little worried 
 when no snow appeared after two days, but it came on the third. The upgraded swimming pools look 
 great, as do the different lighting effects of each season. There is something magical about seeing 
 the snow in-game, and the summer thunderstorms are exciting - just don't let your Sims outside 
 or they could get hit by lightning! I remember this being in the original trailer for the game, 
 and it's great they can finally add it in.
  
  I'm also pleased to see the new careers in the pack, the old ones were getting a bit stale. Teens 
 and elders can also access their own versions of these, which again is a nice touch. There are 
 a few new hairstyles, and plenty of new clothes for your Sims (indeed, a whole new category in 
 Outerwear) . It's also great that you can now select a hairstyle to go with each outfit, so your 
 Sim doesn't have to wear that mohawk to bed, for example.
  
  Once again the game sounds fantastic, with weather adding a lot. I recently upgraded my audio to 
 5.1 surround, and having the weather come through the rear speakers is fantastic! I believe also 
 that some more Simlish versions of contemporary songs have appeared (although to be honest these 
 might have been part of Pets, I wasn't paying as much attention to that game) . I laughed really 
 hard the first time I heard the Simlish 'Don't Cha' by The Pussycat Dolls, as well as The Veronicas' 
 'When It All Falls Apart' (go Aussie girls!!!) .
  
  My only criticism of Seasons (and this, I suppose, is of the way EA is handling the game in general) 
 is that there is nowhere near the quantity of what I suppose you would call 'exciting' content 
 that we saw in University and Nightlife. I presume that this is because they want us to buy the 
 stuff packs, but to be honest I'd love to see some more 'big' objects (like the bowling lane, karaoke 
 machine, drum kit, poker table etc.) rather than just yet more tables and chairs - our Sims have 
 enough of those!!!
  
  Seasons appears to be the sort of pack that, like University and Open For Business, will get better 
 as you get deeper into it. I actually lost a lot of interest in the game after Pets, and I think 
 Seasons will have me playing it a lot more. This pack, I believe, will redeem the franchise after 
 two fairly ordinary expansions and three unnecessary stuff packs (except for the fireworks in Holiday 
 Stuff, those are cool...) .
  
  Whether you're a hardcore Simmer or someone who plays casually, this expansion should invigorate 
 your play and bring a whole new level of entertainment to the game. The key success point for Sims 
 expansions seems to be how much they impact the base game in a positive way, and Seasons certainly 
 adds a lot of welcome and exciting new features. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
