-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: House Party
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simshousepartyep/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,652 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Mar 26, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
House Party's new features, which focus primarily on social interaction, enhance the basic game 
 considerably, since they let you throw wild parties and make building houses even more enjoyable. 
 

 The Sims: House Party is the second add-on for Maxis' extremely popular life simulator, The Sims. 
 Like the previous add-on, Livin' Large (which isn't required to play House Party) , House Party 
 adds new household objects, home-decorating themes, and character skins. But most of Livin' Large's 
 additions didn't really add all that much to The Sims' core gameplay. In contrast, House Party's 
 new features, which focus primarily on social interaction, enhance the basic game considerably, 
 since they let you throw wild parties and make building houses even more enjoyable.           House 
 Party focuses on giving your sims more opportunities for social interaction    

 If you're reading this review, you're probably already familiar with The Sims -- the original game 
 let you control the lives of miniature computerized people, or "sims," by either choosing to play 
 as a family of pregenerated sims or by creating them from scratch by customizing their appearances 
 and personalities. Once you'd chosen your family of sims, you'd place them in a house that you 
 could design and build from top to bottom and then manage their lives. You could satisfy (or ignore) 
 their needs of food, rest, amusement, and social contact by feeding them, providing beds for them, 
 entertaining them, and letting them interact with other sims from the neighborhood.   

  If you're familiar with The Sims, you know that one of the most enjoyable and intriguing things 
 about the game is its social system -- the way your sims interact with other sims who have similar 
 or different personalities. You also know that maintaining relationships with your sims is one 
 of the most difficult parts of the game, especially if your sims are trying to pursue careers and 
 don't have much spare time to get to know their neighbors. Fortunately, many of House Party's new 
 features let you entertain and socialize with many different sims at once and often also let you 
 fulfill other needs at the same time. For instance, if you buy the new punch bowl item for your 
 house, sims will mill around it and exchange conversation. And once they've drunk from it, they'll 
 be less hungry and more "entertained" -- though if they drink too much, they may get rowdy. Other 
 sims will gather around to watch if one rides the new mechanical bull item, and the sim riding 
 may even increase its body skill (which may help it advance in certain career paths) .          
  Numerous colorful, new home furnishing options are available    

 Some of the add-on's new items and services don't just help with parties; some are also extremely 
 useful in general for saving time, space, or both. For instance, House Party lets you purchase 
 pre-prepared meals, like roast turkeys, which saves the time and trouble of cooking (and learning 
 to cook) . Or you can hire an expensive caterer over the phone to cook meals for parties or for 
 large families, and if your sims happen to be lonely, the caterer himself will gladly chat with 
 any sims who happen to be hanging around the kitchen. House Party also features a new table, called 
 the "artist's concept table," which is extremely small but can seat four sims. This saves a lot 
 of space in cramped rooms and lets you focus on filling up your sims' house with more interesting 
 fixtures.   

  Designing, building, and furnishing houses have always been some of the most enjoyable aspects 
 of The Sims. And House Party features all-new items, as well as new interior design motifs that'll 
 let you prepare your house for the perfect luau, hoedown, or rave. If you've played The Sims before, 
 you may have enjoyed building houses specifically for making your sims comfortable or fitting a 
 certain dcor. House Party's new fixtures, wallpaper patterns, and items let you design houses 
 specifically around throwing parties and give you plenty to work with. For example, you can plan 
 to throw a luau out near your swimming pool by putting down a campfire and lining the area with 
 tiki statues, or throw an ultramodern dance party with a DJ turntable in front of a lighted dance 
 floor.    

 When you're ready, you can use the game's new phone option to throw a party and invite all your 
 sims' friends over. Parties are an excellent way to get large groups of sims together in one place 
 (without having to make multiple phone calls) and to maintain relationships with multiple sims 
 at once. Once your party has started, you can use some of House Party's new items to entertain 
 your guests. You might try the oversized novelty cake, which hides a private dancer (either male 
 or female) . The dancer will jump out of the cake and flirt with the guests, who'll be either intrigued 
 or jealous. You'll be able to tell whether your guests are having a good time if House Party's 
 "party crasher" character sneaks in -- however, if your guests aren't enjoying themselves, House 
 Party's "mime" character will show up instead and will try to entertain guests by performing a 
 classic mime's routine, which includes "sitting on an invisible chair" and being trapped in an 
 "invisible box."           Your sims can rock and roll all night in House Party    

 Regardless of what sort of parties you throw, if you enjoyed the original game's quirky sense of 
 humor, you'll likely find all the new items and characters to be just as amusing. It seems that 
 Maxis has consciously attempted to get more mileage out of what makes The Sims funny: humorous 
 descriptions of furnishings that you purchase, quirky character animations, and clever use of "simlish," 
 the sims' gibberish language. Fortunately, the developer has succeeded on all counts. Many of the 
 fixtures you can purchase have descriptions that are as amusing as those of both the previous add-on 
 and the original game. And though sims still look the same -- hand-animated polygonal models that 
 live in 2D houses -- their look has aged well. Sims also have a number of new animations that are 
 extremely funny. Put a sim in a dancing cage at a dance party, and it'll jump, twirl, and climb 
 up the bars. Seat one around a campfire and command it to sing, and it'll whip out an acoustic 
 guitar as the other sims will sing campfire songs in simlish. Simlish itself is featured more prominently 
 than ever in House Party. In fact, the game's soundtrack features more than 20 all-new songs that 
 include rap, disco, and techno music, and all songs are delivered convincingly in simlish.     
       A techno rave is one of several party themes available    

 Though House Party does add an entirely new gameplay focus to The Sims, it doesn't change the game's 
 basic structure or fix its few underlying flaws. House Party's camera is still a bit sluggish, 
 and the expansion hasn't improved the sims' pathfinding -- nor has it introduced any way around the 
 game's inherently inconsistent pacing. You'll still find yourself speeding up the game to skip 
 through mundane activities like eating or cleaning up, as well as pausing the game to make sure 
 your sims go through a sequence of important events, like greeting someone at the door and then 
 quickly returning to the party for another dance. And like The Sims, House Party doesn't let you 
 follow your sims to work.   

  Then again, House Party isn't about work; it's about throwing parties that can actually help your 
 sims maintain relationships while holding down steady jobs. The expansion's new items and fixtures 
 let you host elaborate dinners, dances, and pool parties, and since it adds an additional three 
 empty neighborhoods (for a total of eight different neighborhoods) , you'll be able to create even 
 more miniature communities. Like Livin' Large, House Party doesn't fix any of The Sims' inherent 
 flaws -- neither game was intended to. House Party was made for throwing wild parties for your sims 
 and creating even more varied homes for them to live in. And it does just that.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  What we have been waiting for in The Sims has finally happened in House Party with the great ability 
 to host parties with new music, new furniture and to disco away at your own house!
  
  Such new furniture is the dance floor where Sims dance along with loud music. The DJ Table is new 
 where Sims can DJ and listen to a good variety of music. As soon as I installed House Party, I 
 kept playing for 3 hours but it still lacks the ability to be completely addicted with new things 
 to do all the time. New NPC's such as Gatecrashes can break up parties and make them less enjoyable 
 to guests.
  
  I would say that House Party is another good expansion pack to the Awesome Sim series. There is 
 nothing that could put your doubts up for this game except the fact that over a few months play, 
 it does start to get a little repetetive.
  
  The Sims is all about creating a Sim and controlling it in a basic house with modest furniture 
 and luxury entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in the Sims: house party hasnt changed since the Sims 1 but now the focus is now 
 on house parties. There are now around 100+ new objects, new characters added; 5 new dance styles; 
 5 new types of music and three new themes for you to make your perfect party for your Sims. Other 
 then all the party stuff, dance styles, new music and character the gameplay is pretty much the 
 same from the first game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the Sims is a little plain but overall quite good, the game models look nice and 
 so does the houses and the furniture, all the stuff in this expansion pack all looks nice and goes 
 well with the house party theme, the blend of 2D and 3D graphics add to the effect and make the 
 game look nice. Overall the graphics in the Sims look good but do look a little plain.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the Sims is great, the music you get the game is good. The Sims language 
 (simlish) sounds nice. There is some music in the game what you get from the radio what sounds 
 good. They are 5 new types of music in the game which all sounds great. Overall the sound in the 
 Sims sounds great.
  
  Value
  The value for this game is good. This expansion pack has added a lot of stuff that adds to the 
 games value. It keeps its life simulation (open-ended) gameplay. Overall the value for the Sims: 
 house party is great and adds a lot of stuff to the game.
  
  Overall experience
  Overall if want more stuff added to the original game then you should pick up the Sims: house party. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) When I first started playing this game I got addicted. I loved the graphics 
 and how I could control almost all aspects of my Sims life. The modding community is spectacular 
 and you can find just about everything you could imagine to add to the game. The characters actually 
 talk so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. There's a lot of stuff you can buy for 
 your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick 
 from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, 
 (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours 
 to let your imagination run wild in. The expansion packs just keep coming and I love all the additions 
 they bring.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMeli
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Sims receive a new extension which endeavours to bring a little more innovation than the preceding 
 one. Social environment fiesta and relations are thus with the program of this new add one: Party.
 
  
  Here thus a new extension directly intended for the fans of Sims since it will enable them to decorate 
 the life of their protected from some pretty sprees. To say that Sims: Party does only that, would 
 be reducing and it is thus of new characters, new social interactions and a whole crowd of objects 
 which unload with this extension. The fans thus will be been useful but the others are likely as 
 for them to make a little the grimace bus apart from these some elements the play remains nevertheless 
 always the same one and does not profit from profound change. A little innovation while making 
 in continuity, here the principle of this extension which however endeavours to be more innovative 
 than the preceding one.
  
  Difficult to say if E. A exploits the Sims seam again where if it endeavours to enrich truly the 
 play, always is it that Surprise-Partie brings with him a hundred new objects more or less related 
 to the festival but especially increasingly Community. It is thus of new interiors to cultivate 
 the style baba or the kitch disco music and of course all the accessories making it possible to 
 make spit Watts which make their appearance. New characters are also with go and will come to reinforce 
 the social aspect of the life of your Sims. Friends who unload with the improvist to pass a pleasant 
 evening, MIME which comes to break environment or the organizer who comes to put fire at your evening. 
 A it and phone call left, a whole long string of buddies come to make the spree with your protected. 
 New districts also make their appearance and will make it possible to carry out constructions with 
 topics or to build true communities. The activity of group and the recreation are indeed the prevalent 
 elements of this add one resolutely centered on the dimension of the leisures which is granted 
 to Sims.
  
  But apart from these sympathetic nerves innovations and which will make mainly the happiness of 
 the fans, the play remains however equal to itself in term of gameplay and interest. Admittedly 
 the possibilities are reinforced and longevity also but those which expected deep modifications 
 of the Artificial Intelligence or of certain heavinesses, is likely to be disappointed. Party makes 
 it possible to have fun the festival but does not renovate the system of play by making it possible 
 mainly to manage the evenings between Sims now. One would have accomodated with open arms some 
 modifications of the engine of play or a revision of the level Of I. A but it would seem that it 
 is not yet for this-time. Those which were bored at the sides of Sims will annoy as much with this 
 extension and they are mainly the fans of the initial title who will find their account there.
 
  
  As regards the realization, Sims do not make new skin and graphics remain on the level of what 
 one knew front. New looks however make their appearance without coming however to bring anything 
 of revolutionist. The musics on the other hand profit from particular care insofar as those make 
 from now on left the major elements of the play. They thus do not bring badly of fun to the initial 
 title and make it possible to spend a few good moments behind its screen by looking at Sims dandling 
 itself.
  
  In short, Sims: Party should delight the fans by the original title who will discover there some 
 new rather interesting possibilities and which seem more innovative than those of the preceding 
 extension. The other players as for them should not even pay attention to it if Sims were already 
 not their cup of tea, since the title undergoes only well few modifications and rare improvements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  ok so this is house party in this game you can get strippers bull's bars bar table's dance floors 
 dressup things and so so so much more for you too enjoy in this game! the type's of parties you 
 can make it from coyboy all the way too techno dance rave this is a great game the clothing is 
 so good that they put and they added a cool dressup box for you and your friends can dress up and 
 have some fun! now the thing I didnt like about the expansion was the stripper she was a whore 
 and she would like fall in love with your husband and stuff if you are a girl and this game wasnt 
 really much of a house party because there was no sound when you started a party it was boring 
 depends on how many people but in this game you can get like 20 people over and it's not much fun 
 at all only sometimes if your celebrating a rave boring! but if your celebrating western it's more 
 fun because of the coulour so ummm enjoy the game and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  In this game you get so many new items like a DJ, dance floor, electric cage, a bubble blower, 
 and much more. Also in this game you get alot of new NPC's like the headless ghost, Drew Carey, 
 the mime, caterer, pink gorilla, party crashers, Boxers, and Santa Claus. Some might be weird but 
 their all there. Finally your Sims can throw parties. Now you can be friends with other people 
 that don't live in the neighborhood. This game is way better than livin'large. There is so much 
 stuff to do and new themes like western theme and party theme. This game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  amm so the game : THE SIMS its a great game because
  its a new stuff that no one played befor . . . you are making a family
  and you can build them 
 a house and you are putting every thing there like you want and you are sending them to job and 
 school and all that stuff are very fun
  because you are like the god of them.
  you are telling them to eat when they are hungry and when to go to the bath room
  and when to 
 clean and when to fix and this is realy fun but its getting board realy quick and why?? because 
 they aren't growing up and dies when they are old . . . so you are old the time doing the same 
 stuff and nothing change . . .
  and thats somthing that gett boring very quick and then its not that fun . . .
  so its nice in 
 the begining but then its getts board and you don't wanna tuch this game any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanseese
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I'm not taking away from the original Sims. Maxis played it safe with this expansion pack. Some 
 of the differences are new purchase items that help improve the rooms in your house, (which is 
 the best part of this expansion) , which helps keep your sims happier. Cool. That's about all you'll 
 be happy about. I doubt to many people even purchased this set. I did, but I should've just bought 
 Sims 2. If you are thinking about buying this game, make sure you get it for cheap. Actually, just 
 don't bother. I'm actually having a hard time saying anything else that is good about this expansion 
 pack, so you can stop reading my lame review for this lame game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Maybe this game had givin more features but still it is full with crap! The game had a total letdown, 
 i really was dissapointed and not enough things. But there are party things you could do which 
 is pretty fun... C R A P C R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC 
 R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A 
 PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R 
 A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC 
 R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A PC R A P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  The Sims : House Party doesn't really add on a huge new difference to the original game, The Sims. 
 It doesn't add a whole new area and a whole new thing to do in life. The Sims : House Party basically 
 adds on lots of more items and gives you the option to have parties in your house. The option of 
 inviting people over and having a party in your house is actually quite good. Many of the new items 
 are pretty fun. This expansion has been based around music in a way and that is a good thing because 
 music adds a good element to the game.
  
  The graphics haven't changed but the sound has improved and so has the gameplay because there are 
 more options. This is a fun expansion to add on to your Sims game because it is nice a simple. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Thank heavens. Living Large was not one of the best ever expansions. I am thrilled about this expansion 
 for Sims.
  
  Other than adding an additional 125+ items for you to buy, it also adds a few new game play changes.
 
  
  You are now able to throw a party at your house. This is excellent. You can invite all your friends 
 and relatives and get it on. 
  
  Of course now you actually have to throw a great party or else people will leave unsatisfied and 
 you will get a disastrous rating for your part. You have a few minutes to impress your guest and 
 if you don't do it, YOU SUCK! You can't just have your simple old radio and TV anymore to get your 
 guests to enjoy the party. You need Food, drinks and a great dance floor. 
  
  The new objects are specifically designed to entertain your sims. So go ahead and create your own 
 little club in your backyard.
  
  Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I've never really liked the Sims, it is rather dull and slow, and House Party in no way improves 
 that. I guess this is one for the die hard fans.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  It's virtually the same game as the first. It, in no way, plays any different. The addition of 
 new items hardly changes the game, and overall it is a poor attempt at improving the franchise... 
 and frankly seems like something to milk more money from the series.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Graphics, like gameplay, have had no improvment. It's still just mediocre characters with pretty, 
 dressed up scenary. Nothing to go hypo or get excited about!!!
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Don't worry... this is no different either.
  
  Overall: 6.6/10 (Sims score: 6.0/10)
  The 
 small improvment made up for its lacking items/tools but hardly did anything innovative with the 
 series. Ohwell, for Sims addicts have a go. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
