-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Open for Business
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesims2openforbusiness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Self-employment highly flexible.
 New business skills provide new way to improve your sims.
 Listening to licensed music in simlish is a total trip.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Has zero bearing on established career paths.
 Same old technical problems such as weird pathing, buggy items, and so on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,708 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Feb 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By introducing new job-related skills, the ability to hire and fire, and a healthy number of new 
 items, Open for Business makes it fun to put your sims to work. 

  The Sims 2 charges you with guiding virtual people through nearly every minute detail of their 
 simulated, suburban lives, ranging from when to use the bathroom to who to marry. But one task 
 that has always been a big, black hole in Maxis' suburban-lifestyle simulation is work. Yes, your 
 sims can flourish in a multitude of job paths, becoming filthy, stinking rich in the process, but 
 the actual work is purely theoretical, and you never see them lift a finger. Open for Business, 
 the third expansion pack for The Sims 2, adds an entrepreneurial edge to the action, letting you 
 start your own business. Putting your sims to work may not sound initially enthralling, but Open 
 for Business makes the daily grind plenty engaging, with the same quirky flair that series fans 
 know and love.  

          They work hard for the money. Virtually hard for the money.     

  All you need to start 
 your own business is a phone, an open/close sign, and possibly a cash register, the latter two 
 of which represent just a few of the new items that Open for Business introduces. You can use your 
 sim's house phone or computer to start up the business, hire employees, and buy and sell real estate. 
 If you're starting a fresh sim, though, you might opt to first run your business out of the home, 
 since buying and operating a commercial lot can be expensive. The open/close sign makes it easy 
 to call in and send away customers and employees, and the cash register is necessary if you're 
 in the business of selling goods, though there are plenty of businesses that can be done without 
 one.  

  Once you've established your business, you're going to need to decide what you're in the business 
 of, exactly. If you choose to buy and sell goods, you'll go into a modified version of the "Buy" 
 mode, which allows you to purchase any available item in the sim catalog at a wholesale price, 
 and then sell it for a markup. There are some items that you can sell that you cannot buy from 
 the catalog, such as toys, robots, and floral bouquets. To acquire these items, you'll need to 
 purchase special workstations for your place of business. You can also choose to offer a service, 
 such as a beauty salon or a bar. Lastly, you can create a business that charges people simply for 
 being there. Best of all, none of these business models are mutually exclusive, and you can mix 
 and match as you please, making your lifelong dream of opening a disco/hair salon/electronics store 
 a virtual reality!  

  The success of your business hinges on a lot of different factors. Open for Business introduces 
 a whole slew of new business-related skills for you to develop, from restocking shelves to sales, 
 and the proficiency of you and your employees in these various fields will greatly impact how your 
 customers receive you. You'll want to keep an eye out for your employees, too, since their moods 
 can affect business, and if you've got a sim that's slacking off on its duties or taking too many 
 breaks, you'd better fire them snap quick.  

  The game employs a new star system to signify customer satisfaction. As the star rating of your 
 establishment increases, not only will you notice an influx of business, but also you'll get special 
 business perks, which can range from an instant boost in all of your relationships to deep discounts 
 on merchandise you buy. A successful business has value beyond the physical attributes of its location, 
 and you can sell off a solid operation for a tidy profit, making it possible to bankroll bigger 
 and better businesses. Virtually any commercial lot in the game, including many of the lots found 
 in the two prior expansion packs for The Sims 2, can be purchased.  

  Additionally, your sims don't need to be old enough to hold down a job to make a couple extra simoleans 
 for the family. One of the new items introduced in Open for Business is a lemonade stand, which 
 you can plunk right on your front lawn. The attraction of your delicious wares to passersby is 
 largely based on how much you charge, though selling rancid lemonade probably won't help boost 
 business.  

  Part of what makes Open for Business so strategically interesting is that running your own business 
 doesn't preclude you from having a regular career path. Seasoned players of The Sims will know 
 that time management is one of the key skills you'll need to cultivate healthy, well-rounded sims. 
 Between the time spent at a career, maintaining the household, and cultivating social ties with 
 other sims, there are hardly enough hours in the day for a sim to take on a second job. Thankfully, 
 and rather arbitrarily, time spent on a commercial lot doesn't equate to time spent at home. What 
 this means is that you can come home from your day job, go to your store and work a full shift, 
 and be back home in time for supper. Though a regular career will initially provide a better steady 
 income than self-employment, you don't necessarily  need  a regular career in order to support 
 your sims. Another perk of owning your own business is that you get to make your own hours. If 
 you're too darn busy on a particular day, you can simply choose not to open up shop. In fact, you 
 can go on an extended hiatus from your own business without any kinds of repercussions -- a little 
 unrealistic but helpful in keeping your business from becoming overly stressful.  

  The Sims 2 looks and sounds as good as it ever has in Open for Business. The myriad of new items 
 that you can buy -- there are 125 new items in all -- make it easy to build a business with its own 
 unique look and style. The new animations that go along with your business-related activities all 
 do a great job of conveying the task at hand, and some of them can be quite hilarious -- watch as 
 customers sob after you give them a terrible new haircut or snap after a sales-sim pushes them 
 too far.  

          Wow your friends by singing the simlish lyrics to Too Shy at karaoke next time.     

 
  The new simlish that goes along with all of these antics fits as well, though more interesting 
 is the addition of a New Wave radio station. Like the people on all of the other radio stations 
 in The Sims 2, everyone here speaks the made-up language of simlish, but on the New Wave station, 
 they happen to be real bands and real songs. Depeche Mode, Kajagoogoo, Howard Jones, and The Epoxies 
 each rerecorded one of their songs for Open for Business. All of the new music is catchy, and though 
 the feature whiffs mildly of marketing synergy, it is nothing short of surreal when you hear David 
 Gahan singing a song off Depeche Mode's latest album in simlish.  

  Open for Business operates as advertised -- your sims can own and operate their very own businesses, 
 running them as they see fit. The suite of activities that goes along with being self-employed 
 is well-varied and open-ended in the true spirit of The Sims, and the lives of these virtual people 
 seem that much less abstract because of it. Open for Business makes the already-addictive formula 
 of The Sims 2 that much more compelling, so the game is almost a sure thing for established fans. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (96 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was the signature game that put EA on the gaming map, it was an instant world hit, and 
 got people even more interested in simulation games. The sequel was AWESOME, and another best seller, 
 with new 3d graphics, and a whole lot more personalization and customization. I have played the 
 Sims for hours on end, and, as soon as I got the money, I got the Sims 2 double deluxe, and, after 
 much thinking, Open For Business. I think that it is one of the best expansion packs, because sure, 
 if you want, you can send your sim to work, waiting for a while until he/she gets back, or you 
 can OWN AND MANAGE A TOP-SELLING STORE, RESTAURANT, and more! You can even hire employees, set 
 individual outfits, set them to different positions, hire one to manager, or, when you get fed 
 up with them, you can fire them and set them out on the streets on their butts! What is really 
 cool is that, as you get higher levels/rep for your business, you can get things called "Business 
 Perks," which can help you sell, or get to know the customers better. For example, you can get 
 "Dazzle," where you can talk to a potential customer, and either get them all hyped up about the 
 product, which makes them buy it, or makes them look at you strangely. You can even visit other 
 businesses for services or products, too! This expansion pack has all the realistic features and 
 customization of an actual business. The bottom line: a highly fun and addictive expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first "The Sims" game, most gamers watched little Joe Sim as he went in his carpool 
 and drove to work. You waited till he came back and continued with his life. Sometimes you wish 
 you could go with Joe to work, but you knew, deep down, you couldn't. BUT not anymore! You can 
 go with Joe to work... actually, to his very own business!
  
  --Graphics --
  
  The graphics have stayed the same since the first "The Sims 2" game. Not much they could've changed, 
 but the graphics are still really good!
  
  8/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  Little Joe goes to his phone, buys a community lot and travels there. Here you can build your unique 
 business with many new items, including elevators! But, what do you want to sell in your business? 
 Basically anything! Want a pet store? Add some food bowls, a bird cage and a dog display and you 
 can sell them. To set the prices is actually pretty neat. You can select the normal value, but 
 if your just starting out, you can make things cheap so your store gets a good review. But, oh 
 no, Joe hasn't payed his bills and the repo man has taken some of his stuff. Well since your store 
 is in such good shape, might as well raise the prices to get some extra bucks. Now employees, you 
 can hire about 8 of them for your whole business. They can either sell items, restock items, be 
 cashiers, etc... But, Sim employees aren't automatically good at these things. You can hire a really 
 good salesman, but your cashier can be very slow and forgetful and upset your costumers. So be 
 sure to pick good employees and try to get ones that have badges. Oh yeah, another new feature 
 is badges, which means if your sim gets better and better at something, they get bronze, silver 
 or gold badges. If you see a possible Sim employee with gold badges, then you NEED them for you 
 business!
  
  8/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Now that more expansions are coming out, the old LONG loading screens have pretty catchy tunes 
 while your waiting to either enter Pleasantview or go to your own business. The Sims 2: Open for 
 Business adds new tunes and they are gooooood!
  
  9/10
  
  --Story --
  
  It's whatever you want it to be! Like I've mentioned before, the PC version of The Sims 2 gives 
 you the freedom to do anything. Want your Sim to have a crappy business and get bad reviews and 
 loose all his money? Go ahead! Or do you want your Sim to have the best buisness in SimCity and 
 that he is so attached to it that he dies on the buisness lot itslef? (RIP Joe) Then go ahead! 
 Basically anything you want, you can do! Now most Sims expansions add some abnormal Sim-like thing 
 you can be or become. In Open for Business, they add Servos! Yes that famous robot from the first 
 game is back, but he has changes. For one, you need to work to get him. You need to get a gold 
 badge in robotics to be able to make one. Once you make it, you can control like a Sim. It can 
 get a job, have relationships, even get married! But don't forget, it still does your chores for 
 you, even if free will is off! Another great addition!
  
  10/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  The Sims 2: Open for Business was a great idea for an expansion! It finally got die hard fans to 
 actually come with their Sims to work and help them succeed. Why get a crappy Politics job, when 
 you can have the best  store, EVER!
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbchudno
Rating: 4
Date: May 20, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Good things about expansion.
  
  Many new things to do. New sources of money. Ability to really work from home. New playable type 
 of characters (robots) . New items. All those things definitely make the game more fun and give 
 you somewhat improved SIMming experience. :) Unfortunately, review does not end here.
  
  Bad things about expansion.
  
  New ways to die. I mean, you add a elevator to the game, a way 
 to move level to level that will be used constantly. Yet they give it a chance to kill my character? 
 A character who can be immortal by using aspiration rewards... All things considering, i do not 
 know a single person who died in elevator crash in real life. Why not to make elevator break down 
 and having to be fixed by calling a tech with you being stuck there for duration instead of killing 
 sim and it would be ok. 
  
  Here is another way to die. Must be a theme for this expansion. Robots are destructive. They go 
 crazy, start melting your house and you sims.... Might be an OK for large family house with full 
 family living in there where if 1 left alive he can revive the rest, but still unacceptable for 
 people who do not want to control more then 1 sim in the game.
  
  For people who wants to play a single character (meaning that nobody can revive you if you happen 
 to die) thats is unacceptable. Yet this is not the main reason why i removed the expansion because 
 those things can be ignored simply by avoiding building elevators or robots. 
  
  Main reason why i removed it was that it completely destroyed balance of existing professions. 
 Why would i work towards building career of my character if i can make 15-20 thousand credits in 
 a day of trading in a store right from my house without much effort? In fact, after running a store 
 for few weeks, you can pretty much let your employees run it completely without ANY input and still 
 make 10k+ per day. That expansion feels like a money cheat taking away any reason to make friends, 
 advance skills, etc... I have tried to take up building toys and other things but there seems to 
 be so little benefit to that comparing to simply buy items and sell them at higher prices (paintings 
 for example) . Compare that to 10-15k you can make in a week in existing careers while having to 
 maintain all the requirements for promotion... Major flaw right here.
  
  I understand that this can be a case of me being spoiled with excellent expansions they came out 
 with like University, Nightlife, Seasons... etc that really added to the existing game without disrupting 
 things in major way. But in any case i can not rate this expansion high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of Sim Game I've been dreaming of for the Sims2!!! Open for bussiness is Great!!!! 
 First you can sell almost anything, either at home or on a community lot, Sell everything from 
 food, to cloathes, to Cars, then Jewlery, to a Community Lot. Then You Can make Your Business a 
 true sucess by become really good friends with the sim who reveiws your business this make having 
 a top 10 Business really great and exciting. Build relatiionships with other sims even faster, 
 because they soon will become regular customers that you deal with on a regular basis and the more 
 you deal with them the more your relationships grow. There is also the ability to train employees 
 and have mangers to over see the business while you out doing other things. 
  
  The Sims 2 Open for business makes for a great business simulation game without geting to detaled 
 and overwhelming for those who are still interested in having fun with the game as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of Sim Game I've been dreaming of for the Sims2!!! Open for bussiness is Great!!!! 
 First you can sell almost anything, either at home or on a community lot, Sell everything from 
 food, to cloathes, to Cars, then Jewlery, to a Community Lot. Then You Can make Your Business a 
 true sucess by become really good friends with the sim who reveiws your business this make having 
 a top 10 Business really great and exciting. Build relatiionships with other sims even faster, 
 because they soon will become regular customers that you deal with on a regular basis and the more 
 you deal with them the more your relationships grow. There is also the ability to train employees 
 and have mangers to over see the business while you out doing other things. 
  
  The Sims 2 Open for business makes for a great business simulation game without geting to detaled 
 and overwhelming for those who are still interested in having fun with the game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Several new gameplay features are added that relate to businesses, including a new "Talent Badge" 
 skill system, the ability to craft new items from specialized workbenches and a "perk" system for 
 business owners.
  
  Like the previous two expansion packs, Open for Business introduces a new expansion neighborhood: 
 a shopping district, meant to represent the main street of the area. Sim-owned businesses are not 
 restricted to the shopping district, and may be opened in the base neighborhood (both in the same 
 residential lot as the business owner and as separate community lots) or in the downtown destination 
 expansion neighborhood introduced in The Sims 2: Nightlife, though the game manual suggests that 
 shopping district lots are more expensive and have higher foot traffic.
  
  The main change to the core game introduced by Open for Business is a new neighborhood type - the 
 Shopping District, the default one being named Bluewater Village. A number of Sims live here, such 
 as a toymaking family, a woman who owns a home-based flower shop, a family bakery, and a rich tycoon 
 who owns a nightclub and an electronics shop.
  
  Community lots are made more flexible now, removing many of the gameplay restrictions that were 
 present on them in the original game. Players can now save the game while their Sims are visiting 
 community lots. Reloading their household automatically takes the player to the community lot where 
 the Sims are located. The downside of this ability is that Sims can now die on community lots, 
 but only on ones that the player controls.
  
  Like the previous expansions, new Wants and Fears and interactions were added, including a new 
 Lifetime Want and several new interactions for children. Some changes to items from the base game 
 are also present, for example, doors are now lockable (to allow only one Sim, the whole family 
 and/or employees entrance) .
  
  Several features from Nightlife and University, such as turn ons and turn offs, are available to 
 players without those expansion packs.
  
  The entire new concept of running businesses is the game's main new feature, and a new direction 
 for The Sims, as it now includes elements of a tycoon game. The game allows the player to control 
 various aspects of running a business including picking which products to sell, hiring and firing 
 employees, and running a home business. The game also rewards the player for meeting several predetermined 
 goals; also, a mystery shopper may visit the business and critique it.
  
  Open for Business adds new functionality to a Sims' productivity around the house. Sims are able 
 to craft new items, including toys, flower arrangements or robots. Additional items include those 
 aimed specifically at enhancing the business setting, like Cash Registers, Beauty salon chairs, 
 child-oriented toys, and Mission Style furniture. Also increasing efficiency around the house is 
 the addition of the Servo, a household robot, which can perform banal tasks and function like a 
 Sim in regards to Social interaction. Some new items, called "Bots" in general, aim to increase 
 productivity on a lower scale than Servo's operation, usually performing one task, such as cleaning 
 the floor or watering plants.
  
  Open For Business adds more functionality to Build Mode. Open For Business adds Elevators to the 
 game. Elevators both open a new possibility for a public WooHoo and create a risk for fatality 
 by plummeting. Domed, conical and octagonal roofs in different sizes are now available. Players 
 may also build split-level floors and add Awnings. Doors may now also be locked by a home or business 
 owner, to either the selected sim, family or employees only.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akzy
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  New fetures include new items and run your own shops! The new items are always welcome to any sims 
 2 fan. However the new gameplay of running your own shop isnt really all that great, just annoying. 
 I tried making a toy shop with the toys all made by me. In the end i made 1 toy every day and just 
 bought the rest from the catologue and ending up loosing money for another employees wages. In 
 the end i had in total 5 emplyees who ended up quiting and just getting me frustrated. Unlike when 
 you work normally you cant really get your skills up otherwise you loose customer satifactions 
 stars and you'll get bad reviews. All in all a lets down to a great series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: german84
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Picture the situation: You are trapped into an office, enslaved... I mean... employed by a guy 
 who pays you a lame salary and burdens you with is bad temper, his personal troubles, his ambition... 
 and all of a sudden, you get the chance to become your own boss, by opening your own business. 
 Isn't this the best you can do? Well, the answer to all proletarians' prayers is this one: Get 
 your own business!!! (By the way, it also happens in real life)
  
  Now, the sims can be their own bosses, and the architects of their own financial-fate. Possibilities 
 are very broad, from lemmonade stands, to servo-industry, and from convenience-stores to financial 
 empires... It only takes some assets and stock, a few management skills, and your very own troop 
 of slaves... I mean... employees. to keep crazy low-prices or perform barbarian robberies, it is 
 up to your sim.
  
  All of this benefits can be yours for a long time, unless an elevator kills your sim (litterally) . 
 Good luck!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  This is the 3rd Expansion Pack in the Sims 2 franchise. This is a great expansion pack because 
 it adds new ways to earn some freakin money, withought this expansion pack you would have to dissapear 
 for 5 hours just to get some money, which sucks and gets old. This game also includes, robots, 
 workbenches, talent badges, loads and loads and loads of new items, cake, cash register (doi) , 
 new video games to buy (in the game) , and horrible hair treatment (lol) . If u have Sims 2 and 30 
 bucks to spend buy this game. NOW!! Yeah right now! You heard me!! NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  For all the time we had been wanting to see our Sims working, there they are, finally, owning their 
 personal businesses. I was really excited at the idea of my favorite family owning a home business 
 but a little scared it would be a little difficult. How wrong was I. Businesses are easy as... 
 er... easy.
  
  Now, I won't go in all the details, but one interesting thing is that the level of competence of 
 a Sim with a certain perk shows. Bad cashiers just look terrorized when they have to serve customers.
 
  
  Another interesting part is that you see your other Sims shopping in your business. This is a great 
 enhancement to storylines in general. Okay, they'll end up with total random items in their inventories, 
 but still, it's fun.
  
  A salon is one of the easiest and funniest business. You can change Townie's looks and enjoy seeing 
 them walking with it... One of my Sim drew whiskers on an angry customer. He walked around with 
 it for two generations!
  
  But the funniest part ever while owning businesses is to give to your employees... uniforms. The 
 more random, the more fun! Monkeys, pirates, knights, you name it. However, I experienced a bug 
 where, in community lot, Sims changed face at the same time than clothes, but you might not experience 
 that problem.
  
  Finally, the businesses can be used to other means than... just owning businesses. For example, 
 you can make a church and have Sims flowing in only on Sundays... So, yes, Open for Business is 
 a really fun expansion, and really easy to use! You just need a little patience and hop, you have 
 a successful business! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review after both Pets and Seasons reviews were written by me. If you saw them 
 both, i would have made very bad comments about them because they are rather bad. That is because 
 EA developed both Pets and Seasons but Maxis designed all the expansions from OFB and back. This 
 Sims expansion is by the best, followed by Uni and Nightlife because, well, you get to run businesses. 
 And now, nearly all my lots, have business located on them of one kind or another, because i love 
 running these businesses. Now sure, in Pets, you can run a pet stories, in seasons you can run 
 a fruit store but take for example the expansion before this. In Nightlife, you can now run a resturant, 
 or a car showroom, or a nightclub or half a million other things, in university, you run a university, 
 shops, cafes, librarys etc. There is so much more stuff to do in this expansion for the expansions 
 before, than this expansion with the ones after. But if you only have the sims 2, still buy this 
 game, for about &pound;15 in HMV, &pound;20 in GAME, because you can run all sorts of businesses 
 from the base game and this expansion pack. All i can say is that it is a big shame that EA bought 
 Maxis amazing franchise because it has spoilt and reduced the series from this expansion pack onwards 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSchafer3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  We all love expansion packs. The new items and build options (which were fantastic with this game) 
 more things to do, and new places sometimes all get us to buy them and a lot of times I feel a 
 little more than ripped off, but this game is a solid expansion. Good gameplay along with new stuff 
 is something I've been waiting to see for a while. It adds some more realism to the game and now 
 you control your sims at work. Waiting for the car when no one is home kind of gets annoying. Thank 
 God they got a new soundtrack! This one is still Sims-game-dorky in a Lama mascot kind of way, 
 but it is a major improvement. University's awful soundtrack makes me want to crawl into a little 
 hole and die. Thank you Maxis though I wish it were easier to get my own audio files incorporated 
 into the game............ You can see other lots. I always found it kind of amusing that your house 
 seemed to be out in the middle of nowhere, especially in Strangetown. Made it look like Route 66 
 :) I do have a few complaints with it though. I think they should have done something different 
 with the business setting. Maybe a new interface or something? I can't place exactly how, but it 
 should have been seperated further from sims gameplay. The customers didn't act like customemers 
 a lot of times, just visitors to your lot. For example, with my sim's cafe, a guy goes behind the 
 counter and steals stuff out of the fridge and nobody cares. Things like this were extremnely irritating. 
 No waitresses or waiters. That would have been nice. Maybe some signs, or boundary points where 
 customers couldn't enter, I would have like if it had been considered by Maxis. Besides this, though, 
 it's a pretty nice expansion. Heck, if not for the gameplay, go for the stuff. I love my new build 
 options! Don't buy University; get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  You can certainly learn something from this superb game. I really enjoyed playing it. It was really 
 guilty pleasure. I recommend this game to anyone. I loved the businesses you can do. I loved that 
 you can be a boss for youself. It is really a superb and stylish game. I recommend it to any age, 
 any person or just something who wants to make a big big big business someday.
  
  The thing most I enjoyed about this game is that you can pick any businnes you want to have and 
 make money.
  
  To the best series of the sims 2 expansion packs so far. Lets hope for something even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  This Sims 2 Expansion Pack is incredible because the thought about owning a business in the game 
 and taking care of it making profit and loosing money just like in the real world, you will find 
 out how good the game actually is when you play it and especially without the cheats, I may use 
 cheats but sometimes I try not to and when I desperately want to buy something or do something 
 fast that is when I use cheats. The Sims 2 Cheats are brilliant especially the one that makes you 
 do nearly anything you want. The new neighbour hood called blue water village is brilliant I just 
 dont like the houses that they created for us to live in , in other words I can call these houses 
 starter houses. The Landgraab family is filthy, stnking rich, but I wen t to club dante and it 
 was empty I thought it was going to be cool but it was empty and there wasnt really a vibe. The 
 Sims 2 Open For Business is a fantastic game but with a little bit of changes it would be even 
 better. Congratulations EA Games and Maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Love_ya24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I loved that the Sims series added this. I liked that you can start up 
 mostly any shop you wanted. I liked the graphics and that you can also live in a house too. I started 
 a hair salon. I just was never really good at giving them. I had an elevator in our shop. I also 
 started a electric store, that one was a lot better then the other one. I didn't give anyone the 
 manager stop those. I liked going to that store everyday. I had loyal costumers there. Overall, 
 I think this is the best game in the series of the Sims 2 and that is my favorite game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clabrazil
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I just looove all the Sims family, but this one is one of my favorites, really cool new stuff to 
 do..... it's really awesome to make shops and restaurants.... and in this one there are so much 
 more things to stock your shop with.... so much more things to do, much more options and manny 
 more interactions...... didn't have the chance to play it a lot yet, but for what i've seen so far 
 this is one of the best expansion packs realised to date for the sism 2!!!! Brilliantly done..... 
 and the grphics are top noch, really good.... so good they crash my PC sometimes.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  If you got sick of staying in your PC doing nothing while your Sims are at work then you don't 
 to worry anymore about that, now you control your Sims while they are earning their own money.
 
  You are the boss so you hire your employees, you decide everything their salary, their uniform, 
 when they take a break, when they come to go work and when they leave, even make them the business' 
 manager when they become your friends . However, if you push them too hard they will end up quiting 
 the job and you'll have to go and hire a new sim for your business or take his duty. The game also 
 comes with plenty of new custom content, from outfits and hair styles to many game objects.
  Even when all of this sounds like fun not everything is like that. Depending on your computer's 
 performance you may have to wait long time when you go to your business since the game loads the 
 Shoping distrct then the business lot. And when you want to go back home you have to wait again 
 for your neighborhood then your house to load. And when you finally go back home you realize that 
 time has stoped in your house and when you spent many hours at work, time was stoped in your house. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 open for bussiness is the secound best sims 2 game ! (the first is night life) Sims 2 open 
 for bussiness allowes you to have your own bussiness so you can quit your job. Also sims 2 open 
 for bussiness allowes you to have more cheat codes like setHour wich can really help your bussiness. 
 The sims 2 open for bussiness makes your sim have a whole new experince like taking care of your 
 bussiness and having a family bussiness. Anyway if you want to quit your job and make moeny without 
 the cheatcodes get Sims 2 open for bussiness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-Sektor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game costs a pretty penny, since you need to purchase the original Sims 2, but I found it 
 be worth every cent. With Open for Business, you can start your own businesses from the ground-up, 
 either at home or a community lot. You control when the stores open or closed via turning the open\closed 
 sign, hire employees (labor from the family or friends is a wise move) , sell objects (lamps or 
 toilets) or services (cutting hair, etc.) . Your Sim's store will either be the next Wal-Mart or 
 the next victim of bankruptcy. I found it difficult to manage the store since my Sim's moods always 
 become low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I like the new life style that you experience in the Open For Business expansion where you become 
 your own boss and get to own community lots. I love the Sims what better than to have a sequel. 
 I like all the things that you can do on sims2. com and upload in to your game. There are tons of 
 cheats for the game i use the 'motherlode' one all the time so i cam build my mansions with $50,000 
 at a time. I spend more time building houses, than actually playing the game, the game is fun too. 
 i like the abbility to have cell phones, mp3 players, and video games. i also like going to commercial 
 places. most of the time they are built by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Open For Business is the third expansion in the Sims Legacy.
  You can make a business and sell items, you can either make a great fortune, or lose your money 
 and become bankrupt.
  
  The act of selling is quite addictive and, fun. Creating a arcade is the best way of making a fortune. 
 I once got to a level 14 business and made over 100,000+ simoleons. That would turn out to be my 
 most succesful family-ever. I've had by far more busts than success, so be ready to fail a few 
 times.
  
  The Sims 2 Open For Business adds new ways to become wealthy without cheats or the usual job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sssppp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game is so so not fun. This expansion will make you stressed and angry.
  
  In the beginning you will see new stuff and you will be iluded, but later, you won't be able to 
 sell anything. You will always have to repose everything. You will get bored and bored.. oh well.. however 
 if you are a big sims fan you will like this. As usualy great graphics, new objects, still nothing 
 special. Also, it will make the game much slower, and if you don't instal the patch, you will have 
 serious problems.
  
  I recomend other expansions like the sims 2 pets .
  
  Make your choice. Wish you goodluck ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I think the way it allows the user to create their own business and run it 
 from home is awsome. There has never been a game like this before! The new items are great. The 
 ability to higher and fire employees is amazing. Its like having your own business. Not only is 
 it fun but it can also teach you some things on how to run a business. I give alot of credit to 
 the programmers of this game. Being a programmer myself I know how difficult it is to come up with 
 programs that are fast and good. Overall I think this game is one of the greatest Sims games on 
 the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeQueen
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE Sims fan, and I was hoping that this game would be alot of fun to play! However, I have 
 to be honest and tell you that this game was not only very frustrating to play, but very time consuming 
 as well! You are supposed to own you own business, but it just isn't about sitting back and raking 
 in the profits, as in real life you have to WORK ALOT to make your business a success! You can even 
 fire people on this game which is really cool, the graphics on this game are okay, and if you like 
 the Sims 2 game, you will like this game alot! If you are interested in owning your own business 
 someday, then you will want to play this game to see what it is really like to not only own your 
 own business, but you are also responsible for selling things in your business too! Personally, I 
 was disappointed with how frustrating and hard this game seemed to be, but maybe you would like 
 to give this game a try, and see for yourself if you would like it or not!! Cherokee Queen :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  ... but you get to run your on business and learn how to. It like teaching how to control your business 
 in real life (if your gonna have any) . And you get to do all the stuff like employing employees 
 and firing for no good reason or cuz they're old or something. You'll get addicted to it and u 
 wnt stop until your eyes hurt.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics - compared to most games - is pretty good. And i think it suits the games Sims and 
 Sims2. And i really dont know what else to say about the graphics apart from that.
  
  Sound the Sound is a catchy tune and itll be on your head for a while. It suits the sims perfectly 
 and its great basically.
  
  i personally think its a cool game. Thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  I 'm a Sim fan, this part of the game is cool becasue you kind of make your sim busy doing work 
 they get tired though but is good for them to earn money and be proud of what they do.
  
  In this third expansion for Sims 2, the Sims are all about the business.
  The Sims are getting 
 down to business! In The Sims 2 Open for Business expansion pack, your Sims can create virtually 
 any kind of business, from a trendy clothing boutique, hip beauty salon, blooming floral shop, 
 high-end electronics store, or bustling restaurant chain. Your Sims will have to hire the staff, 
 train the employees, and as the business grows, assign the most talented Sims to work on a variety 
 of projects such as making toys, arranging a floral boutique or manufacturing robots. From clever 
 tinkerer to master craftsman, you'll develop your Sim's talents to best suit your business needs. 
 As a savvy entrepreneur, your Sims must keep an eye out for slacker employees and be prepared to 
 fire them as quickly as you hired them. Will your Sims be the largest fashion retailer around, 
 build an innovative business empire or launch the next BIG thing?
  
  Create a Bustling Business Open your Sims dream store, decorate it from the ground up and watch 
 it thrive! Choose the floor plan &amp; design, hire employees and buy merchandise. You can sell 
 anything from clothing and electronics to toys, flowers and robots. Have fun teaching your Sim 
 that the customer is king and maintain employee morale by creating interesting sales incentives. 
 Your Sim will do everything needed to create a lucrative -- and fun -- business.
  Who's the Boss? Your Sims Are! Now your Sims can train, promote and hire employees. They can cater 
 to different customers from browsers to loyal shoppers, even dress their employees' in wacky mascot 
 outfits to grab consumers' attention. Your Sim can be the boss of the happiest workers in your 
 Sims neighborhood!
  Learn the Tricks of the Trade Improve your Sim's sales skills and determine if your employees should 
 use a hard sell or drop the price to close the deal. Teach winning techniques to help your Sims 
 win the best-of-the-best award, thus establishing your Sim's business reputation.
  Turn Talents into Cash Have a master-skilled Sim waiting to turn their talents into profit? From 
 arranging flowers and designing robots to serving food and making toys, your Sim can create the 
 most valued, expensive goods in the business and get virtually paid for it!
  More than 125 New Items Stock up on essentials for your Sim's business, including display cases, 
 makeover station, salon chair, toy workbench, flower arranging stations, cash registers, and more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun in some ways. It's interesting to run your own business, but it's kind of boring 
 too. This expansion pack seems empty and pointless... like the developers couldn't think of anything 
 interesting, so they just said hey lets make the game so you can run your own business . I don't 
 think the idea really was worth making an entire expansion for. The only thing I love about it 
 is that you can make humanoid robots, that never die and repair themselves pretty much... they're 
 much easier to play with than regular sims. Anyway, that's about it. Hopefully the next expansion 
 will be much better... but I feel like I wasted my money on this game. It's not that great unless 
 you love love love tycoon games and are addicted to business running and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Jak723
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 Open for business:
  
  well, the game is pretty much just reprogramed of the sims 2. the game, is a very good game, but 
 the game is just borring. If you enjoi making buildings and running a business in there, then this 
 is the game for you. If you enjoi making buildings and putting people in it to watch them make 
 babies, stick to the sims 2. You dont need the extenction... The game is good for training yourself 
 for businees if you are going to be an entrepreneur. the game allows you to run almost a total 
 relistic busines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy667
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Ive been a sims fan since the first sims came out. I have bought every expansion pack for the sims 
 1 and 2. This latest one is a blast, but tricky. Theres alot of new stuff added to the game. This 
 includes a shopping district (simaler to downtown) . The business aspect is very fun. But, i took 
 me 2 days to learn you had to put stuff on sale. You need employees, and sometimes they just slack 
 off. Your sims also get some new wants and fears as usual, my favorite being fire someone. If you 
 are a sims fan, buy this immedatly. If you arent, try the sims 2 first, if you like it, get this 
 and the other expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsmyth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Open For Business is yet another great game in the series. They keep coming up with new 
 ideas that always seems to keep the fans happy.
  
  It isnt easy to et used to the new features in this game, there plenty of new panels and buttons 
 to use, its just getting to know what they are for thats tricky. You get to basically control your 
 staff and run the shop all on your own, this means you can price your items for sale, and even 
 make your items. The toy shop has many new items that can be made using the new workshop and good 
 crafting skills.
  
  Hiring and firing your staff is very fun, they dont take being sacked very well.. Its my favourite 
 game in the series so far, but I know Pets will kick its backside! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pink2006
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  the sims can finally open up their own business on just whatever!! you can sell baby stuff, furniture, 
 paintings, even refrigerators!! just let your imagination run wild when designing your shops (my 
 favorites are "stuff for tots" and "greenhouses" :D ) . too bad they can't sell cars, it's a huge 
 let down, but, oh well. they can own their own clubhouses and restaurants, which is very cool. 
 also, if you have high qualified employees, you can promote them to run your business so you earn 
 money during your sleep :D . 
  
  tons of new items, especially for the new stores. so go wild shopping!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hladyb4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This has been my favorite EP to date. Now your sims can actually leave home to work. No waiting 
 on a carpool and disappearing for a few sim hours only to reappear at the end of their workday. 
 This EP allows your sim to own a business, hire and manage employees and merchandise and make decisions 
 for that company. With it's rewards system based on customer loyalty, employee sucesses and sales, 
 you can take your business from a fledgling enterprise to a 5-star establishment. When choosing 
 employees, you use your phone to hire, you get a list of available employees with their skills 
 and badges they've earned and their asking wage. Based on what you need for your store, you then 
 hire them. Once hired you then assign them a job, either sales, cash register or restocking. Your 
 employees can earn badges based on their job performance . As your employee gets more proficient 
 in their job you have to adjust their salary. All these things are done with a neat little interface 
 that sits in the right top of your screen that allows you to set prices for items, track employees 
 and adjust salary. If your employee doesn't work out you can fire them. Having a slow day... you 
 can send some of them home. You can also set a uniform that they wear when they come to work. This 
 is a really good EP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog2293
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  In this expansion pack you get to own your own business ranging anywhere from flowers, toys, robots, 
 furniture, food, pastrys, cars, selling pretty much anything! The only problem i see with this 
 game is that it takes a little while to get the talent badges, and when you have grumpy customers 
 that are hard to sell to and ruin your reputation (but it doesn't happen very often) . This game 
 flows good with nightlife since you can sell cars and it's nice to have your own to drive to work. 
 So this is a good game worth buying for about $30 most places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallonebrownme
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  the open for business pack to me adds variety to an already good game series, first not only does 
 your sims choose a business of their dreams but they can be so successful that they can now hire 
 managers to run the store so your sims can spend more time doing things they like and need to being 
 the sims is a great time management game. i like how customers come to your business and ponder 
 over whether they want to buy your stuff or not, you can even change prices restock the store and 
 just get the whole feel of what it feels like to be running a good business. i work in sales at 
 the moment so i really am getting good ideas to help me in my real life work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge Sims fan, it wasn't hard for me to be won over by this expansion. My main grievance 
 with it, however, is how complex certain buisnesses are to begin. Otherwise, in terms of graphics, 
 stability, humour and what have you, it's pure Maxis gold.
  
  There's not much to say about the concept, as it's fairly straightforward. Pick a pre-existing 
 family or start a new one, give 'em a home buisness or call to purchase a Community Lot, and that's 
 it. Your Sim family is the proud owner of a buisness. Where it gets trickier is when you have to 
 choose the nature of said buisness, and when you're faced with then need to setup the buisness' 
 required infrastructure.
  
  See, you'd think a cash register's a requisite for all buisnesses, right? Wrong. You'd think you 
 can get away with your concept of a greasy-spoon eatery selling greaseballs and other cholesterol 
 clogs... Well, no. You can run cafeterias, but not restaurants proper. There's certain limits to 
 the expansion's promises of creativity. While it can be frustrating for some, getting used to it 
 takes very little time.
  
  That's the main problem. A quick go-to on certain types of buisnesses would have been appreciated, 
 as well as a more involved explanation of the different rules commonly assignable to hired Sims 
 in any buisness (like Restocking, for instance) . This makes the creation of certain scenarios difficult. 
 Starting a hair salon is ridiculously easy, whilst maintaining a bakery isn't quite obvious as 
 it seems.
  
  What really makes this EP slightly difficult to approach is the fact that all crafted or purchased 
 items are placed in the buisness owner's inventory (said function having been introduced by Nightlife) 
 I've tried to issue the restocking tasks to hired Sims in my bakery, for instance, and those "stockers" 
 simply stood around and did nothing, while my shelves were being cleaned of their wares. What are 
 you supposed to do? Have the owner Sim walk up to a restocker and hand him some items? It's never 
 explained!
  
  In fact, the only way I was able to start to involve myself in more complex scenarios than hair 
 salons was after I came upon a FAQ on EA Games' support pages, which addressed several of these 
 "gameplay issues"...
  
  This obviously underlines just how much of an undertaking the management of a store can be, when 
 placed alongside your Sims' regular jobs and/or student needs, AND their personal needs and desires! 
 The level of required micromanagement goes up tenfold, and this EP will obviously test the mettle 
 of even the most organized and efficient Sims 2 players out there.
  
  Of course, considering the nature of the game, the abovementioned aggravations should be considered 
 as challenges. As otherwise, this offering is just as fun as any other pack to date, and is rife 
 with little gismos and gewgaws that aren't readily apparent. Given time and effort, for instance, 
 your robot-crafting Sim will grow capable of creating Servo, the ultimate slave and/or companion 
 any Sim household needs. Remember him from the Livin' Large EP for the first game? He's the robot 
 you could buy that would dilligently perform any and all tasks around the house.
  
  The fun part is, Servo can create more Servos, if he grows talented enough at the robot station, 
 which should allow you to dream up your own robot invasion scenarios...
  
  Overall, a must for all Sims fans, especially those who are willing to put some time and effort 
 into deciphering just what can and can't be done, and how to embark on the rather demanding task 
 of running a buisness.
  
  Frankly, if you can make it to "Esteemed Establishment" without any cheats and without the buisness 
 being a hair salon, you've got my congratulations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  I am a huge sims fan, but I'll try to make this review so some undecided buyers can make a choice. 
 If you haven't got atleast the base game, The Sims 2, go buy it now. The expansion packs are for 
 when you get bored of playing The Sims 2 and want to add something extra to it; (I wouldn't buy 
 all the games at once, or else you'll be overwhelmed and it won't last as long) What I really love 
 about The Sims 2 is that they finally have generations and heredity, so you can watch your sim 
 you make grow old, have kids, die, and then see what happens to their kids. Open for Business is 
 fun, and one of the better expansion packs. You start a business, whatever it may be, and try to 
 improve it's "status".
  
  GAMEPLAY- Very addicting and fun. Can get boring, though; that's when I go buy an expansion pack!
 
  GRAPHICS- A little iffy here. Can be VERY choppy and slow on a low-end computer, as I've found 
 out the hard way. But after upgrading my RAM and Video Card, it runs like a charm.
  SOUND- Addicting; I've found myself humming it at school.
  VALUE- Go buy this game! If you like 
 The Sims 2, you'll love this. If you are satisfied with the base game, though, I wouldn't waste 
 my $30.
  TILT- Just a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Ever since i first played the sims i was addicted to it but after a few hours of playing i must 
 say there is nothing new? it stays boring because you always just make a sim eat, work and all 
 other things that you can do in the sims 2. what is lacking would be a free roam mode in the town, 
 weather effects, and many other ideas coming from other people are missing in the game and expansion 
 packs. i just hope that EA will improve many features in the next release of the sims. i'm looking 
 forward to see the next release of the sims, probably the sims 3 and i hope graphical they will 
 improve it also the sound isn't very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Let me start with, a nice little change. You can actually go and run your shop? Well thats great.
 
  
  You can actually leave your lot without spending money. You can go make money for once.
  
  Open for business allows you to open your own business and run it the way you want. You can 
 hire and fire employees. You can give them a raise or promote them. You have full control over 
 who you have working for you.
  
  You can also sell anything that you can buy in buy mode. You can also make new Toys or flowers 
 and then sell them. I am really impressed. I havent spent so much time with the game as I had 
 to start from scratch and I am way to busy to play Sims now, but the bit I played impressed me 
 enough to say it is a great Expansion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  The new business elements are complicated and add a tremendous amount of gameplay, as long as you 
 have the other expansions that is. This pack adds a bunch of new objects, but you need to have 
 at least the Nightlife expansion in order to be able to build many of the businesses. You need 
 Nightlife in order to be able to build resteraunts, car dealerships, bowling alleys, etc. Without 
 it, you'd be stuck building a flower shop, toy store, robot store or barber shop.
  
  Managing your business is also very time consuming, and the flock of customers visiting the lot 
 will tax your computer (well, it taxes my computer anyway) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3Astra
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  The economy in SimNation is going to be ruined! Everyone is opening shops and selling items that 
 can easily be bought from the catalogue.
  
  Logic aside, this game brings a lot of new gameplay to the series and lots of new interactions 
 and objects. I won't go into them now because it'll take up half a million km of web pages.
  
  The new gameplay is what I'm here to talk about. Your sim can buy a home business and open/close 
 it any time they want to. They can also buy real estate but this is difficult because it is so 
 darn expensive! The only way I managed to buy even the smallest shop is by getting a huge inheritance 
 and a large insurance claim when a burglar came! When you have a business, you can hire and fire 
 your employees, as well as look after them, raise their pay and such. You can also now craft items, 
 and yes, there are yet more progress bars and awards so you can make better items when you're more 
 experienced. You get talent badges, going from bronze to gold. You can get these badges in Hairdressing, 
 sales, robot making, toy making, flower arranging and till operating. This will inspire the user 
 to keep gaining skills for their Sim.
  The whole business thing is quite simple, and it's not hard to make a bit of money, but it's still 
 very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Open for Business Expansion Pack has to be THE best game ive ever played. if your thinking 
 of buying a sims 2 Expansion Pack, The Sims 2 Open for Business should be the second one you buy. 
 the first would be nghtlife. but when sims 2 pets come out ide recomend buying Sims 2, then Sims 
 2 Night Life, Then Sims Pets, then Sims 2 Open for Business. Brand new features for People who 
 are new to EP's like influence level and sims having an inventory. you can just go on the phone 
 or the computer and choose real estate, to buy a comunity lot that when you go to the business 
 panel will come up. or you can go on the phone or computer and choose business, start home business. 
 from there you can make money by improving your skills in creation of goods (robots, flowers, hairdresser, 
 toys) , sales, and store managment. then of course selling your items or services with can be either 
 be bought of the buy mode catologue, or made your self, selling them to other sims in your neigbourhood. 
 the new music catagories new wave, and shoping are good. new wae is a cross between pop and techno 
 an the result is excelent. shopping music is just Sims 1 buy mode music. The new neigbourhood type 
 shoping town can have comunity or residential lots. so this means that you can have loads more 
 places to go and people to meet. so that the sims tiny world of one neigbourhood can become a bit 
 bigger! Value for money: new 16 ($25.50) , old 10 ($15.50) . This is another review by Webmessia 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 13, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I found the sims to be a pretty good game that i play for about a month the get bored of it till 
 another expansion comes along, this new addition grew boring after less then a week.
  
  It adds few new items or few items that anyone would ever consider using. And most of all adds 
 to the game by adding a concept where your sims own businesses. The additions that come into it 
 arent good on their own but im sure elevators and stuff may make it good once a new expansion comes 
 along. The whole business thing seemed over complicated to me and the added robots arent very useful.
 
  
  I guess the sims will never become interesting as far as guns, real crime and REAL life situations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastmousep
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent expansion pack for the sims 2 you can run your own business from home 
 or buy a ready made shop in the new shopping district and develop it into a mighty business empire.
 
  
  Thought there is one side to it which make an hard game to play for instance when you are working 
 at your shop your sims needs go down very quickly.
  Even do it does take some learning to play too your full potential.
  
  All said thought this 
 game is an excellent edition to the sims family.
  
  Note-This game like other sims game does not need that much power from a computer, but if you have 
 a lot of games installed on your computer I would advise you take uinstall some of the games you 
 never play, because otherwise there are huge loading times from your house to your shop.
  Believe me I know from experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Finally, your sims can own their own businesses in the Sims 2 Open for Business. With over 125 
 new items, including the salon chair, floral station, elevator, and even a lemonade stand. 
  Some of the businesses your sims can own include: bakeries, boutiques, salons, and countless other 
 thriving shops. 
  You can be in control, running the shop, hiring staff, and waiting on your customers. Treat your 
 guests like gods, and before you know it your store will be the talk of the town. 
  Start your own business, or take over ancestors shops. Turn your talents into cash, and learn the 
 tricks of the trade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwest96
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I did not expect running a business in The Sims 2 would be so enjoyable and 
 addictive! Although I originally thought that I would never be spending my time running a business 
 my Sims, I am now aware that it actually adds new, enjoyable gameplay that makes this expansion 
 pack work great with the base game alone.
  
  The key to making the most of this expansion pack is to keep balance with what you do when you 
 play. It's important not to forget that the store manager isn't the only Sim in family!
  
  This expansion pack was definitely worth the wait, among other expansion packs, I will be playing 
 this for a while before I get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greendrg654
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well the folks over at EA did it again with another amazing expansion to the already miraculous 
 series and games. With Nightlife you got cars and the night life of Sim City and now your Sims 
 can become their own entrepreneur. They can start a business from scratch or take over the family 
 business. Over all a very good game but at times it can be a little monotonous. Also the new form 
 of having different career skills effect the speed of gaining toy, flower, or tech. bulding badges 
 is a cool little insert into the game also. Lets hope the next actual expansion, not the stupid 
 Family Fun Stuff rip off program, will be as great as the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeloader12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Originaly i planned to only play the sims 2 with no eps. And after several times my file being 
 deleted i bought university. That introduced me into nightlight which i later borrowed froma friend. 
 But then i thought i would be able to play without the nightlife cd, but i was wrong. I then needed 
 to buy this ep to play my files from the other ones. This game served more than that.
  
  The gameplay is basically just the sims 2 with a lot of extras. Just saying that already means 
 a lot. There is a lot of new items and animations, sounds , and playing options. Thats enough to 
 hook you on for a long time.
  
  The graphics and sound are still the same as well, both attractive and charming. My only complaint 
 is there is more technical difficulties and what used to be the intro music is gone and replaced 
 by less than great music..
  
  But like i said before the game will hook you on fast. With the new bussiness options an everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teepagorn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I found this "Open for Business" expansion for The Sims 2 really makes the game play deeper, but 
 the problem is this deepness not coming with enough simplification.
  
  The job system works well, but, require a lot of time to study and understand what is what. Rewards 
 (add-on ability that makes you grow in your business path) is also complicated and unnatural. I 
 used a lot of time to understand what I should upgrade the character. I think the balance of the 
 game is not very impressive, i mean, the normal job path and the merchandise path is not equal. 
 
  
  However, I found that if I spend enough time with this expansion, it will be great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  They work hard for the money. Virtually hard for the money. Wow your friends by singing the simlish 
 lyrics to "Too Shy" at karaoke next time. I give The Sims Open for Business a good 7.0 out of 10.0. 
 Open for Business makes the already-addictive formula of The Sims 2 that much more compelling, 
 so the game is almost a sure thing for established fans.
  
  The Good: Self-employment highly flexible; new business skills provide new way to improve your 
 sims; listening to licensed music in simlish is a total trip. 
  
  The Bad: Has zero bearing on established career paths; same old technical problems such as weird 
 pathing, buggy items, and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what happens when your Sim goes off to work every day? What does he/she 
 do? Aside from the career path chosen and working on skills and friends for a promotion, you dont 
 really get involved with your Sims career. Until now, that is. 
  
  The Open For Business expansion introduces new skill objects to the world of The Sims 2. These 
 are workshops that your Sims can use to craft new items (toys, floral arrangements and robots) 
 that can then be sold in their own virtual store. 
  
  The basics of creating a store are very simple. First, decide if you want to operate your business 
 at home or if youd rather purchase a community lot. Once that is settled, you pick up the phone 
 and hire some employees. Then youll need an Open/Closed sign, a cash register and some storage 
 to showcase your stock if you plan to go into retail. Sounds simple? Not quite! 
  
  The Sims available for hire will have badges (or not) . Badges are a representation of their performance 
 at a certain job, and they come in Bronze, Silver and Gold. You dont want a Silver Badge in floral 
 arrangements doing sales or a Bronze Badge cashier restocking. Make sure you assign that Sim with 
 the job they have more experience in, or your business popularity will go downhill. You can match 
 a Sims existing skills to a certain job as well, so Sims with a high cooking skill will do better 
 at baking while Sims with a high mechanical skill will do well crafting robots. The more a Sim 
 performs the same job, the better he/she becomes at it. 
  
  You also have to watch out for slacker employees. I found that one of mine kept going upstairs 
 to watch T. V. during work hours, but I guess thats the price of having a store set on the ground 
 floor of your house. The at home business is better suited for a large family, where you can 
 have members work in shifts and keep your store permanently open. Besides, they might have the 
 advantage of getting along well, unlike with new employees. 
  
  Employees can be assigned uniforms as well. Just pick one of your workers and select the Set Uniform 
 command. You will be given the same skin options as if you were creating a Sim, and all you have 
 to do is save a few outfits to have an employee change into any of them. 
  
  Once you have items to put in stock (either crafted, which will be in your inventory, or bought 
 from the Buy Mode catalog) you have to set their prices. Its up to you, but higher prices will 
 probably keep your clientelle away. The smiley face on the price meter will tell you how you how 
 satisfied the customers will be for each percentage you increase the price by. Average is the 
 best way to start. 
  
  As you gain costumers and your business prospers, you gain points that you can distribute into 
 the Business Perks table. These perks allow you to gain special skills like upsell, assess customer 
 mood, get discounts when purchasing stock or gain a popularity boost. 
  
  The greatest thing about Open For Business is the flexibility of creating your business. You can 
 have boutiques, beauty salons, florists, bookstores, furniture and electronics warehouse, restaurants, 
 toy stores, a take-out food place, a bakery, a car dealer. If you cant decide, either create a 
 mall or turn your entire lot into a payable service, where other Sims pay for the time they are 
 visiting and using the objects in it. If you have Nightlife, you can turn your lot into a club 
 or bowling alley and charge other Sims for access. Or you can have a ton of rooms and activities 
 and turn your place into a hotel. Or how about a day spa and gym? Your imagination is the limit. 
 
  
  But Im sure you also want to know about the new content. Yes, most of it is aimed at the business 
 factor of the game, but there is a lot of content that can be used in regular households. 
  
  In the Build Mode, you will find new archways, fences, wallpapers, floors, doors, windows (finally 
 we get a bay window) , a few landscaping items, a selection of awnings and many new stairs. Better 
 yet, you can now have elevators! 
  
  The Buy Mode offers many options for your newly created business: signs, cash registers, crafting 
 stations (for toys, flower arrangements and robots) , a lemonade stand, makeover chairs, lots of 
 display solutions including refrigerated shelf units (which you will need if youre planning to 
 sell food items) . 
  
  As for the other objects that you may include in your home, there are new sofas, chairs, counters, 
 paintings, doormats, beds, statues, towels, mirrors and plants. 
  
  The expansion introduces a selection of specialty skins that would basically be mascot outfits 
 for your employees: ninjas, astronauts, gorillas, chickens and knights. There are also chef hats 
 and aprons. You will also be glad to know that there are several new casual skins, a few hairstyles 
 and some new makeup. 
  
  Another addition is the New Wave radio station where you will be able to listen to "Suffer Well" 
 by Depeche Mode, "Things Can Only Get Better" by Howard Jones, "Too Shy" by Kajagoogoo and "Synthesized" 
 by Epoxies. Except they have all been translated into simmish. 
  
  Open For Business puts the tycoon factor into The Sims 2, making it the perfect expansion for 
 those with a thing for business management, be it a small lemonade stand or a shopping mall in 
 a community location. It allows you to create the business of your dreams in a virtual world where 
 you can be either the small corner retailer or the big corporate shark, buying, developing and 
 selling real estate. 
  
  Which one will you be? 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=ts2openforbusiness
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaelite
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Finally I found the time out of my busy life to write my first review.
  After acquiring my brand spanking new alien ware computer, after my old one broke due to over clocking 
 (it was crap any way I needed a new computer) .
  I when and bought the latest Sims 2 expansion pack, open for business my first thought was how 
 can they top the University expansion pack and will it just be a remake of one of the old expansions, 
 like Nightlife to me was basically just the Sims Hot date and house party put tighter with vampires 
 and cars to take your attention away from the fact that it was a remake with extra stuff.
  But this expansion turned out to be the best one yet. I mean for some reason you get a sense of 
 fulfillment when running your own business or businesses yes you can own more then one. This expansion 
 is truly amazing and original. All Sims fans will like the return of the servo robot even tough 
 it now becomes part of the family giving you less space for your family, it is far better than 
 the maid And cheaper in the long run also it will live forever which means the robot you own now 
 could have belonged to your great, great, great, great, grand farther. It also compensates for 
 the fact that there are STILL NO BUTLERS!!
  Although starting a business can be hard at first if you stick to it and treat you staff well and 
 make more money than your spending you will be a tycoon in no time and since you have the option 
 of promoting one of your staff to manager (after they gain enough talent)
  You can sit at home with your wife and kids and money will fly in or you could start a new business 
 with the funds you got from the old one. The possibilities are endless.
  This is a quick summery of the good and bad point of the expansion pack.
  Good points:
   Own 
 you very own business
   Servo robot is back
   Own multiple businesses 
   Elevator
   Can pass on some business perks
  Bad points:
   Can be stressful 
   Havent had the chance 
 to catch a thief with my sentry-bot yet
   Cant tell staff to improve the skills
   NO BUTLERS
  
  Over all this is a good expansion pack which tops my old favorite the Sims 
 super star expansion WHICH HAD BUTLERS!!
  
  Thanks for reading my first review hope you enjoyed reading and I hope to do better and longer 
 ones soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_is_kool
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game si the best i think its the best in the seriese.
  YOu can buy lots of stuff make your house look cool. yo can have your own business whitch is awsome 
 its just so fun!! you can hire people and fire them its just so fun. you have to buy all the stuff 
 in your store than sell it.
  You can have *** whitch is cool bc i do it all the TIME!!! WEll every one who plays the sims will 
 like this game and if you like this game recommend this review!! Also if you want to see more reviews 
 on the sims track me and read them. SIMS is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullrat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The best Sims Game Yet! Do you like The Sims Two, and all kinds of Tycoon games? Then You'll Love 
 This! It's all those in One! This game is just about perfect. The game play was fantastic! Graphics 
 could have used a little work. Other then that. I loved it! You should go out and buy it if you 
 havent all ready. There are a few things that could use some work. The idea of making a business 
 is just great! wether youre a child or an adult you make a great business! The new items are great. 
 There's a great choice of businesses to choose from. It may not be for everyone, but you should 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has done it again.... with another expansion pack in the bunch. This expansion pack 
 lets Sims to start their own business and be the boss for the first time and for the first time 
 -- you can see them work and control and mange their businesses.
  
  Sims can start virtually any business that pops up from the most imaginative mind. Furnitures, 
 toys, flowers, electronics can be sold, or startup a nightclub, bowling alley, bar or restaurant. 
 However most businesses will look complete if other expansion packs are available.
  
  Starting a business isn't easy. First you need to have a large supply of items for sale, hire a 
 team of employees (which they help or harm the business) and keep the customers happy constantly. 
 Sims now have a talent badge system, which can be earned by repeatly doing the specific task. If 
 these conditions are met, Sims are rewarded with business perks which can give a huge boost to 
 the business empire.
  
  Apart form that new building tools are available. Roofs no longer look triangular anymore, now 
 you can have spherical domes, cones and even octagonal roofs to make interesting houses. Elevators 
 are now available as an alternative to staircases and also a venue to have woohoo. Platforms can 
 be built to create depth can style to your houses.
  
  Kids are not left out in this expansion. They can have new interactions, clothes and even start 
 up their own lemonade stand. Other items which are staple to every expansion are objects, music 
 and clothes all live up to the expectations.
  
  In short, The Sims 2 Open for Business is not an expansion pack to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  The sims has a new addition. I have played this one a good bit now so I feel comfortable adding 
 a review. I think this one is the best so far. If you are going to buy just one expansion pack 
 this is the one you should get.
  
  There are a ton of business options. You can get pretty creative here. If you are in the mood to 
 start off quick you can cheat a bunch of money and open a store that you sell items you can buy 
 out of object menu and make them for sell. Things such as paintings, furniture, and electronics. 
 If you feel like actually making items you have flowers, toys, and my personal favorite ROBOTS. 
 You can also sell foods. 
  
  These fun little things have a wonderful way of breaking down if not properly taken care of . When 
 you sim makes them often you will see some with sparks flying off them. So you know they are going 
 to cause havic down the line for some sim. 
  
  The next best one I have found is a salon. Now this one seems to start out really good then it 
 gets harder to encourage customers to let you style them. Not only are you giving a hair cut you 
 are also doing makeovers. You have no control over if it will go good or bad. Once you get doing 
 them often and get gold badges the amount of one going bad decreases. If it goes bad they can have 
 bald patches or just be bald and they have face mask paint on. The other sims will make fun of 
 them by pointing and laughing.
  
  So far one good thing is it doesn't seem hard to get a business going. The sims seem egar to buy 
 things ANYTHING. And you decide what days and times you are open. Even at 1 am I have sims show 
 up ready to buy.
  
  To give you some idea's for a business are -- Salon, Bar, Restaurant, Night club, Bowling ally, 
 Art gallery, Flowers, Robots, Toy shop, Deli, Coffee shop, Electronics store, Real estate, Furniture 
 store, Car lot, Clothing store. Magazines, Books, Gym, Arcade, 
  
  Now when you have a business going especially one at home you have to watch how your customers 
 are interacting if not they can get into some serious fights. This of course upsets the other customers. 
 ( Even tho I like watching the fights the customers don't seem to) 
  
  The Bad news I see is you have to download a patch , So far I haven't seen the glitches. But now 
 I want to try and kill the bunny :)
  
  Another thing I enjoyed watching and im not sure if its just the sims 2 or with this expansion 
 but I had a burglar show up and when the cop showed they started to fight and the burglar won! 
 I didn't have anything taken but the cop said he now wouldn't get a promotion. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger_of_SUI
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Well this is what people been waiting for. You are no longer bound by the given jobs form the Sims 
 2. Now you can start your oun business, manage it right, and rack in the dough!!!
  
  You can start your oun clothing store, restraint, salon, and much; much more. Best part is that 
 the excellent gameplay, graphics, and sound has not changed. Making the review sort.
  
  The only thing I found I didnt like is that you only can hire 8 other people to work in your business. 
 Its quite difficult to run the mail there. All in all, this is a welcome addition to the Sims 2 
 franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossy02
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  These games are beginning to relay irritate me now there cheap rubbish expansions and should not 
 be bought unless as a huge Sims 2 pack for 19.99 im realy dissipointed with The Sims 2 because 
 The Sims was amazing this and all the others are just crap in comparison!
  
  These games also have not been optimized for lower range PC's and seeing as these games are directed 
 at younger gamers this is not fare!
  
  This game is also just littered with bugs and looks well.. rushed !!
  
  If you are a Sims 2 
 lover you may have a better experience than me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Sims franchise is one that is well known around the world by gamers: both casual and hardcore. 
 It has brought us 2 "original" games and a multitude of expansion packs.
  What is really surprising is that, through all of those games, we never got to see a Sim at work. 
 We saw them get in the car and drive off screen for several in game hours, but nothing more.
  
  The Sims 2: Open for Business, the third expansion pack in the series, is about to change all 
 that. It lets us discover how good our Sims are at managing their own business. Yes, you read it 
 right... this time you won't be working for the man (or woman) , you'll BE the man (or woman) !
 
  
  Starting your own business is actually very easy: just grab the phone or sit at a computer and 
 buy some real estate. You can select from existing lots and businesses, or start from scratch. 
 The pretty neat thing is, if you have the Nightlife expansion pack, you can choose from businesses 
 in the Downtown area. If you ever wanted to own & run the Crypt O'Night night club, now you can!
 
  If you decide to build your own business from scratch, Open for Business offers you a multitude 
 of new accessories to make it attractive to new customers. Ever dreamed of owning a hair salon/restaurant/arcade? 
 Here's you chance!
  Another neat aspect about Open for Business is that you'll be able to juggle your career and your 
 business at the same time, because, just like Nightlife or University, you'll leave your house 
 and time will "stop" for the duration of your trip, so when you return, it'll be like you never 
 left.
  
  When your real estate has been bought and that you're ready to go, just drive to the lot and open 
 shop. You'll need an open/closed sign, a cash register and some employees to get started. You can 
 hire people who stroll into your business as employees or select from a list available in the Business 
 section when you use your phone or computer. You'll want to hire Sims that can benefit your business, 
 therefore you might want to be on the lookout for how many badges they have. Badges can be earned 
 in different fields, such as restocking & sales. Naturally, your own Sims will be able to upgrade 
 their skills in each of the fields.
  
  As we all know by now, Sims games are all about action/reaction. You get plenty of those in this 
 new game. When I opened my business (an arcade) , one of my sales guys was slacking off, hitting 
 on female customers and playing in the machines... so I gingerly walked up to him and told him 
 he was fired. This ended up in a shoving contest, followed by a fight! In another instance, I got 
 yelled at by a customer because he wasn't getting the attention he required. Seeing my Sim avoid 
 the other's gaze by looking up made me laugh out loud. You'll get plenty of those and much more, 
 depending on what kind of business you open.
  
  Gameplay wise, it's the same ol' stuff. Sadly enough, some glitches from previous expansions were 
 overlooked and still hinder the game a bit. Probably the most annoying one is when you queue up 
 some actions and they disappear from the queue. Yep, this issue hasn't been resolved and it's very 
 disappointing that Maxis didn't resolve this.
  The addition of the new skills traits are seamless and easy to understand and master. Running your 
 own business and seeing to every little detail can be a little overwhelming at first. It does requires 
 a lot of work and patience, as there are a lot of details to overlook, but it will be very rewarding 
 in the end, when you'll be able to buy that sports car and huge mansion just with the profits from 
 your business.
  
  The graphics are on par with any other Sims game. Sims still react realistically while retaining 
 their cartoon-ish ways. No big changes were made here, everything still looks sleek and sharp.
 
  The sound is where you'll notice a slight change. Well, not exactly sound wise, as The Sims still 
 talk in Simlish, a car still sounds like a car, etc., but more in the way of the music being played 
 on the radio. For the first time ever in a Sims game, there are a couple of licensed songs making 
 their appearance. A new radio station entitled New Wave is now available, with songs from real 
 life artists such as Depeche Mode, Kajagoogoo, Howard Jones and more. It was a real thrill to turn 
 on the radio and hear "Too Shy" being sung in Simlish because, of course, all songs are in the 
 Sims' native tongue in the game. It is quite exciting (and disturbing) to hear David Gahan (lead 
 singer of Depeche Mode) carry out a melody in Simlish. This was a great idea, although it does 
 look like a marketing ploy on the part of EA. I hope to hear more licensed music in the Sims in 
 future expansions.
  
  Once again, Maxis has given us an incredible expansion pack to the most popular franchise of all 
 time. I recommend it to everyone, especially to fans of the Sims games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I love The Sims as much as anybody.
  Creating a family and running their little lives is strangely thrilling.
  The open ended nature 
 keeps me coming back to the game, but sometimes I wish there were goals outside keeping your toilet 
 well scrubbed, keeping grades up at Uni and clubbing. 
  
  The Sims 2: Open For Buisness, adds some purpose to an otherwise straightfoward Sim existence. 
 
  As implied, in The Sims 2 you can run your own buisness - selling anything in the large roster 
 of Sims items. Wanna sell toilets? You can!
  Ever thing your neighbourhood was sorely lacking in Pink Flamingos? 
  Well open up your own 'Flamingos 
 R Us'.
  
  Running a successful buisness isn't particularly easy in my oppinion.
  Keeping the store clean, making customers happy and having your store well stocked can be a challenge 
 - but it beats the usual routine of having your sim disapear for 6 or so in game hours. 
  
  In short, the new gameplay features and the obligatory hundred + new items make this an essential 
 purchase for any fans of The Sims or Tycoon style games of which this expansion lightly simulates. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 charges you with guiding virtual people through nearly every minute detail of their 
 simulated, suburban lives, ranging from when to use the bathroom to who to marry. But one task 
 that has always been a big, black hole in Maxis' suburban-lifestyle simulation is work. Yes, your 
 sims can flourish in a multitude of job paths, becoming filthy, stinking rich in the process, but 
 the actual work is purely theoretical, and you never see them lift a finger. Open for Business, 
 the third expansion pack for The Sims 2, adds an entrepreneurial edge to the action, letting you 
 start your own business. Putting your sims to work may not sound initially enthralling, but Open 
 for Business makes the daily grind plenty engaging, with the same quirky flair that series fans 
 know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neij8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Now i am a fan of the sims from the start and i just like to play them. But lets talk about this 
 game. IT IS REALLY AWESOME I MEAN IF YOU HAVE NEVER PLAYED THE SIMS 2: OPEN FOR BUSINESS THEN YOU 
 ARE MISSING OUT. create your own store, your own style even for your store, make so many different 
 types from like a salon even to bakeries, and cafe's and it has so many differences from the others. 
 some of the others i got sort of bored of but this one is different. I say buy it.... so grab those 
 quarters, dimes, nickels, quarters from under your couch and go buy this game. I hope this helped 
 whoever is reading this just a little bit to making a good choice and buying this game.
  
  thanks for reading,
  Neij
  
  
  
  
  
  
  HI HI HI HI I AM LONELY PLZ READ THIS AND 
 READ IT AGAIN SO I AM LESS LONELY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is a very usefull frase for running you own business!
  The good point of this game is a very interesting new gameplay! having your own business is a very 
 interesting and sometimes hard thing. You will have to buy the place for the shop or some stuff 
 for it, then hire the service men or let your sim working as a cashier or seller! You can sell 
 everything, from the TV to the doll, from the car to the house!!!!
  The bad is the lack of new household things, everything new is directed to the business and ease 
 of running it.
  Ofcourse the new radio station with the real celebrities like Depeshe Mode singin in simlish is 
 really cool!!
  Anyway the game is worth of playing and having it your collection.
  Tohir"Yazon"Tillyaev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Open For Business is all its cracked up to be. If your reading this, dont listen to the guys who 
 say "It sucks cause Ive always hated the Sims" I have every Sims and Sims 2 Expansion adn ask me 
 if you have any questions about expansions, like which you should buy or you should not buy. But, 
 lets get to the review...
  
  Right off the bat you'll notice the Business pannel at the top corner of the screen. It gives you 
 all the info you need on your business such as customers and their loyalty, prices, perks, and 
 employees. This is a great resource as it lets you know what your employees need, and what customers 
 like and dislike your store.
  
  There are many ways you can have a business. A pay per item store (toy shop, robo store, clothes... etc) 
 Pay per Use (Bowling, Salon.. etc) Pay Per Time (Gym, Nightclup, Bar... etc) These will offer you 
 a long time of playabilty and this game has awesome replayabilty, because you can start adding 
 more business's to your lot, making it harder and harder.
  
  The Items are great, especially the ones you can make. I love the water wiggler, its rad. Watch 
 the developer interview and you'll see. Servo is awesome. He does all the chores, giving you more 
 time for your business.
  
  All in all, this IS the expansion pack that we have been been waiting for years! This is a definate 
 buy for any simmer, except for the casual gamer because it is too deep.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have only had this game for a few days but I must say that it is a must have if you are 
 a Sims2 fan. No way should you not get this game. It is also a plus if you got the holiday expansion 
 pack as well. That allows you to have more items to sell. You don't have to have it but it sure 
 helps. This game allows you to have your own business. Whether or not it is at a community lot 
 or you have a business out of your home. The game allows you to lock certain doors if you have 
 the business in your home. So that customers don't be going thru or lounging around your house. 
 I think that is definitely a plus or if you have it on your community lot you can create a room 
 so that your employees have a place to go to keep their needs up.
  
  Well, that is my take on the game ... but as you know no matter what I say the best thing to do 
 is to check it out for yourself. Have a great day and I will leave you sayin this:
  
  HAPPY GAMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrules
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack for the sims 2 is one of the best and most anticipated from my point of view. 
 It has many interesting feature that make this game much better. Many people wanted to see their 
 sims go to work and make them work. Now, with that expansion, it is possible. Create your own business 
 and expand if you want. Buy many more lot and exploit them. Be richer than you never image ! 
 
  
  This expansion pack bring many new options and things to do. Like running many kind of business 
 available and running them all at the same time. It goes from selling stuff to toys crafting without 
 forgetting running a bakery. Also a new function for locking doors has been implemented which is 
 good for preventing any unwanted sims to go where they should not allowing only you , your household 
 or everybody to enter.
  
  But there are surely cons in this expansion. I`ve been playing for a while now and see quite a 
 couple of bugs. Stealing is not supposed to be an issue in this game but i`ve seen it a coupe of 
 times. A Sim comes and shop, he takes something and leave without paying. You might say it is not 
 that much important bug but when they take a 3000$ stereo system you wouldn't want anybody to leave 
 without paying.
  
  In conclusing this expansion if to my opinion the best up to now. It will keep you coming back 
 for more and more. Good job Maxis ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 - utterly brilliant. The Sims 2 Nightlife - superb. Out For Business - incredible. I 
 don't feel anything bad on this game, and nothing is wrong. It's just got an unacceptable gameplay 
 experience to the 'original' The Sims 2. Do this, get out, build a sim, work hard... it's like 
 a bad day in work if you are unsuccessful. Don't get me wrong, it looks pretty, and has some tight 
 value, but it is a bit short on Nightlife, the best of the Sims 'packs. Oh, and yes, I have played 
 The Sims 2 University.
  The fantastic graphics haven't got any improvment, and the screen options are still the same. There 
 are, obviously, some new, great places, but some of them are medicore. The gibberish voices aren't 
 getting tired, and there is more of that now, but because it's jobs you work for, there isn't much 
 music unless you switch on the radio, which is hardly avaible. The value is brilliant, and you 
 will want to finish it (some how, it's not repetive) . There are some new items, and they rock. 
 None are letdowns. The whole game is fresh and smooth, like what Sims should be, but it's short 
 on Nightlife and beautifully poor on he match of the original Sims 2. Still, it's worth the wait.
 
  
  It's BETTER than: The Sims 2 University.
  It's WORSE than: The Sims 2 Nightlife
  
  Gameplay:
  + Never gets repetieve, some how.
  - Not as great as Nightlife.
  
  Graphics:
 
  + Smooth.
  - There is no improvement to The Sims 2 University.
  
  Sound:
  + Gibberish voices are still not tiring.
  - Not much music is going on here.
  
  Value:
 
  Minutes 10/10
  Hours 10/10
  Days 9/10
  Weeks 8/10
  Months 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric_Teague
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Open for Business is a great game. The expansion pack topic was a little iffy to me 
 and was not quite sure if I would get this one. Then I decided to get it and it was actually better 
 than the last two. I thought that there was no way that this expansion pack would be better than 
 the last, but I personally think it is more fun and provides the player with more challenges. The 
 one problem is the price of these things. Your getting less than 20% of the material that came 
 with the base game and you paying almost the same amount. Lucky for its creators, this game is 
 worth the extra cash and I highly recommend it to anybody who enjoys new and exciting challenges. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Well, this is one game that if i had known what it was like before hand wouldnt have bought...
 
  But i am glad that i did, i mean to say, it really is a fun game, stressful but fun. It took me 
 ages to understand how to work it, and still now i dont quite get it, but nevertheless, once you 
 grasp the basics, the learning curve becomes fun, once you learn a new factor of the game, it feels 
 satisfied, your buiseness maybe loosing you 50 grand a minute, but still, you feel like you have 
 accomplished someting. When i first started a buisness, i bought expensive items, thinking they 
 would sell better, hired as many staff as i could, and then i realised, that i was bringing in 
 enought to counter their wages and restocking, so there, i had learned something!!
  
  The gameplay is the same as with all the Sims 2 games, its accessible, easy to understand, and 
 enjoy.
  
  The graphics, though there are no tweaks or improvements, still look up to date and beautiful. 
 
  
  Sound is alway an issue with me in these games, the quality is great, the voices and SFX are awesome, 
 but what gets to me is the music, in the Sims 1, it really was brilliant music, yet out came Sims 
 2 and the music knocked my head in really hard, so i imported the music from Sims one and put them 
 into the Sims 2 game, now i can continue to enjoy it. However, i do have to sit through the loading 
 screen where the most recent electronic terribly composed, non sensicle peice of music cant be 
 removed, there i sit and stick pins into my eyelids...
  
  The value for money is good, though i find it a shame that if you dont want to create a buiseness, 
 there is practically nothing extra to do.
  
  Overall i think the game is a great addition to the base, and am looking forward to the new expansion.
 
  
  If you enjoyed the Sims 2 base pack, then go out and fund Maxis by buying all the other EPs, you 
 really do owe it to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is the 3rd expansion pack for the Sims 2 and this completely adds a whole new aim to this 
 game along with a new way of loving other sims, influence, opportunities to take over a business 
 and a bunch of items make you addicted to the Sims 2 like never before.
  
  The first thing you will notice is the influence bar when you start the game, this can be replenished 
 by acheiving life goals and making new friends increases the overall capacity of the bar, you can 
 get other sims to do things you cant be bothered to make you sim do like cook, clean, garden, all 
 kinds of weird and fun things.
  
  Also there are a truckload of new items, mainly statues and plants and all kinds of cool things 
 you can sell in your shop and some nice new furniture.
  
  The business thing takes over your life, you can just purchase a lot in the shopping district and 
 then hire people and sell objects, and that will require you keeping your employees happy, restocking 
 things, being the cashier, pestering customerse into buying things, all kinds of weird and wonderful 
 things that will add a whole new meaning to this already addictive world of Sims.
  
  There is also this new thing called "chemistry" and thats what turns your sim on and what doesnt, 
 like looks and hair colour and all sorts of things, that makes falling in love a bit more challenging 
 and more fun, you cant just walk up to some female sim and fall in love with her, now the opposite 
 sim also has things they look for in a sim and if you match, you will have a great relationship!
 
  
  Graphically, things are still the same and also there are still the problems of it slowing down, 
 which really does annoy me but its tolerable, doesnt ruin the gameplay that much, and there are 
 licsensed soundtracks that play in the background that arent that great but better than the genreic 
 things that are on continous loop in the menus and when youre going through the buy mode and the 
 rewards scheme and all sorts.
  
  This pack has to be bought no matter what, there is a huge gap in your gaming experience of the 
 sims if you havent got this, this adds plenty of things that will keep you glued to your computer 
 for hours on end, you need this game, it will take over your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverzwiebel12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is the best expansion ever... REALY!!!!
  I's never tought that sutch a expansion like this would come!
  Its worth paying and playing this 
 game..
  Its EVEN mutch better then nightlife!
  I like this game couse you can open your own store.
  and things you can do... Its just AMAZING!
 
  I never expacted some expansion like this one!!!
  I sometimes hate it when your sims are going to work
  and then never get promoted or their getting 
 fired.
  But now you can fire and Promote your OWN Amplioies!
  ( or how you write it ) But i really like this sims 2 expansion
  its the best game ever! You'l 
 just get edicted to this game!
  So wonderfull it is!!! :D :D :D
  I tought expansion like vacation or pets would come or something...
  But this one is Billion 
 times better!!!!
  
  Well i just wanted to write that... :P Whahahaha....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowmunchers
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Open For Business is the 3rd expansion pack for the Sims 2 and 
  is by far the best one yet. 
  
  The opportunity to actually see your Sims work and direct them 
 in a working 
  environment has been a requested feature since the first Sims came out. 
  However up until this point we have been left to only imagine what our Sim 
  must be doing as 
 an executive chef. So does this expansion answer all the 
  hopes and prayers of Sims aficionados when it comes to their Sims and 
  work? The short answer 
 is not exactly, as we are still unable to follow our 
  Sims to any job they may take in the paper or find on the computer, this 
  expansion focuses 
 strictly on running your own business, but do not let that 
  get you down as it is implemented incredibly well. 
  
  Firstly there are many different types 
 of businesses you can open. Ones 
  where you charge people to buy items, (think furniture store) , you can even 
  craft your own 
 items, one where you charge people for services, (think hair 
  salon) , or one where you charge people simply to spend time on your lot 
  (think a club) . You 
 can also have any or all of these businesses operating on 
  the same lot so there are no restrictions. 
  
  You can open any or all of these business on 
 your home lot, or on a 
  commercial lot. Opening a business is very simple, all you have to do is get 
  on the phone and 
 buy a lot, or prefab business, or let people know that you 
  are opening one in your home. Then you need an open and closed sign to let 
  people know when 
 to shop, items to sell, and a cash register to take their 
  money. However even with the savings of opening a shop on your home lot 
  you will need lots 
 of money to either pay for the supplies to craft items or to 
  buy the items wholesale, and possible pay employees. Although in reality you 
  can keep your 
 job and open a business so cash is not a major problem in the 
  long run, but it will take a goodly amount to start up your shop. 
  
  However running a business 
 also requires different skills so even if your Sim 
  has max everything he will not have any better business acumen than another 
  Sims with no skills. 
 So to get those skills you have to start doing the action, 
  whether it is selling, or arranging flowers, over and over and over, in an 
  effort to get either 
 a bronze, silver, or gold level badge. Depending on what 
  level badge you have it opens up new options for you Sims, like the dazzle 
  ability with a gold 
 sales badge. Unfortunately there is no bar that goes up 
  showing how close you are to getting a badge. You simply have to do the 
  action over and over 
 until you are told that you received one. Of course if you 
  would rather not put in the effort it is possible to hire employees with 
  different skill badges 
 to do the work for you. I would defiantly recommend 
  that you hire a gold level cashier as otherwise it takes forever to ring up 
  customers and they 
 may get upset and leave. 
  
  One of the neatest new features in my mind is that if you are running a store 
  and see another 
 one of you created Sims come in and purchase something, if 
  you go and play that Sim the item they purchased autonomously in your store 
  will be in their 
 inventory, a wonderful piece of realism. 
  
  All in all this is a wonderful expansion that any Sims owner should buy. It 
  adds a whole new 
 dimension to the game and gives you lots more to do when 
  you Sims have max skills and scads of cash and are at the top of every career. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  First off I need to say, when I heard of Open For Business (OFB) I was skeptical at best. However, 
 later on, with previews from Gamespot & Gamespy, the game began looking real good to me. So I was 
 hyped up and got it when it was first released!
  
  Gameplay-wise, there are plenty of new stuff added in. New items, interactions, Business related 
 options as well as tons of new townies (or rather many who are already there but have yet to meet 
 them) and many other new concepts! A plus plus for this expansion pack (EP) .
  
  The learning curve however is a little higher than the Original and other EP. While Businesses 
 may be started straight off the bat, you would be lost at how to get one running smoothly. This 
 is the first EP for the Sims series that actually gives a real challenge to us players! Something 
 new again, another plus.
  
  However, with the new stuff and concepts, there are new bugs and the game is the first, for The 
 Sims 2 series with all the EP that I've played to have crashed to desktop. Now crash-to-desktop 
 (CTD) never happened to me before running TS2 or the other EP but with OFB my game crashed a couple 
 of times already. 
  
  Now this is not to say that the game is a boo boo and unplayable. It is still entertaining and 
 playable however, it's best that buyers know the truth of a product before buying it. My system 
 is above the recommended specs but I suspect the custom contents might have a hand in the crashes. 
 As for the bugs, it's better to wait off for the patch or go to the official TS2 site and read 
 the BBS for issues fellow Simmers are facing. There are workaround as well as solutions that Simmers 
 have used to get rid of certain bugs or to avoid them completely. It is best to read up on those 
 issues first before buying and playing the game least it destroys your favourite Sim Family after 
 months of playing them!
  
  In all, OFB provides hours of entertainment, even more so than University could ever provide. With 
 a good understanding of the bugs and issues it has, the helpful online community and the upcoming 
 patches, I've no doubt that OFB might actually achieve it's ambitious nature and be the most original 
 EP of the Sims series yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongetron_X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  By far the BEST expansion to the hit Maxis PC Game, The Sims 2. The Sims 2 Open for Business Expansion 
 Pack* adds new value and hours of enterainment. Open ended and almost limitless take your sim from 
 bags of cans to bags of riches!
  
  But, with an amazing game, and a game published by EA, comes bugs. If you have Nightlife, do NOT 
 drive cars to community lots until a patch is released. Maxis is working on a patch right now.
 
  
  So? Overall? 10-Perfect (If you are able to stay clear of bugs)
  
  *Requires The Sims 2, The Sims 2 Special DVD Edition or The Sims 2 Holiday Edition to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 open for business expands the sims 2 a lot. There are businesses sims can now have and 
 run. With new options and features to the sims 2 series. Business is a brand new theme to the sims 
 2, it is also a new challenge too. People thought there were no story mode in the sims 2 but now 
 there is something way better than that it is new missions, challenges and modes. 
  
  Expands: The game is more bigger than before, if other expansions like university and nightlife 
 it makes open for business more better. But the problem is when the game expands more it takes 
 side effects to the game like it gets slower and laggy (depends how good your computer is) .
  
  Plenty more things you can do: In this expansion you don't have to do just one thing there 
 are more things players can do, like having a mall. 
  
  Too good to be true: The game has new objects, clothes and options.
  
  The good things:
  
 - Now you can have a business, it is more fun than uni, expands gameplay, many unlockable socail 
 options, more objects, more than servo robots, run any business people can.
  
  The bad things: Only 8 people max for hire, there are lots of bugs in the game, customers can get 
 annoying once in the game, you cant make your employees build skill unless you are them, gets a 
 bit confusing after a while, not as much fun than before.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game adds a ton of opportunities and possibilities for your business. The game has 
 lots of new items. The gameplay of this expansion pack makes the game addicting again. Now you 
 will actually see, and control what your sim does during his job. 
  
  The Bad: Makes the game harder. If you fully want to experience this expansion pack, it would be 
 better to have all of the expansion packs.
  
  For the past couple of years, the Sims has providing a brand new type of gameplay, that brought 
 strategy games to a new level. Last year, the second part of the Sims has been introduced to the 
 world. It still brought the same addicting gameplay, as the original, and has brought a lot of 
 new features such as picking what you cook. So, for the past couple of years, the sims had sexual 
 intercourse, and got promotions to have the best house ever. Now, they are able to open up a store 
 of their own. This expansion pack was able to make the game more successful and addicting.
  
  As you might know, the 2 previous expansion packs made the Sims 2 way more addicting. The first 
 expansion pack, called Sims University, gave you the feature to have a new age called young adult, 
 and you were able to go to university, get a major, then get more job opportunities. The next expansion 
 pack called Sims Nightlife, gave you the feature to go into nightclubs and restaurants. Now, this 
 expansion pack gave you the feature to create and manage a nightclub or restaurant. In this game, 
 instead of a community lot, you get to make your neighbourhood more interesting by creating and 
 managing lots of types of businesses. From a bowling alley, to a garden store, to a poker hall.
 
  
  The most important question that comes to mind when someone is thinking about buying an expansion 
 pack is, "Does the expansion pack improve the gameplay of the game?" This game does improve the 
 gameplay. It, like I said, gives you the feature to create a business, but that's not all. There's 
 125 new items avaliable. Unfortunately, they're only useful when you have your own business. This 
 only creates a better gameplay for your store. Since you're still going to take care of the Sims 
 at their home, the items are barely useful for your home.
  
  Now, is when you start creating your store. Unfortunately, it makes the game way more complicated, 
 even when it comes to opening a store. To hire employees, you use a telephone, to open the store, 
 you need an open and close sign. Luckily, even though you must see the status of all your employees, 
 you are able to see their status with just a click or two. One of the features I hate is that you 
 buy the merchandise right when you open the store.
  
  The open and close sign is actually a pretty cool feature. Instead of having a schduale, you are 
 able to have your business under control. You can stay in the store for 48 hours, or you can just 
 stay there for 3 hours. Since you can do this, your Sim can still have a career. So your sim will 
 have two jobs, which will make even more money!
  
  Since the first part, an important and fun feature of the game, is the skills. There are new skills 
 in this game, they are called sim talents. Basically, a sim talent is a major skill that you and 
 your employee has. It ranges from giving makeovers, to being a cashier. Just like the skills, you 
 must practice on a certain item to increase that skill. I personally like this feature, but it 
 makes the game a bit more complicated.
  
  You have this new feature in the game that will help you determine how many customers will you 
 have. Depending on your skills, inventory, and employee skills will give you a star ranking. It 
 goes as simple as this. The more stars you have, the better store you have, therefore the more 
 customers will come to your store. But that's not the only benefit of having a good store. Your 
 wholesale prices will drop, and you will also receive a bonus for dealing with your customers.
 
  
  Your sim employees will also have a morale. If they get minimum wage, they will be mad, and they 
 will have a lower morale. If you pay them more money, the money they actually deserve, then they 
 will have a bigger morale. When they have a good morale, they will work happier and better, so 
 you will get more profit. But, this is kind of risky though, because if you give them too much 
 money, then you will lose money, and not have a profit.
  
  You will purchase the items by using some catalogue purchasing thingy. There is this catalogue, 
 and depending on your type of store, will depend on the items you can purchase (I've made an Eb 
 games type of store :) ) . You must use the same rule when it always comes to buying, buy low, and 
 sell high. But, they won't buy a game for $200, everyone knows that. Also, you can put "SALE!" 
 signs on items, which will make customers want to buy it.
  
  When a customer enters the store, there will be a bar. No, it's not to increase their "shopping" 
 skill. It's their interest in an item. What your employees must do is convince them to buy an item. 
 If they have bad social skills, they might say something like "Jhagigjhgn aggmgjg", and that will 
 offend the customer, and drop the customers bar down. But if they have good social skills, they 
 might say something like "Kgjaigng gia gaiaha", and that convinces everyone to buy something.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the sound, and graphics of this game basically remains the same. I didn't see any 
 improvments onto the sound, and the graphics. Since the original of the sims 2 came out quite a 
 while ago, it makes the graphics and the sound of the game a bit outdated. Too bad for you sound 
 and graphic fans.
  
  For the last word, this expansion pack gives a huge feature, that could still become a successful 
 game even if it was separate, and not an expansion. The graphics and the sound is a bit outdated, 
 but the gameplay has improved a lot, and made the Sims game more addicting. I would recommend this 
 game to all the sim and business fans, and basically, anyone who's looking for a game that's different, 
 and stands out from the other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlabadie88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Open For Business makes a claim that you can finally follow your Sims to work. Well, 
 as long as you are running a business. OFB throws more into this expansion than any other expansion 
 before it, arguably including the first Sims games. People who play this game regularly will definitely 
 grasp this game's concepts faster than those who casually play it. In fact, the casual Sims player 
 may skip out on this expansion (it really doesn't add a LOT of household objects) . But for those 
 of us who follow the Sims, there's a whole lot of game.
  
  Most of us don't own a business, but we probably could after playing this game. This review isn't 
 about game tips, but there is so much more to this game than just selling goods. The expansion 
 really does get everything you could probably think of covered. Employees must be hired. Within 
 the employees, you must manage pay, hours, skills, motivation, breaks, tasks, promotions, etc. 
 You have to keep things stocked. You have to keep customers happy and can develop customer loyalty. 
 Secret shoppers are even on this game waiting to give your business a good or bad review. While 
 this is in fact, a lot to take in, it is about as well laid out as it could be, with all of the 
 information and buttons you will need located in the upper right corner of the screen during business 
 hours. With this area, you can view and manage customers, employees, cash flow, business perks, 
 and setting prices. This isn't to say that it is easy to just sit down and play it. The good thing 
 is the fact that in this game, you can start small. Just like real life, starting a business comes 
 out of your personal funds. At first, you may not have a lot of money, and there is a brand new 
 Shopping District (a very good one) that features all kinds of pre-made stores and empty stores 
 for you to start a business in. You can start small, learning things a little at a time until you 
 are ready to try your hand at a different aspect of the business game. This expansion does, whether 
 good or bad to you, tend to veer away from traditional expansions. If you choose to play the business 
 aspect of the game, it's a different take on what you may be used to. But again, Maxis and EA have 
 done a great job of adding something new to the Sims that has allowed it to stay fresh for five 
 years now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donprwells
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I only realized a new EP was being released a short 2 weeks before release. I watched a couple 
 previews and was impressed. I bought the EP and was pleasantly surprised at this release. Not only 
 did it include new items but it also included a new aspect to the game.
  
  Shortly after installing the EP and briefing the manual, I started my own simple makeover salon. 
 It did not take me long to figure out how to impress customers and to get them to buy merchandise. 
 It is really quite fun to have an impact not only on your Sims appearance, in this instance, but 
 also on others as well. It did not take me long to screw up my first makeover leaving bald patches 
 all over the Sims head. Next came Casandra, and we all know her, the freak has grown up. She immediately 
 began pushing my character around, so I offered her a free makeover and made her bald with mismatching 
 makeup. 
  
  Managing your employees can be a bit time consuming at times, but the fact that you can tell them 
 what to do, what to wear and how to do their hair is a great addition. Having multiple uniforms 
 allows you to easily switch an employee into a mascot uniform or any other crazy uniform that you 
 have previously selected.
  
  Customers are as finicky as in real life. You think they want help, but really they just want to 
 look around. If you send an employee to sell to them, then they hate your store. Some even distract 
 your employees and you have to ask them to leave, while others are your bonus customers and you 
 celebrate every time they enter your store. You sell them everything you can, and they buy it.
 
  
  Granted, there are little annoying things, such as: You must have talent badges to be good at what 
 you do, however, you must screw up a lot before you actually start getting better and that can 
 really hurt your business to begin with. There is not another way I have found to gain these badges; 
 such as Cosmetology without screwing up your friends looks and having them get pissed at you.
 
  
  There is not a new Aspiration that would help keep your Sims aspirations high without having to 
 take time away from business to meet your aspirations.
  
  Despite the little things, this game adds amazing game play, however tedious, and brings Sims 2 
 to a new level. I still have a lot of exploring and experimenting to do, but the expansiveness 
 of this EP in means of game play and added options are well worth any investment if you really 
 like playing Sims 2. It is a perfect addition!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiinn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Fun, addicting, open ended game.... Well I think I just about rapped it up. I mean what else is 
 there to say..... fun funfunfunfunfunfunfun fun fun funfunfun.
  The game isn't all fun though for some the game may get repetitive but for me ............. not 
 yet. This particular expansion added with all the others makes for a great game. If u just so happen 
 to be some random person who can't furfill their life long dreams why not just live them through 
 the sims.
  
  btw......... don't play it for to long u may just get a little obsessive.... and an obsession over 
 a video game is just not healthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishaleah
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  There are a some new features that makes OFB a good EP. The best one being that you can follow 
 your Sims to work and hire playable sims. Also, if the business is on a community lot , you can 
 visit it with another playable Sim and see all the employees there busy at work. That to me is 
 the best feature! 
  
  There are also some things like new clothes, new hairstyles, elevators, and split level floors 
 for stages and such. Overall a good EP. However, the challenge at times is a bit time consuming 
 especially if you are a casually simmer. It takes a while to really get a business off the ground. 
 I would have enjoyed more foods for customizing restaurants menus. But I am really enjoying creating 
 custom businesses that Sims can visit to shop and see all their friends even more so than actually 
 running the business itself!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizz624
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  on the plus side, has all the features of the past three, with some added goodies. you can be your 
 own boss. so instead of just visiting and buying you can sell. the better you are the more you 
 earn. has a whole new downtown to explore and businesses to run and some you have to work your 
 way up to. on the minus side, there are a few minor bugs, i had it crash once and two other error 
 codes appear, which one deleted my sim. one is do not go home with the store open, your sim dissappears 
 and you are stuck at the business with no escape, another is do not sell the business while you 
 are there your sim leaves and once again you are stuck in a game with no where to go. when those 
 two happened i had to go to desktop and use task manager to shut the game down and start from scratch. 
 so i expect a patch to come out some time in the near future, hopefully. but other than that is 
 still one the funnest games to play. so get yourself a business and go to town. have fun playing!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cream147
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I've already said it all. Now, let's start from the beginning. You install it, get on, go onto 
 a neighbourhood, make Bluewater (a little shopping district the game makes for you) and then make 
 a family, get a house. You buy the essentials, but only the essentials as there is no money to 
 spend on anything else. Now with the money that you left over because you only bought the essentials, 
 you buy things for your business. So far, so good, but if you have made a shop you will no doubt 
 be questioning what to do there. How do people tell when my business is open or closed and how 
 to people tell what is for sale. Actually, you haven't opened your business yet, you need to click 
 on your phone, click on business and then click on open home business. Then you will get up a panel 
 at the top right which is your business panel. From there, you can find out about your business 
 and also put things up for sale. All this creates the first flaw in the game. If you hadn't read 
 this review, it would've taken a while for you to figure all that out. There is tips that you can 
 have but who wants to read when you're about to play a new game?
  You've got your business up and running, but you still haven't answered a previous question. How 
 do you close your business. Once again, you'll need my guidance (this is the previous flaw again) . 
 You need to buy an Open/Closed sign which is in decorative in buy mode. So we've answered all that. 
 Now that you've got your business properly up and running, you'll need to work hard. You work all 
 day, you hardly sell anything, terrible day at the office (unless you have a natural talent at 
 the game) , and you find that your mood is really low. My answer to that is a lunch break. It is 
 a lot easier if you close your store from 12:00 until 2:00. More figuring out and at first I was 
 worried because I could only really play with the maxmotives cheat on. When you are first playing 
 Open for Business, you will first just want the Business game really so I recommend you let the 
 magic of free will sort out your moods when you close at about 6:00.
  So I have discussed the main flaw and now I want to quickly mention the next. This game is made 
 taking for granted the fact that you have bought the previous expansion packs (more importantly, 
 Nightlife) . A big mistake and it feels like this is half a game at times. There is a restaurant, 
 which is not possible without Nightlife. It makes you feel like this game is missing a lot of things 
 if you don't have Nightlife.
  Now I've mentioned the flaws, how about the good bits? For starters, this game is challenging. 
 It doesn't make everything a breeze which could easily be done by leaving the magic free will running. 
 You need to be looking at the game at all times, making critical decisions and looking at that 
 important money balance. This is a difficult game and should not be taken like a breeze as others 
 could.
  It is also fun. Running a business just gives you more things to do and who can blame a game for 
 giving you more things to do. Especially with the quality and flexibility of the game. It gives 
 you a lot of choice, which is something that The Sims hasn't been famous for doing.
  And ultimately, this game is good, and as with most Sims games, universal. I think that any reviewer 
 who doesn't give this above 7 is doing injustice. Yes it has its flaws. But it also adds an entire 
 new concept to the game, and much more than the previous expansion packs anyway. Buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaescaluna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Nightlife is fun with vampires and a new town but Open for Business is more of an expansion pack. 
 It has been really addictive running the shops. I find myself not concerned about aspirations and 
 wants hardly at all. It is great spending time focusing on new goals like making customers happy 
 and thinking about creating new products to sell. 
  
  It has been out for a day and so I can't wait to go back and play it. The Ramirez Furniture shop 
 has been my favorite. You get to price furniture at "ridiculously expensive" down to "cheap." The 
 good news is that if you decide to buy a second shop your perks from your first shop stay with 
 you. 
  
  I'm a huge Depeche Mode fan so imagine my surprise when I put in the New Wave speakers. Way to 
 go Maxis! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delldell45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  it takes a long time for you to learn all the new bussiness managemen tools, because they don't 
 give you full insructions. but it is completely fun and addictingto run your on store, or stores. 
 right now im managing a huge mall that i built and it its great! it comes with a hole bunch of 
 new objects, new wall colors, floor colors, and another cool thing is that when you build a foundation, 
 you can build another on top, so if you were tired of boiring straight stairs, then you could make 
 them different. Also they come with new roofing styles, to spice up your home or store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmyScott
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  I simply love the Sims 2 Open for Business... I think in truth it is THE best expansion yet to 
 come out.. don't get me wrong I did enjoy University, and Night Life even more, but OFB finally 
 offers more to do!! No more "Get a job, watch sim go off screen, and then vanish, time goes by.. come 
 home.." there are so many ways you can have a business too, thanks to the three buisness types 
 you can do. As far as retail, I'm so good now, one of my Sims Shadinya, is now selling HOUSES! 
 Yes its possible to learn to sell even lots, and become a real-estate agent! My newest buisness 
 uses the Ticket machine, where a tickets used and payed for hourly to use whats in the lot, and 
 I opened a Cyber Cafe! People come in, work on Computers or laptops, I see a few of them going 
 about and making a Lan-Party (thanks to Night Life) and playing the games too, Drinking coffee 
 from the Cafe machines I have in there, its worked out great, the buisness is already at level 
 10! Its just... awesome... there is no way i see ANYTHING wrong with this expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjmoe99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  We all know that the Sims have invaded our lives (like it or not) . With each new Sims, comes something 
 alittle different. Open for Business has got me thinking that the Sims is still a great game. People 
 want so much out of a computer game, especially the Sims. I believe if we go into playing the Sims 
 with a good attitude about it, then it will be a great game. It has great options and a fun experience. 
 I don't have the time to play it as much as I would like, but my wife is having a great time building 
 and controlling their lives. Open for Business is a fun game and is worth playing. It might seem 
 hard at first to get your business going, but it is worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel324
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The Best Sims 2 game ever that came out. I've been playing it for 5 days now. And i have been stuck 
 with my Computer. Just making up my business. Nothing would stop me to get out of my Computer. 
 Even when we were suppose to go out for dinner. I stayed home just to play alone.
  Very nice and great game. Just the game your looking for and you will get hooked up in every single 
 challenge. Maybe others will take this game of Maxis really hard, Just because of the business'. 
 Well they are wrong, this is the best game ever. I hope The Sims will make more enjoyable games 
 like "The Sims 2: Open for Business. Yeah:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLaser2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Through the years therre have been many new sims expansion packs. Now im not saying this is the 
 best but it is a good one. Open for Buissness is the most interesting one we've seen yet. It lets 
 you own your favorite store, bowling alley etc as well as create a home buissness. This game has 
 a little feature from the sims makin' magic that lets you sculpt only in this you can make robots, 
 toys and flowers. MY personal favorite are the robots. The robots basically do chores for you they 
 can water flowers, feed you, protect you and clean your house, the downside is that they break 
 down quite often.
  Two new construction features- the elevator and stage are among the most interesting. The stage 
 makes it easy to create split level homes, and the elevator, though it sounds cool, is actually 
 useless unless you make a 5 story tall building. 
  Basically the game plays out where you can creat a huge buissness empire with tons of little buissnesses 
 run by you. That looks good on pen and paper, but would take talent to acheive, talent most people 
 dont have. For every buissness you own you have to hire employees becuase lets face it- one man 
 cant run 3 shops at once. From there you assign them to certain positions depending on the type 
 of shop you run. Generally i've noticed that You should generally be the salesman while you're 
 there, otherwise people get reallt\y annoyed with your salesman and complain to you. 
  If you do the math 3 shops with about 4 employees each adds up to 12 sims. THese sims get paid 
 on the hour and if you pay them too little they'll just quit. IF you pay them too much it becomes 
 almost impossible to make a profit. This seems really hard because you have to manage all three 
 while your on the property unless you have a manager. An employee can be manager when he gets a 
 certain number of badges that are used to rate their buissnesss skills. Bronze, silveer, gold. 
 I made a point scale to show how to become a manager. Bronze-1, Silver-2, Gold-3. You need 5 points 
 which is hard considering these are NPCs (non playable characters)
  One of my favorite things about this game is the perks. The perks come when your buissness gets 
 a certain numbeer of stars that are attained by treating customers well and not annoying them. 
 Your buissness will be rated accordingly and your buissness will level up. Every level you gain, 
 you get a perk that helps you move forward. Perks cannot be taken away but your buissness rating 
 can.
  All in all this is a great expansion with plenty of new things added, many of which i did not mention. 
 This expansion pack adds more realism, items, hairdos, adn clothes as well as robots. I reccommend 
 it so get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  For the first time, I diden't expect much from this expansion, and it payd off. It was a suprisingly 
 good game, and I really recommed to not expect much from the future games, becouse then you will 
 be most happely suprised. Its a good game, finally came the elevator, and finaly can you hire people 
 and feel how it is to be owning more than one thing, and be "the rich boss". 
  
  I really recommend it for the sims fan, and others. Mabye you will be disepointed about this game 
 if you expect much, but I diden't, and I think you will be happy to.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review without actually playing this game. Thats right. I don't like 'The Sims' 
 myself. I played it when it came out for about 5 hours, got to the top of my profession, surveyed 
 my kingdom and saw it was good - but boring. You see I think (most) men, need task and direction. 
 They don't do well with open ended sandbox games unless they are subconsciously making tasks for 
 themselves - "I wonder just how many women I can 'wohoo' with in a single hour?"
  
  Anyway, the good part for me is that my wife loves this game. And I know then when it came out, 
 I was guaranteed at least 20 hours of extra gaming time while I did more important things, like 
 taking over the galaxy in Gal Civ II. By the way - thats a FANTASTIC game and you should buy that 
 too.
  
  So if you have a wife or a girlfriend, get this game for them and enjoy your gaming time. Unless 
 you only have one computer in which case you will probably get divorced very quickly.
  
  Oh, a word of advice. If you are male, and have a wife/girlfriend, I don't recommend trying to 
 wohoo as many women as you can in a one hour period. My wife made our family on the SIMS game for 
 me and of course was very upset when I was taking the scenic tour of the neighborhood.
  
  Good luck and good gaming.
  
  * Review scores are based on limited conversation with my wife 
 and the occasional glance at her screen while (only when I was waiting for the enemy AI to finish 
 it's turn in Gal Civ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Which is me. Micromanagement is all right when it can be easy to understand, easy to pick up, and 
 with different levels of difficulty you can challenge yourself with. This reminds me of "The Movies" 
 when after 50 years there is so much going on you want to commit suicide after playing it for an 
 hour because everyone is in a bad mood, nothing is getting done, and everything makes as much sense 
 as Michael Jackson's face.
  
  After playing several hours with a woman in a flower store, I've been confused, annoyed, and I 
 learned about 2 things about selling items, and most of the time those don't work. Of all the Sims 
 games I've ever played, this one is the most confusing, and someone needs to make a FAQ and quick.
 
  
  Either way, I don't like the business idea because you can't use it other than for jobs, and to 
 make money, it's not very expansive, and it merely replaces real jobs that Sims could make WAAAAY 
 more money without you killing half your brain cells and Sims losing moods and aspirations like 
 crazy. There is little new content too, or else that content just relates to businesses or is mostly 
 pointless.
  
  I think I made a profit of $100 in 10 days with the business... no wait, it was more like -$1000! 
 I usually get games easily. Not this time. I hope you're ready.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is currently one of the most popular PC games of our time. As a fan of the Sims franchise 
 I cannot miss any expansion pack, I have to get them all and have a complete collection, which 
 I believe is the reason lots of other fans buy the game's expansions as well.
  
  In The Sims 2 Open for Business your sims are in charge of their own community business lot. They 
 can have their own business op multiple businesses of different types that includes an electronics 
 store, a furniture store, a flowers store a hair salon and more... These businesses are managed 
 by your sim and the employees you hire to help you around in different tasks like sales, crafting 
 new objects, restocking items and more.
  
  Every and each business has it's own rank that goes up when you gain additional customer loyalty. 
 Customer loyalty is effected by the way your customers are treated in your business, it's all about 
 their experience while on your lot, if they have a good time and walk away happy your customer 
 loyalty meter will go up and of course if you tend to annoy them with your sales offers or have 
 negative interactions with them the meter goes down.
  
  Your sim will never be able to run a good business all over alone, you will always need to hire 
 employees at some point. Employees have talent badges, a talent badge in sales will give the employee 
 a very good impact on the customer he's trying to convince while a robot crafting badge will give 
 him a very good hands in the robots workshop. There other talent badges of course, they come in 
 Bronze, Silver and Gold and can be gained by practice only.
  
  As Maxis always has a little bit of everything in each expansion pack, in Open for Business players 
 who like the build mode will find some new good tools like the Awning tool and the elevator tool. 
 The buy mode also contains very good new objects in the different categories. Those who wants twins 
 so bad can now use the FORCETWIN cheat to have twins anytime. The soundtrack in the game is also 
 very good.
  
  The Sims 2 Open for Business is another great addition to the base game, it's the first one to 
 add such a difficult challenge so you will be finding yourself running from forum to forum in look 
 for some assistance!
  
  It's of course a must for the franchise fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  At first sight, it seems like a very good game, and worth playing. It probably is, but getting 
 to that stage where doing some things is easy, is really hard to get. The idea of the game is a 
 very nice one, something me and many other Sims players were expecting for some time... but there 
 is a problem. It is one of the hardest things you have to do. Having to look after employees and 
 shoppers is not a simple task. Managing your staff is difficult, because if you don't hire experienced 
 people, you're shop ends asthe most horrible experience for shoppers ". If it would have a slight 
 change of difficulty, it would be perfect. But being this way, the game will not last long in my 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marchingknight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that the next expansion pack to my favorite game was going to be about business, I 
 was pretty skeptical about how good they could actually make it. I didn't see how they could make 
 business fun.
  
  Boy, was I wrong!
  
  As it Open for Business got closer and closer to its release date, the idea started to grow on 
 me. I heard about some of the new features and thought, "maybe it will be worth it." I decided 
 to preorder the EP, half because of the game, but half because I wanted to keep my collection complete.
 
  
  Then came the day when I got the call that it was in. I was pretty excited about it, but not nearly 
 as excited as I was for Nightlife or University. I was ready to get home, install the game, check 
 out the new features, and move on.
  
  After I installed Open for Business, I learned how wrong I was. I opened it up, went into my favorite 
 neighborhood, opened my favorite family, and started fooling around with my home business.
  
  Once I started playing, I immediately fell in love with the game. I look back, and I don't 
 understand how I ever could have doubted Maxis. I looked at the gameplay, experimented with the 
 new features, even just listened to the music. Everything is brilliant! Here I'll run down a list 
 of my favorite new features:
  
  3. New objects
  Crafting tables - the new crafting table make the whole idea behind the game so much better. You 
 get to sell things you make to other sims, rather than just a buy and sell system. Plus, if you 
 don't want to sell it, the things you make are very useful. Servo gave me so much more time to 
 play the game. He cleans up for me, cooks for me, and fixes anything that breaks for me while I 
 sit back and enjoy my business
  Shelves - Shelves are good for more than displaying things you want to sell. You can use for decoration. 
 Buy a shelf, and put some flowers on it. It's a space saver. Two flower pots in one tile.
  The rest - There is so much more in this area. There are tons of new tables, chairs, and even 
 dressers. It gives you so much more variety for your homes without having to go through the problems 
 that come with custom content.
  
  2. New building options
  Stages - The stage has made my life so much easier. Before this expansion, if I wanted a stage, 
 I had to go through the whole "boolprop constrainfloorelevation false" mess. I would make my stage, 
 decorate it, furnish it, and make it look nice. Then I would go up a level and realize that I completely 
 destroyed my building. Now, I build the building, then just throw a stage in there and I'm done.
 
  Awnings - The awning make the buildings so much more realistic. Instead of having a flat floor 
 tile on the next story directly above the door, I have something that looks real. It really spices 
 up the buildings.
  Elevators - My favorite new building feature. Finally, if I want an elevator, I get an elevator. 
 Not a room with a door that looks like an elevator but just leads to stairs.
  
  1. Business gameplay
  Employees - dealing with employees is by far the most fun part of the 
 game. You have to hire them carefully, making sure not to pick any slackers. You have to make sure 
 you hire a good variety of employees, so your business has everything you need. Cashiers, salespeople, 
 builders, restockers, and custodians. Once they're hired, you make sure you pay them well enough 
 for them to work hard, but not so much that you lose all your money. Then you keep an eye on them 
 to make sure they don't spend all their time lounging around. Keep them on task.
  Sales - This is what I spend a lot of time on. I make sure that the people I try to sell to are 
 in a good mood. Approach them carefully. Don't come right out with a "hard sell". do some "basic 
 sells", and maybe even socialize with them a little before trying to make a sale. Get them to like 
 you. It makes it much easier to sell to them.
  Business Rank - This is my favorite part of business gameplay. Building up your business rank 
 combines all aspects of the business. You have to manage your employees well, make smart decisions, 
 and keep your business attractive to customers in order to get to the top.
  
  Open for Business is so much better than I expected it to be. It brought with it great new gameplay, 
 awesome new objects, and amazing (and very useful) new building options. With everything that Open 
 for Business bring to the game, I can only describe it as the best expansion of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anth_14_2004
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 gets better and better all the time. More new objects in the game that rocks. The open 
 business thing to make your own business is awesome. You get to make money and hire people and if 
 there bad your fire them. You can creat stuff also thats whats good. For this game i give it a 9.5/10 
 The Sims 2 keep getting better all the time thats what makes it good. Worth the buy if you love 
 the sims 2 you will love this one. To me this game is out standing as usual there is more objects 
 to it. The Sims 2 is one of the best games out there. This expansion will just make the game that 
 much better. Oh for the person that says the game is "imcomplete" and calls everyone who plays 
 it kids, first off you need to learn how to spell. Its "incomplete", secondly looks like you should 
 not be spending countless hours on the computer but brushing up on your vocabulary. This will just 
 be the beginning of another good expansion. The only downfall I hate about the game, which to me 
 is almost nothing but if I were to say something negative about it is the Sims needs are very needy 
 I guess you would say. Seems like you have to feed them every hour, and it takes like 4 hours in 
 game time to get there social all the way up. Other than that the game is a blast. This is a great 
 game, great genre, for kids, for teens, for adults as well. The building mode is a game in itself 
 lol. Great job Maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  At first, I played this EP for 21 hours in just the second day after I got it.
  
  But it is really getting boring.
  
  I find myself starting a business, hiring employee's. Then 
 I don't feel like running it anymore. I'm actually thinking of stopping the whole OFB experience 
 and just using the new stuff to make University dorms and Nightlife clubs and stuff.
  
  But it was good at first. But as always, it does tend to get boring after alittle while. But I 
 would still recomend people get this EP. When you get bored of the OFB experience, you can still 
 use the new stuff to do other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Open For Business, the third installment in Maxis' second-generation Sims 2 franchise, 
 is filled with new objects and features to reinvigorate every fan's interest in playing The Sims 
 2. The primary function of this new expansion pack is to allow Sims to build up businesses and 
 make lots of money, although there are many other bits to it.
  
  New objects include:
  - workstations to build robots and toys, and arrange flowers
  - toys, flowers and robots (including 
 Servo) - made at the already mentioned workstations
  - ninja, gorilla, knight and diver statues to decorate your business
  - elevators!!
  - awnings 
 to place out the front of building
  - new roof shapes, including domes and spires
  - new chairs, tables, paintings, sculptures etc
  - lots and lots of brand new outfits, ranging 
 from regular clothing to full-body mascot outfits - you can make a household full of ninjas or 
 gorillas if you want!!!
  - more new headwear, including mascot heads
  - new building option which allows you to place stages/raised platforms inside buildings.
  
 
  The way the game works is that your Sim opens a business using the phone, buys a register and 
 some display cabinets and then buys objects to sell, marking them as 'for sale' using the special 
 business tool. Sims can then employ other Sims to work at their store, and earn talent badges for 
 making robots/toys/arranging flowers, using the cash register, restocking items and selling items 
 to customers. Depending on a business's customer loyalty rating, various 'bonus' cards are available 
 which improve the business. You can sell pretty much anything - even cars (if you have NightLife) 
 or entire lots!
  
  If your Sim doesn't want to sell stuff, they can also bake goods, open a restaurant, have a video 
 arcade or make a salon.
  
  The game is best used in conjunction with the University and Nightlife expansion packs. Used on 
 its own with the base game will be OK, but you won't be able to open a bowling alley or restaurant 
 or sell some of the more interesting objects.
  
  The new location, Bluewater Village, doesn't add much to the game and, like NightLife's Downtown 
 area, I didn't end up using it much.
  
  The main problem with OFB is its high learning curve, especially if you don't have the game guide. 
 Learning the best way to run a business will take a good few hours, and you'll probably end up 
 deleting your first one. One thing to note - although you can open a home business, you can't access 
 all of the business objects unless you're on a community lot. So it's not possible to open a restaurant 
 at home, for example.
  
  Compared to Uni and Nightlife, OFB doesn't add as much to the game as either of the other EPs - 
 there are no new age groups or drastic changes to the base gameplay like dates. However, the addition 
 of robots, elevators and the business function is enough to make it worth purchasing. If you've 
 really been looking forward to this, it might be a bit disappointing at first, but, like Uni, after 
 4-5 hours of gameplay the actual value becomes obvious. In a similar way to Uni's requirement to 
 play your Sims through a degree before you could access the new careers, OFB makes your Sims gain 
 talent badges so you can get to the awesome robots and toys.
  
  Possibly the best feature of OFB is that it reinvigorates an already fantastic game, and is well 
 worth the $30-40 or so it costs to buy. More experienced Sims players will probably enjoy it most, 
 as running a business will probably be beyond new users. I didn't notice any increase in loading 
 times or decrease in frame rates after installing OFB (unlike the EPs from the original Sims, which 
 progressively slowed the game down) .
  
  Anyway, it's a really good game, although it has a high learning curve and is best if you have 
 both Uni and NightLife. If you don't own any Sims games yet, go for Uni and then get OFB later.
 
  
  Oh, and see if you can spot the music that's been recycled from TS1 in buy mode. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
