-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesims2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 9.1, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 19,122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Sep 14, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Sims 2 is a great sequel and a great game in its own right, and it's recommendable to just about 
 anyone. 

  If you were wondering, The Sims 2 is a great sequel and a great game in its own right, and it's 
 recommendable to just about anyone. For some, especially the devoted fans that have enjoyed the 
 first game's open-ended gameplay, which was all about controlling the lives of autonomous little 
 computer people, this is all that really needs to be said. But considering that The Sims 2 is the 
 sequel to what is reportedly the most successful computer game ever (and that's not even counting 
 its many expansion packs) , the new game almost seems like a victim of its own success. Yes, it 
 introduces plenty of new features that enhance the gameplay that was so popular in the original 
 game, but it doesn't drastically refresh it. It also features plenty of options to play with, but 
 it seems like it could've used even more content. Then again, you could simply say that EA and 
 Maxis are making sure the game has room to grow with future updates -- and there's no denying that 
 The Sims 2's additions will give dedicated fans of the series plenty of stuff to do.  

          You can make a highly customized family, even if all you want is a bunch of Nerds.     
 

  In the most basic terms, The Sims 2, like The Sims before it, lets you create one or more "sims" -- autonomous 
 characters with distinct personalities and needs. You then create a virtual household of one or 
 more sims (you get to decide whether they're roommates, spouses, or parents) and move them into 
 a house and a neighborhood that is either prebuilt or built from scratch. Your sims interact with 
 each other and with their neighbors, children leave the house for school each day, and employed 
 adults head out for work to earn a living in one of a number of different career paths. However, 
 the sequel has several new options, including an enhanced neighborhood editor that lets you import 
 custom cities from Maxis' own SimCity 4, if you have that game installed. Plus, there are expanded 
 building options that let you build a much bigger house.  

  But the most significant additions in the new game are probably the enhancements made to the sims 
 and the ways they act. While they still have specific personality types determined by their horoscopes 
 and individual characteristics like neatness, niceness, and playfulness (which you can still adjust 
 to your taste) , sims now have some notable major new features (some of which are more important 
 than others) , like memories, customized appearances, genetics, aging, and the new aspiration/fear 
 system. Memories are generated by important events that occur in sims' lives, like getting married, 
 having a child, or having a loved one pass away. Memories impact your sims' future behavior (though 
 not to any huge extent) , and they can also be used to build out a highly customized neighborhood 
 with its own background story and photo album if you're so inclined, though they don't add much 
 more to the basic game.  

  The sequel also features enhanced appearance editing tools that let you customize your sims' clothing, 
 hairstyle and hair color, and also let you make many adjustments to their facial features. Oddly, 
 the editor doesn't let you adjust your sims' height or their build (beyond making them "normal" 
 or "fat") , but it, along with the "body shop" utility, should let most players basically re-create 
 whatever characters they want to from their favorite TV shows or movies.  

          Nerd family genetics at work. Parents pass on their traits to their children in The Sims 
 2.     

  The appearance editors go hand in hand with genetics, which takes the ability to create a family 
 of sims and builds it out further, though what you get out of this new feature depends entirely 
 on what you put into it. Essentially, this new system lets sims pass on genetic information to 
 their children. When creating a new family, you can have the game randomly generate that family's 
 children based on the parent's appearance and personality (and you can further edit the child's 
 appearance and personality however you like, if you prefer) . Depending on your preferences, you 
 may find yourself messing around with the genetics system in other ways. You might try to carefully 
 re-create a real-life couple or family to see what kind of genetics they pass on. Or, you might 
 toss some alien DNA into the family tree to see what happens, as The Sims 2 also lets you create 
 aliens from outer space that you can marry off to humans, if that's what floats your boat.  

  More importantly, sims maintain their family ties (assuming you don't have any dramatic family 
 squabbles) , so if you decide to really hunker down and build out an extended clan, you can start 
 with a carefully designed family or group of families, let them get married, and let them have 
 children. You can then watch the children grow up and move out into their own places. And since 
 sims are still autonomous and go about their lives even without supervision, you can expect to 
 later receive visits from doting grandparents (or mooching grandchildren, depending on whose household 
 you decide to control) . Again, like memories, these are features that will reveal their rewards 
 with the extra time and effort you choose to spend on them.     

  In The Sims 2, your characters actually grow old and even die of old age (or other causes, if you're 
 into that kind of thing) . Like with the original game, sims can and will die from neglect and extenuating 
 circumstances, and if you're one of those sadistic players that enjoyed making your sims suffer, 
 you'll still be able to do this in the sequel. However, if you're the sort that might really get 
 involved in your sims' lives and history, you may look at aging as a way to build a rich and storied 
 life for your sims. Yes, it can take several hours of play to age a sim from a baby to a senior 
 citizen; however, if you're really looking to create an entire life for your sims, you'll find 
 that as senior citizens your characters will not only look older, but will also look back on a 
 long string of memories and possibly a large family tree filled with weddings and grandchildren 
 before they eventually pass away, to be mourned (or not) by their children. It might also be worth 
 mentioning that even though you can go through different generations of your sims' families, the 
 time period of The Sims 2 never changes, so you won't see any technological or chronological progression. 
 That is, you won't go from horse-drawn carriages to jalopies to modern-day sports cars -- all your 
 sims will still be watching plasma screen TVs and playing SSX 3 on their home computers, regardless 
 of how many generations you've gone through.  

          The Grim Reaper poses the age-old question, 'Can you hear me now?' Sims can still die, 
 but now they can grow old and have a family tree.     

  Then again, you may also look at aging as a challenge, because The Sims 2's most significant gameplay 
 addition, the aspiration/fear system, can actually help your sims stave off old age. The new system 
 gives your sims one of five aspirations from which to choose (in addition to their personalities, 
 memories, and personal relationships) , including building a family, earning money, seeking knowledge, 
 experiencing romance, or being popular. These aspirations boil down to four simpler goals that 
 are clearly displayed onscreen, as well as three basic "fears." Each sim has an "aspiration meter" 
 that fills up whenever you complete a goal and empties out whenever your sims' worst fears are 
 realized. These goals can be as immediate as throwing a party where everyone enjoys themselves, 
 or as long term as eventually winning another sim over as a best friend or spouse. These fears 
 can be comparably straightforward or long term, such as being rejected from trying to make a romantic 
 advance or getting fired from work.  

  If your sims realize enough fears, their aspiration meter empties out into the red and they go 
 temporarily insane until a friendly therapist usually shows up. During this period of time, they're 
 completely unresponsive to any orders you may give them, and their loved ones may also become distraught 
 at the sight of them. However, if your sims successfully complete their goals of (for instance) 
 buying refrigerators and making best friends, they earn "aspiration points" that fill up their 
 meter, which successively becomes green, gold, then platinum -- and the longer and more often it 
 hits platinum, the longer your sims remain "normal" young adults. Buying a new fridge might net 
 you only +500 aspiration points, while making a best friend will net you a cool +3,500 -- you'll 
 need to lose a few thousand in order to go insane, and you'll need to earn several thousand more 
 to fill up your meter, though. In addition, you can actually use aspiration points to buy exceptionally 
 effective furnishings for your house, like a money tree that periodically grows extra cash or an 
 electrical tub that invigorates your sims and fulfills nearly all their needs. In addition, The 
 Sims 2's career system has been slightly enhanced. It still lets your sims follow a career path 
 and get promoted by practicing certain skills, but it now features brief text choices while you're 
 on the job that can make or break your sims' next promotion.  

  Taken together, the aspiration system and career system provide some much directed, goal-oriented 
 gameplay, surprisingly reminiscent of a challenging role-playing game, of all things. These new 
 features not only add variety to The Sims 2, but also address a common criticism about the first 
 game: how it didn't present any clear goals or objectives beyond dutifully ordering your sims to 
 relieve themselves every time their "bladder" needs got out of hand. But using this new system 
 to successfully create a household of fulfilled sims can be very tough since you must also balance 
 their relationships, their jobs, their income, and their moods at the same time.  

          His work complete, the Grim Reaper curls up in front of the dead family's TV. Fortunately 
 fulfilling needs is a bit easier in The Sims 2... if you want it to be.     

  At least The Sims 2 is a bit more lenient about your sims' constantly depleting needs (hunger, 
 fatigue, entertainment, and others) , so that you do not always have to order them to eat something, 
 play something, or talk to someone. The Sims 2's artificial intelligence is generally better than 
 that of the original game. Your sims are more likely to take appropriate actions on their own and 
 to successfully make their way around obstacles. Though, like in the original game, they occasionally 
 have problems getting to where they're intending to go and still need to be reminded of fulfilling 
 specific needs -- just less often. This means you can still create a family of sims with wildly different 
 personalities, then sit back and watch what sort of trouble they get into, which can be entertaining 
 for a while. The game has a screenshot capture key that can be used to grab images for your neighborhood's 
 story, and it also has a video capture option that lets you capture movies. So if you're willing 
 to put in the time and effort, you can try to block out your household, like you would while filming 
 on a TV set, and film away.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (670 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shaddowclone
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  The Sims was one of those games that you just didn't see coming. It smacked the gaming world upside 
 the head with its quirky nature and long reaching appeal. Obviously, the success of the original 
 was so high that it was a forgone conclusion that The Sims 2 would eventually hit stores after 
 the billions of expansion packs were done selling for the first game. Finally, after four years 
 of waiting, The Sims 2 is coming out. We've had a final for quite a while now and have been playing 
 the crap out of it in order to write this review.
  
  The Sims 2 is a strange game to try and review. There are a lot of different ways to look at it 
 and play it. The only thing that's certain is that this series is one of a kind. I can honestly 
 say that I don't think I "got it" when the original game was released. I enjoyed it for a while 
 but became frustrated at how hard it was to juggle relationships, bathroom breaks, and sleep time 
 in order to get to the top of the corporate food chain. But over the last few weeks, I finally 
 discovered something, partly due to a lot of the improvements made over the first game. The Sims 
 isn't about "winning" or reaching a certain goal. It's about setting up experiences and watching 
 them unfold. It's about personality and creativity and The Sims 2 handles both in a way that can't 
 help but make you stare in wonder at this brilliantly bizarre series.
  
  The most obvious addition is the new engine. It was an easy decision for them to make the game 
 better looking. Not only did it help them keep up with the technology but more importantly helped 
 them create an experience with a lot more personality and flair than The Sims was ever capable 
 of supplying. All of the items found in The Sims 2 are amazingly detailed and vibrantly colorful, 
 but the real charmer is the hugely long list of interactive animations between sims and the environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the true sequel to The Sims on the PC. There is no story to talk about, but players 
 can write their own stories about them in the game if they wish. This well deserved sequel gets 
 higher detail of characters, more selection of neighborhoods, being able to zoom in and so on. 
 Also more things to make the game more realistic (like your Sims aging) while being the cartoony 
 real life game as what The Sims was back when it was released.
  
  What I liked about this game is that there is more details on making Sims than the last game, such 
 as eye color, mouth size, and such. Great cartoony graphics. Great gameplay. You can create custom 
 content for your Sims.
  
  What I dislike about this game is that some moments (as usual in Sims games) are a bit disturbing. 
 Some glitchy moments. Keeping track of Sims wants can be a bit hard sometimes.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2 is a great PC title and a great sequel to the first game on the PC. Custom 
 content and better graphics make it better as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  + Improved camera and controls.
  + Added realisim.
  + Cheerful music that maintains welcome for most people.
  + Plays well, even without mods.
 
  + Carriot-head teens are undeniably hot.
  
  
  - Hateful online community.
  - Graphics are nothing new.
  - Isn't very Laptop friendly.
  - Lags alot.
  - Pregnet sims 
 are absoulutly hideous to look at.
  - Doesn't come with any sort of editor.
  - Broken voice acting for the sims.
  - Leans over more to female audiences.
  - Mods aren't 
 really that amusing to use.
  
  
  
  
  The Sims is (or was) probably my most favorited series of all time. However, although the orginal 
 was a blast, The Sims 2 starts a huge downfall for the series. That's not to say The Sims 2 didn't 
 bring anything new; It has a special charm that's meant for just about everybody. Unfortunetly, 
 the executing of this charm gets pretty ugly.
  
  
  
  If you've played the Sims 1, The Sims 2 should be a 3D throwback. A huge improvement from the orginial 
 is that the entire world has been converted to 3D. You can zoom in on your sims close up, as well 
 as the scenery (which looks pretty sketchy and poorly graphic textured sometimes) , their house, 
 and a good majority of how life REALLY is in the sim world. The sims look pretty decently textutes 
 when creating them with millions of customization options, even though the rest of the textures 
 look pretty bland at times. The sims really have changed and they're all well animated, but the 
 horrifically repeatitive voice acting leaves more to be wanted.. The realisim is bumped up to were 
 sims can buy cars, complete different tasks, and forfill their life goals, aspirations and desires 
 and so on.
  
  
  However, before 20 minutes of playing and finding all what the game really has to offer, you might 
 have notice the sudden theme changed that feels more leaning to female audiences and little kids. 
 The music sounds too cheerful and babyish, the sims act a little more goofy than they actually 
 where, and a few other things really impact the "both male and female" purpose the series was going 
 for. Some of the cheery music sounds adorable, but the rest will have (most) men ripping their 
 ears off and eating them.
  
  
  As fusteratingly as the girly theme may be, it shouldn't provoke you from playing a rather unique 
 game. If your a fan of the original, you won't be too disapointed. The Sims all have new abilities 
 to leave a stove to go do something while its still on. They can buy both old and new items in 
 the series. They can travel and meet new community lots and people instead of always calling in 
 a taxi. They can even create and run their own community lot with the help of an expansion pack. 
 They have the ability to call in chinese food and babysitters and new services. One of the most 
 improvments of all time, however, is the Aging system, which lets sims grow up in realtime from 
 babies to old grandpas.
  
  
  Because its a life simulator, the new Aspiration system has been included. Based on a preset Aspiration 
 for your sim, you need to forfill as much as your Sim's Needs as possible before they die. These 
 needs include getting a certain rank in your job or marrying a particular sim, and by completing 
 these needs, your Aspiration Bar increases. With a decent Aspiration bar, you'll be rewarded a 
 huge heap of life insurance money after the Sim's death, or sometimes even unlock new items. Of 
 course, your sim's life, weither its fun and exciting or emo and dark is totally up to you.
  
  
  And that's it. I pretty much stated everything that the game has to offer.
  
  
  
 
  One thing that will probably disapointment many, like it did to me is that it comes with no editor 
 of any kind. Even though the game plays fair without mods, the series is definetly a game for modding. 
 The Sims 2 does not come with a face editor, a job editor, texture editor, or object editor. It 
 does include a body shop, but that still isn't very interresting. And given there is a lie on the 
 cover stating "PC/Laptop friendly", let me make it clear that this is a horrible lie. On every 
 laptop I tried in my house, the textures would be litterly flashing red like a traffic light and 
 would be so damn horrible its not even believable. And on a farily powerful computer, The Sims 
 2 would still lag like hell.
  
  
  The only flawless thing I can say about this game is that carriot-head teens are undeniably hot 
 (this is coming from a person who has a more-than-deverted taste for women) . Apart from that, no 
 matter what persective you look at it, The Sims 2 has a Con for every Pro that leaves it hanging 
 in the balance. In short, The Sims 2 is a very flawed game but when its fun, its very fun.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMetalMario
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Sorry to the people who give this game a perfect 10 but i humbley disagree! 
  
  I must admit i did enjoy playing this game to a certain extent. But... once you have a nice house... 
 Healthy sims... The best Job... lots of freind sims... Where does it go from there?
  
  The re playability is not to good with me... As i find it boring after a solid 40 hours of gameplay 
 of doing the same thing through and through.
  
  Yes... I've experiemented with different sims types... Downloaded heaps of objects and houses... 
 Keeps the game fresh: For 15 minutes.
  
  But never the less, the graphics are perfect and a great improvement from previous sim games, the 
 furniture and houses look great, and realistic. The reactions the sims have to certain things is 
 probably the reason why i played this game for so long.
  
  OK OK... You twisted my arm, i do like this game (hence why i give it a 7) but i would honestly 
 like maxis to introduce some new aspect to the sims, besides ever lasting exspansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Having caught wind of this game two years ago, I knew it had become successful in its own right 
 but never bothered to do the research as to why that was so. Like a charming song that you just 
 can't get out of your head, I was eventually seduced into finding out more. After a while of internal 
 struggle, I finally bought the game at its $20 price tag. I used to wonder if investing in the 
 game was a prudent move. I know now that I should have played it sooner. The Sims 2 is one of those 
 interesting games that truly works its charm on anyone willing to give it a chance. 
  
  The best way I can describe the Sims 2 is that it's a simulation game masquerading as somewhat 
 of an interactive reality TV show. You begin the game creating a virtual family of little people, 
 known as Sims (appropriately enough) , and move them in a house that you can build yourself from 
 either a template or completely from scratch if that is what you prefer. If creating a family from 
 scratch isn't your thing, there are two pre-made families you can play with in two different neighborhoods -- each 
 telling a unique story of their lives -- allowing you the opportunity to write their history.
  
  From then on in, the fate of your Sims are literally in your hands. They will live their lives 
 as is customary to the standard rule of human living -- they find jobs, clean the house, cook dinner, 
 establish relationships with others, make friends, throw lavish parties -- anything that you can 
 do in your real life, the Sims are capable of doing as well. The Sims will also face many challenges 
 that will truly put them to the test. Burglars may break in their home. A fire might break out 
 in the kitchen. Flies will become a nuisance if by some chance an ill-minded Sim forgets to clean 
 up after themselves. Like you, they'll lead hard lives, but ultimately they will learn to deal 
 with them depending on either your actions or how best they alone can manage in accordance to their 
 specific traits and skills. 
  
  You will, of course, have a say in how they'll live their lives. Each individual Sim you create 
 have Aspirations and Fears that will determine ultimately if they will live a long and productive 
 life, or suffer the dregs of the hereafter. For example, a Sim with a Fitness aspiration will more 
 likely find a job as a Fitness Trainer, and a Sim who fears Fire will be greatly disturbed if the 
 kitchen stove suddenly bursts into flames. 
  
  Whether or not you wish for your Sims to live long and prosper is entirely your choice. If you're 
 a do-gooder, you'll be blessed with the expansion of your Sim family -- they will have children who, 
 in turn, will grow up to be adults themselves, leading by the example their parents have set for 
 them. Thus, the Sims will create a family legacy that you get to keep track of. You can record 
 these events with an easy-to-use Story editor function, allowing you to take pictures, record videos, 
 and pen journals or blogs detailing important events in the Sims' lives. (The stories you write 
 can be shared online with others.) Conversely, if you're the type of sadistic person who finds 
 twisted pleasure in harvesting a life of misery, gloom and misfortune, you are able to do that 
 as well. If a Sim has to take a leak, you can choose not to fulfill that need and their bladder 
 will explode. You can even starve them to death. There are many ways to kill a Sim -- you can be 
 as fiendishly creative in finding the ways to invite the Grim Reaper for some soul searching.
 
  
  The Sims 2 boasts impressive editing tools for when you want to build houses. When you move your 
 family into a house, you can purchase furniture to furnish your dwellings using the game's currency -- called 
 Simoleons -- which you collectively earn by selling furniture or reaping earnings from employed Sims. 
 Just like real life. With house building, you can recreate almost any house you can think of -- even 
 your own. I have had the opportunity to build a house modeled after my real-life dwellings and, 
 I must say, it looks far more impressive in the game than it does in reality. The graphics are 
 very detailed and, if you have high-end computers, you will appreciate the fine detail and expressiveness 
 of your created Sims. Voice work is hilarious.... because they speak in wonderfully executed gibberish 
 that sounds like garbled Italian mixed with martianese. 
  
  Overall, the Sims 2 is a wonderful experience that is accessible to just about everybody. There 
 are a slew of expansion packs available now that will greatly enhance the game in so many ways -- like 
 more clothing, more housing options, and more ways for Sims to do what they do. If you're looking 
 for something completely different for your PC, look no further than this. And if you notice a 
 Sim acting strangely in the bathtub, try to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x33chocoholic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I remember first learning about the Sims 2.
  
  
  Well, we'd just moved and our The Sims original disc broke. :o We had expansions, but our computer 
 got updated to Windows XP (when it first came out, haha) and lost all of our sims!
  
  
  I forgot about sims for a while, but then I learned a new artist: Lily Allen. I YouTube searched 
 her and came up with a Simlish music video to her song Smile. I finally remembered the sims after 
 that, and that video got me interested in The Sims 2.
  
  So I joined the Sims 2 Machinima site, Sims99, and posted my voice to be a voice actor for series.
 
  
  Since I was doing good in school, my parents agreed to buy The Sims 2 Deluxe for me if I got straight 
 As, which I did. I had to play it on my sisters computer because it didnt play on my family computer 
 (too old)
  
  I saw how much The Sims has changed into The Sims 2, and I was loving every bit of it. I loved 
 how you could make them have different facial features, emotions, ect.
  
  Soon, i piled up on expansion packs, and.... my sister's computer broke Dx.
  
  
  So this 
 christmas I asked for a laptop with good memory and graphics; mainly to play The Sims 2. Now I 
 have every expansion pack and almost every stuff pack. I play this game every day and i reccomend 
 it to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  first of all sims 2 is quite a different game to the original sims not only are there the "need" 
 system like food, sleep etc there's also an "aspiration system" it's basically keeping your character ('s) 
 happy. you can choose your character's personality whether they like having a family or being successful 
 etc. the customization of characters is a bit more complex now although it's not really much different. 
 the game is basically much harder than the original game but once you play for a few hours it's 
 easy so the learning curve for the game is just a few hours. if you can spare the time to do that 
 then it's up to you. there's expansion and bonus packs for this game just like the first sims and 
 that just increases the time for learning curve but you do'n't even need to bother with all that 
 sutff.
  
  another new feature to the game is aging. your character starts from whatever age they start from 
 and they age till they die ( after being elderly lawls ) . you can have a child from birth age then 
 die later in the game. though dying from old age isn't the only way your character can die, they 
 can die from fires and many other ways i have not explored yet.
  
  building your own house can still be frustrating as ever as you cannot build diagonal swimming 
 pools? or maybe i'm just noob and couldn't do it rofls. building roofs are omfg *kills self* frustratingly 
 hard if you want it to look right lols. 
  
  there are some bugs in the game that are really really bad like one i got with a car, if you buy 
 a car, drive it and THEN build a driveway your car doesn't come back so.... you gotta reset your 
 profile rofl pwned @_@
  
  some of the other bad things about the game is you can't do everything with the one character if 
 you got all the expansions. it's not like you can be a vampire, werewolf, be a ... plant thing 
 blah blah basically you can't get through all the content with just one character because of the 
 aging system which i personally don't like @_@ should be able to stop your person from aging WITHOUT 
 the life potion thing which is suck btw @_@
  
  other than that sims2 is a great game. i personally don't like it too much because i'm more of 
 a competitive person so.... yer but play the game and judge for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Next Generation Simulation
  
  Guiding your Sims through "Life's Big Moments" takes on new importance, as players now get a "Life 
 Score" to measure how well they are playing each individual Sim. The decisions that players make 
 throughout the lifetime of their Sims now have an impact on their long-term success or failure.
 
  
  A choice made as a toddler has a direct effect on the teen and adult Sim they become. Will players 
 be able to successfully lead their Sims through such important events as a first step, first crush, 
 or marriage proposal, all while the clock is ticking?
  
  
  Next Generation Sims
  
  The Sims in The Sims 2 are more aware and responsive to both other Sims and their surroundings. 
 Sims truly come to life expressing moods and feelings through more realistic body animations and 
 for the first time facial animations.
  
  They form complex relationships and are able to distinguish between family and friends, platonic 
 friendships and romantic love. Sims in The Sims 2 now have DNA. Passing along physical characteristics 
 and traits to their offspring, Sims both resemble and behave like their ancestors.
  
  As in real life, the appearance of the Sims now changes over time. In addition to getting older, 
 a Sim that spends too much time on the couch will develop a paunch and a Sim that works out will 
 enjoy rock solid abs.
  
  
  Next Generation Features
  
  An entirely new 3-D engine makes the world of The Sims 2 more life-like and dynamic. The Sims 2 
 will also introduce an all-new "Create-A-Sim" feature. This allows you to customize the facial 
 features of your Sim with a few simple clicks, to a level of detail never realized before.
  
  In The Sims 2, players are now able to build dwellings over two stories and have the ability 
 to coordinate and customize the homes of their Sims to a new degree of design with all-new furniture, 
 lighting and objects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  
  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much 
 time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much 
 time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much 
 time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much 
 time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  Taking to much time and you can not be abLe to reaLize that you pLayed for hours
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustBinFairy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is the best game you would be able to purchase on PC as it's fun to play and 
 you can buy Expansion packs to add to the excitement. It is highly addictive once you play you 
 can't stop. Of course some people find it boring but thats ok not everyone likes games that aren't 
 filled with excitement, bright colours and guns. 
  
  I've been playing Sims since the 1st series and I am impressed by the huge improvements to the 
 game even though the game can sometimes be filled with glitches. That is the reason why I didn't 
 give it a 10. Because it is full of glitches. Another reason is because if you want to explore 
 the full extent of the game by adding expansion packs and stuff packs it can come a bit pricey. 
 
  
  Other than that everything is just fine. this game also has a HUGE community so you can download 
 extra perks for your game. The graphics are good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is a simulation game were you control a neighbourhood, the houses, families and many 
 more if you buy the expansions.
  
  If you've played the original Sims then you won't be dissapointed with the 2nd one, it brings so 
 many new features including foundations, the right to build 4 floors, tons of new items and furniture 
 and loads of new clothes!
  
  So, the if you've never heard of the sims and your a boy you maybe thinking.. 'this sounds a bit 
 femenine' well don't!
  I would reccomend the sims 2 to anybody.
  
  Building houses is fun and easy, you can choose every single thing making it a pleasure to play.
 
  You choose the wallpaper, floor, garden, windows, doors and you can even build swimming pools, 
 balconies and much more.
  
  Building families is also fun for the same reasons, there's so much customisation!
  You choose 
 night clothes, swimming clothes, everyday clothes and even underwear!
  Characters personalities are also customisable, so you can even fiddle with your sims minds, what 
 they want and how they behave when your not in control of them.
  
  Finally is living it, most items are interactable, there's so many things to do.
  Children have 
 to go to school, they can also study using computers and books.
  Babies can also learn from special items like playthings.. and yes sims do eventually die of old 
 age.
  
  I highly reccomend the Sims 2 to absolutely anybody, it's bound to give you tons of fun whoever 
 you are.
  Thanks for reading, I hope this review helped you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunbrine47
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The Sims2 ,one of the biggest (and last) game made by maxis.
  The beauty of it is not only is it a game where you control coumputer genrated people. But You can 
 (Thanks to websites) focus on only building houses ,making movies off of it ,bending the game to 
 your will (through user-gen content) and making picture stories and spending endless hours downloading/installing 
 Custom Content.
  That's the beauty ,it's a bunch of activties rolled into one. Once you play this game you will find 
 the Sims 1 boring (It is a bummer because I never really got into TS1) .
  _ _ _ _ _ __ --_ -- -_ - - _- - _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ -- ___ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ - -_ _- - -- _- _ __ 
 ___ __ _ _ ___ -- - - -_ __ __ _ _ - - - - - - - _ __ _ _ -__ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 ____ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ - - _- __ _ _ __ _ _ -- - __ -----=-=- =+_ +_ _=_=-=+__=_ _+ _+ 
 _+ +__ +_ +_ +_+_ +_+_ _+ _+_ _ ++_ +_ +_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgette333
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game and am obsessed with it. I count the days until each new expansion 
 pack. I guess I am addicted. My favorite part is creating. You can use the Create-A-Sim to make 
 a Sim look however you want, dress them in all kinds of outfits, and design their personality. 
 I also love to create houses and go online to the Sims 2 site and see the houses other gamers build.
 
  
  If that's not your thing, then you can have your Sims live their lives any way you want. They can 
 be lazy or ambitious, unlucky in love or an absolute Lothario. They can die alone and lonely or 
 with all 18 of their children around. They can die happily of old age or, with the right choices, 
 drown, be electrocuted, struck by lightning, crushed by a satellite, killed by flies, starve, or 
 many others. And no matter how they die, the Grim Reaper always comes for them. (And you can still 
 try to save them.)
  
  With the expansion packs, you get even more options. Sims can have cars, pets, and businesses. 
 They can go on dates, vacations, or go to college. This is the perfect chance to live vicariously 
 through anyone you want.
  
  If you buy this game and don't enjoy it, you can still use it to help you redecorate or rearrange 
 a room in you home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevDevBeck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is definitely the most addictive game I own. At first it didn't work so well. Once we 
 got the new video card, though, it became the best game on my PC.
  After we got the video card for Simcity Societies, I forgot about The Sims 2. A few months passed, 
 and I had uninstalled it. When I re installed it in august 2008, I couldn't stop playing it.
  Graphics: (10) With all the graphics at medium quality, the game already looks perfect here. the 
 grass is a little choppy, but other than that, there are no flaws in the graphics of the Sims 2
 
  Sound: There is some pretty catchy music in this game, not to mention wind (with Seasons) and 
 regular household noises. (like fires)
  Gameplay: The Sims 2 has no point. If you are one of those gamers who gets upset if the game has 
 no ending, then don't get this game.
  If you don't mind though, you can create many generations of a family. not to mention you can design 
 their houses or mansions from the ground up.
  I think that the Sims 2 is well worth the money you may have to pay. Now i'll see you in Pleasantview! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I received the Sims 2 as a Christmas gift and it's one of the few games that I've ever been able 
 play on and off for a long period of time. It's way too fun to make a character and help them achieve 
 (or underachieve) their wants and needs.
  
  In case you missed the original Sims...
  
  The Sims 2 is the next chapter in the Sim world. The Sims is a people simulator that lets you control 
 the world of your people (Sims) . You can help them get a better job, buy a bigger house, or woo 
 the hot neighbor into a splash in your hot tub. On the flip side you can also destory their world 
 and make their virtual lives into a Simish hell.
  
  You must satisfy your Sims basic needs (eating, sleeping, socializing, comfort, and restroom) to 
 keep them happy and healthy. A Sim can start as an infant and continue until they pass into the 
 great unknown.
  
  A great addition to the Sims 2 is "Wants." These are things that your Sim wants to achieve and 
 that will make them happy. These can vary depending on the specific goals for your Sim. For example, 
 a Sim that wants to be popular might have a want of 5 best friends. A Sim with a romantic goal 
 might want to "woohoo" with 5 different Sims. Your Sims are customizable and you can change many 
 features including hairstyle, skin color, eye color, makeup styles, etc. (there are too many to 
 mention) . The custom creation that's part of this game makes it very enjoyable and something that 
 will draw you back time and time again.
  
  The Sims 2 is a classic and a game that offers something different for everyone. The possibilites 
 in the game are limitless and it will make you want to play for hours at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jetfire2000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Sims 2 review!
  
  The Sims 2 is a great game to play in your spare time. It is one of the most famous games in the 
 world today as well.
  
  The great upgrade to 3-d really helps a lot in this game. The graphics are great depending on the 
 video card you have. 
  
  There are tons of outfits and objects that you can place in your home. The Sims 2 is great for 
 making movies and making your favorite characters from television or games. It is very entertaining 
 and has you playing day and night. The only trouble that I have heard the most is the expansion 
 pack problem. People think that the problem is that it is taking up too much space on their computer 
 and they want the expansions to stop. The expansions are great to an extent, but needless to say, 
 don't buy every single one. My suggestion is to wait until Sims 3 comes out in February 2009 and 
 save some free space on your computer. 
  
  This game is recommendable to everyone teen and is very affordable. I hope you look forward to 
 playing it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheinei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I love the Sims 2. Ive played the playstation and game cube versions but they are NOTHING like 
 the PC version. There is so much more you can do witht he PC version, since you are able to download 
 clothes and customiz your sims hair, eyes, shirts, and SO MUCH MORE. Im still trying to figure 
 out how to do alot of things. You can make music videos, and take funny little pictuure of your 
 sims. If you want to get a SIMS game DO NOT get it for a console. PC is the way to go if you plan 
 on playing the sims. If you do play on console you are VERY limited to things compared to the PC 
 version. PLus if you stat downloading cheats you can build fast relationships, ggrow up faster. 
 Basically you can pretty much do anything you want...... EVEN CHOOSE YOUR DEATH. SO get the PC version 
 beleive me.. you will NOT regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  so we've all heard about the sims 2 by now, rightfully, we ought to considering it to be 4years 
 after it's release.
  
  the major flaws in this game would be the base game absolutely has nothing extraordinary and it 
 would be better to buy the Sims 2 Deluxe that contains an expansion set which add value to this 
 game.
  
  also, the specs of the game might cause players up to this date to be unable to have a smooth-sailing 
 experience and instead be hindered by long load times that slow down everything in your computer.
 
  
  furthermore, if you're not into real life simulators or would rather lead your real life instead 
 of a virtual one, the sims 2 would not be for you because that's juz what it is.
  
  however, if you've got a high-end computer that can run almost anything smoothly and are a game 
 player who loves nothing more than watching a family grow from generation to generation with small, 
 little random changes from point to point, then this game is definitely for you.
  
  to sum it up, the sims 2 is highly addictive to people who enjoy it and is completely repulsive 
 to those who don't.
  
  to each his/her own & as you should always do, rent it & patch it before deciding whether you're 
 going to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the Sims 2 in a while i would have played it right before this review but some 
 snake, fake friend of mine stole it along with my 80gb ipod and never gave it back and i haven't 
 seen him since.
  Well anyway lemme see what i can remember about this game.... oh yea that's right
  IT'S SO TOTALLY 
 AWESOME!!!!
  
  Gameplay - In The Sims 2 (without any expansions) you have alot more options then in The Sims 1 
 (without any expansions) just like The Sims 1 you can fill motives eg. Fun, Energy, Hygiene, Bladder, 
 etc. And build skills. Though in this game you have another option that without a doubt you're 
 definitely gonna do cause it's the biggest addition to the game, it is your Sims aspirations. Each 
 Sim has their own aspiration in which you can choose at the Sims creation screen or when the Sims 
 turns from a child to a teenager the aspirations are, romance, family, popularity, wealth and more 
 which you can find out yourself by playing the game yourself. Each aspiration has their own daily 
 goals to achieve in which when you complete a goal you will gain aspiration points you can spend 
 on cool goodies.
  As i said earlier with the "Sims turns from a child to a teenager" your Sims can now grow older 
 and die of old age and die from alot of other things in that matter, so that means you're not gonna 
 be able to make a Sims call him yourself and play him forever from now on..... unless if you're 
 a noob like me and turn on the "Never Age" cheat. So you might wanna start with one guy and meet 
 some hot chick or guy and get married and have a child or 2 and that child / them children will 
 grow to be a man or woman and you can do the same thing again and again and the next thing y'know 
 you're gonna have big-a*s family tree, yea you have a family tree system in this game too.
  And what's such a relief in this game is that all the chicks and guys are alot more hotter or uglier 
 but idk why you'd wanna make someone ugly for. So anyway they're alot more hotter on this game 
 then on the 1st Sims. You have a much better Sims creation in which you can morph his / her entire 
 face and i mean entire, jaws, ears, chins, eyes, nose you name it gets a bit complicated sometimes, 
 have a much bigger range of clothing and hair styles as well to make your Sims even more hotter.
 
  The relationships in this game is alot more complex in order to "Love" someone you have to become 
 "Best friends" with him or her then kiss him or her in which a "Crush" will start then if you actually 
 continue dating him or her for a while you'll fall in love, you also have to raise the "Life-Time 
 relationship bar" which i have no idea how this thing works. Their are alot more social options 
 and intimate social options that looks alot more hotter and as you might now on the Sims 1 in order 
 to have a baby you had to get that stupid love heart bed and make em have sex in that bed only, 
 well in this game you can do it in hot tubs, in a clothes store change room, and in any kind of 
 double size bed.
  And all of this is in The Sims 2 game without any expansions at all i've only got 2 expansions 
 which is the Glamour Stuff and Nightlife.
  Glamour Stuff which you get a bunch of new flashy clothes and objects.
  Nightlife where you get 
 access to cars and get to go out with your mates and go on dates with chicks and guys.
  That's just 2 expansions of like 10 or 15 Sims 2 expansions who knows what you'd be able to do 
 with all of the expansions, though im guessing it would be pretty damn good.
  
  This game isn't particularly my favourite game so it was really addictive for like 5 weeks or something 
 but i didn't get around the game to explore every single option of it so there's probally a few 
 more details i missed out sorry about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javingston
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is no doubt one of the best games in the world. Do anything you want, look like whatever 
 you want, live wherever you want to live, the point is, it's a free world. It's the best parts 
 of life bunched up into one game. If you liked "The Sims 1" then you'll fall in love with this. 
 Be soon to play this because once The Sims 3 comes out you won't here much of it.
  
  I highly recommend that (if you haven't already) buy this game and play it non stop. The fun with 
 it never ends, you can have generations of families and keep going for as long as you like, get 
 sick of one family, then start a new one!
  
  One thing to note, it's not a game for everyone. Technically you can't win, there's not much combat 
 fighting, no blood, as you can see, it's not a game for people who enjoy violence.
  
  If you're like me and love how you can change the facial expression, act like god, create any type 
 of people you want, get plenty of expansion packs including The Sims 2 Pets, The Sims 2 University, 
 The Sims 2 Business, and many more.
  
  There are two more stages in life to experience, Enjoy more time with your cute babies with toddler 
 stage. And deal with the annoying non stop complaining of your very own teenager.
  
  I love The Sims 2 and I hope that you do too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Franchise has sucked my life away. Note that this review was written after Apartment 
 Life, the final expansion for sims has been released. I must say, this game is absorbing, not quite 
 in the way like WOW, but certainly in some way.
  
  Sims 2 is incredibly fun because of the obvious. It's like real life. A little too frighteningly 
 so, and it will take you many hours to finally get Sims 'out of your system'. The house building, 
 and Sims creation system, even ModtheSims2. com and its endless modding possibilities. Like Yathzee 
 said on his Zero Punctuation review, you can create 'batman'. This game is far superior to spore 
 and every way because of its replayability. Assuming you keep up with the expansions, it seems 
 like it'd never get old raising a family ro customizing your ideal sim.
  
  Though not perfect. The Sims Franchise has horrible story modes (referring to the Sims Stories 
 ideas) . However, forget the story idea, and make a custom sim and jump in the quasi-realistic world 
 that is full of Sims. Yes it will get boring after a while, but you'll have to do it all. And for 
 me, that took over 100 hours. Watch out, and watch your life disappear for a couple of months if 
 you have bad self-control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comandante2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The game has every upgrade you can think of. Its awesome how much depth making a Sim has in this 
 game. Now, you can even make an alien as your Sim. The Sims are actually smart in this game, and 
 can actually take care of themselves (for a few minutes) without burning the house down. The Sims 
 2 looks great in 3-D, better than the original Sims. The Sims have more stuff to buy now. Now the 
 Sims actually have goals and aspirations. You can now even create your own neighborhood as well. 
 The Sims 2 allows you to design the neighborhood. The only problem is just that it could have had 
 more ideas, but then again, that's what expansion packs are for. Thats the only minor flaw. Overall, 
 everybody, no matter what their favorite genre is, should get this game. Also, if your getting 
 an expansion pack, get the Sims 2 nightlife. This game allows your Sims to go downtown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ITFC_Mad5
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a very enjoyable game on the PC for anyone to enjoy. There is so much depth in the 
 game and I've had loads of fun creating new houses and familys. The graphics are so smooth and 
 look great. Also, if you get bored of the content on the game then you can create a free account 
 on www. modthesims2. com and download a whole new set of skins, clothes, hairstyles, houses, objects 
 and loads, loads more! It can become boring though and you might want to stop for a while and then 
 play it after a good rest!
  
  BUY  
 NOW  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  There are two games categories: the ones who can be played only by professional gamers, and the 
 ones which are for everyone. The Sims 2 belongs to the second category. This second sequel has 
 almost the same target as the first game: You control the lives of virtual people, called Sims, 
 and you will have to lead them to different directions, such as love, family, or a succesful career.
 
  
  In The Sims 2, the graphics are fully 3D, and enabling the camera to move at any direction, inside 
 or outside the lot. Nevertheless, the game is mainly based on other features, like the aspirations, 
 the wants or the fears a Sim may have.
  
  A good point of the game is the AI which is well-made, however, the Sims sometimes forget the orders 
 you gave them. This may also happen because they are just not in the mood to do some things.
  
  To summarize, The Sims 2 is a title which you will question in the beginning, but you will 
 love it while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_wutang
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Many people says that this games is the sims, but just better looking which makes it better. But 
 i think this game is not as deep as The sims. When i play the sims 2 there is somthing missing, 
 i waited for the expansions but they did not give me the missing link. But after all it is still 
 a WW game and it is still The sims and it does a great job sucking you in and you will with out 
 a doubt spend many hours playing this game. The looks is better than in the sims and that is what 
 people really was looking forward to, there i have to say i was disapointed and really just want 
 the old look back. But i dont want to make this game look bad in your eyes, becuase this game gives 
 alot of options that The sims did not, but they just dont fell deep enough but the whole idea on 
 "Live the life" that is the greates part of the game, it is amazing and it works so well. So if 
 i have to choose between The sims and The sims 2, i have to go with the classic here. The sims 
 2 do not beat The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finsie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 made some real improvements on the original game like your kids grow up, you actually 
 gain cooking skill points for cooking meals, and your sims have days off work or school.
  
  It kept me playing for ages and I recommend not playing with cheats the first few times around 
 because they suck the fun right out of the game. It's at its best when you use and do all the new 
 features such as the family photo album story and special items bought with life points.
  
  Its not perfect. There are some things that could of been better. Like how you have to call a cab 
 and wait a while for it to arrive then wait on a loading screen to pick where you want to go then 
 go into another loading screen before you go to where you want to go. Then you do it all over again 
 if you want to go somewhere new or home.
  
  I do recommend this game to anyone and I still play it after a year with only one expansion pack! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imax_uchiha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 series, developed by Maxis was a game that stood out from other game. It was definitely 
 my cup of tea and was worth my bucks of purchasing this amazing game. I played this game for nigh 
 50 hours and above but to be honest I never felt bored of playing this great game. There were always 
 something new that I could try out such as playing as a poor sim, marry an alien and the features 
 encompassed many of our daily life aspects, which astound me when I first heard of this game.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY 9.5 /10 : Great gameplay, frankly speaking. The Sims 2 on PC platform was the best compared 
 to The Sims 2 on PS2 platform, which the PS2's lack many unique features that the one on PC possessed. 
 You can gather aspiration points by fulfilling your goals and purchase specially made items by 
 using your aspiration points. The game made me as if I was in the game, playing games, attaining 
 excellent achievements in academic and maxing out your career for instance. 
  
  GRAPHICS 9 / 10 : You can adjust your graphics option in the game, but make sure you adjust your 
 graphics options well, otherwise if you are running on low end systems, you may experience crashes 
 during the game. If your graphics display was high quality, you could actually closely observe 
 the details and beautiful model in the game. The game left me fascinated and spellbound, to say 
 the least.
  
  SOUND 7.5 / 10 : The sound was okay but exceed my expectations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dogswithguns
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  All my life in video games. I have played so many games and and thought games I have played were 
 the best. Boy, I was wrong. ... One day recently for some weird reason I picked up Sims2. I started 
 playing I and never wanted to quit. this is one of the games that I can play on and on and having 
 so much fun. I'll never have to try to beat a level and retry like other games out there, that's 
 the best part about it.
  And another best part is Sims2 doesn't require a high end graphics card to play. I can even play 
 on my inexpensive laptop. .... anyways on Sims2 you can play the families stories came with the 
 game or create your own. a whole bunch of your own creations and your own towns and stories.
  Last but not least. If your feeling down and out about which games to play next or tired of your 
 game collections. Tryout Sims2, it's will keep you occupy for a long time and it seems never end. 
 
  On the other hand, I can't wait to pick up more of the expansion packs (only bad part I don't like 
 but it'll be worth it) . Do yourself a favor pick up Sims2. You'll fine yourself playing nonstop.... 
 Oh, I can't wait till Sims3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of those games that you can find young people all up to old people playing it 
 and having fun playing it. Basically how you do it is first off create your own sim then go and 
 buy you a house are build your own from the ground up which takes a lot of money. Them you get 
 a job make friends with the people or enemies with them. 
  
  Then you go on to get married then have a baby very much like real life. Your Sims can die and 
 they can also be very funny in some situations. This game will more than likely get you hook and 
 you ain't going to want to put it down. It's actually that fun but to me sometimes it can be frustrating 
 but this is a game a lot of people can have fun with.
  
  If your looking for a good computer game to play or even if you looking for a game to play to just 
 pass a few hours then this is the game your looking for. So go and pick it up and see for your 
 self how good it is I bet you'll like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amm795
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is definitley a great game. It expands and updates the first Sims experince and also 
 allows you to expand it with a huge variety of expansion and stuff packs (sold seperatley of course) . With 
 great graphics and thousands of things to do, there is something to be said for a game like this. 
 However the game has a few issues that might make you want to throw your computer at the wall.
 
  The game comes with four discs you use to install the game and you just use one to play it. You 
 put in the game. It takes a little while to load and get going. Then you choose one of three towns 
 to play at or you can build your own which is time consuming but fun. After entering your town 
 you can create a new family, give them a home, and make them do practicly anything you can think 
 of.
  Customization takes a huge roll in the Sims 2 for PC. You first build your sim (s) . You can choose 
 their eye color, skin tone, makeup, clothing, aspirations, personality, and pretty much everything 
 else to change their body to the point where it couldn't be more realistic. You can have up to 
 8 sims per household. One great thing about the Sims 2 is that your sims age through time. From 
 baby, toddler, child, teen, adult, and elder. Your sims also hold memories that from time to time 
 you see them thinking about or other sims discussing.
  Your sims can move into a prebuilt house or move into a lot where you can build your own. There 
 is thousands of designing and building houses that will keep you occupied for a long time to make 
 everything perfect. You can change how your roof looks, the color of your landscaping, tons of 
 different walls and floors, and even build porches and in ground pools. However keep an eye on 
 how much cash you have. You start with just 20,000 dollars which turns out to be not a whole lot. 
 
  Than you can buy furniture, appliances, plumbing, decoratioins, electronics, well pretty much anything 
 you want for your household. After you buy you want you can do anything you want. Chat with other 
 sims, invite friends over, watch some music videos on tv, get some love in a hot tub or bed, get 
 in a fight, go shopping, make salmon for dinner, punish your kids, sneak out, make out on the couch 
 with your sim's girlfriend. Yeah its a brand new life in this game.
  However the Sims 2 has some problems that will make you very angry. If you have a lot put in the 
 game it can easily slow down, freeze, or shut you off. Now this happens rarely but when your just 
 about to have your child and you havent saved than you will need to start all over again. Every 
 now and then the game might not even load or take littleraly twenty minutes loading which is not 
 exactly fun to wait for. Also the game slows when moving around the camera which can be very frustrating. 
 Now these things are just every now and than things but they definitley aren't what you payed for 
 in the game.
  The Sims 2 is everything I expected. It is very addictive and allows you to do whatever you want 
 whenever. The customization is also a great thing about the game. Knowing that now your favorite 
 object can come in several colors is a good change from the original sims. Also when you get the 
 Sims 2 you can go online to many websites where you can download items, sims, homes, cars, neighborhoods, 
 and other things for a montly price or free. There are also many cash and gameplay cheats to use 
 in the game if you get stuck or find the game hard. Overall this is a highly recommendable game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _IronManDude_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I just had Sims 2. I was a glorious time. It worked great on my old piece of @#$% 
 computer. It was still slow, and my graphics card still couldn't handle it. But it was still good. 
 Then, I went on to Modthesims2 and saw something that I wanted (Gibson axe.) So I noticed that 
 I needed Uni. So I got Uni, don't ask me how. It slowed me down. And this cycle continued, saw 
 something I wanted, and had to buy an EP/SP. After all that, I finally have them all, and have 
 2 gigs left on my hard drive. It takes me a half an hour to load the game, ten minutes to load 
 a neighbourhood, plus weather, pets, exotic destinations, hobbies, and soon, apartments. I can't 
 take it! Sims 2 is a fun game, but it sucks you in, and end up HAVING to buy the expansions. The 
 fact is that EA is pissing everyone off with all the packs, and nobody will want to buy Sims 3.
 
  
  Overall,
  
  Graphics - 6.5
  Sound - 7.7
  Music - 8.9
  Controls - 9.1
  Value - 5.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHACKR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is absolutely one of the most awesome games for the PC that enables you to play your 
 own virtual human. It's very simple, create a Sim, buy a house, get a job, get good friends, marry, 
 have a kid then the cycle goes on again. It is pretty much like real life situations jammed on 
 a CD. It is very fun I must say. The graphics are way better than the first Sims game. It isn't 
 the god of graphics, but it is very good. The sounds are nice. The in-game music like from the 
 stereo is half-decent but with the right knowledge on how to change stuff in the game you can actually 
 put in your own soundtracks, which is really nice. The sound effects are very good in it also, 
 like the voice acting. I didn't like the amount of space you have to use to play it, around 2gigs 
 minus the expansions, which also use up alot of space too. And also it wasn't too immersive after 
 playing it for a long time. But overall it is a very good game that all PC gamers, whether hardcore 
 or casual, should check out. I also own a console version, and you are better off with this one.
 
  
  Game Rating - 9.0/10
  Difficulty - very easy
  Time Played - 100 or more hours
  Classification - Rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is an incredible game. It might not sound like much but it is very addictive and fun. 
 The Sims 2 is a real life sim, where you control your own sim or your own family and guide them 
 through their lives that you make for them. For example, you can make your sims get a job or forge 
 a relationship with another sim and have them get married and start a family. There are also a 
 wide variety of sim customization options so your sims never have to look the same. The Sims 2 
 is even better with the many expansion packs for the game which include different things to do, 
 different items and even different customization options. In the sims 2 you can also build your 
 very own house and customize it to your liking with the many different tools that you can use. 
 After you are done building your house you may want to furnish it with the many different items 
 you can buy that range from a comfy chair to a big flatscreen TV. Overall, The Sims 2 is a great 
 game that you should go out and try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Out of all of the games out for the pc, nothing compares to its own genre like sims 2, this game 
 has to be the best in the series.
  The games stories are lengthy, and you can chose however you want to play their lives, if you want 
 them to live a rich and prosperous live, or, you can lead them to the dark side, to a life of sin, 
 the choice is yours, through the game there are different types of town's you can live in filled 
 with a bunch of stories.
  The graphics are good for a '04 game, so when you play you might feel like this is a newer sims 
 game. The design, which includes graphics and audio, are really good when designing your house, 
 or just trying to listen to your charecters gibberish.
  The tilt and gameplay is even better, the controls are really good compared to the other real life 
 strategy type games, thats what really makes the game.
  The tilt of the game can be a little frustrating when playing the story.
  The only problem I 
 had with the game was the tilt, but you can get used to the tilt as you play throughout.
  Whoever reads this review has to go out and buy this game if you want to play a really good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnavox90
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The games display is great. with the right hardware in your computer you can have the 
 smoothest looking display. They spent quite a lot of time working on textures on this sim. It also 
 displays great in high resolution monitors. It does require a lot of juice to run at these great 
 displays smoothly.
  
  Sounds: Its still the same sim sounds. Not much of a change and as I have found, quite annoying 
 after a few hours of play. As before if you have the hardware you can get surround sound in 5.1 
 quality but what modern game doesn't give you that.
  
  Game Play: Game play isn't much different from Sims 1 but you can build higher story houses. I 
 still find it very addictive. There are some new social perks and there is such things as aspiration 
 to maintain and with the right expansions giving you tons of possibilities for your Sims, the houses, 
 and everything in between. Unfortunately you can only create 4 story houses depending on the expansions 
 but I believe they need to create a sims that only limits such things by your computer and not 
 the game.
  
  Overall: The game is a good game and is better than it's previous Sims in the series but not many 
 changes make it a game that i just will play for hours in a row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green_Chaos
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of the best games to buy for your pc. From the first sims games. This Sims 2 game 
 has brought you better graphics and more things to do to entertain yourself. Some families like 
 the Goth Family and the Pleasant family. But this time, not only are the graphics better viewed, but 
 you can choose up to 3 neighborhoods or build one of your own. This game should be given a 10 out 
 of 10 for creativity, fun, and education. If you happen to be a fan and want to show it in other ways, then 
 join the sims 2 website at http://www. thesims2. com or http://www. thesims2. co. uk,
  and have fun. Plus, apart from playing the families and growing one, you can create places like malls, restaurants, and 
 shopping centers with clothes, food, and other items of interests. So, if your looking for a game to 
 buy, play, and have family fun, the The Sims 2 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00redbuffman00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing The Sims 2 for 3 years now and it is still amazingly fun. Everything you ever 
 want in a dream home may be or is in this wonderful sequel to The Sims.
  
  There is so much to do. But I am going to reference other expansions and stuff packs here because 
 it is, of course, the most reviewed and it is the game that runs them in the first place.
  
  The game play in this simulation is simple. You make a family, build them a house within the 
 budget, and you play. Now the Live Mode part is difficult as you try to progress your sim. I just 
 love these things. It is like your dreams come true. 
  
  Now, I remember playing The Sims in the peak of its popularity and as years went on my skill at 
 building homes have improved. Well, I get style down but location of furniture and walls can be 
 mediocre. But i look at custom made homes from certain sites and I am inspired to do better. This 
 game is always packed with stuff to make your home look like a billion dollars.
  
  One problem I have with the game that dates back to The Sims as well is the fact is that I see 
 real homes on TV and all that and I notice kitchens with upper cabinets. They are very common and 
 throughout the entire line of expansions they never once gave us much to make a kitchen look more 
 like a kitchen. And the game on my computer refuses to show any custom content I download. The 
 same goes for windows and doors. There are not very many single back doors or many front doors 
 that i typically find in the real world. The limited amount of objects causes me to reuse the same 
 exact item in almost every single house I have done such as the glass sliding doors in white and 
 colonial windows. Because of such limitations for weeks I went and created a lot of homes with 
 very similar designs because I was running out of ideas. i have to say that the custom content 
 released by regular people is far superior to the items in the game.
  
  But the great additions of garages, half walls, more than 2 story homes, smarter sims, 3D view, 
 etc etc etc make this game far superior to The Sims (i said it twice) . I just can't wait for the 
 Sims 3. Hopefully, they can fix those kitchens because i hate looking at kitchens with plain walls 
 and no upper cabinets. Kitchen & Bath Stuff was a big ripoff. i thought they finally had cabinets.
 
  
  I also have a great complaint about this game that is rather upsetting. Some of Sims 2's own objects 
 and meshes seem to be disappearing from the inventories. A few windows have lost their different 
 colors to choose from and one kitchen stove is gone. I don't want to know what it is like to lose 
 more objects. I've had to redo several houses due to missing original content.
  
  
  Overall, I admire this game because I express my creativity and strive to make unbelievably impossible 
 houses. If you dream to be an architect then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 not only takes everything that made the first one great and made it better, but it added 
 in alot of extra content at the same time. The graphics are very much improved this time around, 
 and this time, whilst looking pretty realistic, they took a rather cartooney look as far as the 
 characters go.
  
  As stated in the review deck though, it is most enjoyed in conjunction with the expansion packs 
 available and man are there alot of them. With just this game you're quite limited to content and 
 you're only really introduced to the very basic house-hold happenings.
  
  Having said that, there is a few community lots you can visit to meet neighbours and you can still 
 construct excellent buildings without the expansions and I find that most fun in this game. It 
 is really satisfying to build yourself a good house and then to have a family live in it, it's 
 far more fun than using the houses currently in place.
  
  The Sims 2 on it's own though is just the foundation on which the expansions will go on top of 
 though, as you'll often find your sims being in the same environment and doing the same things 
 which get's boring fast. I give The Sims 2 an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a simulation / Virtual life game, There's a lot more to do than the other Sim's games, 
 This version of Sims 2 has to be the best (for the PC) .
  
  So, You get this game, And within about 30 minutes you know all the basic controls, Simple as that 
 its so straight forward. So, What is there to do?
  
  You can either build your own house or choose a pre selected one, You can decorate it and add new 
 objects (a lot more in extensions) , May sound like every other Sim's game? Well, You now have an 
 ageing feature. You Sims goes from Baby, Toddler, Child, Teen, Adult, Old and then.... Death. If 
 this is bad to you there is a handy cheat to remove it.
  
  You will find yourself glued to your computer chair playing this game, I have always been a fan 
 of the Sim's and I can say this is so Impressing. Lets just see what EA has for us in the future 
 coming "Sim's 3" :D
  
  My view: Just buy it for goodness sake! :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blademaster2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  now i've played a lot of games ranging from my first on the snes (Super Mario World) to my most 
 recent (metal gear solid four) and it ranks one of the best i've played, due to its gameplay and 
 the ability to basically create your own story due to the fact you can create a multi-generation 
 family and put in the family's background and bio, then upload it to the sims 2 website. another 
 thing i like is the house building, you can create a huge dream house for your sims to live in. 
 
  
  gameplay: 9, i give it a 9 because it has nice features but not a ten due to slight lag when i 
 play it
  
  graphics: 8, its got good graphics but not great graphics
  
  sound: 10, its got good sound with the music and its own language, not just random nosies that 
 other games have
  
  all in all its a game that you'll play over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  When I got a Pentium 4, I played The Sims (and all of its expansions) to death. I'd sometimes play 
 without cheats, and sometimes I'd played with cheats. One thing was certain, though: It was really 
 addicting and enjoyable! I then started uploading all the stuff I had until my back then dial-up 
 prepaid card would expire.
  
  So it wasn't a surprise when I got really, really hyped when the The Sims 2 trailer was included 
 in the Makin' Magic expansion.
  
  September 2004 came, and I immediately bought it to find some really good graphics, some really 
 intricate Sim creation parameters, and most importantly, more realistic interactions!
  
  But frankly, I was disappointed that The Sims 2 initially didn't include everything found in The 
 Sims 1 and translated them into 3D. So yeah, there were no dates (although there were community 
 lots) , superstardom, and magic (although I don't miss it) .
  
  Still, the experience was still great, and the design options for housing (3 stories, foundations 
 and decks) , etc., made for some really long house-building sessions. And heck, the eyedropper is 
 definitely a real lifesaver!
  
  The game ran really slowly overtime, therefore I lost interest. Years later, I caught up on the 
 expansion packs, upgraded my computer for next-generation gaming, and finally had optimal performance! 
 So yeah, you should have a futureproofed computer to run this game better, despite the fact that 
 it's not exactly an official "next-gen" game.
  
  Frankly, I'm scared for the specifications when Sims 3 comes out, but for now, I'm enjoying The 
 Sims 2, and that's because it combines the stuff that made the first one great, and amps it up 
 a notch! The resulting experience is a great experience despite them still being a bit robotic 
 at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purplex777
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb.. I couldn't stop playing this game the last time I was playing it, and yeah.. 
 the CD ain't working now because of me continuously playing. As you all know, this game allows 
 you to control a Sim. Suitable to ages 10+.. This game is about creating a family, creating a Sim, choosing 
 a house, decorating the house, making friends, playing games and a lot more.. It is actually so 
 much better then Sims 1, I guess.. so it is a great sequel. The game consists of Ghosts/Spirits 
 of people who die in your Sim's family.. which comes out from it's grave almost every night... 
 but some Sims like that, they like seeing ghosts. It also consists of a Grim Reaper who arrives 
 when someone is about to die and take the "dying" Sim with him.. I've heard that one sim can stop 
 the reaper from taking the other sim away.. But I've never experienced that yet. 
  This game is Highly Addictive, I give it a 9.0 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 allows you to step outside of reality and into whatever fantasy home you want to create... 
 so if you live in a trailer park this is probably gold to you. No offense...
  
  The game has descent graphics, but by today's standards, it's hard to look at. With that in mind, 
 realize this: while you are playing, you don't have time to sit around and appreciate graphic quality. 
 Especially when trying to control 4+ Sims with all their whining and b****ing.
  
  This game is really fun, but after playing it for about 3 months it gets extremely repetitive:
 
  Build your Sim
  Get a job
  Get married
  Have kids
  Raise kids
  Age and Die
  Start all over.
  
  The only thing that lasts longer than 3 months is building your fantasy 
 dream houses. But even that gets old after a while. It's best to play this game in small bursts 
 rather than day after day. Even with all the expansions and stuff packs, the repetition remains.
 
  
  Perhaps Sims 3 will allow you to follow your Sim to their job and play an active role in their 
 tasks rather than reading a boring paragraph and clicking on a decision that could get you fired 
 immediately! Now THAT was STUPID about this game.
  
  Although designing your house is fun, the realism is limited by the restraints they created with 
 their design. You can't have a garage connected to your house if you use a foundation. Gay. A lot 
 of the wallpapers don't match the carpets, and the decorations don't match any of the furniture, 
 and so on and so forth. You really have to suck at fashion to enjoy decorating in this game because 
 the selection is terrible.
  
  Speaking of a terrible selection, if with all the stuff packs and expansions, the clothing is terrible. 
 But the great thing about the Sims 2 is you can create your own custom clothes! And if you're smart 
 enough you can mod objects and create custom furniture and decorations. But does the average person 
 who isn't nerdy have the time or patients for all that? No. We paid for a game and they should 
 provide an easier means of a better selection than having us do it ourselves. Oh well.
  
  Still, a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I've finnaly decided to review this game only four years after it's come out, only a year before 
 the next iteration of the series is relieased. Why do you ask? Because I've recently compiled the 
 whole set of expantions and started playing with a bit of fervor.
  
  First Thoughts:
  By no means should this game be playing without the full host of add-ons and now with the full 
 suite availible in one box cheaply you don't have to. As the game ships originally there is a good 
 amout of aspects to explore but the overall game-play is weak, there are few career tracks, few 
 wants, few neighborhoods.. it's basically limited to a tiny sandbox suited for the beginner player. 
 Although the basis of the game rests on your limitless imagination at some point you just run out 
 of things to do, while the expantion packs, all 6 of them, add so many nuances that really make 
 this game shine more then mearly sparkling.
  
  Graphics:
  Just about as good as they need to be, the graphics in SIMS2 are a huge step above those of the 
 predecesor and with a resolition of 1280x1024 there is plenty of detail and view distance as well 
 as neighboring houses have been added in the later expantions giving you a better sence of your 
 surroundings. No longer do you feel as if you're playing a family in a vacuum. Mirrors have reflections, 
 the lighting is good, water looks pretty, textures are good as well. Put it all together and you 
 can create a realistic home full of comfort and wormth or a rundown shack with your SIMS dressed 
 to match in ratty t-shirts and torn jeans.
  
  Sounds:
  Although I have a tendancy to play with the sound turned off I do find it rewarding to turn it 
 on now and again. Turn on the radio and listen to the SIM music full of unintelligible lyrics, 
 listen to your SIMS converce and you can wear you eventually begin to understand them. Sound eminating 
 from one room will be less audible from far away or not audible at all depending on how far you 
 go. The emersion factor is very important in the SIMS and Maxis does a great job keeping it in 
 mind, sure there's tons of unrealistic cartoonish little tidbits but on the whole as you watch 
 your SIMS walking around doing their thing you almost get the sense that they are real.
  
  Controls:
  Controls are mostly done through the mouse, moving the camera around, zooming in and 
 out, toggling game speed, navigating the shoping menu, etc... but there are a few things you can 
 do with the keyboard which prove very useful. I don't have problems with most things, playing in 
 regular time it isn't too difficult to control most aspects of your SIMS life with the mouse without 
 having to pause. The camera can get a bit clunkly, taking pictures or selecting still-life to paint 
 can be a bit combersome especially if your SIMS have free will it becomes more like hurding cats... 
 That's part of the game though, staing mindfull and setting your SIMS up correctly is part of learning 
 to play well.
  
  Gameplay:
  One of the most engaging simulations on the market. period. Especially with all the add-on packs, 
 not only do the SIMS take on a greater life of their own but more life choices are opened up to 
 them that take up their spare time and make things interesting and involving. The Free-Will AI 
 can be frustrating at times, true, and letting your loved one play families in your neigborhood 
 can often times be even more frustrating as they kill off your favorite SIMS or involve them in 
 relationships with partners they would never contemplate entering on their own. The add ons add 
 a dimention of likes and dislikes which are amended and appended to with further add-ons... these 
 give further personality to your SIMS as to whom they get along with easier on their own. Topics 
 which your sims are ineterested in influence which conversations they have and which conversations 
 they avoid, sometimes it is a challenge just to break the ice with another SIM when topic after 
 topic fails to gain their interest. Hobbies are added too, not only do they offer perks and their 
 own set of desires but they effect which activities your SIMS favor most when guided by free will. 
 Though I often find dates, vacations and shopping trips to be a drag they are actually a great 
 way for yoru SIMS to socialize and meet other SIMS, they are an effective way to extend the day 
 and a way to save money. The add-ons have truily added new life to this fantastic horse, while 
 once you could easily become bored taking your SIMS through their daily routine on the way to completing 
 their life goals now there are lifetime aspirations to reach, imortality to attain, self owned 
 businesses to start, vacations to take... Getting to the top of the career track now seems less 
 a likely hood and more an afterthought, getting bogged down in the details of your SIMS daily life 
 is so much less a drag now then it is a greatly enjoyable experiance.
  
  Conclusion:
  How many other game offer this rich a sand-box to play in? Honstly, none. Though those who enjoy 
 slaying monsters and shooting aliens may find this far too Care-Bear for their liking those who 
 simply wish to pass their time enjoyably may find this far more entertaining then any more, book 
 or family member. Be Warned: "The Sims" is not a substitute for real life and while you may dutifully 
 remind your pixel avatars to eat, pee and shower don't forget to do the same yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  in the sims you dont do missions or something like that well your task is to create a sim or a 
 family and let them live you have to feed them shower them and they have to have fun like a real 
 human but only a game 
  like and exampel create a man sim adult with no other sims then marrie him and let him have some 
 kids and then he become old and his children will married and you will create an whole generation 
 of family and you can ceep doing that until the whole family day and the sims have to work and 
 the teenager and kids have to go to school and you decide wich zodiac they have. and the graphic 
 in the game is normal and you have to get friends or enemys and if you want you can train your 
 sim to get them stronger and if you have an very high level enemy you can fight against them but 
 not to death. well first time i played the game i was 1000% impressed about the game but they will 
 make the sims 3 and will be out in some cople off months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokingrenade
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  With being able to change characters, mold them, make them look like you, or anyone else you would 
 want to make them into. That feature and many other genius things makes this a great game that 
 deserves a 9 out of ten! The reason though that i think you should only play it on the pc is that 
 with websites like, thesims2. com, modthesims. com, and many others you get to download and use all 
 these different creations from admins and other people like yourself (unlike on the console versions) . 
 With all these expansions out there you can have new custom content, houses, jobs, seasons, be 
 a young adult, and new characters. But altogether this and all the other sims expansions are must 
 get games. Umm gotta wrap this up so im just gonna type whatever expansions that i can remember: 
 Open for business, Seasons, Family fun stuff, H and M stuff, University. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-batgirl
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  If youve ever played the Sims you'll know how awesome the first game was and I thought they couldnt 
 make it any better, obviously apart from the graphics and stuff. But, I was young and naive [joking] 
 and when i first layed Sims on the PC i was blown away. At the time I spent what seemed like all 
 day on it. 
  
  Unlike the first game you can choose underwear, nightwear, formal wear, swimwear and of course 
 everyday clothes. At first it may seem that the choices of clothes are a bit limited but if you 
 got onto the sims website -sims2. com and create an account you can choose from a limitless amount 
 of user created content from clothes to houses and furniture. Or even create your own!! Its heaven 
 if you want to create a houseful of Britney Spears'.
  If youve never played the sims before heres a quick catch up-
  You create a sim or a family of 
 sims and give them a house, decorate it and then play through their lives, from start to end. What 
 they do depends on you, you can shove their lives down the drain or watch them flourish and bring 
 up large families.
  
  The amount your sims can do seems to have quadrupled and you can just hop in a taxi and go shopping 
 and meet new people at any time. Remember Sims 1 when your sim had a baby and it stayed tucked 
 away in a cradle for a few days, well now they are born as real babies with interactions which 
 then grow into toddlers and so on. 
  
  Of course none of this is without challenge [unless you cheat with the codes] and you'll have to 
 keep your eye on your sims needs and aspirations. There is a really good aspiration points system 
 where you earn points by doing things your sim wants to do eg Buy a fridge and then you get rewarded 
 by rewards like a vacuum that sucks the skill points out of others and gives thenm to you. = ]
 
  
  The graphics are a huge improvement from the last, but still not perfect, but then thats what comes 
 with a pc game isnt it. However if your computer isnt like really fast then be careful with all 
 the extra content and expansion packs because they can slow your game down, which is REALLY frustrating.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a total must have and great wether youre 8 or 108 , or anywhere inbetween 
 of course.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Personally I don't know what to say about this game.. it's BORING from the start to the end in my 
 experiences..
  
  I don't know what it's for.. it waste you a lot of time doing some stupid things in the family.. like 
 building up relationship.. fun factors.. blah blah blah.. do homeworks.. watch TV, have baths.. have 
 lunch, have breakfast.. play games.. go out meet new ones.. party.. music.. take a call.. have sex.. swimming.. and 
 blah..
  
  So what? Didn't we do that LOTS enough in our daily lives? Why we need to torment our relaxing 
 time in here, putting in another's daily's life?
  
  What we need to do in sim2 should be KILL KILL KILL KILL KILL.. have a riots in city.. or infestation 
 and the family get to defend themselves.. and this is what GAMES mean! And this one? Just another 
 copy of daily lives? I fell asleep after played a hour or two..
  
  Why don't they die faster? It's stupid to see that a guy get burned for 10 minutes in real life 
 not dead.. and the emotions of the characters are stupid.. time wasting and annoying..
  
  Those lives are further duller than our daily one.. I see no reason to play this game.. it should 
 include lots more bloods and gores.. like they really fight to the deaths.. get wounded.. have guns.. can 
 shoot someone.. and kill someone.. can get wanted.. can get go outside the houses..
  
  Graphic are out-dated.. well maybe in 2004 option is okej but not to me..
  Sounds and music are 
 dumb and idiotic.. like some stupid little kids favourite music.. I turn the music off or put on 
 mp4 in my ear when start to play this game, well, if it is really "play".. or just follow rules 
 in lives.
  
  Value? I don't think there is one.. maybe you can create your own family or friends could be quite 
 interesting.. but definilitly DON'T worth for buying...
  
  It is dull, it's childish, it's boring..
  That's what it's lika in the game..
  
  Graphic-5/10
 
  Sound-5/10
  Music-1/10
  Gameplay-6/10
  Presentation-4/10
  Value-4/10
  
  Overrall-5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SweeneyTodd23
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This game is the best yet on PC, theres no denying it, you should have this game by now. If not, 
 then you surely are missing out on something.
  
  The Price: Respectable price really and that goes with other Expansion Packs as well
  
  The 
 Game: Its a masterpiece, you create a sim, get a job, get married, have a baby, die and than go 
 beyond with more sims.
  
  The Graphics: This was a massive improvement, the objects, the buildings and even sims are so realistic!
 
  
  The Sound: Pure genious, Sim language could have being more, soundtrack is excellent especially 
 when you want to put your own tracks on.
  
  Lifespan: ITS THE CIRCLE OF LIFE MANN!
  
  Why should you buy this?
  Its The Sims 2 what you expect
  You can download amazing stuff and 
 mods in specialist sites like Mod The Sims 2
  Its the best PC game out yet for 2004
  What can I say? Its highly addicted
  
  Why should you leave this?
  It will become complex 
 when it comes to advanced stuff
  The motives are pretty irritating (thats if you determined cheat)
  Sim language could have being 
 improved 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 5
Date: May 14, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  I'm only reviewing this game as my sister loves it. However its not that good, it really feels 
 like an architect simulator and looking after a family who don't do what you say is irritating. 
 It feels as if EA took all the bad points from Ambrellas Pokemon Channel game and added it with 
 a better graphiced Google Sketch Up.
  
  Admitably It is quite fun to create a house and landscape, however My Sims for Wii is better in 
 every other way, maby not graphics. Sims 2 also uses huge amounts of memory, slowing you're whole 
 computer down and the expansion packs at a tener each are RIP OFFS!!! 2 is literally the price 
 you should pay, and wasting a disc for these horrible things, you should be able to download from 
 the internet.
  
  Sims 2 though ultimately is one of EA's best games and by a computers standard is livable, is it 
 worth 30... maby just but any more and you should be looking at a midtown madness or a Rome Total 
 War game. Or if you really want to create, get a membership on Runescape and build a mansion and 
 a farm, and you can even have pets. If you want to look after many things from people to animals 
 to crazy creaturea look at harvest moon or pokemon.
  
  I'm pleased though with this game as a whole... just for one reason. EA made it and it isn't terrable. 
 All in all if you have spare money and no console or want a computer game this is OK, but please 
 look at Rome Total War first or if thats not you're style, Runescape is the enhanced version of 
 Sims, abheit with less flashy graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the best sims game on the PC because it gives you the chance to go to any destination 
 by hiring a taxi. Also the graphics have improved from all the previous games and this also allows 
 you to be creative than ever before. This also allows you to zoom in much closer on your Sims than 
 ever before and has a few extras. But it can be annoying when your Sims act weird that doesn't 
 surprise me after all it has happened in the previous Sims games so why have EA games still allowed 
 it to continue? Otherwise it seems unrealistic. It's a shame that they did not add any cars like 
 they did in The Sims 'Bust in Out' so you can go to any destination. Hopefully the sequel will 
 be amazing if not wait for another Sims game to come out.
  
  Graphics - The models up close are excellent and the environment is great.
  
  Gameplay - This 
 is simply amazing it has improved so much over the years.
  
  How long the game lasts?  The game will last you quite a while unless 
  you want to add some 
 expansion packs. It's all up to you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphacRebel
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Well, I remember all those years ago, we only had a single computer and were renting a small home. 
 I would also try to play Runescape because we only owned a Nintendo 64. So, as usual, I would go 
 on and play Runescape. Because I never bothered to ask my friends what their user name was, I never 
 talked to anyone and never said anything back to people who tried talking to me. And then one day, 
 I was banned for swearing. Back then, it was a bad thing, since I was young, but today I couldn't 
 care less. So anyways I needed a new game to play, and my uncle had tons of computer games and 
 burned my a copy of the original Sims game. At the start, it was that interesting, but it grew 
 on me. So to this day, I continue to enjoy the Sims 2 franchise.
  
  The game falls somewhere between micro management, virtual life, and a simulation. At first, the 
 idea of taking care of virtual people may sound boring. And of course, this game won't appeal to 
 everyone, but it is an easy enough game to understand and play. As it stands, the Sims is the most 
 popular computer game, followed up by the Sims 2 (however, I can't see the Sims 3 coming in third) 
 
  
  So the game plays in an easy way, repetitive chores, clicking and telling them to do simple things. 
 Unless of course, you turn free will on. The first step is to create a family.
  
  The following is intended for new players to the Sims 2 or the franchise itself.
  
  Create-a-Family
 
  -is easy enough to follow. You simply click add new Sim and go from there. In the first tab, you 
 name the sim, change the gender, and body between normal and fat.
  -in the second tab, you choose a basic head type (everything can be changed so its kind of a useless 
 tab.
  -the third tab is were you edit everything on the head. From the shape of the nose, to the hair 
 style and color.
  -the fourth tab is for cosmetics, enough said
  -the fifth tab is where you choose the sims clothing, form everyday to workout (outside wear is 
 available with the seasons expansion pack) (clothes will be added with each expansion pack and 
 stuff pack)
  -the sixth and final tab, is for personality and aspiration (turn ons and turn offs with nightlife)
 
  
  And then click the check mark and you made a sim.
  
  Move that sim/s into an already available or empty lot and your ready to either
  
  (a) make 
 them live their life
  (b) make a house for them
  
  Since sims only ship with $20000 for their first home, there are two ways to fix this for bigger 
 and more interesting homes. (a) if you only have the base game, move them onto and empty lot and 
 once it has loaded, press ctrl+shift+c to open the cheat code menu. Once opened, type in kaching 
 for $1000 or motherlode for $50000. (b) with one of the earlier expansion packs, (nightlife?) once 
 your in the neighborhood view with your newly made sims, press ctrl+shift+c then type familyfunds 
 [family's last name] [amount of money. Where it says family's last name, enter the sims last name, 
 amount of money should be self explanatory. 
  
  The tools of build mode, are easy enough to understand, as they provide a picture, and if you hover 
 your mouse over them the give a very brief explanation to what the tool does, so I won't go into 
 much detail here. Try out everything (as more build tool features get added with expansion packs) 
 and look up tutorials to learn some great ways to manipulate the game to make more interesting 
 homes. www. modthesims2. com is a fantastic (and free) website for custom content and tutorials. 
 
  
  Buy mode is just as simple as things can be sorted by room or object. Comfort being chairs, sofas, 
 beds, etc ad misc. being dressers, toys, party (nightlife=cars/pets=pet supplies) . Again, this 
 is simple enough to figure out. Clicking on an objects picture, will reveal a menu of available 
 recolors for the object.
  
  Finally, onto Live mode. The game plays simple enough. Just click on the object you want the sims 
 to interact with. So clicking on a fridge opening a pie menu of all available interactions with 
 the fridge. certain choices become available as your sims skill levels go up. For instance, using 
 a book case to study cooking, will increase the sims cooking skill, thus allowing for more meals 
 to be selected and made by the sim in the fridge's pie menu. Jobs are another important feature 
 in the game. Unless you cheat and then your sim never gets a job. Getting a job is simple though. 
 Simply use a computer, or a newspaper to find a job. Jobs are randomly changed every sim day so 
 different jobs become available. Looking through the newspaper, the sim can select from three different 
 jobs, while A sim on the computer will find the same three in the newspaper as well of two more. 
 Fulfill sims needs keep them happy and in good moods. Moods play an important rule in the game. 
 If your sim is in a bad mood, other sims won't want to talk, or the sim will refuse to do certain 
 tasks such as study until they are in a better mood. Getting sims in a better mood is simple enough. 
 
  
  Comfort=they need to either sit or lay down in a chair or on a bed
  
  Environment=this can be easily fixed, as an alarm clock going off will purposely lower this sims 
 need fully to wake it up, turning it off or putting paints and decoration can fix this problem
 
  
  Social=talking with any sim will bring this need up
  
  Fun=while most sims enjoy watching tv, sims with a more serious personality, will tend to read 
 a good book
  
  Hunger=feeding a sim will solve this problem, just don't feed them food with a green aroma coming 
 out of it. A higher cooking skill and better stoves will make more satisfying meals
  
  Energy=best solved by sleeping. Coffee and naps are quick energy boosts
  
  Bladder=going to 
 the washroom solves this, however (with free will turned off) a sim that gets neglected will find 
 an alternative spot, specifically the spot there currently standing
  
  Hygiene=simply resolved by taking a bath or shower
  
  Better moods also affect job/school performance. 
 Sim will get better marks going to school in a good mood, while sims going to work in a good mood, 
 with all the required skills, may get a promotion
  
  the final thing I will talk about, is the aspiration. This can kept up be simply making a sim perform 
 actions that can be seen as wants. Completing a want, will result with points being added to the 
 aspiration meter. This will slowly depleted daily and completing fears also brings this down.'
 
  
  Overall, this game can hard to follow just starting out. But doing the tutorials and spending some 
 time playing the game, can easily make the game seem easier and make it more fun. Although taking 
 care of the sims can become quite repetitive, the can always produce an interesting twist. The 
 aspiration meter, however serves no true purpose other than platinum mood and some objects you 
 can buy using aspiration points, although using the objects below a gold aspiration can have negative 
 effects. The game however, still can create an interesting play and will always keep you paying 
 attention, because if you don't, a sim may catch fire from using a barbecue with no cooking skill 
 and stand and watch it burn. The game is worth a try, but don't go buy the whole series, then play 
 it to find you don't enjoy it. 
  
  Although the game can be frustrating at times, it does have a solid game play. With a nice 3D world 
 and plenty of wallpapers, objects, recolors, and sims to choose from (and all the feature that 
 come with the expansion and stuff packs) the game can easily entertain you for hours. Will you 
 make 5 generations of sims? Will you mistreat and neglect your sims to find the consequences? Or 
 will you be a great caretaker and fulfill your sims wants and avoid their fears? Only playing the 
 game will tell. And with a game as open as this, theres always time to change, improve and a never 
 ending game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSnathe
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  First it might suck, because you have no money, house, clothes, or anything good but once you play 
 it for a while it GROWS ON YOU and you can fully enjoy your family... perfect if you suck and you 
 want to make your dream life. Or if you rock and want to see what would happen if you screwed up 
 your life.
  
  Graphics aren't amazing but the voice is good if you like the Sims' little language of thiers, 
 controls pretty reponsive, gameplay AMAZING even though it might take a little while to get the 
 best stuff... (wait isn't that with all games?) AND IT RULES BUYY IT AND GIVE THE CREATORS SUM 
 MORE CASH!!!! 
  
  
  
  yes
  
  Also you can download more patches and extras to make the game more expansive and better all the 
 time, anytime... YAY plus there is an exceelent choice of clothes/furniture that also makes the 
 game enjoyable lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is an impressive base, that's for sure, it is the next step from The Sims, graphics 
 ablaze in a sharp new way of controlling your Sims.
  
  With just about the same control scheme, you are well off if you have experience from the first 
 game, with the fundamentals of moving Sims around and making them do tasks is the same as its predecessor. 
 You can design your Sim in nearly any way you want, with full access to their facial structure, 
 hair type and colour, accessories, and a different set of clothing for each time of the day. After 
 you have your Sim look flash, you choose their Aspiration. This affects what Wants and Fears the 
 Sim will have through it's life, and will ultimately determine the Sims Life Aspiration.
  
  The building mode in the Sims 2 is accompanied by nice but repetitive music all while you work. 
 Build your own dream home, or just build a straight-out wacky mansion or whatever your imagination 
 can come up with, because The Sims 2 is central for freedom in creating houses, painting them up, 
 and most importantly furnishing them as if they were your own.
  
  In-game your own Sim can become irritating, but this is only if you allow yourself into a situation 
 like that. Sims have 8 mood bars, each with a different specific (e. g Hunger, Comfort, Bladder, 
 Energy) . You must all the while make sure that these bars stay as high as possible, making your 
 Sim as happy as possible, meaning they can progress easily in learning new skills and being promoted 
 simply.
  
  The Sims 2 itself is a fun package that will have you hooked for a few weeks at least, but as you 
 must know, there are expansions to the game such as University, Nightlife, Bon Voyage, Open For 
 Business and Pets. As well as these packs, there are special clothes and furniture packs you can 
 buy separetely. So in the end EA Games will keep you entertained till they run out of ideas, or 
 just force you to play it with so many different things to be tried and done.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 7/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Overall - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carn__helving
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is definitely good follow up game to the Sims, with many improvements to be found within 
 it. First of all there are the graphics, which are far superior to the original game. The character 
 development is also far better, with the ability to tweak facial features, hair colour and clothes. 
 There is also the new addition of character aspirations, which like the mood meter, needs to be 
 kept consistently high (and on gaining aspiration points can also lead to further rewards such 
 as a 'Love Tub.') Houses and lots are also bigger, with a larger range of items to be put into 
 the home. I did, however, find it difficult to, at first, decorate the homes and control the game 
 overall really, but when you get used to these controls you really are able to reap the rewards. 
 There is still a selection of jobs, which I believe are more difficult to gain maximum for (than 
 the Sims) , and like your aspirations, you also gain rewards from your jobs such as a chocolate 
 machine. There are also new ages, from  and elderly. Each age 
 has different aspirations, and it is also important for children and teenagers to do homework, 
 whilst teenagers can also get jobs which they can follow on into adult life. Also, it should be 
 noted that toddlers are probably the worst age to have, as they are dependent on other characters 
 alsmost wholly and also need (well, optionally) to learn skills such as walking, talking and being 
 potty trained. I find that to gain full enjoyment of the game, yes including nice houses, though 
 not technically playing the game fairly, is to use the 'motherlode' cheat, which gives you $50 
 000 each time. The faults in the game are few, but relatively significant. I find the load screens 
 rather long, such as those between town and home or home and shopping. There are also rather a 
 lot of load screens, such as that from the main menu to the neighbourhood to the home. Also, it 
 does take up a LOT of memory, and several computers are susceptible to poorer performance from 
 the game, so you do have to make sure that you have enough space on the computer. It is also worth 
 noting the inclusion of aliens in the game, particularly in 'Strangetown,' and the alien abduction 
 story is also followed through in the main 'Pleasantview' story with the Goth family. There are 
 also, as with the original Sims, good expansion packs, including pure item packs. I would reccomend 
 this as one of the best games available on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSBFan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Since I like designing houses, Sims 2 was worth it just for the improvements over Sims 1. You can 
 make basements, houses up to 5 floors (I only have the base version with no expansions) and can 
 place windows and doors on diagonal sections. Sure there are home planners, CAD tools, and other 
 software out there for this purpose, but do any of those programs let simulated people live in 
 the house you designed? Not to mention the simplicity of the Sims 2 build mode makes it preferable 
 over more advanced design tools.
  
  The actual game play is an improvement over Sims 1. Sims have more familial ties, and go through 
 stages of life. You can literally spawn a whole community with a single starting family (but soon 
 you'll run out of mates as the default townies get married off, and as far as I know, distant cousins 
 can't form romantic relationships) . But still, like it's predecessor, it's a whole lot of watching 
 simulated people walking around and living their lives after you've done the building and preparation. 
 Only major choices require the player to step in and make a decision for the Sim. After you've 
 seen them go through certain actions once, it becomes repetitive.
  
  As I said, I have no expansions for Sims 2, so I don't know how this game plays beyond the base 
 game. But as I have all the expansions for Sims 1, I can tell that that expansions don't make a 
 somewhat repetitive game into a more interesting one. It just expands what your sims can do. Watching 
 the expanded actions gets old just as fast.
  
  I do tend to like Will Wright's open-ended SimCity games, but I guess the difference here is those 
 games are more based on building and don't *require* that you watch most of the time. If you stop 
 watching in the Sims, you usually run into a prompt or disaster that stops the simulation. So continual 
 monitoring is almost necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electric-Guitar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  The Sims, created by Maxis, was a game in which you built houses and controlled the lives of people 
 called Sims, either creating them or playing the ones already in the neighborhood. The Sims 2 doesn't 
 change much, except that its in full 3-D. Yes, now you can zoom in on your Sims at practically 
 every angle. I remember playing The Sims and thinking, "Boy it would be nice if I could zoom up 
 close to my Sims. Well, my wish came true with the release of The Sims 2 in . 
  it is a good game, and delivers a well deserved graphical face lift to the Sims series of games. 
 I was some what surprised by how much the Sims 2 felt exactly like the original Sims game. Emotions, 
 sound affect even the look of the furniture and houses seemed almost exactly the same as in the 
 first game. After I played the game for a while I realized that, that is not a bad thing. I was 
 quickly addicted to the game. I played through a couple generations of a family before I started 
 a couple more. If you like the original Sims game, than you should enjoy the Sims 2. 
  
  Game Play 
  
  As I mentioned before, there is not much of a change in The Sims 2. You're still 
 practically doing everything that you did in The Sims and that's still cool as long as you enjoyed 
 The Sims. There are some additions such as a few new social options and the ability to choose what 
 food you want from the refrigerator depending on your cooking skill. One little complaint I have 
 with the game is that there is not a large variety of clothing like in The Sims. My bigger complaint 
 is that unless you have a PC with 512 MB Ram, the game will have long load times and have a somewhat 
 slow frame rate. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  The most awesome thing about The Sims 2 is the fact that it is in full 3-D. This allowed the designers 
 to give pretty good detail to both the Sims and their environment. 
  
  My score: 8 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cole_150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a great game. If you are watching someone play it the game looks terrible but once you 
 start playing it's addictive. The game is a huge step up from the Sims 1 which was still a quality 
 game. There are many customization choices to make your sim just like you or if you want you could 
 make it a total freak. The gameplay is great and many points in the game will give you a laugh. 
 One such thing is the Grim Reaper who comes around after one of your sims dies. He uses his cell 
 phone and clip board to decide if the person is dead and he might accept plea's for a loved one 
 and when hes done with his job he might just take some of your food and use your toilet but having 
 a sim isn't all fun and games. Many times in your Sims career might they be fired or demoted. They 
 can also be killed by random events such as electrocution, locusts, hunger, and suprisingly satelites. 
 Maintaining a job is acctually fun and getting a promotion is a happy time. Your sim's can also 
 have relationships. You can make new friends by chatting and telling jokes and after your sim and 
 another sim's relationship is good you could choose to be engaged or married. Another good aspect 
 of the Sims is that there are many mods. There are alot of great mods that make the game experience 
 much more real and fun. One of the few aspects in the sims 2 which is bad is that it is hard to 
 keep your sim happy and some tasks are just plain annoying. Those are some of my views on the sims 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  firstly this game doesnt do anything new for the series pretty much in anyway except improve on 
 all aspects..
  the graphics are hyped up so it isnt so square headed anymore.
  more content has been added and looks better, house buidling and character creation is improved 
 and more in depth. the most notable addition is the apirations and fears meter which give you access 
 to some cool items like the money tree or elixer of life which reverses your aging (another new 
 addtion) once you have reached the top of your career you get a special item and a new way of getting 
 to work too, i. e. if your a superhero you will fly to work or a general you get a helicopter..
 
  the neigbourhood layout is relatively the same although you have 3 official ones which come with 
 there own story and your sims still talk in that funny simish language os buy this game and have 
 lots of fun being god to your little sims for good or ill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Having been a massive Sims fan since the release of The Sims, I was slightly dubious when they 
 announced a second version, as I didn't see the need. However, after playing it, I took back my 
 words, because the game is fantastic! There's much more for the player to do, this time you control 
 everything, from the colour of your Sims cars, to the thickness of their eyebrows! In fact, there 
 can sometimes be too much choice, and thus building a family and a house can take hours! The new 
 desires and rewards system, as well as the new aging aspect adds a completely new dimension to 
 the game, allowing the player particular goals to aim for, if they so wish. Also, with much larger 
 neighbourhoods and the expansion of community activites, the variety of things to do is endless. 
 As a student, this can be dangerous, when decorating your Sims house is obviously much more important 
 than that petty essay, and if you're not careful, you can become far too involved, but it's all 
 in good fun, and ths is a brilliant game thats more than worth all the trouble! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Going back in the way back machine, I remember first playing the Sims. I was at a friend's house, 
 and he showed me how to build a house, how to download costumes off the internet, and how to make 
 this little high tech dollhouse come to life. Next thing we knew, it was time for my mom to pick 
 me up, and we had spent our entire time playing the Sims. 
  
  Flash forward to the present. I have the Sims 2 CD in my computer, and at any given time I might 
 randomly decide to start a new family, or carry on one of my old ones. Several times a year, I 
 go on Sims binges, where I waste an entire day on the Sims, usually staying up till 3-4am taking 
 care of the little buggers. 
  
  The game is essentially the same game as the original Sims, with a graphics makeover, sim customization, 
 and a few extra options you might expect from a expansion pack. However, this is not a bad thing- 
 it is exactly what the franchise, and the fans, needed. It allows you to easily customize your 
 sims, it adds much better graphics and a much more dynamic camera, and a lot more personality to 
 the game, while retaining the simple dollhouse charm that made this game so fun in the first place. 
 
  
  The Sims 2 is just more of the same, but that's not bad. When this game came out, it was unlike 
 anything that had come before it, appealing to the same nurturing instinct that caused Tamagatchi's 
 to have such a massive success. However, there's more to the game than that- it has appeal on multiple 
 levels. Primarily, however, this game is a mirror. People like to make themselves, their friends, 
 their boyfriend, their family, their favorite characters, and their enemies. They can play god, 
 and create a perfect little life for themselves. They can put their enemies in a house with no 
 doors, no toilets, and no fridge, and watch them starve to death. They can see what would happen 
 if Luke Skywalker and Captain Kirk were roommates. They can give themselves the life they'll never 
 have, where they grow up to be a doctor, have a beautiful wife or handsome husband (whose name 
 is their secret crush) , and a bunch of kids.
  
  It's about living out a fantasy, living out a perfect life, an experimental life, all within the 
 context of an afternoon playing a game. It's a mirror for people to experiment with identities, 
 to create perfect lives, it's a way to have a more perfect control. 
  
  Life is a scary thing, but the Sims gives you control. You know the parameters of the game. You 
 know all the rules, the risks. There are no unexpected disasters, there is no emotional depth, 
 there is nothing but your control over your little perfect life, so for an afternoon, you can just 
 pretend. 
  
  There are other aspects that make the Sims (I don't even use 2 anymore, as the Sims and the Sims 
 2 are pretty much the same game in my book.) addictive, including the ability to design a house, 
 control relationships, increase on job paths, and the like. Personally, I like the micro management 
 aspect, and find it one of the most addictive aspects of the game- trying to make sure every bar 
 is at full, every skill level is appropriate, and every relationship status is full. It is a very 
 simple, yet very complicated game within this game, and yet it gives you something to focus on 
 while you live your fantasy life. It was a stroke of genius on Will Wright's part to create the 
 Sims, as for years, he had been creating cool micromanagement games, forcing you to control things 
 ranging from ant colonies to cities and even planets, but what could be more fascinating to micromanage 
 than people?
  
  When the Sims came out, it was wildly successful, and became one of the most popular games among 
 girls, and yet it still called to a fair number of male players. It was a perfect game for the 
 time and the technology, but as computers got faster, it became time for a better, prettier version. 
 That is what the Sims 2 is. It is little more than the Sims brought to the modern PC, but that 
 is exactly what the players wanted. 
  
  Now, to the actual review part- The gameplay is fun. You make little people, give them a house, 
 and try not to kill them, and if possible, help them in their lives. This is much more fun than 
 it sounds. The music is quite good, and there are enough quirks in the game to keep it entertaining 
 with a sort of silly humor Maxis has always had in their games. The graphics are stylized, but 
 not bad, and overall there's little to complain about. As far as dollhouse games, this is about 
 as good as it gets. Sure, there are problems- the AI can be very stupid at times, there are glitches 
 here and there, and some of the relationship stuff seems a bit too mysterious and arbitrary. Despite 
 all this, it's a fun, solid game, with an amazing amount of freedom to do whatever you want.
  
  Overall, the Sims franchise has been one of the most ridiculously successful on the market, 
 complete with very annoying add ons that serve only to waste players money in order for their sims 
 to get a dog, go on vacation, get some horrific disease, whatever. However, this success is deserved, 
 as it is a truly innovative idea that appeals to a wide audience. 
  
  Still, I often wonder about people who kill their sims in horrible ways. Is that a bad thing? They 
 should really make a sims expansion, "The Sim 2: Blood Bath edition, the let's piss Jack Thompson 
 off version." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmbowers98
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was one of those games that you just didn't see coming. It smacked the gaming world upside 
 the head with its quirky nature and long reaching appeal. Obviously, the success of the original 
 was so high that it was a forgone conclusion that The Sims 2 would eventually hit stores after 
 the billions of expansion packs were done selling for the first game. Finally, after four years 
 of waiting, The Sims 2 is coming out. We've had a final for quite a while now and have been playing 
 the crap out of it in order to write this review.
  
  The Sims 2 is a strange game to try and review. There are a lot of different ways to look at it 
 and play it. The only thing that's certain is that this series is one of a kind. I can honestly 
 say that I don't think I "got it" when the original game was released. I enjoyed it for a while 
 but became frustrated at how hard it was to juggle relationships, bathroom breaks, and sleep time 
 in order to get to the top of the corporate food chain. But over the last few weeks, I finally 
 discovered something, partly due to a lot of the improvements made over the first game. The Sims 
 isn't about "winning" or reaching a certain goal. It's about setting up experiences and watching 
 them unfold. It's about personality and creativity and The Sims 2 handles both in a way that can't 
 help but make you stare in wonder at this brilliantly bizarre series.
  
  The most obvious addition is the new engine. It was an easy decision for them to make the game 
 better looking. Not only did it help them keep up with the technology but more importantly helped 
 them create an experience with a lot more personality and flair than The Sims was ever capable 
 of supplying. All of the items found in The Sims 2 are amazingly detailed and vibrantly colorful, 
 but the real charmer is the hugely long list of interactive animations between sims and the environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game was just as good if not better than the original Sims game. From creating the characters, 
 to building their house. The game allows you to control every aspect of the family you created, 
 getting them a job, giving them a social life, having children. 
  It is a challenging game, as you have to improve the house and environment around with very little 
 money, which is given to you at the start. I must confess i rarely play the game without the cheats, 
 especially the money cheat as it takes so much time and effort to play without them. 
  I love the fact that you can start off making a family whatever size, it is a great way of passing 
 time on a rainy day. Choosing every aspect about the individuals and then buying and improving 
 the house to make the occupants happier, so that they progress up the career path you have chosen. 
 I can't fault the added extras from the original Sims, like the fact you can now build multi-storey 
 houses, and new and improved controls although most have little change some have new innovative 
 ways of using them. 
  The number of expansion packs that go with the game also mean that it is continuously being added 
 to and more and more stuff to improve and individualise each and every home. This allows much more 
 variation and allows the person in control to make every home unique.
  Anyway, i hope i have persuaded you to go out and buy the game, as it is a game i definitely haven't 
 regretted to buy at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  they did a great job and Sims 2 they do more difference from the one before also and 3D mode what 
 a great graphics to catch and lots of fun specially when you complete all expansion pack of Sims 
 2.....
  also you see some cinematic when you find a couple and give a wedding ring also when that day your 
 wife become pregnant until she born a child you see from it and any more so have catch them all....
 
  there are so many job to take but as like before you prepared to be a military if you already 
 play the first one you know why i like it...
  and from the new born baby until to become old one means your character will become older and older 
 looks like reality unlike the first one your child will not become teen or an adult and the adult 
 not become oldest only the baby became a child unlike this one so if you are one of the fans of 
 this game just try it out and you know and compared from the first one :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermindwho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  A really good game, good graphics, sound and gameplay.
  
  It gets very addictive, and can ''suck you in''. This means you cant stop playing for any reason 
 except for food and toilet !!!
  
  But if you will play it for a while you will find yourself doing the same thing over and over again!!! 
 (if you won't any new expansion pack of course) 
  
  There was quite a few gliches in it, for example in the family maker, when you are editting your 
 sim's eyes and then go to the nose menu and choose one of the nose templates and after that you 
 go back to the eyes, all of the settings got back to the middle!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaXiMuS3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 provides a great game experience in which you get to create sims, control what your 
 sims do or do not do, where they live, etc. Probably the most fun feature is building houses. There 
 are a huge amount of options for building the house that's just right for you and your sim. Overall, 
 I would give this masterpiece a 9.5! You'll never be able to play the original Sims again.
  
  For an even better experience, I recommend that you get the expansion packs for it. Each one 
 adds a crucial part to the game, and each adds extra outfits, building materials, and whatever 
 else. The only problem is that in order to install everything, you kind of need a monster hard 
 drive and a decent computer with a better than average video card. While these things can be expensive, 
 it is totally worth it. Other than that, it's great. It's a must-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Is OBVIUS that this game is great, anione can love it, anione can play it!
  now is more realistic, your sims have a lifetime, so make them enjoy!
  build their dream house, 
 make them have a family, get them on the top of their jobs, make them perfect in all the skills!
 
  marry them, trow a party in your house, discover the new actions that have, its a really complete 
 game, sometimes the graphics doesnt look good enougt
  and i insist that MAXIS still doesnt know how to design a body, in the real life, the men's body 
 is more "square" and the women's body is have curves and more "ass" 
  but in the game the men's doesnt look to different, the womens do, i thing that they should have 
 included a body designer, which included if u want him/her wth more stomach, arms, legs, torso, 
 or even..."bubbies"
  
  aniway its a great game
  
  the good: a really complete game, grapics are good, there's a lot of clothing in the game, u can 
 download content from internet, u can design your clothes with a special program, you can get your 
 music or videos in the game!
  
  the bad: it will probably get you bored soon, sometimes graphics get a lot pixelated, all the body's 
 are the same (if they are skinny, all look like that, if they are fat, all look like that, if they 
 are strongt all look like that)
  u need A LOT of RAM to run this game properly, i mean u can still play it with not much but it 
 will be SOOOOOOOOOO slow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I become very addicted to this game, sometimes I get bored of it but then play it again. 
 I just like having Sims to live in a house full of Ghosts, make them sit in their house doing nothing 
 with their life even if they have 1,000,000 simoleans and best of all I make them suffer sometimes 
 because stuff like this happens right?
  
  I like to build houses for the Sims even if it takes me at least 2 hours to do but they look like 
 that the 2 hours have been paid off. Usually when I go on the Sims, I include myself in the game 
 and add other people I know and do funny stuff with them. One time I created someone that I dispised 
 and started doing nasty stuff to them like getting everyone to hate that person and get them killed. 
 The game is just excellent when it comes to chilling out although I go off and on every now and 
 again.
  
  I have got a couple of expansion packs that actualy belongs to my sister and I play these expansion 
 packs and have alot of fun with them. All I have to say is if anyone just want's to chill out and 
 instead of playing second life, how about play Sims 2 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grofleon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  i am very happy to say that this game is one of the few which tide me to my computer for a longer 
 period, it is a game that really is for enjoy in playing it, it is not aggressive, from time to 
 time it is nice to play something like this. don't have to run or escape like in other games, everything 
 is so cool and the game is full of gamer choices. great game, very intellectual and stimulates 
 thinking and resolving the problems and the best of all is that all problems are related with real 
 things in real life ... GREAT GAME... GREAT GAME... GREAT GAME !!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! 
 GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!!
 
  GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! 
 GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!!
  GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! 
 GREAT GAME!!! GREAT GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It is much like 'The Sims', but with some modifications. Probably the 
 most noticeable, though are the graphics. Everything is so much more detailed and fun to look at. 
 The thing I like most though, is the music. I absolutely DETESTED the piano music in 'The Sims'. 
 The music in The Sims 2 is much better. There are also more things to choose from when you are 
 building. You can also build houses and malls up to 5 floors tall. So, to sum up, The Sims 2 is 
 a great buy. Even if you have The Sims, (like I did) I suggest getting The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodorigin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played the sims then you know how fun and detaild the Sim world can be. The sims 2 
 is more fun and has way more details then the past sim game. From what you can buy to what you 
 job will be. Have a house the looks its right out of a horror movie or just make your dream house. 
 With many many downloads you can get from the maxis web site or even the gamespot web site. The 
 sims is a game that has no ending so you can't win at this one. But you can caring on thourgh your 
 kids and family (in the game) I love this game and if you are a sim fan you'll love it too. You 
 may also find cheats to help you in this world, if you need more $ or to buy things and so on. 
 The team at maxis went all out on this one and I can tell they had fun doing so. So give this game 
 a try, you'll never be the same sim again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuitChicken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is really boring with no expansions. After you build your house it is the same thing 
 over and over again. You wake up, you go to work, and you satisfy your needs (like use the restroom 
 and eat) And basically that is all you do without expansions. With expansions this game is one 
 of the best there ever was. You can basically do anything you can do in real life. You can start 
 a business, go on vacation, go to college, have pets, go on dates, do things outside, and do almost 
 everything else there is to do in life. My score reflects what the game is like with expansions. 
 Without them I would probably rate it a 5.0 and I would classify it as boring. Things that really 
 frustrate me in this game is that your sim (that's what they call the person you're controlling) 
 always goes and does you don't want them to do if they are idly standing there. They just don't 
 know that you don't always have to do something. Also, when there are tight spaces and there a 
 few sims there they can't move around, and takes them forever to walk away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the Sims games since they game out. I've had the very first Sims since 2000 when 
 it was released. Needless to say, I'm a huge fan of the games.
  
  I had a countdown for Sims 2 going ever since I had heard of its release. I was sad when they had 
 to push the date back to a few months later because of glitches and technical difficulties. Still, 
 I was extremely excited to get it. Unfortunately I was away at an end of the summer camp on the 
 day it was released, but I'd had it on hold for pretty much a year, so it was delivered to my house 
 and as soon as I got home, I installed it and started playing.
  
  I found it to be a letdown. I didn't enjoy the overly 3-D graphics as much as I thought I would. 
 I missed the old graphics that I had known for years. Also, I was so spoiled by expansion packs 
 for the first series that simply the Sims 2 bored me a bit. However, I really liked how genetics 
 came into play in the Sims 2.
  
  I've since given it several tries, but I can't say that I like it nearly as much as the first series. 
 I don't know why because it truly is a great game, but I think that the first series is far superior 
 in so many ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcain3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets start off by saying that if we haven't played the first Sims, don't worry, there is no 
 difference. I mean even the controls are the exact same. Hey at least it can give some fun, make 
 a family watch them grow old. Or you could make a dude and torture him you sick freaks. It does 
 do a good job of a sense of reality, where if you don't go to the bathroom you're dude will *** 
 himself, or if you don't eat you get skinny and die, or you could die when you're kids are kids. 
 Overall if you are bored out of you're mind, play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  This Game is simply great. I finally have control over other people as well as myself in this game. 
 For me this game is extreemely addictive. The Best thing about this game is that it is Open-End, 
 the game ends when You want it to end. I have been a fan of The Sims Games for only about 8 years, 
 however, this game always has somthing new for you to try out. There are countless challenges you 
 can make for youself. And the game has secrets not even the creators thmeselves realizes about 
 the game.
  
  Best of all it is extradonaily user friendly, give you the ability to change everything from the 
 sims Hair color, to creating and modifying the games play, in such a way, very few other games 
 can even come close in comparison.
  
  I truly love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiiLak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a very good game and i think it is the most long running PC games ever made. And it's 
 very addictive. Now the review and the ratings.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Story: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Overall and price: 9.5/10
  
  Game play: 
  Game Play in Sims 
 2 is at it's finest. The Game play elements is all about creating a family and filling their needs 
 such as hygiene, social, energy, fun, comfort and more. In Sims 2 you can control your sims and 
 their lifestyle.
  Once you have created your family, then go to the neighbourhood and choose them a house or create 
 a lot for building a house from ground zero. On the lot you can choose between many building options 
 such as walls, roofs, wallpapers, fences and if you have many expansion packs, there will be even 
 more stuff to choose from. In addition to building mode is the buy mode, you can choose from various 
 decoration items, telephones, televisions, kitchen hardware and of course stuff for the bathroom. 
 There also will be cars to buy, if you Sims 2 nightlife installed. Once you have build your house, 
 it's time to find some friends and Sims can also hold a job. The computer is the main hardware 
 for navigating between businesses you have bought, to do that, you must have Sims 2 Open For business 
 installed on your computer. There are various of businesses in Sims 2. Some of them are quite expensive 
 and some of them are cheap as hell. But to keep your business in shape, you need good and loyal 
 employees and also you must have loyal customers. Sims can also have vacation locations, but you 
 need the Bon Voyage expansion pack. Bon Voyage adds you vacation island, from which you can buy 
 a vacation home and visit it. If you want to visit other neighbourhoods in Sims 2, just call a 
 taxi and it will pick you up shortly. If a player wants the four seasons, he or she should install 
 Seasons expansion pack. The game play side of the game is very long, so i wrote the important stuff. 
 i hope, i didn't forget anything.
  
  Graphics:
  On the graphics the Sims 2 has improved to greater level. It's 3d graphics now and the player should 
 be impressed by the details, what the game offers.
  
  Story:
  There ain't no special plot going on into Sims 2, everything is up to the player to decide. The 
 basic is filling their needs, getting their jobs. You can use the photo album to create a story. 
 You can even create your own neighbourhood and give it a special story.
  
  Sound:
  Sounds in Sims 2 is pretty good. Their language is the most unique part in the sound part. The 
 other sounds are just like real life. example: flushing a toilet, going to shower and so on. Music 
 is very good to and is worth listening.
  
  Overall an price:
  Sims 2 is an very interesting game and an very long experience. I didn't talk about only the original 
 game. Also Sims 2 has lots of expansion packs and stuff packs. Install them and you will have the 
 greatest gaming experience. On the price side the original game isn't that expensive, but the expansion 
 packs really boost up the price. It is reccomended for everyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  There are over 600 player reviews of EA's "The Sims 2" online on GameSpot. The average score is 
 9 out of 10, which is exceedingly good. The rating is well deserved for this worthy successor to 
 the original Maxis masterpiece "The Sims." Instead again rehashing what 600 folks have already 
 stated, I will concentrate on what seems to be a recurring theme in recent months: the more controversial 
 aspects of the game.
  
  In the unique genre of virtual life, one can expect anything and everything to happen to the user's 
 creations. Often, that is indeed the case. Some concerned citizens and even lawmakers have expressed 
 apprehension that in this game, the displayed actions are too real for a game rated by ESRB as 
 "Teen." As a PC simulation enthusiast who has spent hundreds of hours in the game, I can assure 
 you that any fears can be alleviated. I will evaluate five major categories of lifestyle: drugs, 
 sex, nudity, violence, and language.
  
  Drugs
  
  There are no direct references to drugs within the game. The closest comparison comes with an object 
 that can be used that imitates the effects of some drugs, called the Bubble Blower. The object 
 can be used by four sims at once. They hold a mouthpiece up to their heads and appear to suck out 
 bubbles, which increases the sim's happiness and comfort level. It is comparable to a real-life 
 bong, but one has to stretch the imagination to draw a realistic association. In a similar manner, 
 your creations can go to a bar and drink blended or mixed drinks. The word "alcohol" is never mentioned 
 in the game.
  
  Sex
  
  This is by far the most controversial aspect of the game, and no doubt the reason why the game 
 was given the Teen rating. In the game, sex is called "WooHoo" and can be accomplished a number 
 of different ways. The most common method is to place two sims on a bed by having them both "relax." 
 Once both of the sims are on the bed, the sex interactions "WooHoo" or "Try For Baby" are available. 
 A limitation of this feature is that the sims must first be in love with one another or the interaction 
 will not appear. In a similar nature, sims can also perform a "WooHoo" in a hot tub or in dressing 
 rooms. Gender is not taken into consideration, making it possible for a "WooHoo" between two males 
 or two females. No more than two sims can enter into the interaction at once. Even though sex is 
 certainly suggested, the graphic nature of the interaction can only be described as "PG." It is 
 unlikely that a young player of the game will accidentally discover this feature, given the limitations 
 of it.
  
  Nudity
  
  Despite what some have claimed, there is absolutely no nudity within the game. When a sim takes 
 a bath or shower, "blur" marks appeared over the sim to simulate a "censored" tag. Cheats have 
 been made available to eliminate the blur, but anyone looking for actual nudity will be disappointed. 
 With the blur removed, the sim looks like a mannequin with no details, and certainly no genitalia. 
 Again, some users have overcome this limitation to create realistic-looking, full nude sims by 
 attaching skins. The skin is essentially clothing attached to the doll which gives them the appearance 
 of nudity. Let me emphasize that Electronic Arts had nothing to do with those skins, which were 
 created entirely by amateur users of the game in a practice known as "modding." They are only available 
 on the internet, and are not included with the game or on the official web site.
  
  Violence
  
  There is essentially no violence within the game. No weapons are included, although 
 sims can die in many, and sometimes humorous, ways. No death is graphic, but can actually appear 
 sad in some instances. Some methods of death include (but are not limited to) old age, drowning 
 (by having your sim get into a pool and then removing the ladder) , electrocution (by having your 
 sim attempt to repair an electrical object without first possessing mechanical skills) and by fire 
 (your house catches fire from the stove/oven or fireplace and the sim is unable to extinguish the 
 flames) . Sims cannot inflict bodily harm on another sim. There is a fight interaction, but it is 
 more comical than anything else. In order to fight with another sim, your creation must first be 
 mad at the opposing sim.
  
  Language
  
  The language within "The Sims" has become known as "Simlish" which is a take on "English." No words 
 actually make any sense to any real language in the world. The creations utter words that can seem 
 to have meaning, but are actually very funny to listen to. There is no swearing or any words that 
 can be construed as offensive to anyone within the game. The music within the game is also similarly 
 humorous. Several top name recording artists have contributed to the game by performing songs that 
 are available on the radios, boom boxes, and juke boxes within the game; but instead of actually 
 singing the words of the original song, the language "Simlish" has been substituted making for 
 some very fun moments. Some of the top artists include Barenaked Ladies, Howard Jones, Kajagoogoo, 
 and Depeche Mode.
  
  Conclusion
  
  It is my hope this review clears up any misinformation some may have about this game. "The Sims 
 2" is a very open-ended game that follows the user's wishes. If the user is an innocent or mature 
 individual, they will find much joy attached to this game. If the individual has a more alternate 
 mindset, they will very likely find a way to satisfy their need in the game. This game is very 
 much like a toolbox. It enables the craftsman to build a project out of their own imagination. 
 In my opinion, the "Teen" rating is appropriate.
  
  TCS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This Game is simply great. I finally have control over other people as well as myself in this game. 
 For me this game is extreemely addictive. The Best thing about this game is that it is Open-End, 
 the game ends when You want it to end. I have been a fan of The Sims Games for only about 8 years, 
 however, this game always has somthing new for you to try out. There are countless challenges you 
 can make for youself. And the game has secrets not even the creators thmeselves realizes about 
 the game.
  
  Best of all it is extradonaily user friendly, give you the ability to change everything from the 
 sims Hir color, to creating and modifying the games play, in such a way, very few other games can 
 even come close in comparison.
  
  I truly love this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JanembaDeebo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great virtual life for the PC. Definitely worth the buy, so if you see it, get 
 it! This is very addictive, so prepare for hours of playing, lol. Very easy to play, you play as... 
 whoever you want... Make your oen character, name him/her, design him/her, cloth him/her, choose 
 your aspriation in life, then... play! Buy a house, raise a family, meets friends, unlimited gameplay, 
 and tons of other things. 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 (sometimes freezes when busy, mostly your computer though)
  Sound: 7/10 (music 
 gets old fast)
  Graphics: 9/10 (people look awesome but sometimes messes up)
  Difficulty: 6/10 (extremely easy.......... and I mean it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Basically what you do in the Sims 2 is: Sleep, eat, chat, flirt, take baths and meet friends, all 
 in all it doesn't SOUND too bad but if you actually start to play, you'll relize that you're doing 
 nothing more then what you'd normally do at home in real life. Also, Sims are idiots.
  
  Since Sims are so stupid, you might have to get to school. Guess what... your Sim doen't do what 
 you tell it to so it will be late and get an F. Also, the part's that you think might be fun really 
 aren't. (Example: Woohoo is so boring to watch) And every minute something go's wrong! Maybe the 
 kitchen starts on fire or maybe the car get's stolen! Whatever it is that happens, it's sure to 
 leave you cussing at your computer.
  
  The load times are demonic and crazy, as it can take up to 5 minutes just to load the neighborhood! 
 And sometimes I'm afraid to do something because I'm so scared of how long I might have to wait!
 
  
  There's the family creating system which is probably the best part of the game, but it will only 
 keep you entertained for so long. There are very limited materials in both the family editor and 
 the house builder.
  
  To get the most out of the Sims 2 (Which isn't much) , you need to buy $30 dollar expansion packs 
 that will give you something like a new shirt or a new sink! It's a big waste of money when it 
 comes down to expansion packs.
  
  The graphics leave much to be desired and you'll probably come across some annoying glitches throughout 
 the game that will really piss you off. You also can't leave your Sim alone for 5 seconds without 
 something going wrong!
  
  When your Sims go to work, all you can do is wait for them to come back and maybe speed through 
 a bit. (But speeding through usually causes problems) You can't go to your Sims office or school! 
 And the story system is also very uninteresting.
  
  Pros: Character making can be fun. Humorous. Something fun might happen if you stay sitting for 
 a while.
  
  Cons: Pretty bad graphics. Story editing is uninteresting. Very few clothing choices. Building 
 is very limited. You have to wait when your Sims go away. Sometimes bugs. Having to pay $30 dollars 
 for a few extra sets of shirts might piss you off. Sims speak in their own boring language. Sims 
 are idiots. You have almost no control over what your Sims do. Long loading times.
  
  If you're lucky you might get a few minutes of enjoyment from this game, but most of the time it's 
 like paying to watch someone sleep or eat. I wouldn't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Hey Gamestop
  The sims 2 is an exeptionel game you can do almost everything u want
  you can Get married have kids you can even Kill sims by setting them on fire, Electrocution ect.
 
  You can Record Videos Take photgraphs and put them into albums
  The sims 2 does rock!
  EA and Maxis did a great job they are Top hit Companys
  Like EA makes battlefield 2 2142 and 
 Skate ect
  and maxis made busting out sims 1 and simcity 1 simcity 2 3 and 4
  The sins 2 Rocks the World at its release even my dad was surprised (he owns a gameshop) because 
 he got over 5000 buys in 1 week
  ok it was of the sims 2 he was so surprised he got over 5000 buys in the first week
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great game for virtually anyone from the ages of 13-21. This game has some twists 
 and turns and a few boring parts (like teenagers in school) so its not perfect. The Expansion packs 
 made this game blossom. The ability to send your pets to work, cmon there isn't another game on 
 the PLANET that has that. If you like the idea of raising little babies or taking trips to the 
 beach in a virtual world, the Sims 2 is "The One For You" All in all, get the game, get all the 
 expansion packs, and set 7 hours free in your schedule because its going to feel like 10 minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybmanp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  i have played this game alot, if you know where to find good coustom content and have an account 
 at EA games (if you don't, get one) you can have more fun than any other game out there. although, 
 sometimes, people just don't like these kinds of games, o'well, navigate away from this page and 
 this games page.
  
  this is a fun game, i'm gonna say that flat out, but fun comes with a price. if you want the base 
 game it costs about $30 but if you want the base game and all the expansion packs, that will cost 
 you about $200, and about 10GB to store it all on.
  
  but for gameplay it is worth it, you can start a shop*, have unlimited families to play, have childeren, 
 go shopping, go on a vacation*, kill your sims, go to collage*, play in the snow*, live life, go 
 to nightclubs*, become a vampire*, warewolf*, or plant... thingy*. you can meet bigfoot*, you can 
 own a robot*, you can do wacky stuff, you can do pretty much anything you want. *requires expansion 
 pack 
  
  overall i think this game is worth it.
  
  graphics: A-
  
  sound: A-, if you go to a cheat site you can learn how to put your own music into the game.
  
 
  gameplay: A
  
  controls: A
  
  other features: A, includes bodyshop (for building skin tones and other stuff) , along with other 
 editor programs, and some people have learned how to make coustom object files
  
  overall: A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, but so was the first Sims. The major change from the original Sims and Sims 
 2 is the age factor- because your Sims can actually have fun lives, have children who grow up into 
 adults themselves and have their own children.. I think this is the life simulator everyone's been 
 waiting for.
  
  Many of the strengths of this game is that the realism, graphics, and situations surpass the original 
 Sims by a longshot. The customizable options are next to limitless except for object creation: 
 you can make your Sims look like just about anything with the Sims Body Shop tool system provided, 
 but you may want to download the tutorial online first.
  
  Drawbacks? Only a few. In the very first version of this game there were funny graphical glitches 
 where things newborns sticking into their mother's stomach and floated around strangely. Thanks 
 to updates over time, this game has nearly eliminated it's weaknesses in the graphics department.
 
  
  Overall this game blew me away. And just for the record, for those of you who seek no interest 
 in keeping live Sims.. the dark side is open to you. You can indeed kill your Sims; fire, drowning, 
 electrocution (when they are repairing an electric device in water puddles) , disease, and old age. 
 We all have dark moments sometimes, so if you're one of those people that enjoy that kind of thing.. 
 go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo-millz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Having played the first sims game to death, I was very eager to get the next version of the sims, 
 when I did get the game I was a bit disappointed because my PC couldn't handle the detail that 
 was put into every object on the game, fortunately my dad was getting a new pc from work, I installed 
 it onto the new PC and was impressed at first by the improvement in the graphics, everything that 
 the sims did seemed so real they could interact with almost anything.
  creating a sim has been massively improved you can decide on the eye colour of your sims design 
 the shape of their face, skin colour, fitness and much more. There are five stages of life that 
 your sims can go through. They even pass on their looks, personality and other characteristics 
 to their children
  As well as that they grow old and eventually die.
  You can still decide what job your sims get by looking in the paper or on the computer, when your 
 sims get jobs they can when they have been promoted to a certain point unlock something that helps 
 them to do better in their career path. They have aspirations which basically means "wants" and 
 when they fulfil them they get points which they can then buy special items with, these can prolong 
 their life or give them more money etc. 
  There is so much more to tell you about but il let you find it out for yourself when you buy the 
 game which you definitely must because this is an almost perfect game I would recommend it to anyone 
 who likes to be a control freak lol, or just anybody who likes to create houses or people and see 
 what they do when left on their own 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: latchol1Sim
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a BIG game. That isn't to say that it takes a long time to finish (technically, there's 
 no finish) , but that in the 7 years The Sims series has been around it has turned into such a behemoth 
 of a franchise that it was considered as a movie not too long ago (the reasons why nobody knows...) .
 
  
  It is a humongous leap from the very quaint and humble beginnings of the original, unexpanded The 
 Sims to the large standards of The Sims 2. The objects are customisable, the sims are in full 3D 
 and there are ten-fold times the amount of stuff you can do with the infantile 'sims'.
  
  Graphically, it was good in 2004, but is starting to show its wear after 3 years, albeit the sound 
 is still as insanely upbeat as ever.
  
  My only real quibbles with this game (in its fully-expanded form, however) . are to do with the 
 time. There are still large (mainly career-related) gaps in which all you can see is an empty house 
 is your sim has gone, and I would much rather follow them around, or at least have the ability 
 to (since nobody really wants to see a sim do something boring) . The other real issue for me was 
 that neither the townies and NPCs nor the other members of the neighbourhood grow up with your 
 sims (i. e. it's not really Real-time) , so teenage sweethearts can only be together if you cheat, 
 and there's little unpredictability when the other residents don't change without your consent 
 (which may be another optionable toggle option-thing, since there are cases where that control 
 is an advantage) .
  
  Other than that, the only real things keeping The Sims back is the fact that you have to have some 
 3D-modelling ability and external programs (like SimPE) to truly customise the game, which seems 
 odd considering the giant age bracket its aimed at, although Spore's technology might be tweaked 
 in the future for the illusive The Sims 3. That, and sims are WAY, WAY too nice, which makes me 
 want to make a evil genius sim even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydough
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  What more can you ask for from a sequel to a really bad game? This game has much better graphics, 
 the character design gives you a lot of possibilities, different items, and even increased hair 
 physics. The newest and most noticeable feature is the goals meter. It tracks exactly what your 
 sims want, and what they are afraid may happen. There is only one flaw though, if you get engaged 
 and break up, your goals will only include socializing with that sim which can really deduct to 
 your actual gameplay experience. Also, there is a definite lack of items unless you get a lot of 
 expansions which will cost you quite a bit of money. But, it definitely is a solid game that almost 
 perfected the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Drake
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Game play: I just love the game play, I've always been a fan of the original Sims game on the PC, 
 I think the game play is really great and I have no issues with it when playing it on my PC.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, I love how you can add your own music to it, plus if you have a 
 5.1 sound system for your computer it makes the game sound twice as better than it being on a two 
 speaker set up. Even you can adjust the sound so that the quality is crystal clear. The ambiance 
 is awesome too.
  
  Graphics: It might be a little harsh on older systems, it would be better if you had a good video 
 card to play. But once you have a good computer to run it, you'll be playing this game with all 
 the graphics set to Max. The environment is amazing and you'll just love the shadows, the reflections 
 and other things that you never were able to see in the original game of The Sims.
  
  Controls: These are easy to learn, plus reading the manual is always a plus if you are unsure of 
 what key does what and how you bring down the console to put in things.
  
  Overall: If you are bored with the game you can always buy the Expansion Packs, this game NEVER 
 gets old once you install the Expansion Packs, there are tons of them for you to choose from, also 
 to make things BETTER you can go to different websites to download add-ons for your game. This 
 game is HIGHLY addictive and once you are able to play the game to the fullest it never gets old 
 unless you've done EVERYTHING there possibly is to do in the game and expansion packs included. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 was a great new experience from the old sims. The new 3D engine made the sims almost 
 real. I play this game so much that i probbly was spending 20+ hours a week. The graphics are emproved 
 majorly compared to the first sims.
  
  Graphics- The graphics for the sims 2 are very impressive. it makes it feel like you are right 
 there beside the Sim.
  
  Sound- Still not talking a real language but the sims sound is very impressive.
  
  The sims 
 now have a week and a life. your sim will actually die of old age. you can get a pention, choose 
 when you want to have kid's. and the biggest improvment is the aspiration meter. if you meet your 
 life's goal you will stay forever happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uhero41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the best simulation game I have ever played. This game is a great simulation game 
 . I like the fact that in the Sims 2 on the PC you can have children whereas in the ps2 version 
 you can't. The fact that you can have a baby opens up the fact that you can create generation after 
 generation of Sims. In terms of sound the game is pretty good. but the gameplay is superb. This 
 is pretty much a endless game especially when you add the expansions. All the crazy objects in 
 this game give a good sense of humor to the game as well. I like the multi- floor thing too. I 
 like being able to create multi- floored houses. In the end this game is great and I would reccomend 
 it to anyone.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've played series 1 of The Sims and after installing Hot Date I found that extremely difficult 
 trying to establish a relationship between sims. For me that was one of the biggest difficulties 
 playing the game and imo The Sims became a hard game to play especially when trying to branch out 
 into sim relationships.
  Having being turned off by the original game I found The Sims 2 to be Surprisingly easy. After 
 playing the game I found that the biggest challenges (initially) was keeping your sims alive, especially 
 pregnant women. After learning a few tricks, I suppose the Ultimate challenge lies in going all-out 
 in building a dynasty. Like series 1, series 2 has the packs that allow you to build on the game 
 by giving it more Depth is gameplay. With the online community you pretty much have a near limitless 
 source of content.
  The one thing I've always loved about The Sims is this...
  You can make things as Clean or as Dirty as you like!
  
  Word of warning to anyone thinking 
 of getting into The Sims...
  
  If you so much as get Immersed in any of these games... You're already hooked!
  
  This game 
 is so addictive that hours pass like seconds! (if you're not careful)
  
  What more can I say... The fun there is to be had is limitless! You'll just keep coming back for 
 more (whether 5mins or 5years later) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelthegoblin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-10
  the graphics are awesome. The many variations of furniture are greatly detailed, the sims look 
 real, and do some very realistic actions (sometimes funny too!)
  
  gameplay-10
  in the sims game you can do just about anything, from golf caddy to villian bashing super hero, 
 the jobs are nicely varied. Sounds-8
  it could be better if the sims ACTUALLY SPOKE OUR LANGUAGE. But other than that the sounds are 
 alright.
  
  Overall- 9.3
  sims is an amazing series, and sims 2 is a lot better. THe character creation is fantastic, you 
 can customize your own niegborhoods... If sims 3 is coming out, I would be camping in the video 
 store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Virtual Life games always interested me, so this game was an easy buy. I own The Sims 2 plus two 
 expansion packs, and I must say that this game is by far an improvement from the first. You start 
 out on The Sims 2 as a man or woman who lives in a house. Of course, you get to make your sim and 
 design your house. After that, you can get a job, meet the neighbors, find love, anything. It's 
 where the game starts and never really ends. However, I am sad to inform you that I had to use 
 the money cheat in order to survive in the game. It's just how I play. I am not going to tell you 
 this cheat, as it will most likely ruin the game for you.
  
  Now, the new features in the game include Likes And Dislikes, New jobs, and Aspiration. Plus so 
 many more social interactions than the first.
  
  The graphics in the game might not be as amazing as you expected, but they are pleasing enough 
 to get you through the game without breaking your computer.
  
  That's basically it. The Sims 2 is a great game. For me, it lost its point (most likely because 
 of the cheat I mentioned earlier) , but still. I highly reccomend The Sims 2 and most of its expansions 
 for the PC (make sure you don't get it on ANY other system) .
  
  Enjoy Your Lives, Old Or New,
  
  Never_Fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  It says on the back of the Sims 1 Its the game of life for the millennium well Sims 2 is the game 
 of life for 2 millenniums. Sims 2 is a fun addictive game. It builds up on what makes Sims the 
 best life game ever. With more actions and more customizations and more building options. I would 
 still be playing this if I didn't leave the disc around and getting it scratched. It is worth the 
 money, but I got it from a friend so I don't know how much it was, but still worth the money. It 
 is a game that I will never get bored of... at least not too soon.
  
  Overall, a must get game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stirling91
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Complete waste of time. Its time is off so much that walking across the room takes 5-10 minutes 
 in the game where it would take 20 seconds in real life. The gameplay itself is the most boring 
 series of actions ever. The characters do nothing but sleep, eat, play , shower, and work. The 
 only redeeming feature of the game is the house building stage. This however, is, at its best, 
 limited. There are too few accessories and pieces of furniture to add and many look plain idiotic. 
 Also, there is a huge limitation to what you can build your house to look like. You cannot, for 
 instance, plant 'out-side' plants in an open air area of the house. There is no roof and is, for 
 all purposes, outside, but the game pictures this as inside and will not allow you to place many 
 objects there. Also, all the houses must have strait walls. You cannot build round buildings, like 
 turrets. There is also a limit to 3 stories, which is much too few. Another thing that makes this 
 game even worse is the 'family building' phase. ALL pre-adults must be blood related to some parent, 
 and you can therefore not have non family teens or younger living in the house. While this may 
 not be a common occurrence in real life, I have known it to happen. Also, astrological signs should 
 have NOTHING to do with personality. They do not in real life and should therefore be equally useless 
 in the game except as a bit of fluff. Lastly, the complete ignorance of homosexual parents in the 
 game annoys me. 10% of the world is homosexual, and they too should be placed into games that claim 
 to be life sims. All in all, this game is one to let sit on the shelves of game stores or be tossed 
 in the garbage as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emono
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Best Video Game Ever! The sims 2 is the absolute best game ever The graphics careers and expansion 
 packs make this a great game to get.
  if you loved the original you'll love this. the expansions are pretty much alike (Unleashed = Pets) 
 its the Number 1 video game ever! Open For Business is the best expansion of any game in the universe! 
 you can make movies take snap shots best game over Play it now or else! ! ! seriously NOW are you 
 playiny it yet if not BUY IT NOW!!! it is the absolute best video game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  the sims 2 is pretty bloody close to real life..... well not really but not all of us can call 
 ourselves crack snipers or a western equivalent of ronhildinho (is that his name?) but living life..... 
 sure i'll give it a crack!
  
  the sims has always tried to cater for the non-gaming crowd because gaming used to be just so NERDY... 
 now its loosened up a little and is moving into many peoples houses but the sims still hasnt lost 
 its touch.
  
  when i first played the sims 2 i thought wtf! what happened to everything!!!! many items have been 
 taken away and at first i thought i had been ripped off but then i remembered that i had a few 
 expansion packs and my worry lessoned. and as i played the game i came to find how unneccesary 
 so many objects were. the body skill builder items i was dissapointed with though- only one workout 
 machine???! it made me cranky. and no pool table????? other objects were odd too, like how a fish 
 tank costing either 300 or 800 simoleons (ive forgotten) can give you just as much fun as a 3500 
 simoleon TV?? ****
  
  jobs are still as good as ever and now have a new feature of making choices throughout your career. 
 for example my guy in the sport career track was feeling ill and his personal trainer says he can 
 give him some tablets or some remedial herbs. i figured that usually nature would win out..... 
 but no! it made me even more sick and i lost a days pay and a body skill point... when i recieved 
 the choice again as another sporty character i chose pills and they worked like a charm, giving 
 me a whole promotion and body skill points! score.....
  
  burgulars arent as common, neither are fires but dont be stupid and get your sims cooking food 
 on no cooking skill points, thats just stupid. build that up as soon as you start off.
  
  the sims 2 might not appeal to everyone and many people may just rather live life rather than have 
 other people live it, but the sims 2 still has a place in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Bringing life back to the sims, I've had this game for about a week now and 
 have been playing all day and night! Anyone looking to play the sims again, not with the bad graphics, 
 but the good graphics with new story lines, then this game is for you! I highly recommend buying 
 this game, it is worth it! It is suspenseful, intriguing and you will learn a lot about life, family 
 and friends! Just remember, the skills are the same as the sims so it makes it a lot easier to 
 play if you played the older version. If this is your first time, then you will have so much fun!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 lives up to its predecessor, but just like the last one, it doesn't go above and beyond 
 with anything. Just like the first Sims, you create a home for your Sim, you get him a job, you 
 raise a family, and it's pretty open ended. There are a few new additions to the game and a few 
 new features that make the game much more rewarding, but in the long run, this is a game to play 
 only if your internet goes out or you are on the brink of dieing of boredom.
  
  The graphics in The Sims 2 are rock solid; they are a huge improvement on the first game. Everything 
 is 3D and the lighting in general is much better and more realistic. You have a full 3D view of 
 your house and everything in it, unlike in the first one where you only had four different angles 
 to look from and all the props were pretty much lame looking 2D textures.
  
  The AI in The Sims 2 is pretty terrible, and in a lot of cases, your Sims don't even listen to 
 you. They will start walking to the place that you told them to go, but they will go do their own 
 thing if they think it better suits them. Now in the first game, the AI was worse, but the Sims 
 actually listened to your commands unless there was something blocking their path or they were 
 just in a bad mood. Free will plays a bigger part in this game, so depending on what kind of Sim 
 you make, they will seem to get defiant after a while.
  
  The amount of customizable features on your Sims are incredible. If you actually go through and 
 make your Sims from scratch, you will not ever have two Sims look the same. If you have a husband 
 and a wife, you can have it take features from the two of them, mix them together, and make a child 
 based on the way that they look. It's also much more rewarding to see your very own character walking 
 around and seeing him or her in videos and images and such rather than the static faces that were 
 used in the first game.
  
  Due to the lack of music and speech (they still speak Simlish) , the game can grow very tedious 
 very fast. So if you're playing this game, I highly recommend that you have your own music playing 
 and turn off that garbage that they play all through the buying and building process. Everything 
 in the game just happens way too slowly. Even if you fast forward through time, everything is tedious 
 and boring. There is absolutely nothing to do while your Sims are off at work, you just put it 
 in fast forward mode and maybe buy a few things while they are gone.
  
  Overall I'd have to say that your experience in the game will depend on what kind of person you 
 are. I like things to happen when I want them to happen in a video game. I have fun creating the 
 Sims, but I lose interest trying to actually play the game. Basically if you have A. D. D. this is 
 not the game for you, it takes a lot of concentration and dedication. Go out and give it a try, 
 it is worth playing, but I won't go any further than just saying that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrf2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This came is like what you want to come home to after a long hard day through trafick and bosses 
 and coworkers, then you dive in and they take all those thing and make em fun... promotions in like 
 2days. you drive to work peacefully wife never has problems with a little fun.. lol... but this is 
 one game that actually deserves its title as most bought game.. EVER.. Sim on.. Sim on... oh yea and 
 sims3... IS GONNA PWN to the 10,000th power! dude i mean how cool is it that the baby comes out 
 in 3 days, then grows up in like 9 and then theyre a teen and you can just ignore their problems... lol.. heres 
 a senario 4 ya:.. you come home after a hard day at work. your wife has dinner on the table you 
 eat and you notice your teenage child isnt around. you ask your wife she doesnt know either..2 
 seconds later.. you hear cop sierens outside and find a cop escorting your child home. after dealing 
 with the cop you go and scold your child. case closed a leture that would take (hours upon hours 
 in real life) you just did in like 5 seconds... lol... well not exactly the clipper but you know 
 what i mean. any self respecting gmaer should pick this up. its one game you can play for ever 
 (literaly) theres no actual ending you just continue your families bloodline, or let it die out.. your 
 choice just like everything else in this game.
  wonderful pick this 1 uo NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoeyfan_1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  also it has good graphics and other funny stuff and the simulitaion has some new stuff like sim 
 laugauge and funny needs bladder if you go out and get it you would like it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 it also has the best sound funny music and funny peolple like som peolple had vampire suits and 
 stuff sombody made a ashely tisdale person a 100 words god. There is nothing else to talk about. fdjghdgsdfuig 
 lol anyways the sims 2 has some cool feautres so if you would get youwoldent miss a thing. I cant 
 think of nothing else  lol. Anyways you would like it if you 
 give it a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pereira19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 it's a computer game. It's the sequence the popular game The Sims . It's a very vast 
 continuation in relation to the previous version and with some updating's!!! It's completely in 
 3D and differently of the previous versions the personages remain old, have proper personality 
 and genetic traces that can be passed to its children. The Sims ages through six only periods of 
 training of life: just-been born, baby, child, adolescent, adult, adult young (only for who he has 
 the expansion Life of College student) and aged.
  The game is very good...
  if they do not have it, buy-in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly Electronic Arts has challenged to create a new engine, more innovative, more detailed, 
 more flexible game than the first release - THE SIMS.
  
  Thanks to Electronic Arts, THE SIMS 2 got a better than ever. I notice a great improvements like 
 cut-scene sceneries, more social interactions, 360 degrees camera, customized faces, and more options 
 you can't imagine from the old SIMS.
  
  I am running this machine and it works well on full details (1024x768) :
  
  Microsoft Windows 
 XP Professional with Service Pack 2
  AMD Athlon XP 2000+
  1GB Memory
  GeForce 6600GT 256MB AGP
  80GB Harddrive
  
  Somehow Expansion Packs are good. But from the 
 first, the idea should be included in the package. Maybe money matters -- if you want more, buy 
 THEM separately. Anyway, enjoy your life simulation with THE SIMS 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes the infamous Sims series has finna; y sequaled. Somehow. This year Maxis and EA have given 
 us Sim-a-holics more than we asked for in the first Sims game. But there are still some downsides 
 to the series that may not ever change. Plus some great changes to the characters you can make 
 and or break.
  
  THE BAD: 1: You will need a FAST computer with plenty of hardrive space and memory.
  2: One Sim 
 day feels like forever now. 3: Babies and Toddlers are HARD work!
  
  THE NEW:
  1: Aging and pregnancy.
  2: More new social interactions
  3: Video Camera feature which lets 
 you film your own movies in game.
  4: Lots of aspiration goals that when completed buy you special objects that do special things!
 
  5: 4 story houses and better and more building options!
  
  Plot: Like most of us know the Sims was a game that you built a house, furnished it, made your 
 family, and lived out their lives until you got bored and then killed them off. Now the Sims 2 
 is a little more of a Live Mode directed game. The game is know 25 years after the first game. 
 The old families like the Goths are different. Mortimer has grown really old and has somehow lost 
 his vanished wife the good old red dress wearing Bella Goth. Cassandra has now turned into a teen 
 seeking a boyfriend and maybe even marrige. There is a new Goth but I can't remeber what his name 
 is. Anyways. Your goal is to make a family and now fulfill their Aspirations and spread your family 
 tree to a huge tree and live through generations.
  
  Gameplay: Much like the past Sim games you basically tell your Sims how to do something by buying 
 and clicking on objects. You will have to do this so that you can have your Sims live long happy 
 lives. Or you can destroy them and ruin their lives! The new wants and fears in the game allow 
 you to view what your Sim wants to do in life and what your Sim is worried about. This helps in 
 the new aging process. The more wants you complete the more longer your Sims should live. The more 
 fears you get done the more horrible their lives get! lol. You can now have your children grow 
 up and move out of your house and still get to use them when they move out. Since you can choose 
 the age at the start of the create-a-Sim mode you can experiment with the ages. You can now get 
 sick as in sick sick as in stay in bed ill sick. Although I haven't yet. Their are still some pretty 
 wild and random deaths that can happen to besides the usual aging, drowning, electrocution, and 
 hunger. With plenty new building options to make 4 story homes and better designing options to 
 keep you busy.
  
  Audio: Alas. Your Sim's still speak Simlish which seems a little more complex now. The sound effects 
 are still pretty good.
  
  Music: The Music score this time around is a lot better than the first one. With more options on 
 what you want to listen to on your Sim's radio.
  
  Graphics: It all depends on how well your computer runs and your hardrive to see the great graphics 
 in the game.
  
  Conclusion: The Sims 2 is a great sequal to the first and offers even more hours of joy or evil 
 joy for the common computer owner. In fact I don't think you can call yourself a computer gamer 
 expert unless you play the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played the original Sims for the PC and ever since that day I placed it into the CD drive 
 in my PC I fell in love with the game. I bought every single expansion pack for the game only to 
 find out that Sims 2 was out. Once I heard the news I grabbed my money, got into my game mobile 
 and purchased the game at Best Buy. Here is my review.
  
  (5 out of 5) Story: To be able to create your own story is possibly the greatest story there is. 
 In Sims 2 you can do WHATEVER you want, use your sim to have babies and make a gigantic family, 
 become a millionaire, make everyone in the whole neighborhood HATE you, become the world's smartest 
 person, whatever you wanted to do in your life but just couldn't achieve it, SIMS 2 is your calling 
 card.
  
  (5 out of 5) Gameplay: This game is addicting with a capital A. You will spend numerous hours messing 
 with your sims' lives, hours will zoom by quickly and you won't even know it, for the good or the 
 bad. There is so much to do, so much detail in everything, from eating to paying those cursed bills, 
 Sims 2 will make you feel like you are in an alternate reality. (5 out of 5) Graphics: Sims 2 made 
 a HUGE improvement graphical wise from the original Sims. It's more clear, more crisp, and more 
 detailed. Everything from the furniture to the toilets, the detail in each item and person is incredible. 
 REALLY INCREDIBLE!
  
  (3 out of 5) Sound: The sound effects from the Sims, environment, and objects sound realistic. 
 But the absence of actual songs can be saddening sometimes especially since you will be playing 
 for many long hours. I suppose if the game is trying to be realistic then music shouldn't start 
 playing out of nowhere, if you know what I mean. Oh well.
  
  Overall: Sims 2 is a great game. If people have been telling you to get a life, then most likely 
 they were trying to tell you to get Sims 2. Don't miss this memorable experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSirum
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  the sims 2 is a game that is highly addictive and I coudn't put it down!
  i play this game day after day and I never get tired of it and I hope I never will.
  This game 
 offers so much and the create a sim is almost unlimited.
  the graphics are a big step up from the first sims and there is a ton of stuff to buy for your 
 sim. The game also has wants and fears whitch is one of my favorite parts but it can seem to repeat 
 itself sometimes.
  overall I highly recommed this game to anybody who loves video games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeplay
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  This shouldnt be classed as a game it should be classed as a work of art when i got home i had 
 to wait 20 whole minutes for my sister to get off the computer i played it and about 8 days and 
 about 120 hours of gameplay later my awful pc crashed because it couldnt handle the game (sorry, 
 the work of art) the graphics were innovative and the best i've ever seen and the controls were 
 easy to usebut now i cant play it because im in fear that my pc wont handle it and blow up! if 
 this is so great i cant wait to get my hando on sims 3 in '09 IF MY STUPID PC CAN HANDLE IT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: german84
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  It claims to be the sequel to the best sold videogame in history but it is far more than just a 
 sequel, because it is full of new challenges and features, plus, it is on 3D.
  
  The most radical change is actually the 3D environment, specially the cameraman mode, where you 
 can actually be among your sims, look at their faces, sit with them at the table, get awesome screenshots 
 of everything... a 3D wonder world.
  
  After this, your first thought would be Ok, so the 3D is all it got? nothing new? Sorry to dissapoint 
 you, but no: The Sims2 actually tries to emulate the most human characteristics, such as wants, 
 desires, fears, memories. And one of the main misses at the original game: The ability to live 
 a life from the crib to the grave, through the fantastic childhood, the troublesome teen-age, the 
 cumbersome adulthood, and the uncertain old age.
  
  Aside from this, now we can create our very own sim from scratch, from the shape of the face to 
 the tip of the nose, without any additional programs. So, now an average but yet narcisist guy 
 could recreate himself in-game.
  
  Some people have claimed that it does not deal with anything new or interesting... that you can 
 do that in real life... Why bother making a game of this? But they have faced the fact that The 
 Sims2 is actually addictive, because of something .
  
  If you can afford it (it is not too expensive) and your computer can run it (here's where the trouble 
 begins) you should try it, just to see how awesome it is. Good luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barr18
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Playing Sims i became very fond of creating houses and shops more than playing the real game with 
 families. The game had a huge appeal over me for the first 5 hours (seperated) but after that i 
 started to become bored and i left it for a while. I mostly enjoyed the new way of moving around 
 obstacles in Sims to rather than being stuck in the corridor to get past someone in the first Sims.
 
  
  I mostly hated the fact that the game takes a while to get started and loads all the time (up to 
 20 secs) when trying to go shopping.
  
  The game is well worth buying if you enjoy a relaxing and repeating game, but if you are more into 
 action or 1st person shooters, give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarwarlord
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I love this game, there is so much content online to add to your game. It makes the possiblities 
 endless, it's the virtual life stimulator that I waited for since I was a kid. I think Will Wright 
 did a fantastic job on this title. The first one was good, but the new game engine is the best. 
 I can't wait for spore. Should keep me busy for a long time. My favorite part is building and designing 
 homes, and terrain. To tell you the truth I could care less about the sims themselves. I just like 
 the endless design tools, kind of makes it not a game but a tool. That's why I can't wait for spore. 
 The possiblites will only expand. If they choose to do a sims3 I think it should be city based,.. 
 just so you don't have to be confined to one household. Like walking around the city would be awesome 
 and visiting other customized lots would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 has a new large selection of fourntiure, house sets, grass, characters and now your characters 
 can start from baby then young man/woman then old man/woman then they die and become a...... ghost!! 
 funny isn't it? Then ur sims have they own fears and things that make them happy. You will get addicted 
 in no time after u start a cool family and a great house.
  
  Graphics and sounds improved, the title is still cool the gameplay gets alot better than the first 
 version. The new expansions are also cool.
  But as all The Sims games they get bored after u play for a long time but its really funny anyways 
 you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintha2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is truly an addictive game, because of the myriad of things you can do with your Sims. Whether 
 it be breeding generations and generations of Legacy families to making your Sims' lives as bad 
 as possible, the fun never ends. (I've been playing a Legacy family and I'm on my 20th generation 
 of children) Playing the game is very simple -- a mouse click on an item or another Sim will open 
 up a pie menu where you can select interactions with it. Graphics are decent, but not mindblowing. 
 Sims 2 does suffer from its share of bugs and glitches, but they do not inhibit gameplay too much. 
 When transferring from one lot to another, you have to go through a loading screen, which takes 
 a few seconds but does annoy me a bit.
  
  And when you've tired of the base game, there are 6 expansion packs too choose from, each of which 
 offers more exciting features (going to college; hitting Downtown for a hot date; living with dogs 
 and cats; opening any business imaginable; becoming a farmer and living off of growing apple orchards 
 and vegetables; and visiting a vacation resort) .
  
  Also, there is an endless array of Custom Content download sites, where you can furniture, clothes, 
 new eye colors, anything possible in the game. The Sims 2 is also great for those who love architecture, 
 designing homes because there are so many architectural tools to explore (roofs, fireplaces, fences 
 and columns just to name a few) .
  
  Sims 2 is also ingenious and funny. Each Sim has its own personality, and when left on Free Will, 
 they will do the strangest things, like get into fights with neighbors, catch another Sim cheating 
 on their spouse and tell the spouse, and more. Also, the aspiration system, whereby you accomplish 
 things that a Sim wants/wants to do to unlock rewards to prolong your life, suck away another Sims' 
 cooking skills, or just grow money off of trees, just to name a few, makes the game more interesting 
 than its predecessor.
  
  I would recommend Sims 2 to just about any person, because it is so open-ended that almost everyone 
 would enjoy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroom_idol
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great game that allows you to do a lot. You have the freedom to make your sims 
 a home, get a job, get married, have a baby, and many , many more. The Sims 2 is a great game in 
 graphics and has many expansion packs that come off of it. Some are like Open for business, Pets, 
 nightlife, seasons, and university. Open for Busness lets you run your own business, pets lets 
 you get pets for you sims, nightlife lets you go downtown and on dates, seasons lets you go through 
 the seasons like summer, winter, fall, and spring, and university lets your sims go to college 
 and get educated.
  
  Overall, this game is very fun with a lot to do. You have to have a lot of time on your hands for 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 for the PC is the best than the Xbox or the GameCube ones for many reasons. Some of 
 which are because The Sims 2 has expansion packs on the computer such as The Sims 2 University 
 or Nightlife. You can create your own sim and build their house anywhere you'd like. Make there 
 names and such like I did a character named James Freeborn and gave him all the skills he needed. 
 He had every skill in the book at 100%! I worked for hours on this character then later name a 
 character named George Dinglefritctz and made him a crimial.
  
  ~ GRAPHICS ~
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a Sims game. When it was made the Sims 2 graphics where awesome 
 but looking at them now it's like looking at an Xbox game which is still good.
  
  ~ GAMEPLAY ~
  
  The gameplay is good, you make up characters and control their lives and stuff 
 yeah sounds pretty good to me.
  
  ~ SOUND ~
  
  Sounds are pretty good, the acting making up works are funny and good. The sounds of other things 
 like when your sim watches television is alright but the sound of you sim (Mr. Dinglefritctz for 
 example) when he/she is working out it sound bad.
  
  ~ ENTERTAINMENT ~
  
  Fun to play on the PC, probably the best for the PC. Anyway it is totally fun to make characters 
 like my Freeborn or Dinglefritctz and also I made a family with the last names of Ven Houselfontz. 
 So yeah fun!
  
  Replay Value: Yes lots 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOULCALIBUR33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  THE BEST GAMES EVER MADE! AND remember: the only one real The Sims 2 games is better ONLY for PC. 
 The other consoles version have nothing to do with the original PC The Sims 2 game. Don't forget 
 this.
  
  The Sims 2 game is about creating, you can create, create and create what you have in your mind. 
 At first you could have difficulty to understand how to move into this game. but when you spend 
 some time, you will learn and learn always new things... Everytime you will run The Sims 2 (ON 
 YOUR PC) you will experience a different thing everytime... there's always different situation 
 (with times you could find no so different situation anymore, but is just because you need to create 
 more something new. All the sims2 depend about what you want to do.) I play with this game 'till 
 late night and I would never stop to play it.
  
  I played many many games in my life, since I was 6. Now Im 32, but I will always repeat, The Sims2 
 is the best game I ever played. (Of course there's wonderful games too in this world) but The Sims 
 2 is totally different approcing. Try to understand. THANK YOU FOR THIS GAME to all people who 
 create it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rtrace1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have spent several hours on this game, well when my computer decided it wanted to run a game. 
 and I have little to no complaints about it
  
  How is the Gameplay? the gameplay in The Sims 2 is not for every one, it takes people with patience 
 and time on their hands. But for those who have played agree it is fun as heck. There is a drawback 
 though, the game when you play it for two long tends to repeat and you just get bored of it. But 
 if you take a break for maybe a day or two (as well as downloading some mods) the gameplay becomes 
 fun again. Its like overeating, its ok to eat a lot but for heaven's sake stop when you feel your 
 gut is close to blowing.
  
  Are the Graphics good? The graphics when set to high are beautiful, you can see every weave in 
 a sim's shirt and see the liver spots on grandpa. But for those who don't have the computer to 
 make this sight possible you tend to get a blurry image that just makes you not want to play the 
 game anymore. Of course if your computer is that bad you should question why you are running such 
 a high powered game.
  
  How is the Sound? Ah sound the sound in this game is very vibrant, you can hear the birds in the 
 sky and the footsteps of your sim. The sound is very well done when talking. If you like me have 
 the graphics set high can see the lips match the words. But there is a problem with the sound. 
 It tends to get very repetitive and fairly annoying, but like everything else you take a break 
 and you will no longer be bothered by the sound
  
  Should I Rent or Buy? This is an interesting question to those who can't run a game like this on 
 their computer I suggest going to your nearest video rental store and renting it. But for those 
 who have the computer to run this game should buy it. But if you are the type of person who has 
 the computer and doesn't want to keep the game rent. If you are the person with a bad computer 
 and want to own it... it is your loss not mine.
  
  I wish you a good day and hope you agree 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nIGhT-SoN
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is the game that make me stay in front of my computer, hours and forgot about eating and something 
 else. I've spend days playing this game and day by day is more fun. The graphics, sound, gameplay, 
 feeling etc. is very good. Easy to learn and with a large community. You can find on internet objecs 
 and other things for it. I can't describe it at all! Just amaizing. You have to give a try!
  
  This is only for The Sims 2. If I talking about The Sims 2 and all Expansion Packs than it 
 make it more fun and you have more things to do in this virtual world of The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the Sims 1, I thought it was fantastic. When I tried the Sims 2, I knew one 
 of my dreams had been realized. Now, where will the fun stop? You need a little imagination, and 
 here you go, you get lost for hours building families, generations, villages, cities, countries... 
 and you take pictures, share albums with your friends, start caring for your pixels... and whenever 
 the flame starts getting down, you go download new contents, start a challenge or... buy a new 
 expansion pack!
  
  EA game really knows how to keep your interest sustained year after year. You think you've seen 
 it all and oops, your Sim does something completely unexpected! (Free will is one of the most interesting 
 part of the game: you watch your Sims act on their own) .
  
  Now, if you think it is all about families and baby raising, the Sims are partly this, but can 
 be so other things. What about an alien invasion over the lands or ghost hunting? Sims contains 
 a lot of whimsical elements that makes it really interesting (meteorites for example or urns kicking) .
 
  
  Should you play the Sims? If you can control yourself, definitely. If not, well, better try something 
 else because this is just... addictive.
  
  Sho Flee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmcneill777
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has it all: Graphics, gameplay, expansion packs, and FUN! The Sims 1 was great, but 
 this is the best of the best (until Sims 3 in 2008) . I heard about it, and since I loved the Sims 
 1, I bought it. It is a HUGE step up from the Sims 1. Your Sims actually grow up! If your'e new 
 to the Sims, DO NOT HESITATE TO BUY THIS, it is truly the best game ever! Gamespot should rate 
 this game 10.1, because I would if it was possible. AAA BBB CCC DDD EEE FFF GGG HHH III JJJ KKK 
 LLL MMM NNN OOO PPP QQQ RRR SSS TTT UUU VVV WWW XXX YYY ZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This time EA present a new virtual life game. Sim 2 is very amazing and interesting game. What 
 you want to do in your life you can do there. this game is best game in virtual life game and graphics 
 is great like cartoon and person behave like real human and game play is amazing.
  =
  =
  =
  Graphics is amazing i give it 9 out 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  function is great i give it 
 8 out of 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  sound is great i give it 8 out of 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Game play is amazing i give it 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyalva222000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The sims two is so awesome. Time flys when your playing this games. You cna create familys and 
 build real like houses. I never played a PC game like this before. Compared to the sims2 the sims1 
 sucked. You can write storys about your families. Your sims can do it and give birth and watch 
 your sims grow. They start as a newborn to a toddler, then a child, next a teen, and then an adult, 
 lastly an elder. You grow so close to your sims. your sims can be so customary. The houses look 
 real. Your sims have memoirs and know who their families are. I never could think that a game could 
 be so realistic. The sims can fall in love. They can hate, and love. No sim looks alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  The Graphics of the game are amazing I haven't seen graphics like that in quite awhile now. The 
 Game play is very good anyone can get the hang of the Game play very quickly. The sound in the game 
 is great no skipping and all songs are different I hate music thats plays the same song over and 
 over again. If, your a Sims fan you should buy this game don't let the price stop you from buying 
 because in the end it's worth getting this game. I thought this game was going to be very bad but, 
 I was proved wrong when I brought the game awhile ago even though I am three years late. If your 
 not a Sims fan then just don't buy it I am not forcing anyone to do something they don't want to 
 do the decision is in your hands I hope you make the right decision in the end. In the end it's 
 kind of hard to describe a game that has everyone you wanted in the newest installment of The Sims. The 
 language very odd but, you can put that to the side and just focus on the Game Play and the Graphics 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatchbell172
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great way to make your own Sims, house's for your Sims, and towns for your Sims 
 to live in. I love it, it's just great. Anyone could love this game, It's awesome! The best computer 
 game right next to World of Warcraft, only World of Warcraft is a MMORPG, and the Sims 2 is a simulation 
 game, and a really great one! Even my bro plays The Sims 2 and World of Warcraft! What an awesome 
 game, and the best part is, the game never ends! It's open-ended so there is no ending to the game, 
 witch is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helena73
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Let's put aside the fact that there is no virtual life game out there that comes close or measures 
 up to this type of game. Rating it is pointless. It would be like rating microsoft.
  
  However, because I have fallen in love with this game so much, I will make the following comments.
 
  I played The Sims 1, and after awhile it got boring.
  The Sims 2 is a very improved version of 1, with lots more stuff to do smarter gameplay and a lot 
 more variety.
  This time, I decided to buy Sims 2 with all its expansion packs, and to download as many patches, 
 skins, and lots as I possibly can.
  Ha, let me tell you...
  The more expansion packs you have, the more value you add to the game.
  There is sooooo much 
 to do, that it's like creating a world inside a world, that becomes extremely addictive.
  
  It has becoming a personal all-time favourite for me in its genre.
  
  Fact is, upon writing 
 this review, I have the itch to play!
  Shame shame shame on you EA .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  What do you expect its a Sims game. You can make your family, house, pets, and neighborhood. You 
 can also make your own items with custom tools. You can get cool things in the game from their 
 website. You can also make videos. BUT. The big problem with this game is that it gets boring really 
 fast. You almost need expansion packs every month to keep it fun. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who has a PC. And two more thing, Don't get this game on consoles because their horrible 
 and don't get stuff packs trust me stuff packs are a waste of money. Also i hate that you have 
 to cheat in the game for it to be fun. And I hate how the Sims 2 have like 20 X-packs and stuff 
 pack **** But yea if you never played the Sims before, and if you are a casual gamer, this is the 
 game for you. I might of hyped it up in the beginning of the review, then i realized its not actually 
 that great lawl. Well, all in all i think i liked the first one better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  the sims is a very addictive, fun, challenging, and long game. u can play the game as a already 
 created and alive sim. u know, ones that have carried out life, and u can continue it. u can also 
 pick out sims from a bin, or create ur own family or single sim. the game has everything... birth, 
 school, first kiss, dating, moving out, the *woo-hoo* (waht the sims call... sex) starting a family 
 and much much more. u can give ur created sims an aspiration, and there life fullfillments varie 
 from waht u pick. like say u pic knowledge. ur person is going to want to increase there skills, 
 specifically logic and charisma. u can also pass down dna, like when u have two sims ur kid will 
 look like you. u can litteraly make a family tree. if u have the time. the graphics are goood. 
 i have a poor performing computer and it still works pretty smoothly. lets just say it barely passed 
 computer requirements. the music is good, but can get a little annoying. ur sim can die, sometimes 
 its invetible and sometimes u can get another sim to bargain w/ the grim reaper. u also have to 
 buy a house with which u can deck out with tv, beds, fridges, wall paper to make it a comfortable 
 home. everythign from aspiration and mood can affect ur sims behavior. u can get promotions and 
 demotions. if u play ur cards right, u can be very rich. or u cna use the motherlode cheat. communicating 
 also plays apart so making friends is neccesarry, even though it may sometimes be hard. there is 
 much more to say about the sims. waht u do is almost llimitlless, well except for driving. anyone 
 who wants a nice game that anyone can play should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeTD21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Good: Completer control over what your Sims do. Unlimited customization options for your house. 
 More areas to visit then the first Sims. Lots of options to for character creation. Has a story 
 to it.
  
  Bad: Graphics are not spectacular. Too easy to make your Sim rich. After a while playing the game 
 gets tedious. The game starts out giving you a little background information about the neighborhood. 
 After that you can choose what people you want to play with. You can create your own or choose 
 some pre-made characters. If you choose to make your own he has a certain amount of money to buy 
 a house. After that you can do just about whatever you want. Get a job, make friends, buy new stuff 
 for your house. It is very open-ended and you feel like you are really controlling their lives. 
 Overall this is just a great game. If you like the first you will defiantly like this. This game 
 is just like the first Sims, only better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  wow the graphics are now really amazing and look real. You can now even have babies. And people 
 change age ! So your players will sooner later die of old age. You also get to choose 3 places 
 where you want to live in . So its pretty big and if your weird you can go in strange-ville and 
 be aliens if you want to. The game thought still lakes a particular goal that they want you to 
 do the games plot really doesn't change much from when you start till if you end. The only way 
 to end the game is dying and than your children dye. But nothing really happens its kind of stupid. 
 But its still a wonderful game. With more options to do and even more! ways to live its a SUPER 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baldamore92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is better then the first series of Sims. With more gameplay that relates to life. Also, 
 the graphics have upgraded to a better reality looking person. Being able to get sick is crazy 
 and being able to teach a toddler how to walk and stuff is even crazier. The aspiration meter gives 
 an extra challenge to the sims life. Fulfilling not only the needs, but also your wants. Being 
 able to prevent yourself from getting old is good if you don't want your sim to become old. I prefer 
 my sim not to be old. In my book this game will continually be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Custommadeboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Coming from Maxis, The Sims 2 is a big improvement in a glitchy past , The Sims 2 simply is the 
 best Sims for it has way more features , more realistic, and better gameplay. Go to the downloader 
 site to better your expierence. I give this game a perfect 10 , i love it , its just plain fun!
 
  The new engine just makes this game even funner , smoother gameplay , faster reaction , no lags, 
 except for mac users ^_^, Die hard Sims fan? Get it! It's worth the price , it's worth the wait 
 , just dont get your hopes up though it's sold out of most places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that this will probably be the most realistic simulator that you will 
 ever see of this type. It is truly fantastic, and you will definitely have fun playing through 
 the life of your Sim. There are huge amount of changes that have been made, but there are so many 
 that I cant possibly talk about all of them here. One change that is recognizable is the ability 
 to have more choice. When choosing what meal to cook, for example, with breakfast, you would have 
 the capability to choose cereal, toaster pastry, or instant meal. The amount of meals you will 
 be able to prepare will increase as your cooking level goes up. When you purchase an item for your 
 house, you will have the options to change the colors of the particular item to suit the rooms 
 color, flooring, or decorative theme. This is a huge plus, as now you dont have to put a wooden 
 framed window in a room with light yellow paint on the walls. Even when customizing your character 
 in the beginning will amaze you at how detailed and changeable you can make your character, down 
 to the length of your forehead. This game has definitely raised the levels of customization available 
 to you over the original Sims. Second thing that you will notice, is how much more real that this 
 game will feel compared to its predecessor, the original Sims. When cooking a meal for example, 
 if you are preparing a hamburger, you will bring out a tray with ground beef, pickles, ketchup, 
 mustard, and hamburger buns. Even preparing the food looks real, as you will dice up the food first, 
 and then put it into a mixing bowl, a frying pan, or a pot depending on what you are preparing. 
 There are more extensive expressions and emotions when interacting with another Sim, and it is 
 very interesting to experiment with all of them. However, one factor that you will now have to 
 worry about, is aging. Over a certain amount of time, your Sim will age, and go into the next stage 
 of his/her life. Stages include: Toddler, Child, Teenager, Adult, and Elder. Death is imminent 
 for your Sim, so enjoy every moment that you have, and make the most of your lifestyle in your 
 house.
  
  Another note on the changes is the newest features that have been added onto the game: aspiration. 
 Aspiration is a basic boil-down of your fears and desires. Your aspiration level will also have 
 a slight effect on your daily mood, as a bad aspiration will promote low self-confidence and negative 
 feelings. Fulfilling your wants will give you aspiration points, which can be used to purchase 
 bonus items that enhance your skills in the Rewards Catalog. An additional change to the job interface 
 really adds an easier interface, with access to all your job information in one panel. The skills 
 panel is now mixed in with the job panel, and a meter gauging your daily job performance and status 
 to promotion makes it easier to see how close you are to a moving-up in the ranks. Pop-in prompts 
 provide helpful reminders to keep you, the player, on your toes and informed. All in all, gameplay 
 in The Sims 2 has, in my opinion, been perfected to the best of its ability. Although I couldnt 
 explain all of the different improvements that have been included in The Sims 2, players will definitely 
 enjoy being surprised as they play through the game and experience it themselves.
  
  The Sims 2 soundtrack is not too much varied from the original, but a few new tunes are added in 
 for the stereo, and background music for Build Mode and Item Mode. The Sims 2s light music puts 
 out a very relaxed atmosphere, and its geared not to make you feel tense or stressed out. The 
 dramatic music is only played when a negative event takes place, such as death of a family member, 
 or a room catching fire in the house. Overall, the soundtrack of The Sims 2 successfully outputs 
 the mood of the game as relaxed and calm, and the player will enjoy sitting down at the computer 
 and living through their Sims life for an extended period of time. The Sims 2 does not really 
 come with extra features, like its predecessor. Although the expansion packs may be offering extra 
 items and other bonus features, but that has yet to be determined. So, I guess other than that, 
 there isnt too much to talk about. Looking over the hardware requirements of The Sims 2, I find 
 myself surprised at how low the requirement standards are for such a well-developed game. Requirements 
 are: 32MB 3D video accelerator, 800MHz processor, 256MB RAM, Windows 98, ME, 2000, XP, and at least 
 3.5GB worth of hard drive space. In terms of physical hardware requirements, they are not too taxing, 
 especially for a game that was made in 2004. But the amount of hard drive space that is required 
 is rather much, but is getting more common nowadays as games are getting more complex and longer. 
 Well, in terms of any story of your Sim, you get to make your own. You choose your own path in 
 The Sims 2, like what job to take, what you do in your personal life, your love life, and how you 
 react to situations during your lifespan. Start out with one person, have him get married and have 
 kids, and youll extend the next generation, thus increasing the amount of time that youll get 
 to spend on your house and explore all the different features of The Sims 2. The experience is 
 great, as the flexibility really allows you to write your own story about your Sims life, which 
 is definitely an enjoyable event. Graphics in The Sims 2, you just cant beat. Realism and detail 
 that is put into every object that your Sim might use is unmatched. The developers have really 
 spent the time to upgrade the graphics level from the original Sims. Every item can be examined, 
 and it is so detailed that you can see the texture on the surface of the item. Transition from 
 day to night is no longer just a pop and it is morning/night, but fades into each time of day, 
 for a nice, smooth transition that looks more realistic. Ive really enjoyed admiring all the new 
 graphic details that have been put into the game, and I am still surprised every time I play the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagano
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  When I first played it, I thought it's so much harder and uncomfortable to play.
  Now, that I have played it for about 2 years, it's very easy.
  
  Gameplay is normal. At last 
 better, than The Sims. Thing I don't like is-all people look the same, they have same face impressions, 
 the hair look the same etc.
  Graphics are also better, but not best ever. (Well if you look at Crysis graphic :D)
  Sounds 
 are definitely more interesting and better. Choice of music is pretty good.
  
  Since I already like sim-games, it's no wonder I like The Sims and The Sims 2. Looking forward 
 to play Sims Online, but I ques I have to buy myself a better pc :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a revolutionary game that you can control the life of persons that do things that 
 you can't imagine. The game have a perfect playing rules, especially whit the expansions that I 
 have, nightlife, university and glamour life stuff. Perfect! Excellent! Colossal! I can't stop 
 playing! The Sims 2 makes an excellent knowledge for you to control in a nice way the life of any 
 live being. One of the bests PC games that I ever played. So cool! Oh, and I loved the university 
 and nightlife expansions. I recommend those for hwo don't have it.
  
  (P. S.: I am brazilian and some parts of the text may be senseless) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, everyone knows that The Sims series is one of the best selling PC games of all-time. There's 
 a simple reason for that. Casuals are attracted to it, gamers find it addicting, and who wouldn't? 
 The Sims 2 is an excellent sequel that manages to top the original in every way. From better graphics 
 to new gameplay options it looks like the series can't go in any other direction but to improve 
 it.
  
  The Sims 2 is best described as a life-controlling simulation, where you control these people named 
 Sims, who do their everyday tasks like we'd do such as pay the bills, watch tv, have a shower, 
 go to work, go to sleep etc. This gameplay has worked throughout the series (Including Console 
 Sims) because its simply addicting and a What-If? experience. Sure it's not the most realistic 
 game on the world, but The Sims 2 manages to keep the gamer in their seat, controlling the Sim 
 while seemingly losing track of time during the real-world, sucked right into the virtual Sims 
 world.
  
  I know this because its happened to me, and I can guarentee I'm not the only one. The Sims 2 is 
 packed with gameplay options such as socialising with other Sims and starting relationships, and 
 what's amazing is that its done in an entertaining way, where you can decide how the tables will 
 turn, for the best or for the worst. It's all down to you. You have the power right in your hands. 
 Want to have a party? Go ahead! Want to make friends? Interact with the Sim you are interested 
 in. These have a large impact on the future world for both you and your Sim world.
  
  Done something wrong? Load up a previous save so that you can try something different. Ever had 
 that feeling you messed up some point in your life and you wish you could change it? Now you can! 
 It's those simple gameplay moments that don't have to be mechanically complicated just for enjoyment, 
 but can make fun rise for us because there's so many different things we could do in our lives, 
 including the Sims as well.
  
  The Sims 2 is virtual simulation at its finest, no surprises from the people who made the other 
 Sim games. Always wanted to make your own family? The Sims 2 allows that and does it in great detail 
 as well. All customisation from the size of the Sim's eyebrows to the size of the ears its just 
 a game way ahead of its time. Many games we are restricted to so many things that we wish we could 
 edit. Not only that, you can build your own house as well! How cool is that? From the wall decorations 
 to the furnitures it'll be a hard time not to come back to the Sims 2 on your PC!
  
  While you are running a Sim's family life, you can control any of your Sims. If you want your Sim 
 to have a drink, click on the fridge with your mouse. Want your Sim to get a job? Read the newspaper 
 or go on the computer. You might think doing things we do in everyday life to be boring in a virtual 
 world, but somehow The Sims 2 always avoids this, because of the world it has given us in innovative 
 PC gaming, and how it does it makes us wonder What can't we do in games? 
  
  The Sims 2 is always a great game to play for pleasure. I could do anything I wanted on it. If 
 I wanted my Sim to suffer, I could just leave him in a room with nowhere to go. Have no fire alarms 
 in my house so that the fire brigade won't save them. I could kill them if I wanted. I could fulfil 
 their lives and aspirations. This is why The Sims 2, along with its original, has countless replay 
 value and why the game succeeded in the first place. It is a game for everyone literally! No complicated 
 buttons, you just click and play, literally! Its a game which proves that the simplicity of a game 
 or its premise, no matter how basic it sounds, can still work in the modern world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a very good sims game but really once you played one sims game you've played them 
 all.
  
  They get very addicting and the next day you dont ever want to see it again but then the next day 
 you want to play it again.
  
  Really Not much better then the sims 1 but there are a few features that are better then the sims 
 1.
  
  They have some great expansion packs for the sims 2.
  
  Graphics: decent for a sims game.
  Sound: Pretty good a little better then the sims 1.
  Game 
 Play: Very fun and addicting.
  
  Fun Game Reccomend it to any sims fan.
  
  I reccomend buying theese Expansion Packs.
  
  Life Stories and Pets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asgh0r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  I sure like this game, SURE...! I your best Sim mania, crazy and loved all of Sims series! this 
 is my best game ever I seen that, build the variously family and your see, created my world self 
 and imagined the really function WORLD in 3D and DNA from the parents to his/her children, so cool 
 and many new features again... crazy... and no more games like's you......, I new member in here 
 and I so-so loved this game, Your games taken action and my heart, you know, heart ( So, the Sims 
 2 give a pain and bring a crazy and a simple real life again to me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely amazing. There's so many objects, so many things to take care of and do, 
 so many things to interact with.... it's just such a great game, although it isn't the best.
  
  I love what you get to do in the game, but it could've been ever so slightly better if they 
 had fixed the minor little glitches before distributing the game.
  
  the graphics are good, but the environments are so small, and every object and person literally 
 has no depth in them, even though it's 3D. Other than that, I've experienced some color outside 
 of the borders on clothing, lipstick, and even some hairstyles. But it's still good.
  
  The sound sometimes doesn't match the action, such as a little too early or a little too late, 
 or quietness all together.
  
  The value is high, and you would proabbly replay this game dozens of times.
  
  The tilt is 
 high too. I would highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Very Addictive
  Good Graphics
  Hard to get bored
  Plenty to do
  
  The Bad:
  Can be unstable
  Can take time to like it
  Different to its predecessor which can 
 be bad
  The basic game (with no expansions) doesn't offer much.
  
  The Ugly:
  Don't get full benefit of graphics with a low end PC
  Can be expensive to buy all the expansions 
 and packs
  No online play
  
  Well I think everyone has played or even just heard of The Sims, more importantly The Sims 2, unless 
 of course you have been living in a hole for the past 7 years.
  The original Sims has matured a lot The Sims no longer have square shaped heads. The pixels are 
 less obvious and its just basically got better. The Sims 2 is the official sequel to the original 
 The Sims obviously. Its been going for around 3 years now and has I think 5 expansion packs, a 
 new one being released in the middle of September this year. So onto the actual review, as I said 
 The Sims has come along way Graphically, Soundly, Everythingwayly Of course no game is perfect 
 I always say. If your dont know what The Sims universe is all about then it is basically a game 
 where you create a person (a sim) and you guide him through his/her life. Ordering them to eat, 
 sleep, work and mate! The Sims 2 has many new features, the first of which is the Aspiration System. 
 This is a system which gives your sim wants and fears and if you complete a want, for example getting 
 promoted, you get some aspiration which increases the mood and allows you to buy aspiration rewards. 
 Of course fears are the opposite and a common fear is having a fire or a burglar and if this happens 
 you loose aspiration and your sims mood drops. Also a new feature is the aging system, where in 
 other games you choose the age gap, baby, child or adult. The sims now have there own aging, they 
 start off as baby then to toddler then child then teenager then adult and finally elder (If the 
 university pack is installed then a young adult becomes available) The time it takes to grow up 
 varies on the stage the sim is at, it takes longer for a adult to age then a child for example. 
 The game like its predecessor is very addictive once you start playing. You suddenly want to make 
 your sim the best ever, get him to the top of the career ladder everything like that. Now with 
 the introduction of the various expansion packs sims can buy there own car and drive to community 
 lots and work. However they still cant visit other sims houses which I feel is a big let down and 
 if this was introduced it would improve the game drastically. The graphics of the game have been 
 improved as I said the characters are a lot smoother, everything has a better looking style to 
 it; there are brighter colors all that stuff. The animations of characters have also been improved 
 although the path finding has left much to be desired! The sims arent clever enough to realize 
 how to get to a chair which is too far from the table for example. And if something is in the way 
 the sims go crazy and start moaning. But still its good but can be improved. The sound is the same 
 as far as speech is concerned just higher quality, still the same `simlish` language unlike some 
 people I dont care about the language difference mainly because it would be twice the size if they 
 recorded real English conversations and the game would cost a lot more. The sounds from the objects 
 are interesting; the music from the Hi-Fi is real songs just the lyrics are converted into simlish. 
 The TV is also in simlish but still has the sounds from normal TV, police chases explosions all 
 that. Again I know its a long review but everything been said this game is a good game but it still 
 needs some improvements, but it is still worth a try but to get the full benefit you need to buy 
 the expansion packs. This could set you back a few pounds (or dollars, whatever your currency is!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gcube10
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, and let me tell you why:
  - the graphics are really good
  - loads of interactions with people and object and towns
  - loads of objects
  - easy to use 
 controls
  - expansion packs ( though I have none )
  
  There are lots of fun things to do and simple controls make the game a masterpiece and the fact 
 that they brought back some old job choices from the first. My thoughts: When I first got the console 
 version I loved it and then one day I saw that there was a PC version so I knew that I had to have 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunar_sword
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  The game at first is interesting and cool - I said this when I first played it.
  
  Visuals, sound, texts, animation, etc.. from 8.50 - 9.00.
  
  So after playing it for one month, 
 I got bored, because I had to do the same thing over and over again with my new generation from 
 my first sims. Well this is super, your sims grow... and die ;) ) + they have aspirations, wishes, 
 fears, etc. :) This adds up.
  
  Well now thanks to the expansions the game is more worthy to be played, though some expansions 
 don`t add absolutely nothing new (something revolutionary) .
  
  The game in all is great - to be played at least for 1 - 2 moths max. Then you get bored, but after 
 1 year or so you feel the need to reinstall it, sometimes, but even so after 1 - 2 weeks you uninstall 
 it again.... You can control the life of a person - a sim - and this is great. To dance naked, 
 or to kill a guy, to rob, to be a goth, a scientist, a mad genius, doctor, unemployed, to be sick, 
 to have a lousy car or to be rich. So it is interesting. :)
  Controlling the life of a sim - you can`t do that in real life! :D
  
  The game is easy... in 
 my opinion.
  Hours spent: 2 hours a day - or when ever I want to play...
  To learn this game: only in max. 10 min you can learn most of useful commands.
  The game is hard 
 to describe: boring sometimes and unique and interesting at times :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  When scoring this title I had too choose how much time I had played this game to date. I scrolled 
 down looking for the 500+ hours and was disappointed that Gamespot only lets me put 100+ hours. 
 This is the kind of game that the Sims 2 is and always will be. No matter how much you play it, 
 you will always want to come back and play it some more. I will never understand what I like so 
 much about this game. The graphics are nothing special and have not improved one bit in any of 
 this game's many expansion packs. The sound is good but at the same time nothing we haven't seen 
 before. It may be the gameplay or it may just be the sheer amount of options. But I believe that, 
 like almost all Will Wright games it is that you control your own experience. The Sims did that 
 type of gameplay like no other game before it and The Sims 2 take that experience times 10. Your 
 Sims now have aspirations, they age, pass their genetics to their children, climb their job latter, 
 and now in full 3D! Which considering it's 2007, it isn't much of a surprise but hey it came out 
 three years ago so who knows. People may be talking about Spore this and Spore that now but, The 
 Sims 2 will always have a special place in my game collection and I will probably be playing this 
 game until the announced The Sims 3 comes out in like 2009. But as a fair warning: THIS GAME IS 
 NOT FOR EVERYONE!!! If you are more into more action oriented games or long linear RPGs this game 
 may seem extremely tedious as it has no beginning and no end. But you should know by now if your 
 into simulation games so I'll leave that choice up to you. But this game would definitely be on 
 my top 5 recommended games too anyone so take that as you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenEmu
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I've always lumped Maxis is the PC gaming version of crack cocaine dealers. Their games are simple 
 - a basic premise like creating and running a city, a railroad, a life - but it's the the sheer 
 amount of micromanagement for the little things that build on that simplicity that makes it addictive 
 and fun.
  
  The Sims and the Sims 2 should not be fun, in that running a virtual person's life and meeting 
 that creation's needs really sounds annoying and weird. I mean, I have my own life - why create 
 another and make it happy? But I suppose the point is making it YOUR life, giving it things YOU 
 like, and seeing how it grows and changes and dates and whatnot. It's like living the life you 
 always wanted, with none of the risks.
  
  That being said, and against all reason and logic - the game had me hooked from the moment I started 
 playing. Juggling life and a work and relationships is a tricky balance, but once you get it, the 
 fun just never seems to stop. And then you realize it's 3 am and you have to work tomorrow.
  
  I hate you Maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Libran_CCY
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 feature completely redesigned graphics, environments, character customization, extended 
 life span, and more. First create your new Sim with an unprecedented level of customization, beginning 
 at the genetic level. This time around your Sims grow up, have kids (whose appearances are determined 
 by the physical attributes of their parents) , die, and swim in the hot tub. You can play out the 
 entire lifespan of your Sim, receiving Life Points at crucial moments such as getting married, 
 or at a child's birth. Graphic detail reaches new heights from the fully 3D, multi-story environments 
 to the plugs that connect plasma screen monitors, to the detail of a Sims' shirt and shoes. The 
 Sims 2 have a lot of Expansion Packs such as Sims 2: Family Fun Stuff, Sims 2: Holiday Pack 2006, 
 The Sims 2: Family Fun Stuff, The Sims 2: Glamour Life Stuff, The Sims 2: Holiday Party Pack, The 
 Sims 2: Nightlife, The Sims 2: Open for Business, The Sims 2: Pets, The Sims 2: Seasons, The Sims 
 2: University and so on....... Anyway, I like this game. It is worth to play, and you will addicted 
 when you start to play............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueeyedboy21
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful. Graphics are amazing. Great new gameplay like how your sims have wants 
 and fears and when you fufill wants like say having a baby you gain points and open up new objects 
 that can help you develop skills or get money. Create a sim is so much more detailed and you can 
 customize your whole sim's face. Sims now also have genetics so your sims child will look like 
 the parents. You can build better houses with unlimited levels and new decor options as well as 
 this you can also customize a whole neighborhood. The Sims 2 is a must have for all Sims fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 10, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay itself is superb and it does a way better job in The Sims 2. Although it 
 might get tiring after a week or two, there is bound to be lots of fun in the core gameplay itself. 
 You really can't go to school with your Sims in the game, though, or you can't go to work and see 
 what yor Sim does at work, either, but in the upcoming release of The Sims 3, which could come 
 out this year, or soon, things will change greatly in the gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS: The core graphics were incredible three years ago. In 2007 today, they're not as good 
 like it was three years ago. A slight problem is every Sim walks, moves, and sleeps the same way 
 every time, but it's not a distraction at all to worry about, anyway. There are no slowdowns in 
 the game at all, thankfully. There are colorful, detailed pixelated characters, but in upcoming 
 expansion packs, there will be a graphics update. But for now, they're probably working on it.
 
  
  SOUND: Now the sound is a different story from the two. The sound is exceptional, but also fails 
 in some spots, where some Sims make or talk the same Sim Language . But that's not a problem. Also, 
 all of the Sims, male and female, will make the same sound, too. It does get old, and it is a little 
 distraction, but not major at all.
  
  RENT OR BUY: Personally, I'll tell you to rent this game from GAMEFLY or somewhere else. If you 
 bought the Sims or played it, and you are a huge Sims fan, then you should head to the nearest 
 store and find the Sims 2 on a shelf or somewhere. Remember to rent because I don't want you to 
 spend your money and then get bored and then try to return it and can't return it for your money 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is really fun and addicting. The full 3-D engine, and the more complex and realistic 
 emotions and reactions make this one an excellent sequel to a classic. Excellent graphics, LOADS 
 of new content, good emotions, thousands of different personalities and character looks, and still 
 retains insanely addictive gameplay. Maxis and Electronic Arts have done the impossible people, 
 they have taken one of the best games ever made, and made it better than ever. The Sims 2 stays 
 true to the original gameplay of the Sims, but improves the old mechanics, and adds brilliant features 
 that make it better in every single aspect. An instant classic that everyone will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhayprakash
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game can be considered as a Revolutionary game as it has changed the gaming habits of players. 
 While playing the Sims, players simply feel like immersed in a new world where they can create 
 their own sim and make it look like themselves in the real world. That is just extraordinary. I 
 started playing Sims 1 a few years ago when the game first came out and that game became an addiction 
 and i have to admit that i could spend a whole day just playing and doing nothing else. With Sims 
 2, the game is now even more realistic and impressive. This is a game i will surely recommend to 
 every type of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosco410
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was addicting enough as it was but now with the sequel it&amp;#8217; s even more addicting. 
 You can change things around so you never have the same old being thing. You&amp;#8217; re in control 
 so it&amp;#8217; s easy to do what you want. The Building mode is fantastic; creating houses has 
 never been more fun or easier. Also the graphics of how the Sims move and how they interact with 
 everything around them is phenomenal. The graphics could always be better though, yet still a lot 
 better than Sims 1. Another thing that&amp;#8217; s really neat is the genetics and family tree 
 and how your children look like the parents and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosebumpsfreak
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game that I could easily play all day. I wish though it wouldn't be such a hassle 
 to install. I cant even get this flippin' game installed on my laptop. But however I have to comment 
 the gameplay, graphics, and sound. However, it isn't worth as much I had to pay for it. ($50) . I 
 love the click and go control and how you can die is dogon hilarious. Well it is just right and 
 fine. But not a killer game. I have played better ones. Considering I create games I can review 
 them very well. And personally I would rather play this than a cheap 2D game ANY DAY! Therefore, 
 I conclude and give this game a total rating of 7.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrophy-Sword
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay itself is superb and it does a way better job in The Sims 2. Although it 
 might get tiring after a week or two, there is bound to be lots of fun in the core gameplay itself. 
 You really can't go to school with your Sims in the game, though, or you can't go to work and see 
 what yor Sim does at work, either, but in the upcoming release of The Sims 3, which could come 
 out this year, or soon, things will change greatly in the gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS: The core graphics were incredible three years ago. In 2007 today, they're not as good 
 like it was three years ago. A slight problem is every Sim walks, moves, and sleeps the same way 
 every time, but it's not a distraction at all to worry about, anyway. There are no slowdowns in 
 the game at all, thankfully. There are colorful, detailed pixelated characters, but in upcoming 
 expansion packs, there will be a graphics update. But for now, they're probably working on it.
 
  
  SOUND: Now the sound is a different story from the two. The sound is exceptional, but also fails 
 in some spots, where some Sims make or talk the same Sim Language . But that's not a problem. Also, 
 all of the Sims, male and female, will make the same sound, too. It does get old, and it is a little 
 distraction, but not major at all.
  
  RENT OR BUY: Personally, I'll tell you to rent this game from GAMEFLY or somewhere else. If you 
 bought the Sims or played it, and you are a huge Sims fan, then you should head to the nearest 
 store and find the Sims 2 on a shelf or somewhere. Remember to rent because I don't want you to 
 spend your money and then get bored and then try to return it and can't return it for your money 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-San
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  There are few times where you aren't in awe about the graphics. When your sim is playing video 
 games, whether it be TV or computer, it even shows you the video games. It (sometimes) will even 
 show you the individual strands of hair on your sim. While some of the clothes you wear, you wouldn't 
 be able to run in IRL, you can run in while playing the game, it's still pretty awesome graphics, 
 I give it a 9 on Graphics.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game is Totally Addicting. It's got hilarious endings, sad endings, you'll laugh when a sim 
 dies because the gameplay is so Great! Because it's so hard to take care of sims, you should save 
 after anything good happens, i. e. you get a promotion/job, you reach a high amount of aspiration 
 points, you get engaged. You can do so much to/with your sim, you will virtually NEVER get bored. 
 With so many characters to choose from and so many ways to create new characters, there's no way 
 you could get bored unless you Don't play this game. Overall, this gameplay gets a 10!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Just like in ALL sims games, the sims speak a different language, so we really shouldn't worry 
 about if you can understand them. You can hear all the video games, cars, even the water when they 
 jump in the pool. You hear, in a gross sort of way, their burps, farts, luckily not their restroom 
 business. And yet, I feel I'm missing something, so the Sound gets a 9.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value
  
  This is the Best game you can get for your money, so don't waste your money on anything else. With 
 all the EP's you can get, you can always have something new to buy and do. They've just come out 
 with another EP (Seasons) so I'm sure they're still gonna come out with more, all in all, this 
 is the best game to get for your money, another 10!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  
  This game is a great value, got great gameplay, graphics, sound, everything is amazing, I've created 
 a couple of sims and sims families. With my first family, I had 2 adults (the mom and dad) and 
 the toddler (I created all of them) I had forgotten to buy a fridge so, lemme tell you what happened:
 
  
  1. Dad went to work (so I could buy the fridge, didn't know about the motherlode cheat)
  2. Everyone's hunger was red
  3. Toddler got taken away by child services
  4. Mom went to work
 
  5. Mom had one of those Make or break your career choices
  6. Mom got fired
  7. Mom came home and died of starvation
  
  It was Hilarious -- My Tilt: ***10***
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  FINAL SCORE:
  
  ***9.8*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celticfan383
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the best PC game of all time, ok so The Sims was the No.1 PC game of all time, 
 but The Sims 2 wipes the floor with it.
  
  With a few expansion packs, this game is utterly amazing. It's not possible to get bored with this. 
 You can make movies, make your own clothes, make your own dream home, make your own objects (with 
 a little bit of help from SimPE) . I have played this game for hours on end and never got bored 
 of it.
  
  If you check every fansite's review they'll all say the same thing, this game is brilliant, amazing, 
 fantastic, to be fully honest, i don't really know a word that good to describe The Sims 2 10/10 
 for me ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowluver28
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the best game I have ever played on my Personal Computer (PC) . Using the expansion 
 packs, the interaction between sims and objects seem almost unlimited, and you can get customized 
 content from any website you want, mostly for free!
  The game perfectly blends graphics (which are amazing) and interaciton to create the perfect milkshake 
 of awesomeness.
  
  Orange donkeys rule! Anyway, now that I finished spazzing out, I can go into detail on how fantabulously 
 fantastical The Sims 2 really is. [This isn't sarcasm. I just have a really bad migraine and I 
 can't think of anything to say right now.]
  
  Anyway, it's awesome.
  
  Orange Donkeys 4 eva 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  --When I played The Sims, I really liked it. It is really simple and entertaining. EA released 
 lots of expansion packs, which ARE well. After 7-8 expansions, EA announced The Sims 2. OMG! It 
 looked really superb. I was really excited. It has awesome graphics. I really couldn't wait!
  
  --I bought the game on its release date. I came home and set up the game. And... Here it is! 
 The Sims 2! Firstly, of course, I made a family. Create A Sim mode is really superb. You can do 
 lots of things to a Sim's face. Until there, I loved the game.
  
  --And, I moved my family to a house. I played it for lots of hours... And then, it became repetitive. 
 I made a family again and this time I made a home, too. However, nothing changed. After 4-5 hours, 
 it became boring, too. You wonder, why? Let's take a look.
  
  --Firstly, I MUST say this game's songs are really bad. I mean, Build and Buy Mode's songs. However, 
 you can add any song you want. That's good! I can put all of The Sims' songs! Radio songs are decent.
 
  
  --There are lots of additions to the game but this makes the game even worse. You have to do something 
 to... Come on EA, it's a life simulator. We must be FREE!
  
  --Gameplay is same. You generally use the mouse. It's simple, good.
  
  --Graphics are superb. 
 Everything looks great.
  
  --Expansion packs make the game's life longer and there are tons of stuff to download around the 
 net. It becomes repetitive, again.
  
  --All I can say is, buy it! This game is the BEST LIFE SIMULATOR! However, it's too bad to be a 
 Masterpiece.
  
  --Pros: Simple gameplay, it's a life simulator, great graphics.
  --Cons: SOUND, gets repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdestroyer11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  The Sims has always been a highly addictive game, but The Sims 2 just made it even better! With 
 addictive game play, Items and building, misc and funny scenes, and being in control really makes 
 The Sims 2 fun! I guess there's just something fun about controlling peoples lives, so why isn't 
 life so fun? The most amazing part about this game is the fact that you can do almost anything 
 you can dream of, and if you can't, buy an expansion pack! This game is almost perfect! graphics 
 aren't the best, and the music played over and over gets very boring but other than that this game 
 is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 had a great deal of hype to live up to in order to be at least as good as the original 
 Sims game - the best-selling PC game to date. Did it manage that? I think so.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay has been changed considerably this time around, which in short makes 
 it a true sequel instead of just an update (like you'd find in most sports games for example) . 
 The interface used to switch between your sims, move the camera and change what floor of your house 
 you're viewing is simple to use, making for an excellent gameplay experience without too much hassle. 
 Controls are simple enough as well - the mouse essentially does everything you need to do to play 
 this game.
  
  Graphics
  
  As you'd probably expect to see, the graphics in The Sims 2 are a massive improvement over its 
 predecessor. Characters look detailed, a fully-furnished house looks great and you don't need a 
 ridiculously powerful computer to enjoy what you see on your monitor. Of course, the faster your 
 machine is the better quality graphics you have, but everything still looks good with a low-end 
 computer.
  
  Sound
  
  Simlish is back in all its glory, and just as annoying as ever. Still, it wouldn't be The Sims 
 without the language would it? I guess you could call the voice acting good, although speaking 
 jargon can't be that hard. The music featured in this game does the job nicely, with calm, soothing 
 piano pieces to accompany you as you build a house. The music tracks featured on the jukebox are 
 pretty good as well, but what really bumps this score up is the ability to import your own music 
 tracks. It's a nice touch being able to go about your business with your favourite artist playing 
 in the background.
  
  Value
  
  This aspect of The Sims 2 is both good and bad. For one thing, buying this game on it's own won't 
 cost you too much money as it is currently 2-and-a-half years old, but as another reviewer mentioned 
 to truly enjoy the game you need to buy the expansion packs. There are currently 5 expansions available, 
 with several 'stuff packs' also on the market (6 at the time of writing) , and if you want to buy 
 everything with the game you need to have a lot of money in your pocket. Sure, The Sims 2 is fun 
 enough to play on its own, but you really need at least one expansion to truly enjoy the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puella
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I've brought the family tree down to a trailer, and it's about time to call it quits. I'm not sure 
 how much time I've spent with this game, but trust me, it's been way too much.
  
  When I first started playing, my ultimate goal was to see how far down I could get the alien gene 
 to go. After that, I needed to make the house as big and bad as possible. Then there were the neighbors 
 and education to consider...
  
  It's been months since I picked the game up - but for some reason, it has become my old stand-by 
 . When my other games have been beaten, made me mad or bored, I come back to this game. Why? It's 
 possible that they've laced the disc with crack, but I doubt it. Since the possibilities are endless, 
 there's no point in removing it from my collection. If one day I feel like building a house, then 
 I'm set. If I want to watch the neighbors down the street in a cat-fight, then bring out the popcorn 
 - it's on.
  
  But there are some drawbacks to spending all of your time in the Sim's world. Around the second 
 month or so, I had to turn off the music in the background. Don't get me wrong - it's not bad. 
 It's just that days and days of listening to the same synthetic Mr. Roger's neighborhood muzak 
 kind of makes me a little nutty. A few months more, and I turned off the voices. A few more, and 
 the telephone was gone, too. Now, I just play my own music and keep all sim sounds mute (I know, 
 kind of like a dictatorship - but it's my neighborhood) .
  
  =)
  
  Enjoy the game - but take it in moderation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eponique
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  The game starts out with opening theme (of course) . It gets you hooked up as the girl parties, 
 people have their first kiss, and the artist tries to draw the fat rich lady. Then you get these 
 three neighbourhoods, all with a story of their own. You may choose to continue with their lives, 
 or follow the story. Better yet, you can create your OWN neighbourhood, and make it have its own 
 story! Not only does it stop there. Sequels aren't just their for better graphics... Now your Sims 
 have feelings! You cannot get married over-night anymore; you can tell which child is yours. Your 
 Sims can WANT something now! Sims 1 did not look so fun without the wants. Moreover, the wants 
 and fears can help in creating your story. That is what the Sims 2 is known for. You get to be 
 God! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallone
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  very good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery good gamevery 
 good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude475
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing The Sims 2 it makes me wonder. Are we all sims? Is our universe just god's game? 
 Is there an invisible mouse moving around telling me what to do. Or am I still high from how great 
 this game is? Yea it's that good.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - Making a game like The Sims 2 is no easy task, so while it has it's flaws it comes 
 pretty darn close to an accurate A-Life simulation. For those new to the series, you get to choose 
 though pre-made neighborhoods or ones you can make, from there you can play a pre-made family or 
 made a new one from scratch, the same thing with households. From there you take control of the 
 family, so literaly their life is in your hands, or finger-tips. Almost everything is interactable, 
 &amp; almost everything you do will affect your Sims life somehow. You can buy new items for your 
 Sims to play around with useing their money or simoleans they get from jobs or other sources.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 - For 2004, the graphics are excellent, all the players models look pretty up-close 
 but, can look ugly from a distence. While furniture &amp; items look good from anywhere.
  
  Sound 9/10 - The sound is great from the radio to the sounds from items to the language your sims 
 scream as you kill them.
  
  Value 10/10 - Obviously there is almost no limit to what you can do in The Sims 2. You can be a 
 successful bussiness man, a pimp, an old lady living with cats for friends, make a Simish Desperate 
 Housewives, or recreate your neighborhood, there's 100s of things to expariment with. Be sure to 
 pick up extra expansion packs for added replay value
  
  Tilt 10/10 - The game isn't for everyone but, it can be extremely addictive. So, if you can tolerate 
 some slow down for parties and wacky glitches. Or if your life sucks so you want to create an alter 
 ego, this game is for you. Oh &amp; BTW The Sims 2 contains very little violence but, lots of censored 
 sex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  I loved the Sims 1.. and the expansions .. but Sims 2 has aged well and the graphics are as crisp 
 as when it was first released. The housing design has been increased as well as the number of objects 
 in the game and more goals available.. Heck the game alone with no expansions is well worth your 
 money.. no need to buy more, since there is plenty of mods and other things on numberous websites. 
 I still play this game occationally when I don't have much to do .. it beats playing minesweeper 
 for the 1000th time... also it can be played in quick bursts.. not needing hours like RTS games 
 or too involving like some FPS games. Gameplay is great although some things can get in the way, 
 but for the complexity that the game has, it functions well!
  
  Sound: better than the first game.. as well as better radio/TV sounds and sim talk..
  
  Value: 
 endless and the game itself is just about timeless short of holographic projections!
  
  My personal review is a solid 9.. for being a superb game providing as much or as little game time 
 as you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koawinter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 was a great game, if it wasn't so much like the first one. Sims 2 was a great game, if it 
 had an innovative take on the great Sims that we all loved. I remember when Sims first came out, 
 it was all the rage and I didn't have it. That was until I burned it from a friend and took it, 
 I remember playing that game for hours at a time, perfectly trying to make the best house, and 
 then eventually getting fed up and boxing them in a 1 square spot and watching them die. Ah the 
 good old days.
  
  Sims 2 was just like the first one except for the updated graphics and the occasional upgrade in 
 what you had to do and how you met and interacted with people, in all honesty the game just did 
 not give me the same feeling of the first one, and after the first expansion pack came out, I stopped 
 playing all together. The sound I thought was still the same as the first and didn't see any large 
 reason to give a large score, however I liked the first soundtracks appeal so much that I didn't 
 see a reason to dump on it either.
  
  like I mentioned earlier the graphics were a significant upgrade from the first engine, and I really 
 enjoyed the new ways that I could make my Sims look more realistic, this to me was the best part 
 of the game.
  
  Overall it was still a great game, just wished that there was some sort of new feature that Wowed 
 me more, then merely just making me go well thats cool I guess . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  When the first Sims game came out it made a huge impact tons of sales and many expansion packs 
 like House party, vacation etc... each time you buy it just for new areas and items pretty much.
 
  
  Now EA Games and Maxis has made the much anticipated sequel with a much better graphic engine, 
 More customization, and just a whole new game. This features the same thing as the first game, 
 Play life only on the computer of game system (PC best) The game where the possibilities and endless 
 with multiple things to do as far as life marriage kids etc.. And like the old ones it has expansion 
 packs. This time so far we got University, Nightlife, Open for business and the newest one Seasons. 
 This game is the only game i really pay money for on the computer and that is because it is so 
 good and so much fun you will forget all the other games out.
  
  Break Down
  Gameplay: This is what makes the game so good
  Graphics: A huge difference between the old SIms 
 but still could be better
  Sound: Catchy music and many types of music each very good
  Value: You get endless hours for this game and will last you for years
  Overall: I would say 
 this is the game you must buy if you have a decent computer its so much fun and you can get hooked 
 very easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicvalkyrie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  SIms 2 is an amazing computer game to play. The graphics are way better than the first Sims game. 
 Also there is a variety of things you can do. One new thing that I would like to see is being able 
 to actually drive their cars and actually seeing their neighbor's house instead of them popping 
 out of nowhere. What I liked was the new jobs that they provided for the Sims. Also the fact that 
 you call in sick to miss a day. There were kind of like missions for each neighborhood which was 
 different. This game overall was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morei
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  If I had written this when I started playing this just over a year ago, I would of definitely written 
 a review with nothing but praise for the game, but as for now, thats not the case.
  Everybody knows about this game &amp; how the graphics, game play &amp; the possibilities with 
 in the game itself are pretty much endless, but there will be a point in the game that everybody 
 will reach were you suddenly realise just how much time you've wasted living the life of a computer 
 generated character instead of living your own life. For me, that took nearly a year to realise, 
 which does show just how addictive the game can be, &amp; for some people it might be less or even 
 more. I guess what it comes down to is simply a word of warning.
  It is an extremely well made game, but there are plenty of games out there that are just as good 
 &amp; won't waste away hours upon hours of living a virtual life instead of going out there &amp; 
 living your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a type of game that you will never let go of. Its one of those games you will never quit. 
 And if you have a hint of stop playing, buy an expansion pack. The Graphics in this game are just... 
 suficient. They are perfect and the game engine is very good to. And the possibilitys are endless. 
 You can do anything. The sound is good but can get annoying if you play for 13 hours strait. Gameplay 
 is the star in this game. You can make a family of old people and move them to a retirement home 
 to making a family of fat morons who sit around all day. In all i call it the best game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepperpop10
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I've been a Sims fan since the first game was released. I've spent 
 countless hours playing these games, and I've enjoyed them. I always felt in the old ones that 
 the kids were just wasting their lives, not becoming adults. Then, the Sims 2 happened. I bought 
 this game the day it was released, as I have done with all of its expansion packs. Why, you might 
 ask? Because I love them. The creators really outdid themselves with this one. Mere words cannot 
 describe this game. You must play it for yourself. Of the expansions, the two best are University 
 and Seasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huwoty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  The first sims was a little poor, then when this go out i was intrested in it, and when i play 
 it was really good, the ideia of generation is really good, you controll all the family and all 
 the generation of them.
  I think the game is a litlle hard to childrens, it could be some dificult to have a nice life with 
 people if you can't control the abilities and the necessities.
  When you strat play, if you like simulators you could like very much this game, but if you play 
 at the begin, and put expations when they get out, else it's boring, do all the same things, with 
 same objects, has one time i hasked myself: no new objects? makes a litlle boring in my opinion.. 
 but if you put all the expations makes a really good game :)
  
  PS: sorry my bad english, i'm from portugal try doing my best :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire7639
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Ever since the original Sims game was released in the year 2000, The Sims has been a huge craze. 
 The Sims 2, released four years later, improves the games in many ways, and makes for a great buy. 
 Players of the original Sims should find this game just as fun, and spend hours controlling the 
 lives of their new 3D Sims.
  
  The Sims 2 makes the game more of a challenge. In the original Sims, the aim was to create a family, 
 build them a home, and work through careers and keep their needs up, forever. In The Sims 2, your 
 Sims now age, meaning that every Sim will eventually die whether they cause it or not.
  
  There are also a lot of new features in The Sims 2. The photo gallery system has been improved 
 a lot, and you now have also the option to film your Sims with the new video capture control. One 
 of the sad things about the game is the limited range of clothing; if you really want your Sims 
 to be dressed nice, you'll need to buy the expansion packs. Despite the lack of nice clothing, 
 there are a lot of objects in the game, and new build mode controls, offering almost unlimited 
 creativity in creating your lots.
  
  The Sims 2 offers some great gameplay. In the original Sims, the main goal was to keep your Sims 
 needs up. The same is true of The Sims 2, but the main goal is instead to fulfill your Sims wants, 
 and avoid realising their fears. When you create a Sim, or when they age into a teenager, you need 
 to choose an aspiration for them. This gives them a life goal, and each aspiration offers different 
 wants and fears. The aspirations are family, romance, knowledge, popularity and fortune. Whichever 
 you choose, you'll have to constantly fulfill their wants to secure them a long and happy life. 
 There are also some great careers for your Sims to choose, including a new science career, a military 
 career, a culinary career, and many more. There are ten career paths in total, and each offers 
 different levels, salary and workdays. On the same subject as careers, your Sims now get 'chance 
 cards', which are multi-choice player-defined options, where your Sims get into a situation at 
 work, and you must decide their choice of action. By choosing the right option, your Sim can earn 
 skill points or even promotions, but by failing, your Sims can lose skill points, get demoted, 
 or even lose their job completely.
  
  The graphics in The Sims 2 are a real treat. Many of the objects and lighting now look almost lifelike, 
 and the Sims move and breathe as a human would. If you're looking for English-speaking Sims, you 
 won't find them here, but they still look lifelike at least. The Sims also now make intelligent 
 choices about what they do on free will, and look over when another Sim walks through a door. These 
 changes make for improved realism.
  
  The sound is really good in The Sims 2. All of the music tracks are in Simlish, and you'll also 
 enjoy the background music in the game, which any player can quickly adapt to. There is also a 
 great load of sound effects in the game, so you'll hear dogs barking and birds singing in the day, 
 and wolves howling in the night. And if you don't like the music, you can always upload your own 
 in a matter of seconds.
  
  The Sims 2 is a brilliant game, for any sort of player, even for beginners. Just make sure you 
 stay away from big families and houses for a while, and you can soon be a master player, with a 
 bit of practice. If you find that the range of objects is pretty unimpressive, you can download 
 custom content from a number of sites such as The Sims Resource, or the official The Sims 2 website. 
 If you haven't already got this game, you'll want to buy it. Just check that your computer can 
 handle it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game features the same type of gameplay as the first, but also has many new features such 
 as aspirations and an aging process. You are able to completely control a sim's life from the time 
 he is born to his death. Also new features are added to simpler things such as going to work or 
 sneaking out. New things to buy and new things to do and say in the social category make this an 
 excellent remake of the first game. It gives you a whole new look on the world of sims. This game 
 makes an excellent addition to any sim fans' library or just plainly any gamers' collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to getting this game for Christmas, and I won't say I was disappointed. It 
 is fun at first, but when you are done trying everything out and playing around with everything, 
 it starts to get tiresome. It feels the same, and gets very repetitive. It puts you on a tight 
 schedule, and can get very frustrating when you repeatedly start smashing the 'got to work' button, 
 and all they do is just lay in bed. The fact is, there isn't all that much to do in this game. 
 Yeah, it is fun making a virtual version of your own family and seeing how they turn out in life, 
 but there isn't much replay value, without the expansions. I have to admit, I did get a kick out 
 of the fact that I was failing school and all I was interested in was having, lets say relationships 
 , with girls. Overall, I would reccomend this game to anoyone who enjoys some type of simulator. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was a popular game when it first came out in the beginning of the millenium and is a huge 
 franchise. EA and Maxis decided to created the sequel to The Sims with The Sims 2. Gameplay:
  All you really have to do is make a family and move them into a house or move to a lot then build 
 a home. The money left over is spent for your furnishings. You have to get a job, make friends 
 and you can have children. It lacks the fun of having to do assignments and missions to get further 
 into the game.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are a HUGE improvement to the original Sims. Everything has more detail to it.
  
 
  Sound:
  The music is alright, not the best but not too terrible. The voices of people are okay too, it 
 is pretty much jibberish or mixed languages. The FX are nice and sound like real life.
  
  Value:
  This game can last for quite a while.
  
  So my final saying is it's a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMC1706
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is my favorite game ever. With the expansion packs, the game becomes more realistic 
 every time you play. There are unrealistic things in the game - otherwise it would not be a game. 
 It's fun to raise a child from birth to death and then keep the family line going for all time. 
 It's also fun to kill the sim. I have found that making them swim and then taking away the ladder 
 is the easiest way. Finally, I like how if you don't like the path that your sim is going down, 
 you can easily change it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  When Will Wright was thinking about creating a well-made game, No one would know that a Sims game 
 was coming, and Now look what Will's ideas turned into, For gamers, its like the Slipper that fitted 
 them Nicely. For first timers of this game, They will ask lots and I mean LOTS of Qustions. This 
 game is one of a kind, Solid graphics, Great gameplay, Might even change your daily life plan thanks 
 to The Sims 2, The Sims 2 offers great gameplay, Its just like real life, Homeless, Kids, Teenagers 
 making out for the first time, and parents trying to make a baby under the blankets!! They languge 
 of The Sims is not english, Its like Star Trek geek talk, But it will show some Talk Clouds or 
 Think bubbles above their Real Looking Heads, This game for me a ***** out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: gameplay is very realistic and is the closest thing your going to get to a real life 
 simulator, this game is allot of fun, but only for a little while then it starts to get a bit repetive 
 after youve had the game for about 2 weeks it starts to get a bit boring even if you are a great 
 fan of the Sims it will bore you after a while and is a bit to simple, so then they bring out expansion 
 packs and it does get you back into the game and maybe you will get another 2 weeks of fun out 
 of it, but it doesnt last you a long time of enjoyment and you have to keep buying new expansion 
 packs which will evenly slow the game down when youve got to many of the expansion packs on there 
 and you will have to pay allot of money to have them all. The game is still good and very realistic 
 and you see your created sim grow up and is pretty nice
  
  Graphics: graphics for its time its superb and you see the full animation on the TV unlike on the 
 first Sims. And you get to pick what food you eat and eg say you want a pancake you will see the 
 food and it will look exactly like one. You can also play on the pc and you see the full animation 
 of a snow boarding game.
  
  Sound: the sound is not bad the TV sound the house sounds all sound what they should sound like 
 theirs no real soundtrack and the fake ones can be annoying but you can put your own music on it 
 which makes up for it, the people still talk gibberish.
  
  Value and tilt: value is very poor because if you want the full benefit out of the game you will 
 have to pay over &pound;100 which is alot of money just to play the Sims all toghter unless you 
 are willing to pay that money then its not really a long lasting game and if you dont get any 
 expansion packs this game will get very boring and wont last you long, so my opinion is its a good 
 game but just not worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  THE SIMS yay i said when I received it in the post. I played the original a few years back and 
 i hated it but now I've growm up a bit maybe i would enjoy it more.... I was right!
  It's great the whole concept of having your own family, that they will die and your family will 
 continue for generations to come.
  The graphics are greatly improved compared to sims1 and it looks a lot better and theres more detail 
 on the characters etc. The gameplays is swift and smooth and has an easy to navigate hoe bar etc. 
 Your sims are able to go to ngiht clubs and chat up other sims which will result in them moving 
 out and wanting to have their own family which really is a lot of fun.
  One problem is that if you throw a party looking after all the sims is a right pains in the a** 
 and cause your sims to become extremely unhappy.
  However it really is a great and fun game and if you want your own big brother on your computer 
 or just lookign to have a bit of WOO-HOO then the sims is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Aw, the Sims 2. Its an amazing game with every basic concept of life. Obviously games have minor 
 problems but they don't interfere too much with gameplay.
  In the game the sims have moods (capturing reality) . The sims need to shower, bathe, use the washroom. 
 They even have to worry about their surroundings (environment) . If you don't care for this stuff, 
 they can end up doing something regretfull like going to work angry and get fired.
  I only noticed 3 main problems in the game. First of all, you can't delete wall segments. What 
 the heck do you do if you don't need a wall!? If you put a tree on your lot that extends towards 
 the house, if close enough, it goes through the wall. The last one is that if you put movies into 
 to the game to view on a sim's television, it has to be the right size and type. What if the file 
 isn't the right type?
  The Sims 2 is simply the best Sims game ever made. Its as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyder90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  This is a great and immersive game which will take up hours of your time. Its addictive not because 
 of revolutionary graphics or gameplay but rather the idea. In the game you basically live your 
 life. Finding a job, getting your house furnished and getting married. You can gain skills and 
 even get more fit. The game has improved from the previouse just from the fact that you can have 
 children and die.
  
  The music in the game is nothing special with it being the same and repetive tune so you'll probably 
 be listening to some music while your playing.
  
  While this is a great game it does get borring because it is so repetive. You'll get tired of it 
 soon expecially if your a guy.
  
  In the end it matters what type of games you like. If you like adventure games then don't get this. 
 But if you enjoy a great game with good graphics, alot of expantion packs and addictive gameplay 
 but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Everyone was stunned when Will Wright released the original Sims. A game that simulated life, which 
 involved getting a job, managing it, getting better at what you do, and just living life. Though, 
 there was a big gap that made it different than life. Aging.
  
  When the Sims 2 were released, it was exactly what everyone hoped it to be.
  
  Let's start 
 with the gameplay. Originally, Maxis would just make some new stuff, a couple new features, and 
 slap a fancy name on the end of it and sell it for half price as an add-on for the original. Now 
 that they put the number 2 after it, you know it means big change. First of all, is character creation. 
 You can customize and edit everything of any person you have in your family, from how big their 
 nose is, to if their formal dress is green or asian! Once you finish customizing everyone, you 
 choose their aspiration, which gives them set goals in life that they could acquire if it's something 
 they want. Once you play the game, you can even make your own neighbors, building either residential 
 or community lots, and choosing either desert or lush terrain.
  
  Once you start playing, you'll notice one thing right away. Your sims aren't immortal anymore. 
 They will age, they will grow up, and eventually, they will die. Such is the life cycle. But, their 
 family lines won't end their. A sim can get married, have kids, raise those kids, and let their 
 family live on. Much of the core gameplay remains the same, except for the addition to change the 
 color of furniture, appliances, and other items.
  
  The graphics have been given an overhaul. The same faced sims now have more detailed facial expressions, 
 ranging the entire spectrum of the human heart and soul. Along with that, full camera control and 
 rotation is given to the player as well. One new addition that someone will notice quickly while 
 their playing is that there are 'event' movies that happen when something special happens, like 
 a woman has a baby, or two sims do the do, or even if a teenager matures into an adult!
  
  The sound remains much of the same. The music has been changed obviously, still keeping the same 
 playful and lighthearted tone. The same comical gibberish has remained, and along with that, most 
 of the sounds heard from anything and everything is the same.
  
  All in all, the Sims 2 is worthy buy. It simulates life, just a more stress-free life. Either way 
 you play it, you can ruin, or glorify the lives of your sims. What is explained above, is just 
 a piece of the delicious pie.
  
  The Final Word: A worthy buy, worth every cent. I would suggest though, that you play this for 
 a few weeks to get your barings before you sink your teeth into the expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect. I like controlling peoples lives and I especially like in this game 
 that you can make babies. At first I didn't know this game but when my friend game me this game 
 and two other expansion packs, nightlife and university and just couldn't stop playing this game 
 I could have played this game 24 hours without going to eat or to do something else. This game 
 is really a must. I don't know why but the sims 2 on the PC is much better than the sims 2 on the 
 ps2. I can tell only one thing bye this game without thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur-ruyam
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons
  
  Pros :
  
  The sims have a lot of graphics.
  The sims creater has left loads of bugs purposely which can also be fun.
  The sims have now got 
 new goals to complete and aspiration points.
  The sims now have got some sims 1 characters like Mortimer and Bella.
  The sims is an open ended 
 game.
  
  Cons: Some sims bugs are really annoying.
  There are alot of sims glithes which are not funny.
  Maxis uses all their strenth and cool glitches 
 on famalies like the Goth or the Specter that it might seem un-fair to a newcomer.
  
  And as i said you can either love this game or hate it.
  My advice if you're into life like story 
 games or havent played sims games before rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuran333
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of the best new games to hit our computers this decade.
  It is a definite improvement from the original.
  Something I find very helpful is that it is 
 much easier for social interactions with your sims, getting engaged, married, etc.
  The new building options including decks and patios gives more possibilities to what you can do 
 in build mode.
  Also their are different neighbourhoods for you to work on such as Pleasantview and Strangetown 
 which have their different stories which you can either edit or leave them as they are.
  You can also make very specific the characteristics of the sims you create from age and clothing 
 to personality aspiration.
  Something that could improve is the sound and music. I reckon that the music in the original Sims 
 is much better.
  And even on a very fast computer such as mine all of the screens take a long time to load.
  I 
 still believe The Sims 2 is a master piece of our generation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbeasty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This is no way similar than the ps2 as:
  Better game play : Realistic ways of playing as you get to grow up to a new generation momentarily.
 
  Graphics are nice and smooth, no flaws.
  Building tools: This is one of my favorite tools as you can try creating any house you know, such 
 as your fellow friends or even you're own.
  1 thing i found funny in the game was that if you had a family ambition it would say, have ten 
 children i supposed no one could have done that... too hard!
  Furthermore you would find it fun having so much children, but then get bored easily, so don't 
 try this in sims!
  However the sound is a bit obnoxious as it repeats its self over and over again when the buying 
 or building. You have to get this game and it's other extension for more impact and fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAFIOSO_13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  A great game cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool coolcool coolcool cool cool coolcoolcoolcool cool coolcool cool cool cool coolcool 
 coolcoolcool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool coolcool cool 
 cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool cool 
 cool coolcool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool coolcool cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great game! It's sooo adicting and it's realistic! I wasa thinking of getting the 
 sims 2 ever since it came out It such a good game the price didn't even drop! I mean all does extion 
 packs and the sims2 even has it's own website. Imean who wouldn't want a game that famous? You 
 know if it's made from Ea games it has to be good! Just don't buy the sims 2 with other consels 
 like the ps2 or xbox they all suck! All in all you should get the sims 2 for pc for the extion 
 packs and for all the fun your going to have with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 is probably the best this entire series is ever going to reach, as I can't find anything 
 else quite more extraordinary to throw in to the core gameplay. The improved Create a Sim and family 
 relations (DNA traits/appearance passed etc) functions is the glaring difference here. Problems 
 that arose from the original still remain though. Sometimes it's just plain tough finding time 
 to do anything out of your very little spare time. Raising a family with 2 kids can be just as 
 difficult. Days in the Sim world might as well can be the same on some occasions. Micro-managing 
 your Sims is still a problem (and probably will be if there ever is a sequel) , as they are plain 
 too stupid to do anything without your guidance. Also, why not have added more neighborhoods?
 
  
  Overall, a good job by Maxis (especially with the publisher being EA Games ; I'm surprised there 
 aren't too many bugs) . You'll enjoy playing with the strings on your puppets.. err Sims as they 
 go about their daily little lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Ice11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a quite interesting game to play. You can make whoever you want, even yourself and 
 try to live the dream life you have always tried to live. It's quite entertaining to be able to 
 do something like that and not have anything bad come out of it. The Sims games have always had 
 that way unique way of drawing you in and end up playing the game for hours and hours on end. This 
 game has great entertainment and replay value. When you accomplish one thing, there's always something 
 else that you need to do to make the life of your Sim even better. You always have to make sure 
 that they are happy with thier lives just like any normal human being and make sure they have the 
 necessary needs to get by each day in the game. EA has really hit the jackpot with making the Sims 
 series. It's just the fact that you can make your person and live thier life the way you always 
 thought it should or could be ran. EA really capitalizes on that effect. The Sims 2 is a rather 
 complex game to learn at first, but once you get the hang of things, it runs quite smoothly and 
 quick for you. There are a lot of controls and options that you have to keep in mind while you 
 play the game that can be sometimes over-bearing. However after playing the game and getting used 
 to the controls and the way the game plays, it's almost like second nature on how to play the game.
 
  
  On another note, this game is actually educational in a sense. It helps develop reponsibilites 
 to have your Sim get a job, budget money, and buy the things that a person really needs first before 
 getting the things that they want. It also focuses on socalizing with other Sims and that it is 
 important to make friends and keep them as well. So this game can also be an educational aspect 
 for those adults looking to have some kind of positive, fun, but yet life learning facts for their 
 growing children, then they should give the Sims 2 a try. Parents, teens, and just regular adults 
 will not be disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  the sims2 is an awesome game. its definetly a game with many possibilities. different things can 
 happen in the game. theres also custom clothes, hair, hats, and other cool stuff!
  
  Items: theres a whole lot of items to choose from! whether ****  
 a whole different kind including changing the color of something! they are pretty much open to anyones 
 taste. theres alot to choose from, and when u get expansion packs, theres even more!!
  
  Age is cool too. u can play as an old guy, a teen, an adult, a child... all plays out differently.
 
  
  custom content is the best, if u made it or someone else did is still awesome. just by going to the 
 sims website u can find things your looking for; Hair, shirts, pants, or a combination of the 3! making 
 stuff on your own is easy, especially if your using the bodyshop. if your using bodyshop, your stuff 
 would look better if u had Photoshop, but if u dont u can still make some cool stuff.
  
  house are cool along with the building tools u use.2 story houses is an option in this game which 
 is cool becuase most of the games out on console can only let u go one story, now u have the option 
 of multiple stories. u also get a good amount of  other stuff 
 for your flooring needs. theres also a ranged selection of wall  
 doors. u can also make a pool the way u invision it instead of premade pools.
  
  Customizing your own neighborhood is good too. that way u can create your ow families and businesses 
 so u can put them all in the same neighborhood.
  
  gameplay is fun and addicting. letting ur sim live freely can be a hassle, so take away the free 
 will and control every aspect of their life. fun things happen over time, like stuff catching on 
 fire, bill collectors, burglars, etc etc.
  
  this game is cool, and shouldnt be missed by anyone. and to increase the fun of the game, buy the 
 expansion packs for even more fun gameplay, items, and other cool content.
  
  (note: if u want to enjoy this game to its full potential, have a really good computer that meets 
 or surpasses the requirements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenfan66
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  the sims 2 is such a good game. if you played the sims 1 you would notice a dramatic change in 
 freedom, controls, and a motherlode in new objects. Gameplay is great, and the new grafics engine 
 makes it seem so much better and easier to control. The sims 2 is based off of such an easy idea. 
 playing a digital person who can do whatever you can do. the idea is so simple but so addictive, 
 hours fly by like minutes. this game is not a game on the go. maxis made it so that you will play 
 this game forever. this game is a must have. you will just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afreak3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It is much like 'The Sims', but with some modifications. Probably the 
 most noticeable, though are the graphics. Everything is so much more detailed and fun to look at. 
 The thing I like most though, is the music. I absolutely DETESTED the piano music in 'The Sims'. 
 The music in The Sims 2 is much better. There are also more things to choose from when you are 
 building. You can also build houses and malls up to 5 storys tall. So, to sum up, The Sims 2 is 
 a great buy. Even if you have The Sims, (like I did) I suggest getting The Sims 2.
  
  -Afreak3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgorin666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  It's one of the few games anyone can play for hours on end. Everytime you play, it's different 
 to the last. So you will never get tired of controlling the sims.
  
  The range of furnature is absolutely great. From modern bliss, To traditional. It's all there. 
 And the cheap things to start off. It's a shame everyone cheats all the time to make their sims 
 rich because it's better to raise the sims standard by themselves. Theres also a HUGE range of 
 clothes, from dark goth, to flower tops, to seventies rocker denim. So many personalities can be 
 made in one game.
  
  Also, my tip is go to options, and then go to Audio. Check out the stereo music. The songs on there 
 are absolutely epic! You can do many things on this single game. Be rick and own all the ladies 
 (Or men if you're a woman) . Aspiration Points was a great idea. Doing things you're sim REALLY 
 wants to do and get points to get real rare items. Like elixer of life, to a money tree! It's all 
 there.
  
  I know it seems very unprofessional to give a Ten, But i just simply can't dock it in any way. 
 Hey gamespot, you'll have to get a new scoring system. All beware the sims 3! It will be the best 
 game in the world!
  
  A complete success. I reccoment this game to everyone. Anyone can enjoy the simplicity, of The 
 Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Krinkle9210
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the sequel to The Sims and ,for the most part, improves the formula. First off I 
 have to say that this game has more of an objective than the first game. In the first sims there 
 was no real objective because your sims never died of old age. Now they do which makes you actually 
 want to complete your sims wants to make them live longer. When you complete a sims want you get 
 aspiration points. These points can let you buy special items such as a fountain of youth. This 
 makes the game have a faster pace and makes you more willing to make you sims do things. The graphics 
 in The Sims 2 are really good. Everything is in 3D unlike the first sims games. The characters 
 are really expressive and detailed. You get to customize nearly everything about your sims. The 
 sound is generally good, except for the music. I think it was a lot worse than The Sims 1. Overall 
 this is a great game and a good follow up to The Sims. But I think that with more content and just 
 a general increase in quality that this game could've been perfect. If you are a fan of sims games 
 or just want to have a good time playing a game then The Sims 2 is a game that you should look 
 into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoOneIsAlone
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is my favorite game ever! It is like if you were already a grown up and you are learning 
 how to manage your life. Gain money, buy things, help the people survive, I mean, who does not 
 like this? The Sims is one of the best games ever, and it is my all time favorite. The Sims 2 has 
 better graphics, more things to do, more jobs, and in conclusion it manages to be an equal to its 
 original game. This game rocks and is one of the few games that everyone can play. It is like creating 
 your own family all the times you want!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKage
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Very addictive game, couldn't stop playing at my cousin's house!
  
  Much better than the old Sims and much more furniture and cool ways to kill your family -laughs 
 out loud- like drowing them in the swimming pool!
  
  A must-have game should be owned by everyone who has a pc and highly recommended to get the expansions 
 to get new extra stuff like the elevator to go
  
  Hubba Hubba!
  
  Everyone should get this game!!
  
  Very Good, Excellent, Fantastic, Wonderful, Marvellous, 
 Addictive, Better than anything you can imagine on the PC!
  
  THE BEST GAME ON PC AND A MUST-HAVE FOR EVERYONE!
  BUY IT NOW WHILE YOU CAN!
  A GAME TO REMEMBER 
 IN TTHE FUTURE!
  KEPT ME HOOKED FOR AGES!!!
  TRUST ME, GET THIS GAME WHILE YOU CAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  My sister got this game for christmas and I tried and I found it suprisingly good! I loved the 
 way you can customisze your own sims to your own delight. Also you can customise you house too, 
 with items and layout. Also you can set up in this order: Meeting, Friends, Best Friends, Love, 
 Engagement and even Marriage! The Sims 2 is a big improvement from the Sims 1. Control your Sims 
 or let them live them to their hearts content. Also your Sims can get jobs and if you buy a certain 
 expansion Pets! There's something inside The Sims 2 for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is solid, but it screws you with the ammount of story involved and realistic interractions. 
 Also they do rip you off because of the ammount of expansions they have when you just payed money 
 for the regular game. I think this is more of a female game because they like to play house males 
 usually don't find it as much fun. I admit the details of the graphics are so much better than 
 before, but still not an amazing game. If you liked Sims 1 you will like Sims 2 but if you didn't 
 like Sims 1 than you won't like Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  EA Games releases the sequel to the most successful PC game. Ever. EA Games and Maxis The Sims 
 and its seven or so expansions were all phenomenal success stories for EA since the first games 
 release in 2000. How exactly do you follow up a game that popular? You add more stuff and give 
 it better graphics. In a nutshell, that is The Sims 2, a game that allows fans to continue living 
 virtual lives while improving the core game just enough to warrant the 2 in the title and still 
 allow for future expansion packs.
  
  In this sequel, the focus is still on leading the lives of your many sims. You begin by creating 
 a customizable character. You can edit the characters facial attributes, hair style (and color!) , 
 as well as clothing for different occasions. The game also lets you choose the skin color and eye 
 color to further customize the characters appearance. Youll also have a hand at building their 
 personality since you can specify the horoscope and characteristics like playfulness, outgoingness, 
 neatness and niceness. Once youre comfortable with the one you made, you can choose to create 
 another or move on to the neighborhood. The game allows you to enter a pre-made house or you can 
 choose to build one on your own. Thats where the fun begins as youre able to construct a massive, 
 four-story house and populate it with much furniture and other decorations. The game also allows 
 you to design the whole neighborhood to your liking; meaning that you can add parks, additional 
 houses, etcetera to the neighborhood, should you wish to do so. Although there are many options, 
 The Sims 2 allows you to choose how in-depth you want to be in creating your virtual world, which 
 explains why it is so popular with hardcore and casual gamers alike.
  
  While giving birth to characters and building neighborhoods is great fun, the main activity in 
 the game is controlling your sims through their virtual lives. Much like the rest of the game, 
 you can sit back and watch the sims go through their day. Youll notice that the adults go to work, 
 and the children go to school, and theyll generally interact with each other. They also seem more 
 adept at keeping themselves happy so you dont need to be constantly telling them to do this or 
 do that. Thanks to the games screenshot- and video-capturing utility, you can even choose to watch 
 them live by themselves and relive these oft-humorous moments later on.
  
  The Sims was great fun for many but was continually criticized for being too open-ended. After 
 all, the game had no defined goals what kind of game has no defined goals? The folks at Maxis 
 have addressed this by making you feel like the game actually progresses. For starters, sims age 
 in the game and can die, even without the strange activities players did in the first game (like 
 telling the sims to swim and remove all the handles to get out of the pool) . As your sim ages, 
 it begins to remember fond memories like childbirth in the family or marriage. Hopefully, before 
 the sim passes away it will have children and conceivably those children will have children. Another 
 major addition to the formula is the addition of genetics. Your sims pass their genetic makeup 
 to their offspring, effectively allowing for generations upon generations of your created family. 
 The illusion of family is furthered by occasional visits from children and grandchildren.
  
  Moreover, there are actual goals for your sims. You are now more involved in your sims careers 
 and youll need to make periodic decisions regarding them which affect the outcome. More importantly, 
 each sim has aspirations, which theyll want to accomplish, and fears. You can choose to make your 
 sim have a romantic aspiration, or a more financial-oriented one or perhaps just to be popular. 
 Along the way, youll to accomplish a couple of defined goals which fill your aspiration meter. 
 The sims also have fears which drain the aspiration meter and can even force your sim into a state 
 of hysteria.
  
  The addition of aging, the passing of genetics and the aspiration system allows players to be more 
 involved in a sims life, which is certainly great news. It also keeps the game fresh since youll 
 be less likely to get bored when you know that planning the perfect party is only a few more minutes 
 of gameplay away.
  
  The most apparent change can be found in the visuals. The Sims 2 looks pretty great all in all. 
 The engine is completely different from the first game, and allows for many characters on-screen, 
 much more detailed environments and a fully controllable camera system. The sims models are much 
 improved and allow for all the customizing I mentioned above, and as always, the animation is spot-on 
 and very impressive. The games background music is solid and certainty fitting with the zany world 
 of the Sims. The numerous sound effects are equally suitable. The audios highlight, though, is 
 definitely The Sims 2s spoken language  Simlish  which while not real is able to showcase a 
 variety of emotions and carry on many conversations. All in all, while The Sims 2 is no longer 
 a game about nothing, its something is deep enough, varied enough, interesting enough and most 
 importantly fun enough to justify its purchase for just about everyone from soccer moms to first 
 person shooter addicts. There is so much to do, and the game offers nearly infinite replay value 
 especially when you add in the sure-to-be-strong community into the mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing The Sims since the 2nd day it came out. When I first heard about The Sims 2 I 
 was very effy about thinking I didn't want to give up my old sims for this new one that sounded 
 lame.... little did I know what I was thinking....
  
  The first four screen shots of The Sims 2 were amazing to me and made me eat up my words. I couldn't 
 wait to get it! Now that it's out and well into the series all I can say is that The Sims is one 
 of a kind. There is no other game that lets you do what you can in The Sims 2 with the humor and 
 detail. It's really a great game. Everyone should at least try it once... if not like it and buy 
 it more! Try it... your'll probably like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChibiScout411
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game. The graphics is awesome, the sound is amazing. Everything is just so 
 real! But its too sad that they don't have seasons, then it would really make it realistic! This 
 game becomes really fun when you have the expansion packs. In The Sims 2 Nightlife (expansion) 
 you get cars, and new clothing items, furniture, and you get a downtown and vampires roaming through 
 the city! But what catches my eye is that your sims can date now! The Sims 2 Glamour Life stuff 
 gives you much more fancy clothing, items, and furniture, get creative! There are more expansion 
 packs like, The Sims 2: University, The Sims 2 Pets , The Sims 2: Open for Business, The Sims2 
 Holiday Stuff, and a new one the creators are working on is The Sims 02 Seasons! Yes, you heard 
 me seasons! (Or should I say you read me ) Now with The Sims 2 Seasons you can experience a virtual 
 life of seasons with new clothing, items and much much more! Overall this game is THE best ever! 
 SO REALISTIC! So WORTH THE MONEY! AND SO ADDICTIVE! Enjoy! (If you ever choose to get it! ^-^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game plays very much as if looking after victims of neurotoxins. The characters piss and poop 
 on themselves and ignore very basic AI conveniences.
  
  A game designer might think to realise that a player of a SIms game does not want to change diapers 
 but play a simple, lovely game that permits alot of growth options in various directions. Humour 
 doesn't need to include potty-training adults.
  
  This game might be worth something to authors of magic realism who want reams of formulaic basis 
 for new novels, however magic realism rarely contains everso much about filthy people as this game 
 does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Just like the first time, you start playing with any of the families already created or you can 
 just create your own family, with the big difference that now you have lot's of customization options, 
 starting from the facial structure then hair style and color, glasses, makeup and facial hair, 
 lot's of clothing for many styles then finally choose your Sim's personality and aspiration which 
 will determine your sim's wants, which give aspiration points once fulfilled. And fears, which 
 take your aspiration points if you let them become true.
  Finally you buy your house or an empty space to star building from the ground, and start playing!
 
  The game mechanics are much like the in the first version. Your Sims has 8 needs (Hunger, Fun, 
 Comfort, Social, Bladder, Hygiene, Energy and Environment) which you should try to keep higher 
 that 50% always or your sim will get in a bad mood. Also now you have to take care of your sim's 
 aspiration meter, which you can grow by fulfilling wants but will get lower with time so you must 
 try to score wants every time, also your aspiration meter will get low if any of of your Sim's 
 fears become true.
  You must get a job in order to get money for buying food, having a maid , gardener, etc. In order 
 to advance in your job you need to build the proper skills (Cooking, Mechanical, Charisma, Body, 
 Logic, Creativity and Cleaning) and also make some contacts (friends) throwing house parties, going 
 to the community lots or just chatting with any sim you see walking near your house.
  One of the greatest upgrades from the the first version is that now your Sims will age  
 until they die of old or any kind of accident. With this in mind it gives you one more reason to 
 have children which will keep their parents genetics (skin tone, eye color, hair color and facial 
 structure)
  In addition to all the in-game features, now you came use Maxis' Body Shop which comes included 
 with your game and allows you to create new custom content (skin tones, eye colors, hair styles, 
 clothing, etc) or if you lack the skills to create nice content you can just download it from The 
 Sims Exchange or many of the already existing fan-sites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-Sektor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I've been a major fan of The Sims series and with part two, I find myself at Best Buy paying a 
 lot of simoleons. This game is vastly improved from its predecessor in every aspect. The camera 
 can go in up and down, turn any degree and zoom right into the Sims face. You can take pictures 
 of your Sims, like a wedding, newborn or birthday. A new feature is implemented, filming your Sims. 
 A great addition to the game. You can post them on the web too. Now your Sims can do more things 
 with more objects. Sure, you can sleep on the bed, but now you can relax on it, read a book or 
 watch TV. The graphics are a bit cartoonish but superior to previous blocky Lego Sims in part one. 
 You can create custom Sims, right down to their chins! Also, new skins can be made, adding more 
 fun. You'd have to play it to believe it. Warning: You better have a powerful system with a strong 
 video card and fast CPU. My game is rather slow at times, so I had to decrease the graphics (aww!) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Younglink192
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a never-ending masterpiece. The game is actually made to never end, with the age 
 system, and with simply INCREDIBLE expansion packs, the game never gets boring. Not to mention 
 that the exceptional custom content designers like Numenor and Helaene will never stop creating 
 amazing CC. Graphics: 10/10. Unless you zoom in extremely close, you cannot see any graphical errors, 
 or sharp edges.
  
  Sound: 10/10. The music is breathtaking, and the Simlish is like hearing another real language. 
 The wonderful industrial-ish music will keep you tapping your fingers, and humming to the songs 
 all day and night.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10. As I said before, the game never ends, and you'll never, ever want it to end. 
 It can be frusterating at parts, but fun-frusterating, not AGGHH!!! I'LL KILL SOMEONE frusterating.
 
  
  Value: 100:/10. The game doesn't end, ever. The only time you will close it is to get custom content, 
 or to install a expansion pack
  
  All-in-all, if you like games, you need to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffandhalo234
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Very good game for all ages any body will love it has no bad part about i just wish that the sims 
 spoke English, well heres some stuff about it
  one you can get a wide range of jobs for money, your kids go to school people steal from you (in 
 the game) you can youse a telephone to call sims, pizza delivery and so much more i stronley recomend 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Ps there's 4 expancion packs but my dad works at ea games and this spring there's a nex expancion 
 pack comming out, and 5 new maps for battlefeild 2: MC and a jet for it in june 2007.
  PLease leave comments in the comment chummy and for any sneak info on games from ea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punk08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  ILL make it short and sweet its a great game Which i personally never get bored of i play it everyday 
 even though my laptop doesnt run it well one bit i still love it.
  i would think that getting an expansion is a very good decision it doesnt matter which one you 
 get it will enhance the game by miles i have got all of them i mostly think open for business is 
 good but also if your only planing getting on one wait for the seasons expansion coming out next 
 It is fun and challenging and the greatest thing youll ever put in your COMPUTER/LAPTOP SO ENJOY 
 AND I HOPE THAT BEING A GOD AND CREATING PEOPLE WILL DO YOU GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_In_Line
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I will go right to the point of this game, it is fun. Everyday, if you play this game, something 
 new will be happening. The house is on fire, or the sim has a disease, almost anything you can 
 think of!
  
  Gameplay: Good Job
  I liked the same style and way the sims acted, but sometimes, they act TOO mindless, like if they 
 are starving, they will go to bed instead of eating, and that can be very frustrating. Other than 
 that, you can make a neighborhood off of Sim City 4, and that is a good thing. And I won't forget 
 the growing part, it makes every time you start and end a sim's life different
  
  Graphics: A little better
  The sim's face is completly customizable, the furniture are not all 
 one color, and there are now combinations of shirts and pants. The tiny details to each and everything 
 help a lot. Sound: Say WHAT?!?!
  I thought it was, ok, but the music over and over and over again gets annoying. Luckly you can 
 import music! So why not listen to your favorite songs when some sim is dead! The sounds of the 
 people walking, the tv's, and the radio is fun.
  
  Other: E. None of the Above
  The tv is sometimes entertaining, but it repeats over and over again, and the channel really doesnt 
 change anything. I watched cooking shows on the sim tv, and it was some good humour in there, like 
 a woman cooking and starting a fire on the kitchen set :)
  
  Overall: Big Upgrade!
  I still sometimes stop playing this game because I am afraid I will screw up and I can't go back 
 to my older save like you can in other games. So I reccommend it if you don't like your own life, 
 or if you like watching people in pain! Like I do :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  If you want more sims go to thesims2. com and download them. I played as the Grim Reaper! This game 
 is pretty much a game that is recommended by anyone. If you don't have this game I don't know what 
 to tell you except Get this game as soon as possible This game is a lot mroe fun for me when they 
 live in chaos and that's exactly what I did. The Sim couldn't cook so I made him and he set the 
 house on fire. The butler said he would've done it at 5:00 but the owner said he was hungry and 
 wanted to do it himself. So they got into a fight and the butler kicked the owner's butt and that's 
 why the owner of the house lives outside of the house because he knows he lost his deed and his 
 wife and his kids to the butler. Yeah you can make movies, take pictures, and you can make a family 
 that only have nerds in it. So I give this two thumbs up! Great game, a must have for anyone, and 
 that's all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  The Sims is, as any sane individual should know (or at least, any reasonably informed sane individual) , 
 the definitively best-selling PC game of all-time thus far. Its managed to ship over 16 million 
 copies since release in February 2000. Following something which achieved such sky high success 
 was obviously going to be extremely difficult. Luckily, the drive and determination of the guys 
 over at Maxis has paid off well. The Sims 2 is truly better than The Sims; in fact its probably 
 in a whole different league.
  
  As before, the premise of the game is that you are given a virtual neighbourhood (actually you 
 can have an infinite amount of neighbourhoods this time; the size of your hard drive will be the 
 only limit) , in which you can create families, build their houses and local shopping facilities, 
 and then set about running their lives as you see fit. There is no way to win The Sims 2, all 
 of the gameplay is entirely open ended. After all, theres no way to win in life! Just like its 
 predecessor, The Sims 2 is almost the definitive life simulation game, and no contenders have appeared 
 to compete with its sky high success. Build your families into towering tycoons of industry, have 
 them lead a simple life working from home, or wreck their lives by burning the house down and having 
 them drown in the swimming pool, the choice is completely yours.
  
  Many game elements have made substantial changes and improvements since the original. Now, you 
 Sims will be born, grow up and eventually, sad though it may be, die. A proper circle of life 
 can be established, where new generations of the same family all can live under one roof. The age 
 system makes a big boost to the realism factor of the game. Furthermore, now no longer just requiring 
 the short-term needs of food, hygiene et cetera, the Sims have gained true aspirations, and thoughts 
 alongside. Some are very simple, like eating a certain food for breakfast, or doing homework. However, 
 there are far more challenging and life-altering decisions, like getting a job in a certain career 
 or getting married. The level of aspiration points you can attain from these changes according 
 to the difficultly of achieving it. Achieving aspirations can also unlock special rewards, both 
 points-based and careers; a very handy incentive for working towards long-term targets.
  
  Movement has improved leaps and bounds since The Sims. Instead of the four locked positions and 
 several locked zooms, you can now freely pan, zoom and rotate around the lots in whatever fashion 
 you desire. There is also a handy free camera so can fly though the house as though a ghost. 
 Graphically also, the game is great. Houses, objects and the Sims themselves are highly detailed, 
 and now featuring a wide variety of highly expressive facial and bodily movements. Many of these 
 can be quite amusing (such as a wide-eyed grin or jealous anger) , and give characters far more 
 depth and emotion than was previously available. They do look almost entirely human, but still 
 retail that strangely mystic, cartoon-Sims style to them, such as slightly more rounded faces, 
 and far better skin quality (although the teenagers sometimes have problems with the latter) .
 
  
  Family creation is one of the biggest developments. Sims are now almost entirely customable. The 
 extremely easy creator allows you to choose and alter a huge selection of settings, so that every 
 Sim can appear different. Further, with the start of Sim genetics, children born from parents now 
 gain their individual genetic make-up, and will pass on appearances and personality traits. There 
 is a good range of clothing for all ages, and if you cant find something you want, you can always 
 download it online from The Sims Exchange. All in all, its almost impossible not to feel affection 
 to the families you create. It would have been nice if you could full customise the Sims height 
 and physique, but I can live perfectly well without it for the time being.
  
  The music is uniformly good, still retaining that suburban, ideal tranquillity air to it which 
 reminds me strangely of The Stepford Wives novel. There is also music in game on stereos, which 
 is interesting to say the least (the lyrics are all in Simlish) , and the televisions in-game now 
 actually broadcast moving images, which is a giant leap forward for Sims television. The prolific 
 use of Comic Sans font still pervades the nicely designed text boxes and popup windows. It all 
 makes it feel extremely homely, cosy and family-friendly, which truth be told it is.
  
  There is a strange philosophy to playing The Sims 2. Sims have free will, (as can be demonstrated 
 by them going to the fridge to cook a meal only for themselves when the whole family needs feeding; 
 an infuriating event) but wont perform any of the important interactions without your express 
 direction. It is a kind of semi-determinism. It makes you hope it isnt like that in real life, 
 or someone very important might have some questions to answer. Overall, The Sims 2 is exceedingly 
 good, hearty, family-friendly fun. Though not perfect, because of a lack of furniture and wallpapers, 
 building and interaction restrictions, its still a game which caters for all ages and all genders. 
 No doubt it will spawn a multitude of sequels of varying quality (as can already be seen from University, 
 Nightlife, Pets, Seasons etc.) before the inevitable release of The Sims 3. I doubt I will ever 
 grow fully tired of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar026
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  well the game is fanyastic and let me start on the negative side for a while
  well the game is alittle boring without new stuff or funtions... the sims 2 should be all new funtion 
 and all new stuff and now moving on the positive side.... the sims now have expressions and the 
 teenagers really have the real life encounters like acne, first kiss and etc.... the is really fun 
 to see how we can create stories and see how the sims react when another sims dies and how they 
 are stress when their love ones are gone... to see how to sims dies with different deaths and the 
 grim reaper besides the grim reaper banish the soul we can save the soul... and the funny thing 
 is the grim reaper check his list first hahaha well i really have fun with this game and look forward 
 for the sims 2 expansion packs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarrini
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great sequel to The Sims. All graphics are now in 3D and there are more neighbourhoods. 
 Although most of the starting characters are the same like the Goths, mainly everything else is 
 new or incredibly different. Maxis has definitely taken a big step from Sims 1. Though I still 
 think Sims is a awesome game, Sims 2 just adds that extra touch. This game includes many more new 
 items gadgets not to mention the expansion packs. In the Sims 2 Nightlife, you get to go to clubs 
 and you get vampires and cars. In the Sims 2 Open for Business, you get your own business and in 
 University, you get to go to Uni. Sims 2 Pets, you get pets and there are still heaps more. Most 
 of the time spent on playing Sims 2, I use on sexual reasons. Getting teens to date and adults 
 to marry are all part of the fun not to mention having sex and a baby. Although most of the aspects 
 of this game are good, there are some negative points. Sometimes when I play Sims 2 (without the 
 expansion packs) I get really bored because all you do is the same every time. Even with cheats 
 this game may feel a bit dull but with all the expansion packs, I can say that you can get a lot 
 more hours from this game than you would from the game alone. I give this game a well deserved 
 9.3 but that's only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_my13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  The point where if it perceives greater change, is in the graphs. Now, everything in the game is 
 in 3 dimensions The personages, objects, until the neighborhood. This evolution forced the desenvolvedores 
 to create a system of more modern camera, completely different of that the fans were accustomed, 
 now is possible to locate the camera in any place of the house (or area of leisure) , with effect 
 of rotation and zoom. It was the time where you it chose amongst 30 faces, more bonitinho for its 
 controlled one. The Sims 2 presents a new and powerful studio of creation, where if it is possible 
 to personalize completely yes, its nose, mouth, eyes etc. and is not nothing daily pay-defined; 
 You can detail everything, inclinations, position, sizes, at last everything in the face of the 
 servant. In The Sims 2 he is possible to create complete families, with father, mother, children, 
 aunts, grandmothers, etc. However, for an apparent lack of interest of the desenvolvedores, the 
 personages know its familiar ones only for family, independent of the existing kinship between 
 both. Although everything to seem robotizado, milimetricamente calculated, The Sims 2 portraies 
 the existing joys and conflicts in some families well; Treasons, marriages, existenciais parties 
 of anniversary, crises, etc. The families in The Sims 2, if seem Reals very, the parents work while 
 the children study, these, in turn while they are small, they like to call the friends to play 
 in house, ask for the attention of the parents clearly and, they hate to make lesson! The babies 
 learn early since using the bathroom, floor and speech. The adolescence is the amused phase more 
 of if controlling Yes, is the phase of the life where if they have more things to make, to arrange 
 the first job, first boyfriend, to go the ballads, etc. The Sims adult possesss the life most serious, 
 says thus, in this phase of the life is only possible to be married and to obtain a respectable 
 job, also more important functions of the family fit they them. The aged ones are less active, 
 however the most amused, complaining of pains of the age, trying to be become involved one more 
 time in a loving relationship, only thought about retiring and trying to deceive the D. Death. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driver64
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought The Sims 2, installed it, and played the Lathario household. The frame rate 
 was so slow I nearly burst into tears, no not actually but I was quite sad, I thought my computer 
 could run it so I gave up, switched to The Sims 1, bought all the expansion packs for it and played 
 them for about a year. Then one day I tried to play The Sims 2 again but obviously it still ran 
 terribly so I got fed up again, but this time I did something about it; I took The Sims 2 to an 
 electronics mega-store (i. e. Future Shop) and asked them for a NVIDIA video card that would support 
 the Sims 2 and I bought it. When I played it again it was perfect; at last, no slow frame rates, 
 graphic settings on high, perfect!
  
  The Sims 2 I one of the greatest games ever made, but it still could have been better.
  I recommend 
 that you buy this game and get all the of the expansion packs because I can assure you that you 
 will have fun!
  I also would like to see The Sims 2: Vacation, but hope it will be better than the Sims 1: Vacation.
 
  
  Driver64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John5227
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a vast improvement over the original The Sims. The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 is great, and it has a lot of value to it. The possibilities are virtually endless on the game, 
 and you have a lot of freedom to make and create what you want to. The abilities to download, and 
 create custom objects/etc: really make the game better, that is if you choose to do so. Overall 
 I would suggest this game to anyone who is thinking about buying it, or is a fan of simulation 
 games. This game really grows on you, so be prepared to spend some long hours.... being addicted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesimsbuster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun you can make your own people you can make aliens down load cool stuff fore diffrent 
 cloths, skin colors, and objects. You can make babys get them pregnate, thank god you dont get seasections. 
 The Sims 2 pets is better though. It is godd on GBA, PS2, XBOX, and GC. But not as Good on PC. You 
 can really cool cloths make houses it gets hard because you satrt out with $20,000, but heres a 
 cheat code put hold the buttons ctrl. shift c that type in motherlode no spaces type it in like 
 i spelled it even though it's spelt wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMafia
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game can continuously provide amounts of fun. I think once you learn how to efficiently play 
 the game then everything becomes easier like jobs and buying things. Ive have most of the Sims 
 games and I made a Sim on the Sims 2 and maxed out all of its bars (ex. charisma, fitness, etc.) 
 in less than 2 hours without cheats. But anyways it is a really fun game also when your purposely 
 trapping the Sim in an small room with no door and then having the stove catch on fire and watching 
 your Sim burn!! &gt;=) The graphics are very good compared to the older Sims games and there is 
 much more to buy and do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpsfanintrainin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The good: Solid graphics and sound; A. I is improved; Loads of options for your houses and neighborhoods; 
 Creating sims is fun, in the fact you can customize every aspect of the sim.
  
  The bad: Gets a pinch buggy when there is a lot of characters on screen
  
  
  The Sims 2 is 
 not just a sequel, It is a truly revolutionary game on its own merits mainly because of its smart 
 gameplay mechanics and options o plenty. The Sims 2 lets you create a family (or 1 person) and 
 build a dream home, or move into a pre-built one in your customized neighborhood. You can select 
 from tons of furniture, from couches to big screen tv's to pianos to swimming pools and put it 
 where YOU want. Then you can add custom carpet, wallpaper, siding, roofing, and other stuff, like 
 windows, pools, fireplaces, doors, ect. The game also lets you do many social interactions, from 
 romantic ones, like flirt, to just plain funny ones, like irritate. The game mixes mature content 
 with humor to make a truly sensational package. Like you can woo-hoo with other sims to try to 
 have children, or adopt some. When making children (from the sim creation screen) you can use genetics 
 to make the baby look like his/her parents. It's that cool. If you are a fan of simulations, and 
 or past sims games, this is a must have. It features classic gameplay with new innovative ideas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BF-Johan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is about to be called a little old game now. But still i think the graphic is up-to-date 
 .
  The Good: The graphic; the realism and the easy control. The Bad: When you move the camera through 
 things you can see all from the inside and thats not cool; it's too easy to get high ranked on 
 the work, so general i would like some more difficulties in the game; and it's not a game you just 
 quickly can turn on, you need pretty much spare time to play.
  
  But finally it's just too nice - but is not a game for the wild soul , it's a chilling, entertainment 
 game you can play when you just relaxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spookben
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  sims 2 is one of the funnest games i ever played, its different from most traditional games on 
 the market right now and that why i like it so much. If you haven't tried this game out, this is 
 a game you should pick up today i highly recommend it. Also sims 2 has lots of different expansion 
 packs to chose from, theres sims 2 pet, sims 2 university, sims 2 nightout, sims 2 family fun pack, 
 sims 2 glamoar life stuff, sims 2 open for business, sims 2 happy holiday stuff, and sims 2 holiday 
 edition. These expansion packs will give you extra hours of playing time and extra fun so you can 
 enjoy this great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has a heavy weight on its shoulders, its the sequel to the number 1 selling PC game 
 of all time, thats quite a legacy to continue, but the Sims 2 doesnt disappoint. The first noticeable 
 difference is the graphics, they are vastly improved over the original and your Sims faces are 
 now animated and show some very funny expressions. The customisation has also grown so much. You 
 can even choose which nose you like from a list of pre-made noses and if you cant find one of 
 those well you just make your own!!
  
  The camera is also vastly improved, now you dont have to stick with the basic 3 levels of zoom 
 and 4 degrees of view around the house. You can get as up close and personal with your Sims as 
 you can imagine. The Sims has always been a very clever game with its story, why? Because there 
 is no story!! You can do what you like and create yourself, your family or create the most zany 
 lot of crazy loons in the world. Another New feature to the Sims 2 is the aging system, it can 
 be a bit annoying that you put all the effort into making your favourite Sim successful and rich 
 when they suddenly die of old age, but this can all be stopped with a simple cheat, but no one 
 saw me say that ;) The Sims 2s only fault is that it can be a little unkind to older computer 
 systems, it can slow down a lot and eventually look more like a slow motion section of a movie 
 rather than a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak5577
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is a pretty good game. I would get it if i were you, but if your not a sims fan, do not 
 even worry about getting it. But if you are a fan, and you don't have it, you should go and buy 
 it, its only about $30.00 dollars now. Yea, i would rate it a 7 out of 10, if its rated, but iv'e 
 never played a better Sims game then this one, so if you like it, go and have fun!!!!!: D P. S. if 
 you dont have a cheat for the game it is RoseBud:!:!:!:!:!: so on so forth
  enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo1391
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with lots of possibilites and fun. I was hooked since day 1, but it started 
 to get kind of old and repepitive and it just wasnt as fun. It lasted me about a month before I 
 moved on to other games but this is a great game that should be viewed by anyone so they can make 
 their own opinion of this game. Because i had fun, it just didnt last liked I hoped it would. But 
 this is definately the best game in this series and you will get some or alot of enjoyment out 
 of it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydeloache
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a strange game to try and review. There are a lot of different ways to look at it 
 and play it. The only thing that's certain is that this series is one of a kind. I can honestly 
 say that I don't think I got it when the original game was released. I enjoyed it for a while but 
 became frustrated at how hard it was to juggle relationships, bathroom breaks, and sleep time in 
 order to get to the top of the corporate food chain. But over the last few weeks, I finally discovered 
 something, partly due to a lot of the improvements made over the first game. The Sims isn't about 
 winning or reaching a certain goal. It's about setting up experiences and watching them unfold. 
 It's about personality and creativity and The Sims 2 handles both in a way that can't help but 
 make you stare in wonder at this brilliantly bizarre series.
  
  The most obvious addition is the new engine. It was an easy decision for them to make the game 
 better looking. Not only did it help them keep up with the technology but more importantly helped 
 them create an experience with a lot more personality and flair than The Sims was ever capable 
 of supplying. All of the items found in The Sims 2 are amazingly detailed and vibrantly colorful, 
 but the real charmer is the hugely long list of interactive animations between sims and the environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noferesti
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Expansion packs
  
  The Sims 2 expansion packs provide additional game features and items. Generally, expansion packs 
 add one central gameplay element, several peripheral elements, a new type of expansion neighborhood 
 (neighborhoods linked to a base neighborhood; multiple expansion neighborhoods of the same type 
 may be linked to a single base neighborhood) , a new type of Sim (Vampires, zombies etc.) and approximately 
 125 new objects. There have been four expansion packs released, with a fifth one rumoured. Maxis 
 has plans for seven expansion packs [1] . However, given that The Sims 3 is not scheduled for release 
 until Spring 2009, an eighth may be released in Fall 2008. Maxis also revealed that odd numbered 
 expansion packs will bring something entirely new to the series, while even numbered expansion 
 packs will bring something from The Sims. For the main article on each expansion pack, see link 
 provided with title.
  The Sims 2: University  March 2, 2005 for PC and December 12, 2005 for Mac OS X. Adds major gameplay 
 element of being able to send teen Sims to college (adding additional optional Young Adult stage) 
 and university expansion neighborhood. University also adds lifetime wants (powerful wants that 
 will put a Sim in a state of perpetual euphoria known as permanent platinum aspiration or simply 
 permaplat ) and influence (the ability to direct others to perform certain tasks) . Four careers 
 restricted to graduates are added (Paranormal, Natural Scientist, Artist, Show Business) . Zombies, 
 deceased Sims brought back to life imperfectly, are added.
  The Sims 2: Nightlife  released September 13, 2005 for PC and March 27, 2006 for Mac OS X. Nightlife 
 adds an attraction-based dating system and a nightlife destination expansion neighborhood. Two 
 new Aspirations (Pleasure and Grilled Cheese) are added, as is the ability to change Aspirations 
 through an Aspiration Reward object. Use of drivable cars is included as well. Sims may now become 
 Vampires.
  The Sims 2: Open for Business  released March 2, 2006 for PC and September 4, 2006 for Mac OS 
 X. Open for Business enables Sims to operate businesses. Also added are the shopping district expansion 
 neighborhood, badges as another type of skill and a perk system for successful business owners. 
 Robots are added, including the Servo, a robot that can be activated as a controllable Sim. The 
 Sims 2: Pets  Released in USA on October 17, Released in UK on October 20, 2006 for PC and November 
 6, 2006 for Mac OS X, Released in New Zealand and Australia on October 26. It will also be released 
 for Playstation 2, Nintendo Gamecube, Nintendo DS, Nintendo Gameboy Advance and Playstation Portable 
 (note that the gameplay varies from console to PC version) . This focuses almost exclusively on 
 adding pet capabilities to game. EA announced that this expansion pack will not have an associated 
 neighborhood, but will instead include lots to place in existing neighborhoods. Among the pets 
 announced for this expansion pack are dogs, cats, parrots, and womrats. Sims may turn into werewolves.
 
  The Sims 2: In Season (Working Title) - fifth expansion pack, expected to be released in spring 
 2007.
  
  Stuff packs
  
  Stuff packs are add-ons to the game that only add new objects. Stuff packs were originally called 
 booster packs, as seen in the release of The Sims 2: Holiday Party Pack. Current releases are called 
 stuff packs and include certain gameplay elements introduced in previous expansion packs (as opposed 
 to Holiday Party Pack, which only added a package file containing object data) . Stuff packs typically 
 add around 60 new items (Holiday Party Pack added approximately 40) .
  The Sims 2: Holiday Party Pack  booster pack (now being called a stuff pack) released November 
 17, 2005. Holiday Party Pack includes a number of items related to various holidays, mostly Christmas. 
 The pack was sold as The Sims 2: Christmas Party Pack in Europe. It was combined with the core 
 game in The Sims 2: Holiday Edition and The Sims 2: Christmas Edition as a limited-edition release 
 at the same time. The official The Sims 2 website offered free downloads of some of the items included 
 in Holiday Party Pack.
  The Sims 2: Family Fun Stuff  released April 13, 2006 for PC. Includes mostly themed sets of objects 
 and decorations, most notably medieval-themed children's objects and tropical objects and clothing. 
 Known in the Sims community for having a few major bugs upon release, necessitating the release 
 of an emergency patch by EA within a couple of weeks.
  The Sims 2: Glamour Life Stuff  released August 31, 2006. Includes themed sets of luxury items 
 and fashionable clothing.
  The Sims 2: Happy Holiday Stuff - will be released in November 2006, and it will contain a collection 
 of holiday items. This is a repackage of The Sims 2: Holiday Party Pack with twenty new additional 
 items. Players who have already purchased both the core game and the Holiday Party Pack have the 
 option of purchasing only the new additional items in the form of The Sims 2: Happy Holiday Mini 
 Pack via EA's online downloading service, EA Downloader. The games will be sold as The Sims 2: 
 Festive Holiday Stuff, The Sims 2: Festive Edition and The Sims 2: Festive Holiday Mini Pack in 
 Europe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdamThePerson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a highly addicting game that anyone can play. Haven't you ever wondered what it would 
 be like to control people's lives, make them do what you want them to do, With this game its possible. 
 This is a game where you control the lives of the little sim people. Once you play this game, you 
 will not be able to stop, its one of the few games that you think about constantly after you've 
 played it. The game can be played by anyone of any age, the game is simple enough so everyone can 
 understand it for the most part. This game is a must buy!
  
  
  -AdamThePerson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalzargahoughan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Like the original Sims, in the Sims 2 You control these little people called sims, as they eat, 
 sleep, play, work, socialize, even right down to taking care of business in the restroom. It's 
 quite fun and addicting, but kind of hard to explain.
  
  When you start the game you will have the choice of either creating a new family, or play with 
 one of the pre-made family's in the game. Both of these choices are good. If you choose the Create 
 a Family option, you will be taken to a place where you can create and customize up to 8 sims to 
 be in your family. Though I don't recommend more than 3 or 4 for a beginner. Each sim will be either 
 male or female. Can start out as a toddler, child, teen, adult, or elder. You will also customise 
 their personalities, and choose from one of five aspirations. (Wealth, Knowledge, Family, Popularity, 
 and Romance)
  
  You can customized nearly everything about your sims. And I don't think they could've done the 
 facial options any better. If you got the skills and the time, you can make your sims look like 
 anybody or anything you can imagine. (Especially if you use the workshop, and customize skins.) 
 The clothing selection, however, feels a little limited at times. It also would have been nice 
 if you could have changed your sims hight and stuff like that. Never-the-less, the Create a Family 
 is still incredibly well done.
  
  After you're done creating your perfect family, you can either build them a house, or use a pre-created 
 house. You only have 20 grand to start with, so watch that pocket book of yours. Building houses 
 in the game is also well done. There is a fairly nice selection of walls and stuff of that nature. 
 You can build second stories, and basements (though that's a little difficult) There's also chimneys 
 and patios. There's just a lot to this game. The building feature is definitely not the high point 
 of this game, but it is still worth noting none the less.
  
  And finally we get to play with this new family you have created. This is where you see the game 
 in all it's glory and majesty, as well as a few noticeable and annoying warts. You can have your 
 sims get married have kids, and grow old together, and die. Or you can just skip strait to the 
 killing and/or torturing of your sims. Basically the way the game works you select a sim and then 
 click on another sim or object in the game. A list of options will appear. For example, if you 
 select your sim Bob, and the click on the fridge. you will have the option to, eat breakfast, serve 
 breakfast, juggle bottles, check supplies, or have a snack. You choose 'have a snack' and then 
 you get a new set of options, cookies, chips, juice.
  
  The needs from the first game are pretty similar in this second game. Basically you just have to 
 make sure your sims stay well fed, bo to the bathroom, get plenty of sleep, exc. You have a meter 
 for each of your sims eight needs, represented by bars. Your sims needs have a direct effect on 
 their mood. And their mood directly effects how willing and well they do what you tell them to 
 do. And of course if you don't feed your sims for a week. They'll probably be dead.
  
  One brand new feature of the sims to is the aspiration and the fears and wants feature. As mentioned 
 above there are five aspirations - Wealth, Knowledge, Family, Popularity, and Romance. Whichever 
 one of these categories your sim falls into will effect which fears and wants your sim will have. 
 e. g. a sim with a family aspiration will have needs such as make 1,000 dollars, or marry a rich 
 sim. They will also have such fears as, getting fired, or the repo man showing up. Your sims will 
 have 4 wants and 3 fears at all times. These are both random and dependant upon your actions. So 
 that if you sim is engaged they might want to get, married or something like that.
  
  One great thing about this game is just how the sims interact with each other, and how you get 
 to create a whole neighborhood full of sims. Some are enemies some are friends. Some sims have 
 multiple lovers. Others you can make hated by all and have a horrible life. There's just so much 
 you can do here.
  
  Even a game as great as this can have some problems. For one thing, even though there are a lot 
 of options here, more would have been nice. There are also some path-finding problems, and the 
 game also will have the occasional annoying bug. These problems aren't game enders. But they are 
 enough to keep me from giving the gameplay a ten.
  
  How does the game look? Good, but not fantastic. The presentation is done well, and the sims still 
 of course talk in their slimish language. witch is good. The music is pretty dang annoying though. 
 I don't mean the menu music, cause that's good. I mean the stupid music your sims insist on putting 
 on the radio. That's forgivable though, since you can put custom music into the game
  
  In fact, there's not much you can't customise in this game. If you're willing to take the time 
 to learn how. You can create custom hair, custom make-up, custom clothes, and much more. And if 
 you don't feel like making this stuff, you can download it, from their website and other places. 
 And there's even a very nice, yet somewhat hard to use movie making system.
  
  All-in-all this is a great game that you must buy if you are at all interested in. there may be 
 a couple problems. But a few bumps along the road just make the trip more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I really did like the gameplay of Sims2. The graphics are very good to but the sound is pretty 
 retarded. I mute the talking its so bad to listen to. I really do like it that now you don't need 
 to buy a expansion to got on dates ect.
  The expansions for the sims 2 are way better but however I would really like a vaction expansion 
 ike Sims 1. I also like the whole towns and you can make your own. The price is just right and 
 I would reccomend you buy this game. This game is possible one of the best computer but I would 
 say WOW is the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho8x8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Simply amazing game and so many7 expansion packs like The Sims 2 Pets, The Sims 2 Nightlife, The 
 Sims 2 University, The Sims 2 Open For Bussiness and many more!!! anyone who rates this game less 
 than 6.0 is Probably just finding it hard in some way but other wise this game is awesome! you 
 can make any sort of family like super genuis family to complete idiots! Super cool to ultimate 
 nerds! even make your own family!!! start a family from scratch make an adult get married have 
 a baby grow old and have your baby continue on for generations and generations! if you can play 
 the game for about 2-3 months straight you'll NEVER get bored cause they are constantly coming 
 out with new expansion packs and from the sims (one) the graphics have OUTSTANDINGLY increased. 
 defintley a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is based on the previous installment the sims 1. This game offer so much, that you couldn't 
 find those jelly beans for months. The only thing, that bothered me, was that, there was still 
 a feeling, that your sim is just doing his must needing things (like bladder, energy, hunger....) . 
 Sometimes you feel, you are doing just that. But, there comes the day or so, that there is so much 
 to do. You can hang around, go to marketplace, chat with other sims, and stuff like that. If you 
 are rich, and you want whole house of your servitors, then you can hire them. As I said. Its hard 
 to find everything what the game offeres in just 1 month.
  
  This is the first game, where i judge the game not by my feelings, but with expert feelings. If 
 it was just me, the game would hit probably better scores.
  
  About more, watch all other thousands of reviews.
  
  It's really a must buy for everybody. 
 This game is absolutely amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallout_Girl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  A fun part of this game is that one can design their Sim exactly how they like. Facial features, 
 clothes, and personality; the choices are limitless. It's one of those games where you could find 
 yourself playing them again and again and not notice any repetition. After choosing what they look 
 like, it's fun to choose houses and furnish them. After that, you start to play as them, living 
 a life with school, work, and other normal life scenarios. You can watch your Sim grow from a toddler 
 into a teen into an elder. They get married, have kids, make friends, have parties, get promotions, 
 and gain skills. Over all, they live a normal life; but with you in charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  this is totally an up to the first sims game. The graphics are alot better and you have alot more 
 customizable things to make your sims look just like you, or the person your making or whoever. 
 theres alot of cool items, and you can even choose colors and border options for things like beds 
 and chairs, choose what color your counter is and the countertop. New house options which is new, 
 and there are new things like wants where if you do somthing that your sim wants to do then you 
 get points, and you can use these points to get things like a money machine and such, which is 
 pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillka87
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Well when there is over 3 years between the releases of sims 1 and 2 u got to expect somthing amazing 
 and its exactly what you get with sims 2. Everything you can possible think of doing in a computer 
 game is in. just try to start a conversation with a friend and youll already be swarmed with options. 
 One problem for me is that im lazy and i want the reward fast and not earn it so i just went back 
 to playing sports games but the reward is high for who is in it for the long run. PS... The game 
 aint cheap i paid 44 for it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: FACT: The best game ever
  The Sims 2 isn't your average simulation: its WAY past average.
  The Sims 2 is basically a virtual 
 doll house, except 500X more in depth and fun. What EA Games and Maxis has done is started the 
 best game series ever made.
  FACT: The Sims (ORIGINAL) was the BEST SELLING PC GAME OF ALL TIME
  I have spent at least 600 
 hours playing this game. To fully enjoy the game, download content off of thesims2. com. There is 
 good lots and Sims to download there. Buy this NOW, it is so worth your $40 (I think that is the 
 price...) . Basically, the sentence that sums up this whole review is: The Sims 2 cannot be rated 
 below a 10, it is a perfect game with absolutely NO flaws.
  
  ~Ryan~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Greg-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Easily the best part of this game. Simply astounding. Not only are the house items and 
 walls great, but the graphics of the Sims and their reactions are just awesome.
  9.5 out of 10 Sound: Meh. It's good, but the music is still redundant, but the sounds of the reactions 
 are the best really. Not much else to say.
  8 out of 10 Gameplay: Well, not only are there WAY better items and color schemes, the ability 
 to make friends, get older, get promoted, and just live your life is vastly improved from The Sims 
 1.
  10 out of 10
  
  The only minus is that you cant just play this game every day. It needs to be staggered. Otherwise, 
 you just feel like, Hey, I just did this!! Thats it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NA3D
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Game made to be compatible to even low power computers.
  
  Game play is easy, fun, and addictive.
  
  Graphics are great for it's time, and for how many 
 polys (characters and items) that can be supported on the screen at one time.
  
  Sound is typical fun and light hearted Sims fashion, and you still have the ability to customize 
 the music in the game.
  
  After doing the math, even with all of the expansion packs the game has only cost 20 cent per hour. 
 While movies are 70 cents to $1 per person of entertainment, making The Sims one of the best entertainment 
 deals in the world.
  
  It has a quick learning curve like most of Will Wright's games. So addictive you end up playing 
 for hours (So watch the clock while you're playing, it might end up being 4AM) . By no means is 
 the game hard, just enjoyable.
  
  It really is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j111233
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is a Fantastic Sequel to a Fantastic Game. I think it's good even by itself with no Expansions.
 
  
  The Sims are better and more Realistic, which is always a Good Thing in Games like this. You can 
 Create your own Clothes with The Sims 2: Bodyshop, and even be able to create your own Sims. Which 
 is more improved and better than ever.
  
  The Gameplay is much better, The Sims are much smarter than last time. They can actually sit down 
 without stopping, but rather asking others to move.
  
  Thank you for reading this review, and I think you might agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BondExtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play. It it the best Sim game out there! I'll start with the graphics. 
 They are ammazing! And it only needs 32Mb card at the least. Now the gameplay is pretty sweet too, 
 although it can get a little boring after 2 hours of continuous playing. So take a break every 
 once in a while. But you can really have some fun raising your family up in time. There are so 
 many things you can do to get your Sim into. The sound is also ammazing. Great music, great effects. 
 Now customization is fantastic. You can literally create anything you want in build mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blossom6000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  The freedom and amount of creativity in this game is amazing. It's fun and it's a game that you 
 can play for as long as you like, whether it be an hour or a few hours a day. It can be very addicting. 
 If you like to create and control almost every aspect of an environment then this is definately 
 the game for you. Whether you like playing the families that you create, building homes, or decorating 
 you can have fun at each aspect. You get to shape your own sim world and have unlimited control 
 over it, I guess the only word I can really use to sum it up is FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  For me, this game is simply fantastic and innovative, but, in the same time, i think also that 
 it's too boried after two or three times that you change a family, an house or a place. Yes, because, 
 for play, there is the longest house/character-maker of the story!!!! I would to say that for make 
 a character you use about 15 minutes and for make a great or beautiful house, you can use also 
 1 houres or plus. This, after two or three times, is too boried.............
  I don't say that the maker is bad, no. Is maybe the gratest of the world-game. But it's too long.
 
  I don't know if you understand, but it's this the problem.
  After, when you play, if you don't use the cheats for the money, you will not make a great-beautiful 
 house or you will not buy the items!!!!
  
  This is the problem. Sims 2 isn't a best in series, for me. Sims 1 is the best!
  
  PS: After, 
 the IA of the sims is very, very small!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tribalTox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a Great Fun Game That I Still Love Playin InBetween Oblivion and Madden 07' .I had 
 the first Sims Game and i thought it was great and once i got this i was like WhoA! Now this is 
 how u upgrade a Series. But, to me its not a Complete upgrade. I Still Hope in the upcoming Sims 
 games that they really start to simulate life. Maybe its just me but i'd like to play as a Handicapped 
 Sim or how about a sim with Drug and Alcohol problems?! Maybe they have thought about puttin stuff 
 like that into the game and decided not to just to stay politically correct, whatever, it's still 
 an addictive game that sucks u in.
  
  Im playin with the graphics all on high and it's a Visual Pleasure!
  The sounds are great, I 
 think they did a great job with the Radio Stations.
  Control, its the same. I hope on the future PC editions of this game they add a Gamepad/joystick 
 option. Over its a fun game and worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vitrashark
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 (PC)
  The Sims franchise has definitely come a long way from the beginning of its initial break into 
 the simulation game market, but The Sims 2, its latest installment for the pc, has to be its most 
 innovative and impressive leap forward in virtually every aspect of the game, even when compared 
 to its highly revered and bestselling predecessor and its various expansion titles. The highly 
 anticipated simulation genre title showcases Maxis Studios excellent attention to detail &amp; 
 innovative thinking and is sure to be a crowd-pleaser for anyone from the common casual gamer to 
 the hardcore player. The games wonderfully smooth and sleek graphics, solid and addictive gameplay, 
 and outstanding in-depth customizable features are what really make this title standout in the 
 simulation genre.
  Upon starting the game and creating your own controllable character referred to as a sim, you 
 wont be able to help but admire the comprehensive and in-depth sim creation system along with 
 the brilliant textures of the game overall. Virtually all features of a sim can be resized, altered, 
 and rotated by the player (such as the nose, jaw line, and eye shape) to near ridiculous proportions 
 and a wide variety of premade faces and facial features are available for the creatively retarded. 
 A wide variety of clothing is also available to dress up your newly created character. When creating 
 a sim, the player can make a single sim, a family of Sims, or sim roommates. Two sims of the opposite 
 sex can even mix genes and create kids with the mixed physical features of their parents! Now tell 
 me thats not cool! The game begins when the newly made characters are placed on either one of 
 many premade lots (homes) or one made straight from scratch, and selecting to play that lot or 
 selecting any of the other lots that house premade sims. For a game this detailed and complex, 
 the user interface is surprisingly easy to understand and use. Plenty of helpful tips are given 
 upon first starting a lot. Theres even a tutorial mode to help newcomers of the franchise get 
 their feet wet. When you get the hang of the game, its surprisingly difficult to stop! Sort of 
 like crack, except without all the unpleasant side effects.. like death. It really is amazing 
 how addictive the gameplay is when all youre doing is basically living a virtual life!
  The main objective in the game is to guide your controllable sim (s) to a life full of happiness, 
 prosperity, and friends but because of the open-ended gameplay, the real goal of the game is entirely 
 up to the player. For example, you could start from scratch with a new sim in a small and affordable 
 home, get a job and make your way up the corporate ladder, build a family, create a dream house 
 and grow old, and continue the blood line through your children. Or! You could create a controllable 
 sim, buy and drink from the life rejuvenating fountain, reverse the aging process, and live theoretically 
 forever as a wealthy bachelor swinger! There really is no one way to play this game which is what 
 adds so much playability and depth to the gameplay. However, time rationing is an important skill 
 to learn in this game as you will need it to keep your sims in a good mood to do vital things such 
 as making friends and getting promoted in order to live a successful and thriving lifestyle. Factors 
 such as hygiene, hunger, and energy must be kept up in order for a sim to stay happy and in a good 
 mood. If neglected, the playable sim risks death. Which is kind of a neat thing to see because 
 death (the grim reaper) actually appears before the dead sims ghost and is able to be interacted 
 with to buy back that sims life or have a living sim convince death not to take that sims soul 
 to the afterlife.
  I was simply blown away by how much time I put into the game. Hours flew by as I immersed myself 
 in my own little fabricated fantasy lifeGeeWhat the hell does that say about my life? Back 
 on topic, one of the best features of the game is its many customizable elements such as music 
 and clothing. Players can place their own mp3 format tunes into the various stations of the in-game 
 sim radio and play their very own music through the audio devices such as stereo systems that can 
 be purchased in the buy menu. The game also comes with a special program that allows players to 
 customize and create their own unique clothing lines, skin tones, eye colors, etc. for their sims 
 to use in the game! The possibilities are pretty much endless. Aging, memory formation, and offspring 
 creation are other great features of the game. Playable sims have the ability to age a number of 
 life stages including infant, child, teen, adult, and finally elder and a simple meter indicates 
 how far along a sim is in his/her current life stage. Sims can also form memories of major events 
 over their lifespan such as a first kiss. What else is neat about memory is that the sims will 
 sometimes dream or talk about past experiences with other sims. The offspring creation system occurs 
 when two sims of the opposite sex try for baby and usually produces a baby which grows with a 
 well balanced combination of physical features from its biological parents. However, theres always 
 the chance of producing a freakish looking monstrosity of a childin which the player could even 
 call social services to take it away! Ah, just joking with you.. wellnot really.
  There is very little not to like about The Sims 2, but there are a quite few graphical bugs and 
 gameplay issues that keep the game just shy of excellence and need to be taken care of with a patch. 
 A few bugs include doors that never close, babies that turn out super mega ugly, and a sim being 
 unable to go up stairs if another sim is using them. Another downside to the game is the size cap 
 on the scale size of a home on a lot. A player cannot build more than four floors, no matter how 
 large the lot. Also, on occasion, the sim AI will malfunction and make sims do some strange things. such 
 as restricting themselves to a room and remaining their until they starve to death, stewing in 
 their filth and fecal matter.
  In conclusion, The Sims 2 is a fantastic, well rounded title with much to offer to both fans of 
 the series and newcomers alike. The game boasts terrific cutting edge graphics and mechanics along 
 with addictively entertaining and deep gameplay. This is truly a title that gaming audiences of 
 all kinds can appreciate and enjoy, if not for the gameplay, then for the superb attention to detail. 
 I recommend this title to all simulation fanatics and to anyone who loves insanely detailed amounts 
 of complex customization.
  The Good: Great graphics/ Terrific gameplay depth/ Superb customization/ very user friendly/ easy 
 to use interface/
  The Bad: Some minor graphical bugs/ some gameplay issues that negatively affect gameplay/ occasional 
 retarded looking babies
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Very similar to the first game series, but much much better graphics and gameplay. It's a lot more 
 fun to play in 3D and with a better zoom system and the greater content variety. I love this game. 
 It has proven to be even more addicting than The Sims. This game has already been a hit for quite 
 some time. I just hope they don't over kill the thing and make a third game out of it after they 
 run out of expansion ideas for this game. Definately worth buying if you're a sims lover, which 
 I am, though I'm not so fond of the expansion packs for The Sims 2 so far. There are certain glitches 
 within this game that become annoying after a while too, but other than that and a couple of other 
 minor problems, this game is a huge improvement from the first and is much more fun to play. P. S. 
 The console versions of this game suck ass, so don't waste your time or money on them! If they 
 made a version of this game for Xbox 360 or PS3, it might be pretty cool and a lot better graphically, 
 and with the option for downloadable content, it'd be good, but I personally don't think that the 
 console versions they've come out with so far are worth the money they cost. It plays much better 
 on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarinne
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! If I were you Id totally buy it. Its so fun with it's little expansion packs. 
 I hope they make more!!! Its so worth playing. From all the games I have and played, to me this 
 is the best. Its fun how you get to have kids, be adults and I love how they age to  
 I love all the meals and how you can die.. Heh. I love how in Open for business you get to make 
 your own restauraunt or business like bakery hair salon ect. Every single expansion pack makes 
 this game even better and worth playing. Its just really cool, Im amazed how better it was then 
 the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyBogdan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Well I have all expansion packs of The Sims 2 and I will get Sims 2 Pets too. But i am waiting, 
 and i would love if this game will have a multiplayer. Not like a shooter, lol, no everybody creates 
 a family like original game but controls his family only. Not the hole neighbourhood. And then 
 players online can put they`re sims to woo woo the sim from the other online player. It is kinda 
 cool, and it will be a big community of online players all over world :P. But I hope they will 
 not add a serial code for online play, so even the guy who didn`t bought the game should join. 
 This is my idea i will write this in the forum of Sims 2 site too. So i hope you read this message 
 guys from Gamespot and other players. And i will say at end: I`m not a big fan of Sims 2 but i 
 like the Game. :) SO READ THIS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  This review is very late in tcoming out, but seeing as how expansions just don't seem to slow down 
 with this game, I thought it best just to review the initial release and make intermitant comments 
 on what gamers can expect if they are interested in the Sims growing world.
  The initial release itself is a solid game. There are vast improvements over the original sims. 
 Everything from graphics, sounds, game play mechanics, even stability has been improved. Yet the 
 true value in the sims just isn't in purchasing the core module; it's selecting the various add-ons 
 and even mods in the modding community that allow you to truely appreciate all this game has to 
 offer. For those just starting out, play the core game for a few weeks before shelling out all 
 the money for the add-ons. Here's a run down of what you can expect in Sims 2.
  Graphics: 9
  Surprisingly you don't need the most advanced and state of the art graphics card 
 to appreciate what maxis has created. Even with running the game on the lowest of all settings 
 and all the fun extras turned off, the game STILL looks much better than the original and even 
 better than some of the "state of the art" eye candy games that seem to come out now. However, 
 if you have the processing speed, video RAM and a good amount of memory on board your computer, 
 you will quickly enjoy the added crisp textures and amazing light effects that are produced. Granted 
 all the extras do come at a hit to gameplay speed, but when you find what you want and are willing 
 to live with the set backs you get used to it.
  Gameplay: 9
  As in the original Sims, you play out the lives of Sim people here too, no hugh change. You will 
 find the quirky pathways, problems with Sims running into things and each other, and the usual 
 Freewill option that can cause more headaches than fun. But despite all this, the improved viewing 
 angles (it's totally 3D allowing for vantages from 360 on the horizon and nearly 45 on the verticle) , 
 item interactions, easy to use interface and sim menus, and many other improvements makes the gameplay 
 so much more addicting and enjoyable. Sound: 9
  I was very surprised and impressed with the sound quaility here. The music, voices and various 
 other sounds throughout the game are all very well done.
  Value: 10
  The replay value is what makes this game stand out. There's just so much to do in the intial release. 
 And if you add on expansions you will only find more things to play with and suck away your free 
 time. This game can get addicting, so if you tend to get immersed in new games, make sure you have 
 a few weeks left open for days of simply playing with your sims.
  Tilt: 10
  I got addicted to the sims long ago when my wife and I first started dating. Her biggest mistake 
 was probably introducing me to the Sims since now I waste the majority of my free time on it. However, 
 this game is great for couples and even families (albiet keeping children under the pre-teen age 
 away from this might be best because of the sexually oriented matrial that can come up in it) to 
 get imersed in together. My wife and I both will design houses, create faimlies, and will play 
 entire neighborhoods. The Sims can easily become a good introduction to a signfant other who has 
 always looked at your gaming habit in distaste.
  When it comes to expansions, Maxis does not dissapoint. Here's just a quick run down and what you 
 can look for to expand the Sims 2 (reviews can be found for these games, but I doubt I'll ever 
 find time again to write a review for any of these) . As of September 2006 this is what you can 
 find:
  Sims 2 University: Adds another life span to your sim as they go to college which does make for 
 some interesting sims lifetimes.
  Sims 2 Nightlife: Adds Group and dating options, and most importantly CARS. These little items 
 can change your whole sim experience if you like traveling to other lots.
  Sims 2 Open for Business: Adds the ability to run your shops. If you ever wanted to earn hundreds 
 of thousands of simoleons and just be filthy rich, the way to do it is in here.
  Sims 2 Pets: This is slated for October, but I placed it here simply because of what I know pets 
 did for me in the original game: Pets can simple make the every day living in a home so much more 
 interesting. If home life is just not interesting anymore or if you just want to add your own bundle 
 of fluff into the vitrual world, here's how you cna do it.
  There is also three additional items packages you can find: Sims 2 Holiday, Sims 2 Family Fun, 
 and Sims 2 Glamour Life. These litle packs essentially add more clothes, items and a few fun extras 
 to your game. Granted you can also add mods to the sims 2, just be forwarned that even the programmers 
 suggest being very careful with mods since the sims does crash easily with custom material. The 
 Sims 2 has a lot of life left in it. And while it will eat away at your free time and eventually 
 your wallet, the gaming experience is well worth it if you do get immersed into your games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgRyan
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  i dont get what all the hype is. honestly, i can say that i really enjoyed this game, for awhile, 
 but then i came to realize it just didnt have any point to it. its just a game about living day 
 to day tasks (picking up trash, paying bills, getting to work) over and over, and every now and 
 then you buy something new. i guess this game does appeal to nearly everyone, but i just dont understand 
 why everyone enjoys it so much. theres really just not that much that you can do. the most fun 
 that i had while playing was getting promoted, which was a joy untill i got promoted to the top 
 level, in which there was just nothing left to do. i could have created another family, but then 
 i would just repeat the process again. this game is fun untill you get the best house and the best 
 job, and then it will just repeat itself. i guess this could be because there is no multiplayer 
 to balance it out, but i cant be sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyscoJuggalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Preface:
  
  I picked this dammed game up a two days ago and wow, I can't stop playing. Hell I'm even looking 
 around the Web for mods and crap.
  
  Basically Sims 2 is a life simulator, but unlike real life it's funny and entertaining. This is 
 one of those games where you will keep playing over, and over, and over.
  
  Game Play:
  
  You have six stats that you have to manage: hunger, rest, hygien, fun, social, and environment. 
 If these go down your character gets angery and won't do nothing, I'm guess if you do not feed 
 them they die also (havent killed one yet) .
  
  To survive like in the RL, you need to get a Job, buy food, clean the house, make sure your house 
 don't burn down, repair your plumbing when it get's screwed up, and watch out for burglers who 
 like to rob suburban homes.
  
  But survival is only one aspect of the game, during the chracter creation you have to decide if 
 your character will have social asperations, romantic asperations, familiy asperations, scientific 
 asperations, or monetary asperations. Each one of these asperations requires diffrent things to 
 make you char happy (The most fun is romantic asperation where you basically sleep around all day. 
 God it is sooo funny. I wonder if they have STD's and accidental pregnancies?)
  
  Also another great things is there are mods up the arse for this game. So what ever your looking 
 to do, I'm sure you can probably do it.
  
  Anyways that is about as much as I can write right now, I will most like ly revise the review in 
 a couple months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktlover
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Sims: Bustin' Out on PS2. That was pretty good. He had The Sims 2 on CPU. I played 
 it for a while and loved it. Bought it. Great game. The graphics are pretty good. It's kool when 
 they're making food and stuff. It actually shows it. You can travel to the park and stuff. Even 
 to stores to buy groceries, magazines, and even games! It's soooo kool. There's not really any 
 downfalls in this game. It's amazing how creating a person or family and controlling what they 
 do is so fun. I can't believe it. I highly recommend this game. It's one of the best games I've 
 ever played on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow444466
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best simulation- no best GAME you will play until Halo 3 comes out. Well 
 let me tell you why this game is the best. First of all Im a big fan of simulation games, (especially 
 the Sims) and I would go crazy if I hadnt gotten the game. The second reason has a lot of reasons, 
 first one is the new aging process. I have the Xbox versions and the pc versions and they didnt 
 spend a lot of time on those (if you noticed) so I would be waiting for my kids to grow up and they 
 never would. And let me tell you, its pretty boring to watch your kids go to school everyday, and 
 a hassle to get them there on time. The other reason The Sims 2 is the best game (Until Halo 
 3) is because of the new Aspirations and Fears bar, thingy. Yeah Its way better than that bathroom 
 simulator they made before (The Sims) . Now you dont just go to the bathroom every five seconds, 
 you actually get to PLAY!!!! OMG, this is like so totally cool! The Aspirations and Fears are the 
 goal of the game, which makes it more fun. And your bladder bar goes down slower so you have time 
 to do stuff. So as you heard from me, this game is DEFINITELY worth your money, and you should 
 get it!
  
  -Shadow- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidas2020
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the sequel to The Sims and its 7 expansion packs, and as we can expect, this game 
 is very easy to play if you're a veteran Simmer. We can find familiar features like the 8 moods 
 (Hunger, Bladder, Hygiene, Social, Environment, Fun, Energy and Comfort) , the way we handle friendship 
 also hasn't change since Hot Date, with a Daily Bar on top and a Lifetime Bar at the bottom. Our 
 Sims still has their same skills also the way they build them hasn't change, and we can still get 
 a job via the computer or by looking for ads in the newspaper like in previous Sims games. The 
 Live, Buy, and Build Modes are still there.
  
  So The Sims 2 hasn't dramatically changed The Sims foundation. Instead it has added very interesting 
 features in the game to enforce that core foundation.
  
  When you first fire up the game, you can see that there are 3 ready-to-be-played neighborhoods, 
 each have its own story and sims, you can also make your own neighorhood if you'd like.
  When you start playing , you can see that sims now has a lifespan. That means that it will no longer 
 immortal as in its predecessors were. Sims now grows from being a baby ( not shown in the lifespan 
 bar) , to a toddler, then to a child, then to a teen, then to an adult, and finally to an elder. 
 Eventually they'll die of old age. But that also means that sims can actually have a real family. 
 They can become parents, watch their child grow up and then eventually become grandparents taking 
 care of their own grandchildren.
  
  Sims also have Aspirations (Family, Romance, Popularity, Fortune, Knowledge) . Each sims now has 
 their own Wants and Fears, which is dictated by their Aspiration, for example a Romance sim would 
 want to make out with a certain number of different sims, and they would fear to be engaged to 
 someone) . You can measure how well you fulfill your sims wants and avoid their fears with the Aspiration 
 meter. There are 7 levels Bottom Red - Red - Bottom Green - Green - Gold - Platinum.
  
  The Sims gorgeous graphics doesn't go unnoticed, it is a huge step-up from the original Sims, your 
 sims now actually have fingers instead of a thump and a big block. The game is now in full 3D, 
 you can now build a house with more than 2 floors, and your sims also have much more facial and 
 body expressions. The mirror in The Sims 2 now has reflections. Butterfly and other bugs will come 
 if you have plants. You can now have various meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner. You can also 
 change your sims appearance throughout the game whenever you want. Those are just very small details 
 but it make the game overall more attractive.
  
  But this game isn't a real-life emulator because it would get boring at the end of the day, instead 
 it adds quite a few "tweaks" like alien abductions, and man-pregnancy ( they relate to each other 
 if certain requirement are met) , few cinematics, and the Grim Reaper character is also hilarious 
 and unpredictable ( in a funny way) .
  Since Sims now has a lifespan it is almost logical that it has its own set of memory, like grown 
 up well or badly depending on their aspiration meter, a had the very first kiss with a certain 
 sim.
  
  The changes that Maxis made for their sims aren't just graphic, they are also more "intelligent". 
 When you leave them on their own they would fulfill their needs when they feel that they need to. 
 So their chance of surviving if you "accidentally" leave them alone is quite higher.
  Interactions in The Sims 2 are quite various but they haven't changed that much since its predecessor. 
 The Buy and Build Modes are pretty much just the same with of course brand new sets of items. But 
 the feature that stands out is that many objects has various versions of themselves and the player 
 can change them to follow the harmony in a room.
  
  The feature that underwent the biggest and most noticeable change is Create-a-Sim. It went from 
 choosing a gender, a face, a body and a personality to customizing a sims face. You can now let 
 your inspirations roam free and create a sim like you want it to be. You no longer are obliged 
 to stick to a few heads and a few bodies, as you can choose your sims various clothes ( from everyday, 
 to formal, to athletics, to underwear and swimwear) . You can also choose whether you want your 
 sims to have glasses or beard for a male sim, and make-up for a female. There are 4 colors for 
 your sims hair, and a variety of hairstyle to choose from.
  
  The game itself has many contents, but one of The Sims series major attraction is its modding community. 
 It is them who bring the most to the game by adding even more contents and extending the gameplay 
 time.
  
  Unfortunataly to experience The Sims 2 in all its beautifulness you need to have a good processor 
 paired with a decent graphic card and a healthy amount of RAM, or you'd experience lags, and forcing 
 yourself to downgrade the games graphical quality in order to get a decent game. This game is especially 
 a processor hog when you play a big family in a big lot with many objects.
  
  The Sims 2 is a worthy sequel to the Sims, but it also has done more than enough to stand on its 
 own. The Gameplay can be so addictive that you'll find yourself thinking "Just another day, then 
 I'll go to sleep". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phili4life
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Maxis has brought sim lovers the next generation The Sims 2. The sims 2 brings gives us good looking 
 3d graphics and also improves gameplay. The game gives you much more options and some new social 
 moves. The music is very lively and adds to the mood of The Sims. The only thing about the sims 
 is it sort of lacks value. Its probably better to buy some expansion packs because it gets kinda 
 boring. Maxis has really pushed the game to new heights and is really something no sim gamer should 
 be without. I give The Sims2 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVT0PIA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Exellent Game! Great simulation game. Really realistic when coming to real life activities and 
 problems. The entire basis of the game is you customize your own person. And when I say customize 
 I mean customize! You get to choose from a large variety of facial features and hair cuts. Then 
 you can also choose their clothes, skin tone and age. Then once your done with that you purchase 
 a Lot in the game, and watch your Sims live. Its basically playing God to a whole new level. You 
 can have them interact with other Sims. Go to work or college (The Sims: University) or stir up 
 some love inside a bed, hot tub, or even a car! (The Sims: Nite Life) You can also have a baby with 
 another Sims that can carry on traits of both Sims! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OeTvGreat
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Following the Sims tradition, this game has even more things that the original and it is also even 
 more elaborate and with better graphics, this is one of the few games in which second parts are 
 better than the first ones. There are a lot of new features, such as the opportunity to get pregannt 
 fears and wishes, aspirations, different objects, and a lot of more and different things, such 
 as male-male and female-female marriage, and well it is a lot way much better, i think that this 
 is one of the coolest games that I have ever play and I think that it is also a great legacy of 
 all what the sims are... this should definetely a fanatic favorite one, because it is a really 
 cool game...! Though it is difficult to play if you are a novice, this game reflects the opportunity 
 of creating different lives, and go through it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firerock1
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  it was quite a very fun game but it was quite hard to play the game because have to fu fill your 
 Sims needs so i don recommend newbies. This game on the other hand is also quite fun because you 
 get to create your own family but this game took up alot of computer space so is quite sucks! on 
 the other hand the game loading is so long till i want to kick the computer till is was broken 
 into pieces. The game play also sucks it was so hard to control your Sims they does not listen to 
 you all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lezdeppelin1249
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  The game is just fun a must buy very nice detailed (go to options and put on full graphics then 
 you know the defrence) very nice desighned people, lots of stuff to buy, many house desighns to 
 choose from. When you get a job you want to get promotions which leeds you to play alot you can 
 go to college once your done with high school (with university version) you can have a car (with 
 nightlife verion) start a buisness (with open for buisness version) you can do it all with sims
 
  
  although this game is a instant classic there are some problems, the bad is that there are techical 
 problems with walking most of the mens cloth is just stupid. Thats it for this review buy it and 
 have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 is the best game ever. Because the graphics is nice, the gameplay is long and the sound is 
 pretty nice.
  
  Everybody likes this game. The Expansion pack that make really cool, some people thinks that this 
 game sucks, if they say that this game is bad means they don't know anything.
  
  But the problem is that why the reviewer say 8.9 it's suppose to be 9.5 because they didn't seen 
 very much. If they saw all they would say this game is the best.
  
  I cnt wait the new expansion pack is comin.
  
  If the expansion pack had came i'm gonna so 
 be excited. I hope the other countries like this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game. for those of you who dont know, In the Sims franchise, you create a person, and 
 either buy a house for them, or use your own skill to design a house for them. There are tons of 
 items to furnish your house with. Also, they have a new feature called aspirations. while creating 
 your sim, you have to choose what they want of of life ( Knowledge, Money, Sex, Friends, or a Family.) 
 After choosing your sims aspirations, they get certain needs you have to Fufill, For example, if 
 you have the money aspiration, your sim may want a promotion, or to earn alot of money at one time. 
 If you complete these aspirations, not only will your sim be happier, they will do better at their 
 job, and you can buy unique new gadgets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pink2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  after so many years playing the sims, finally they get old!!! i say, the best game ever! not only 
 do you get to choose from thousands of face options (even if all my sims have the same cute face 
 :P ) but there are tons of wardrobe options as well! not like the sims 1, where you were stuck 
 with an outfit, so you would meet tons of townies with your same clothes! lol
  
  the fact that genetics are passed down totally rocks! and the option to change the furnitures colors 
 is even better! decorating the house takes a whole new meaning once you play the sims 2. trust 
 me, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  The Sims franchise has been one of my favorite franchises. Right out of the box I could already 
 tell there were many new improvements for this game. The graphics are really amazing and the AI 
 has been improved heavily. Although there are some of those times that the AI seems a little dumb 
 a bit. Nevertheless it is always funny to put a miss matched pairs of individuals in the same house 
 and see how they interact. The newest feature that I really like is the ability to choose from 
 the different generations. The Sims 2 core game alone doesn't offer that many items to furnish 
 your home with so it is a must to purchase some of the expansion packs to truely enjoy this great 
 game. Be prepared to lose a few hours of sleep due to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natey168
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever, even WITHOUT the EP's. If you have a good computer, you can 
 turn the graphics all the way up without it slowing down alot, so thats when the grapics are good, 
 but when they are turned down, they look pretty wierd, with their fingers stuck together and all.
 
  
  The audio is really good, and I like the launge the Sims talk (Simlish) . The music is good, i like 
 the simlish singing. It has good music for Buy/Build Modes, and Create A Sim.
  
  You can live other peoples lives for them. You can make choices you can't make in real life. The 
 sims age now, which is really good, you can make unlimited generations of sims, if you want to.
 
  
  Create A Sim is way more in depth than in the first game, you can change the shape of their faces. 
 So you can make a different and unique sim each time. The new Aspirations add more strategy to 
 the game. There are 5 different aspirations, Fortune, Knowledge, Family, Romance, and Popularity (for 
 the kids, it the grow up aspiration, but that is not optional) .
  
  You can make four story houses, with a wide arrange of building tools and objects. You can re-create 
 your house, or any house you can. (with good skill of course) .
  
  And that is what I think of sims 2. It is definetly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I loved Sims 1, and I really loved Sims 2. Sims 2 just adds so much and is very well polished. 
 The presentation is phenomenal. THe control interface is extremely well done and not as complicated 
 as you would think.
  
  The new aspiration meter thing put into the game is a great addition and gives you something more 
 to do. Watching your sims through generations and generations is great to see. And the create a 
 player is so in depth, you can create almost anyone you want. My only complaint about Sims 2 is 
 that once you reach the top of your carreer, have bought the huge mansion and are living the high 
 life, it gets boring. There is nothing to do when you are the bigshot, because you have accomplished 
 everything you wanted. They should add in some sort of element you can do once you complete your 
 life goals.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay was great and very very addictive, theres so much to do to advance or make your 
 sim better. But once you reach the top of your carreer and have the money rolling in this category 
 really suffers.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are good for 2004, but with the new games they are just decent. But with all 
 the gameplay elements this is understandable.
  
  Sound: Sims is not known for its sound, because there really isn't any. But the music really fits 
 and the sound effects they do have are good I guess.
  
  Value: Awesome replay value because this game is pretty much never ending, there is no story , 
 and you can experiment so many different ways.
  
  So in the end its a great game with lots of depth, with the flaw of nothing to do once you get 
 older. Lots of fun and very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beenofalus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  The only person in the world I know of that doesn't like the sims is my lady... but she's nuts!
 
  
  What can you say about the Sims 2? If you've never played it, it's completely addictive and suprisingly 
 fun since when you explain it to someone, it sounds like "You make a person and make them go to 
 work and take a bath and stuff."
  
  I'm one of those people who tries to do the reality thing. I don't do the funky neighborhood squabbles 
 and sock puppet social misfit type of Sims game. I get them top skills, best jobs, lots of kids, 
 cool houses, etc. Whether you're like me or you want to lock somebody in a room and see what they 
 do, Sims is your game.
  
  If you played Sims 1, you're in for a suprise. Sims 2 has way better graphics, more crisp sound, 
 and tons, tons , and tons more stuff to do! Here's the long and short of it:
  
  Visual - Much more impressive looking this time around. Lots of detail, great lighting, objects 
 look more realistic
  
  Audio - Although they still speak that weird sim language, the sound gets stepped up in the sequel
 
  
  Pros : Way more fun, you can get a lot more in-depth this time in every aspect.
  
  Addition of aspirations makes finding extra things to do interesting and the rewards are hilarious
 
  
  Aging makes the game much more exciting, to get as much done before you croak and maybe haunt your 
 family afterwards!
  
  Cons : Not nearly enough objects for the first release of the game. You would have thought by the 
 time the 30 expansions for sims 1 was done, people would want a ton of stuff in sims 2, but there 
 really wasn't enough IMO.
  
  Almost TOO much to do - you really have to pause almost everything and controlling a complex family 
 will be rough trying to figure out what meal to cook and does the other person want to watch clouds 
 or do yoga at the same time while another is gussying up in the mirror and etc. etc. etc.
  
  I have had teh sims 2 since it came out, in 2004. I played it in a big phase for about 4 months. 
 Then I stopped. A few months later I did it again, and got into another 3-4 month phase. I just 
 started again... how many games do YOU have that are 2 years old and you can still get as in depth 
 with them as you did when you bought it? There's no story, no ending, no missions, you can't repeat 
 anything! It's the perfect game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Le-Beave
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly in a league of it's own. Very few games can match the starndards set by this 
 game, let alone top them. Okay, as i write this review it's rank on PC is 2 of 3412. And it's like 
 that for a reason. Some of these include:
  The perfect music added to the game, just what you need to listen to as you watch the huge slap-fest 
 between the two sisters fighting over the richest Sim in the city. It's great. There are many features 
 that will keep you entertained, such as Create a Sim, Create a Neighbourhood, or you can play some 
 of the storylined cities that have been created for you such as Pleasuretown, with lots of families 
 in a bunch of dilemas yet all intertwined.
  Other great features allow your families to have children which have some of the same characteristics 
 as the parents. If your not in liking to watch a toddler crawl about... why not make your sims 
 fall in love and then make their own baby. Which then will grow older and older.
  You play as GOD and you decide whether this baby will be spoiled and have a great upbringing with 
 wealth and happiness. Or torture your sim by throwing it's fears straight at them. Watch your sim 
 grow from baby to child to teen to adults to pensioner, and eventually die. 
  As the box says 
  
  "THEY'RE BORN. THEY DIE. What happens in between is up to you"
  
  That's 
 all there is to it. Love your sim. Hate your sim. Fall in love? Or fall into a bottemless barrel 
 of disaster. Have hours of endless fun just messing around with other people's life without any 
 consequenses - completely the opposite of real life. I mean, i feel like i have had a bad life 
 so far, that's right, a 16 year old being bullied by God, sounds pathetic... but the tables have 
 turned as I now have this game and I AM THE GOD. I DECIDE THE SIMS' DESTINIES! AND YOU NEED TO 
 ASWELL. DON'T EVEN BOTHER RENTING THIS GAME... JUST BUY IT! YOU WON'T REGRET IT. 
  
  The possibilities in this game are endless. The sky is the limit. It's revolutionary, innovative 
 and a masterpeice. THIS is the future of PC games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The first Sims 2 expansion pack. In The Sims 2 University, players for the first time will play 
 through the new "young adult" life stage as their Sims head off to college and join the campus 
 crowd. Whether they live in the dorms or rush a fraternity or sorority thats just the beginningSims 
 can choose from one of 11 majors and by keeping their grades on track, theyll secure a final degree 
 and open up 4 new career paths. Pranks, parties and college social interactions add to the excitement 
 while your Sims explore campus locations such as college lounges, pool halls, gyms and coffee houses. 
 As in real life, if your Sims start running low on funds, they can earn Simoleans by picking up 
 a part time job, like tutoring, or engaging in riskier affairs like printing money as a member 
 of the "secret society."
  Add excitement to your Sims family with this all-new collection
  
  of furniture, clothing, and dcor. Decorate the home with an
  
  assortment of cool new furnishings, 
 including upscale living room
  
  items and adventurous bedroom sets. Dress your Sims in matching
  
  attire for an amusing day 
 out with the family. With 60 new items
  
  from castle beds to cruise ship replicas, your Sims will have more
  
  stuff for more family 
 fun.
  
  
  Requires The Sims 2, The Sims 2 Special DVD Edition, or
  
  The Sims 2 Holiday Edition to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  We've all heard of the Sims 1. Whether or not you like godgames, you have considered buying it. 
 When i first bought the Sims 1, i was thrilled to bits, i couldnt stop playing it, messing with 
 it. It was fantastic
  
  All the expansions came out making it even better and better. As computer games in the future got 
 graphically better, Sims 1 was coming down the charts fast
  
  Which is where EA Games brought Sims 2. Amazing graphics, but with all the same things roughly 
 from Sims 1.
  
  For me, i was really looking forwards to buying Sims 2 when it was about to release, but when i 
 first played it, i wasn't as thrilled as when i first played Sims 1, cuz i new how the game play 
 worked and what to do.
  
  So.. Sims 2, graphically GREAT ! but not as thrilling as i expected
  
  OF COURSE, if you never 
 played Sims 1, your are 101% guarenteed to LOVE Sims 2 out of your brains.
  
  Then when Sims 2 expansions came out, i was like 'Basically starting over from Sims 1, EA are trying 
 to get ur money, i was annoyed'
  
  -- B U T --
  
  Sims 2 expansions were totally different to Sims 1, this is when SIms 2 starting getting hot rod.
 
  
  Before i blabber on and on... my final review
  
  Sims 2 = Great if you played Sims 1 + all Sims 2 expansions
  Sims 2 = Mint-Off Brilliant if you 
 have never played Sims 1
  
  Thats really all there is to it.
  Hope it helps your dissision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hladyb4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2, for those unfamiliar with the fanshise, is a single player simulation game in which 
 you create and control the lives of virtual people. You decide the course their lives will take 
 and if those lives will be happy and productive or miserable. Every aspect of their lives is decided 
 by you. Will they marry, if so, how many (if any) c hildren will they have. What carreer they pursue 
 and how far they go with that carreer. What do your sims aspire to? Do they aspire to a life of 
 pleasure, or family life, wealth, or education? You decide. What's your sign? Is your sim a motherly 
 Pisces , a picky Capricorn or a shy Cancer? The choice is yours.
  EA/Maxis has created a very popular game that is expandable and open ended in as much as you can 
 download numerous items to enhance gameplay. The large community that has evolved from the game 
 is full of very creative and generous people willing to share the things they make.
  Everything from fashions, to actual sims, furniture, walls and floors, houses, neighborhoods and 
 even mods (to change the way the game acts) is available. There are so many ways you can play the 
 game and you have so many people you can control that gameplay is unlimited.
  This game is already a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is even better than The Sims 1. The people are so detailed, you can even see then in 
 3D. What also is a very good compared with the Sims 1 is that your sims are less bad mooded. If 
 they get out of bed now then they are not bad mooded, but act normal. Also if another sims stants 
 in there way they will move getely past it. And the other sims will stap away for a while. So there 
 is much more knowledge of the other sims in the household. 
  
  If you also look at the baby, you can now actualy see it and take much better care of it. It's 
 not just a babybed with a baby anymore. It's a real human being. The sim interactions are much 
 more avaleble, they can do more with eachother. You can even right from the beginning say which 
 sims are partners, and whitch are brothers. And even there children and aunts. 
  
  It's a great game to play, and it's worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  its boring as anything. You make a family, live their life, and they die. Thats about it. So what?
 
  
  Graphics arent bad. Their actually quite good. But the game is so slow that it isnt worth starting 
 up and playing. If the game gets minimized it takes like, 10 minutes to maximize it back up. Whenever 
 my sister plays it I have to restart the computer cause it slows everything down. The gameplay 
 gets so boring after a while (about 10 minutes) . Cause the game slows down and then it takes like, 
 a full minute for the sim to walk across the room. Thereisnt much stuff to do interactive ly. I 
 mean, if you want to play a game like this, why dont you play a game called LIFE, as in, the one 
 your living now. Its more interesting, you can leave your house, there is MUCH more strategy, more 
 options, although its a bit longer it doesnt delay, just keeps on coming for years and years. You 
 can break more rules (like underage sex and drinking) and if you wanted, you could do drugs or 
 actually own a car. Anyone who actually plays this game is just a loser who cant live their own 
 life right so they live someone else's.
  
  By the way, the sound is terrible. The music is ear-splitting, the way the sims sound is like death 
 to your ears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-bag11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best sequels to any game i've ever played. the graphics, sound and gameplay 
 are amazing. i remember playing a lot of the original sims then i found out about this and had 
 to get it. i liked the fact you could choose different age categories for your sims and reproduce 
 using dna, meaning the children have attributes of their parents. this is just like in real life. 
 i will say that the aging came much faster than i had expected. i was nowhere near the stats i 
 had to be to receive the better jobs. the addition of goals and fears is a great idea. if you complete 
 a goal for example kiss someone then you are rewarded. after a number of goals are achieved you 
 can unlock more items that you can add to your house. fears of course are the opposite and your 
 sim will become insane if a certain goal is not achieved after a matter of time. i've never seen 
 this happen although i'm sure it'd be something to try if you're looking for some added excitement. 
 also changes to your sims basic needs has been fixed. you don't have to go to the bathroom every 
 5 minutes or be socialable before your sim gets aggitated. overall this is a game just about anyone 
 can pick up and play and play again. if you haven't played it yet do yourself a favor and go out 
 there and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redeny111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Sim's 2 is very addicting and worth every penny you pay. The game is amazing and with so many 
 additions from the first one. I would recommend this game to anyone and everyone. Everyone will 
 love this game including those die hard Sim's fans and for people who are just beginning to play. 
 When I bought this game I would play hours and hours a day. All the new features that this game 
 has makes it incredible. Now there is so much stuff to do that you'll forget about your real life 
 and play the Sim's 2 day and night. It would be super hard to get bored of this game since you 
 can make as many families as you want and with your Sim's aging you'll want to guide them as their 
 life goes on. It is a must have for anybody who has a computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bizzarro_strife
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  So it's a kown fact that the sims is a very addicitng game. There are hundreds of site where you 
 can download player created content, a dozen expansions and everyone loves it. (even if they don't 
 know it) It is just plain fun. Rather you like to play it straight with the pre-set thigns and 
 like the thrid party costumes, hair, faces, items, etc. It's extreemely immersive.
  
  Gameplay- Simple. Fun.
  
  Graphics- Good enough. They could be better.
  
  Sound- Dispite 
 a few annoying sounds the sims themselves make, the sound is good. The Theme gets stuck in your 
 head pretty easily.
  
  Value- Worth every penny.
  
  Tilt- I don't get what tilt is. And you probably think I'm an idiot. I don't care
  
  IF you 
 have a PC it's a must have. Especially if you don't want to pay WoW's fees or are too young to 
 buy Oblivion. It's fun, you don't need a great computer to play it and ... well play it yourself 
 an you'll know. There's something about the Sims2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 will make an excellent addition to anyone's video game collection as it offers plenty 
 of cool features:
  
  The Good: Up to 8 people per family, you can make actual family trees, create baby, kid, teen, 
 adult, and elder, make houses over 5 stories high, take pictures and record videos, plenty of different 
 job options and promotions, loads of expansion packs
  
  The Bad: VERY, VERY long load times, actual aging people so your family will eventually die
  
 
  This game has almost no faults, its definely the best in the series, and I definitely encourage 
 you to play it, worth more then it costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I've recommended this game to all of my friends and everyone has enjoyed it. The way you can run 
 your own little lifes show is just great. Whether you want to make it a sad life for your sim or 
 a happy rich life, its a great game for anyone. The graphics are greatly done. The gameplay is 
 great, run your own family or become a home alone game nerd do anything you want, its your sims 
 life and you can rule over it like a king! It can be frustrating at times when your sim does something 
 you don't want it to. The sounds are quite amusing, the sims speak some kind of weird language 
 that you have no idea what they are saying. There is a stereo system that you can put your own 
 songs onto or listen to the current ones they have on there. The sims are allowed to throw parties, 
 whether it be a wedding for your little family or a birthday for your son/daughter or just a party 
 to have fun, you can do it all. Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the sequel to one of the most popular games of all time (The Sims) . In The Sims, 
 you created a family of virtual people, called sims, built them a house and looked after them. 
 The reason the game was so popular was because it was very open-ended, and many dramas could unfold 
 of you wanted them to. In The Sims 2, it takes this basic formula a step further.
  
  The newest and biggest addition to The Sims 2 is aspirations. Basically, every sim has an aspiration 
 (a purpose in life, a profession, something to do) , and they have wants and fears. To succeed in 
 the game, you can fulfill every want they have. Or, if your the sadistic type (all of us) , you 
 can realize all of their fears and make them go insane. When you realize their wants, you get aspiration 
 points. You can spend the points on certain objects that can benefit or ruin them in many ways. 
 The aspiration points system can get a little bit annoying at times though.
  
  Maxis has improved build mode by adding a lot of more building options. You can now add foundations 
 to your house, connecting stairs, and even multi-level houses if you're skilled enough.
  
  The buy mode has also changed. There is this new design option that lets you alter the appearance 
 of some furniture. For example, if you buy a sofa but don't like the colour, you can change the 
 colour if you pay an extra 15 simoleons (sim money) .
  
  Another very noticeable improvement is in the graphics. The graphics have had a major overhaul 
 and The Sims 2 actually looks like a new game. Sims have gained a lot more polygons. They have 
 articulated fingers, hair that blows in the wind and real teeth.
  
  The sound usually consists of the usual gibberish spoken by the little sims. The music is really 
 varied. It has a wide selection of music tracks but please, please stay away from the Pop tracks. 
 They're awful! Well, I think they're awful.
  
  As with every game, The Sims 2 has some flaws. Sims still stand around doing nothing if all their 
 wants and needs are full. There are also some annoying glitches but they will probably be fixed 
 in later patches.
  
  Plus: Aspiration, graphics. New build options.
  Minus: Aspiration, old pcs might not be able to run it. Awful Pop tracks. Glitches. If you didn't 
 get it the first time you still won't get it this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  The Sims2 is one of the greatist, most original games to date. I play my 360 often but cannot tear 
 myself away from my family... Well my girlfriend and I love building and decorating houses together. 
 I build some usually original houses or community lots. Or I will go to blueprints for my dream 
 houses. You havn't played the sims? Where have you been? Well go pick it up on ebay or get your 
 fanny to wallyworld and purchase this masterpiece. I encorage anyone that is seeking an adicting 
 game to play the sims 2 you will have fun. Oh and stop by this cool website that i dl some original 
 lots and custom content for the sims 2 called www. thesimsresource. com you gotta subscribe to get 
 the good stuff but its fun. Happy Simming
  
  Boolprop constrainm34d1986toseat true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games of all time. The graphics are great, but there still is a lot 
 of glitches in the game. This one make the older one look retarded. Lots of fun things to do in 
 games like make alien. But still it is the same from the first except its graphics, and growing 
 up. You Have now so many options to make your Sims. In this game kids grow up unlike the old one 
 when they are kids for ever. The only reason this is a bad game is because the loading screens 
 take for ever!! Otherwise this would be the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallonebrownme
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  i am so glad that i found out about this game called the sims 2, i use to see it but never ventured 
 farther. one day i deceided to play this game and i tell u i am glad to have played this game. 
 first of all its very addictive i never sit down to play for more than an hour, what i end up doing 
 is playing for hours and hours on in and dont even realize that my own world is moving right along, 
 thats why its addictive because you are so busy controlling your sims lives that you forget about 
 your own life for a moment. the game is very rich and you can play your sims lives any way you 
 see fit if you want chaos then so be it but if you want order and success like me then you must 
 use time manangement in the game because time is not on your side it keeps moving just like in 
 real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deejayscooter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Sims 1 was a really fun game to play back in the days when it just came out, because it was one 
 of the games that kind blended reality when comic/cartoon-ish stuff. But there was just something 
 about it that just would make you tired of playing it after a few weeks or so.
  
  This is not the problem with Sims 2. The Sims can do a lot more stuff, they do it in a more realistic 
 way and it still have that fun cartoon-ish atmosphere. 
  
  I could go on talking for like another 5 days non-stop but i'll just stop here cause it's definitely 
 most fun to find out new stuff when playing the game. :)
  
  Overall, if you were a fan of the original Sims then you will definitely like this one even more, 
 and even if you ain't even a fan of strategy games (like me) you can still have fun playing this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrKittyCat1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Its Just great Nice Graphics And game play Recommended for any age.
  
  You'll be addicted from the moment you start playing. Its based around your Character (s) you Control 
 their actions house and objects Very detailed You'll Be Happy you have purchased it or recieved 
 it I highly Recommand It to anyone who enjoys simulaters. Also Its appropriate for all ages It 
 may say teen but really its not that bad. If your Bored I suggest you try this also 
  If you enjoyed it there ar expansion packs for you to purchase. last But not least its rather cheap. 
 Happy Gameing!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: little_sis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Sims the my favorite game for the pc ever!!! once i start playing i can't stop. I'll start playing 
 and next thing you know i've been playing for 5 hours. {true story} I think the sims for the pc 
 is awesome, but the sims for ps2, x-box aren't as good. The sims 2 is a total improvment from the 
 first one. They are so realistic now. Just from the little things they do like sneeze or yawn here 
 or there. plus the graphics are 20 times better. You can actually see their facial expressions. 
 Unlike in number one. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion2403
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is genius. Simply genius! You start by making your own neighborhood building houses, 
 shops and recreational grounds. I love doing this. All the features from wall covers to deciding 
 what colour to make your windows really give you endless creative options. From shacks to mansions 
 your immagination is the only limit.
  
  If building isn't your thing, there are 3 pre-established neighborhoods. The typical Sim neighborhood 
 (return of the Goth family!) , a new desert neighborhood (complete with aliens!) and a neighborhood 
 to reminisce with your high school English days (Romeo and Juliet) .
  
  Creating your Sims and Genetics is also great! No sim is alike and you can create a variety of 
 characters from your siblings to your best friends. Or, you can make yourself right down to the 
 size or your ears!
  
  Gameplay itself is very complex and commical. See what happens to the kids when you cheat on your 
 spouse and break up. How might death affect the family? What if you realize your deepest fears 
 and not enough desires? Complete with amusing scenarios (the Grim Reaper comes along, with a quick 
 phone call to God, your Sims talking to a cup on a stick when they're nuts!)
  
  I really recommend this game to anyone who prefers open ended gameplay with a few objectives to 
 keep you occupied. This game isn't perfect. It has annoying little bugs and problems but for everything 
 you can do, all the situations you can mould with entertaining commical value is brilliant. The 
 aging feature lets you see family life for what is really is and forces you to make haste in achieving 
 your Sims goals. Brilliant game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfZim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This was VERY good game. It certainly lived up to the original. With TONS character creation options 
 and players making new ones with the Sims 2 Body Shop, you can make your friends, enemies (then 
 trap them in a room, watch them wet themselves, then die!) , or celebrities. Although GameSpot. com 
 has a few good downloads for the game, www. thesims2. ea. com has got a few thousand on them. Sorry 
 GameSpot! If your a casual gamer, pick this up and you won't be for long, trust me. This game is 
 like an MMORPG, be sure you have time to play it, or before you know it, you'll have no job, girlfriend, 
 or life outside the Sims 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMessiahNF
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Ever wish that if your house caught fire, all you had to do was quickly exit to the neighborhood 
 without having to save and the second your back in your house, the fire is gone and everything 
 was back the way it used to be? Okay, so maybe you were pre-occupied and time went back a liiitle 
 farther than you may have liked, but at least you know what happens in the future, and you can 
 take the necessary precautions to prevent it...
  
  Okay, stop. What on earth am I talking about? 
  
  The Sims 2, taken after it's succesful successor 
 (clever, huh) , is the latest Sims made from Maxis/EA Games. That doesn't include the expansions, 
 so be cool. There are lots of good things and a few bad things about this game, but overall it's 
 safe to say that if you were a fan of the first Sims, you'll wanna play this one as long as your 
 body and computer can handle it. You may think, "Ptsh! You're full of it, DarkMessiahNF, Total 
 Access Subscriber to GameSpot! (just so you all know) ." I know deep down that after you FANS play 
 it, you will do one of two things: Be stubborn and refuse to admit I'm right, or you can just admit 
 that I'm right and we both replenish our Energy bars happily.
  
  First off, let's go into the graphics. It's very well done, and it kinda gives you that cartoony-yet-detailed 
 feel. Assuming you have a high-performance machine, the object models are very well done. Gimme 
 a few weeks (my Internet crapped out on me) and I can show some good snapshots taken from the game. 
 I'll get into new functions in a bit. The people actually have all 10 phalanges (fingers for you 
 under-educated folk) and the hair doesn't look half-bad either. The clothes are kinda off at times, 
 but aside from the lack of male genitalia, they are pretty anatomically correct. Although, in this 
 one every female has the same sized breasts (obviously teens are smaller, duh) . 
  
  The houses are amazing. Even though in The Sims: Livin' Large you could add a second story to your 
 home, The Sims 2 lets you go up to however many floors you want, depending on what you set the 
 limit to. I forgot the code, but you can find it floating around here somewhere. Anyways, you get 
 every kind of object you can think of, and if you can't find it in the game, there are places you 
 can find them and download them to your Downloads folder (My Documents\EA Games\The Sims 2\Downloads) . 
 
  
  There are new functions to the game? Well certainly, my little minions. You have better camera 
 control (which I recently found out that if you wish, you can set it to original Sims camera) so 
 you can actually get a first-yet-third person perspective on your Sims. There's actually a horizon 
 line. Oh, and you have a roof too. Your Sims house actually LOOKS LIKE A HOUSE on the outside. 
 Take a picture, it'll last longer. 
  
  There's the Camera option. Snapshot and Video. You can hit the C key and the game takes a picture 
 for you. You can make some wacky photo albums or whatever. I caught one of my Sims making a hilarious 
 face during Yoga so I made a forum banner with it. If you hit the V key, you can start recording 
 video. Normally it lasts about 30-60 seconds, tops. If you go into your Camera options, you can 
 set it to whatever you want. Mine is now at 2400 seconds. 40 minutes. Lemme tell ya, when I make 
 videos, I make videos. If there's a scene that you want to catch in your video but don't want to 
 stop it and start a new file, you can hit the B key and it pauses it, then you can pause the game 
 and set the camera up how you want it (see next paragraph) then unpause, wait a second then hit 
 the B key again and it'll continue recording. You will enjoy your results.
  
  There's also the Camera Man option you can use for moviemaking that allows you to get close-ups 
 of your Sims and lets your camera go places you can't go in normal mode, like in a small room with 
 all the walls currently standing up. Hey, if you want to make a movie, at least make the set look 
 real. To access this option, hit the TAB key. 
  
  Q - Moves the camera down
  E - Moves the camera up
  W - Moves forward
  S - Moves backward
  A - Moves left
  D - Moves 
 Right
  Z - Zooms in
  X - Zooms out
  Mouse - Moves the camera field of vision to look anywhere, though it's as if the cameraman isn't 
 moving, just the the direction the camera is looking in
  
  There's this new system called Aging. I think you've heard of it. It's when you grow older as time 
 goes by. Though the Sims 2 is based on real-time, they're not THAT real-time. Their aging process 
 is a gratefully quicker, so you don't have to spend 80 years to develop your toddler into a senior 
 citizen. That's for real-life, which is hard enough. Newborn babies grow into toddlers 3 Sim days 
 after birth. From the first day as a teen, it takes 15 Sim days to turn into an adult. Adults take 
 29 Sim days to turn elderly, then old folk just die eventually, unless you drink the Elixir of 
 Life, which adds on 3 whole days of life. Wow... 3 days.
  
  The Expansions are definitely a good plus. University adds on 4 new jobs, which you can only get 
 if your Sim has a college degree (starts after you send your teen to college, which if you don't 
 they go straight into adulthood and miss out on the new spiffy jobs, one being a Superstar. Movie 
 actor or voice actor or whatever. Another one is an Artist. Come on, you know you want that job.
 
  
  Nightlife allows you to drive a car to work and basically everywhere you go instead of carpooling 
 with someone or taking that smelly taxi. They have added vampires to your neighborhood townies, 
 so if you befriend one of them, you become one of them...... I'm still working on that one. They 
 have Turn-Ons and Turn-Offs, which makes finding love either easier or harder, but nonetheless 
 it's awesome. Nightlife also adds the system option of viewing your entire neighborhood from your 
 lot, so you can see your neighbor's houses. Just not your neighbors. That's that the telescope 
 is used for during the daytime. Dirty perverts.
  
  Open For Business, which I have yet to buy, is bound to be my favorite one. You can basically run 
 your own business either on a community lot or from your own home. I have used a special program 
 called The Sims 2 Homecrafter Plus to design my own wallpaper that has my company name on it, so 
 I can make my own office building when I get that expansion. My company is actually going to be 
 game design (in real life, not Sims) so I can find something close to that, I suppose. A few hacks 
 and a couple days on SimPE (a program you can use to make custom content for The Sims 2) and I 
 can have my own game design company. 
  
  You can also have ghosts in this game, which they only come out at night. They appear by how you 
 kill them. Fire, drowning, flies, falling satellite, electrocution, hunger, disease, fright, and 
 just plain getting old. Your female Sims pregnancy is now new age, so it seems more realistic. 
 If your adult male Sim gets abducted by aliens, he comes back pregnant. I find that awfully hilarious, 
 and definitely worth making a movie about.
  
  There's another new addition called Aspiration. Basically, your Sims get wants depending on what 
 they wanna do with their life. If you have the Knowledge aspiration, they'll wanna see a ghost 
 or get abducted by aliens or gain lots of skill points. The other Aspirations are Fortune, Romance, 
 Family, and Popularity. Nightlife adds the Pleasure aspiration, which we can all guess what that 
 one is. To have fun, duh! What'd you think I meant?
  
  There's a bunch more, but all-in-all, you get the basic idea of this game. It's worth playing, 
 that's for sure. The main thing I love about it is that you can add your own custom content. Especially 
 music for the radio, or videos for your TV or video games. I have Half-Life footage in place of 
 SSX, that snowboarding game they put on there. It's an EA thing, I guess. 
  
  Now if only I could create my own radio station, or TV station.. 
  
  Anyway, thanks for taking 
 the time out of your not-so-busy schedule to read this... what, you actually had stuff to do, yet 
 you come on here to read reviews? Ha... you wished. 
  
  My name is Dark Messiah. This has been the highlight of your day, good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one game out of the few I will play on the PC because there is more power in a PC 
 then there is in a Gamecube, (that's what system I have) .
  
  But back to the review The Sims 2, you can do a lot thing on the game but you can also do things 
 off of it too. Like for example you can create your sim, from the Start to All programs to EA Games 
 to The Sims 2 to The Sims 2 Body Shop.
  
  But the main focus is probably on the game so here it is finally........ The Sims 2 is and forever 
 be one of the best Sim. games where you can live out your fantasies and date/married a Celebrity.
 
  
  The Sims 2 has just about anything you can think of, you go to work, you come home, eat, take a 
 shower, go to the bathroom somewhere in there, and sleep, but just like the real life you get days 
 off.
  
  A few life lessons, you need to know how to cook, and it 's always helpful to have a workout bench.
 
  
  Why do you need to know how to cook well, you could either do two things if you don't know how 
 to cook.
  
  1. Could start a fire and everyone in the house dies, unless you have a smoke alarm.
  
  2. Could 
 also burn the food your making get sick.
  
  and that is my review of The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveN_25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Hi, I got this game, fired it up. Ye sure, neat graphics, nice detail, nice. At first I thought 
 "ye this is pretty kool" but then it donned on me whats the bloody point.
  I'm sitting here, oh ye my guy needs to work out, he needs corisma, he needs a job.......... blah 
 blah blah
  Wait a minute, what about me I need to work out, I need corisma, I need a f#ckin job.
  So im 
 sittin there doing all the leg work for this "sim" chump when I should really be doing this stuff 
 for myself.
  So I have decided to become my own personal sim.
  
  steve move here
  steve get snack
  steve stop being a lame ass and start chattin up the hot chick.
  
  You know, 
 but back to the game thought it was good for about 15minutes and thats when the fatal strike of 
 reality kicked in.
  
  They could of made the game much better I think. Like heres an option, you can sabotage people 
 in your neighbourhood, steal stuff from there house. Basically the game needs more substance to 
 it. Ye sure building the house, make it pretty, get a job but once you've done that it gets kinda 
 dull......... fast. 
  But thats just my opinion, the game could be great, maybe I need to play it more I dont know, but 
 if the game doesnt grip me then it aint working.
  
  p. s what "reviewers tilt" in the review part ill give it a 5 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the second addaption or sequel to the original The Sims. However there has been many 
 and i say many expansions but this is much much more than an expansion. The Sims was a very very 
 great game that you made a house, got married and had kids, but what did that one miss alot, aging.... And 
 that is why this one replaces it and makes it way better. Your players can start off as a little 
 kid and sooner or later become a old grandpa. Hell, even if you have a baby, your baby grows older. 
 The house designs have become more indepth, more designs like carpets and wall paints have become 
 added to make your playing experience one hell of a time... You also, create massive neighbor hoods 
 out of the characters you create, so basically you can leave like your own little fantasy in this 
 game. You can create over 3 different and wonderful Neighborhoods for your pleasures. More detail 
 has also been put into the way you can customize your people, this game is very very improved. 
 However, if you dont have a proper graphics card for this game, it will lag up and shut off a quite 
 abunch...
  
  The graphics for this game are spledid and you can really see how well EA has been working on it 
 to make it more of a better game. The aging in the people are really well done, you can see gray 
 hairs and all such things like that, that show age in a person. The houses, textures are very very 
 nice and articulated. None the less, this games experiexce shows in the graphics area and does 
 exatcly what it is ment for. 
  
  The sound, in this game are the same int he last 800 sims games, you get the sims language, the 
 often stupid TV sounds, and some annoying alarms going off. 
  
  Overall, this game is well done and a new addition to EA's shelves makes this game a very very 
 nice buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  ok sims2 is stimulation where u can create your own movies and also live your own imaginary life. 
 
  
  like i say its imaginary u can have a gf and live with her. u can marry her. then you can umm have 
 *** with her. then you will have a child to nurture. now there more to play with. this boy goes 
 to school and hes grows to a adolescent to a teen to and adult to and elder. the dad and mom would 
 be an elder. 
  
  sadly sims2 do die but u have the options of bringing to their goals or their fears before they 
 do. this is the part i like. the special scenario is when u give ur gf a ring and then she goes 
 like "whoo!" and her eyes shine and then she kiss you. goals and fear can always change so theres 
 a lock option where you keep one goal you dont want to be altered.
  
  overall this game is a rating of 9.1 thx for making sims2 good. 
  
  *battle for middle earthII 
 stinks game balance!* EA u should make it better* spread the word! bfmeII stinks!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphWrath
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  If you played the original Sims or just wanted to now is your chance! The Sims 2 is as good as 
 it gets. Its an amazing game with a lot of features. You can totally customize your Sim with the 
 Sims 2 Body Shop included with the game. With Body Shop you can literally adjust every facial feature 
 on your Sim until youre happy with it. This is a great game for creative people who like to control 
 everything.
  
  In Sims 2 you can literally roleplay the lives of an entire neighborhood, family, or just a single 
 Sim living in his or her bachelor pad. You can build your own home from scratch, put in trees, 
 and even change the landscape. What your Sim (s) do is up to you! In Sims 2 your Sims have needs, 
 wants, aspirations, and fears, and its up to you to accomplish or not accomplish these. 
  
  Electronic Arts or "EA" has an A+ Community, and I may say this a lot, because I usually look for 
 that in my game buying decision. You can go to www. thesims2. com or any of the top dozen independent 
 fan sites like www. modthesims2. com/ or www. thesimsresource. com/, and there you can find thousands 
 of custom content from objects, sims, clothes, hairstyles, lots, and even hacks that change the 
 way you play. EA supports their games very well, and you wont be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarky3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 puts you in control of a family of "sims" who, for the most part, will obey you as long 
 as you keep them happy. The first step in the game is actually to create a family. You can tweak 
 every last detail - right down to eye-shadow colour and cheekbone height! Next, drop this family 
 in an existing empty lot - or go through the process of building their entire house. Make sure 
 they have all the essential's like a fridge, toilet, shower. Purchase decorations, plants, fun 
 toys, appliances, and so on. Re-decorate whenever you like. Now, send your sims to work, get them 
 building friendships with neighboring families, start building their skills and get them producing 
 new family members of their own!
  
  Most of the interface and ideas come straight from The Sims original (and it's many expansions) 
 but this is not a bad thing. A new 3D environment, quality textures and models, and a new level 
 of interaction with sims.
  
  For people who aren't used to a complex interface, the new 3D controls can take a bit to get used 
 to but with some practice you have a whole lot more control over what you see.
  
  Another change from the origional Sims is that your sims grow old (and eventually die) . This is 
 countered by the availibility to bring new sims into their virtual world, either by adoption or 
 the more conventional method, "woohoo" (as the developers have called it) .
  
  You'll never see a naked sim (thanks to tv-like privacy pixelation) and "woohoo" is handled tactfully 
 always under the covers or behind closed doors showing sparks flying and fireworks.
  
  One of the most interesting new additions to the sims is that on top of their "needs" (Social, 
 Hunger, Bladder, etc.) , you can now help achieve (or avoid) the wants and fears of each sim. These 
 wants/fears are a mixture of things that happen during this sims life and the major drive (that 
 you choose) for that sim such as romance, knowledge, family, etc.
  
  The game is very focused around these wants. Your sims have no Christian moral code and don't mind 
 sleeping around with their best friends or same sex friends if you want them to, but you can easily 
 discourage these activities by how you guide them.
  
  Each sim is given a star sign, based upon the attributes you define for them. Although it may sit 
 uneasily for some, it doesn't really change the game and isn't worth getting hung up over.
  
  For those who are worried about it, here are some more potentially objectional situations that 
 are possible: 
  
  The possibility of being visited by aliens 
  Multiple love interests 
  Ghosts appearing near death 
  Romance sims with desires for simultaneous 
 multiple loves
  
  This is one of those games that can be played for a long, long time. In fact, probably the most 
 dangerous part of The Sims 2 is that you will get too addicted! Try to keep your life in balance. 
 But from a gamers perspective, this game is very cheap for both the amount of enjoyment and game 
 time that you will get out of it.
  
  
  Just one more negative for the financially minded is that you just know this is going to cost you 
 more than the initial purchase. The Sims franchise is known for expansions - I believe 9 were released 
 for the original, and there are already 4 for the sims 2.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who can look past the potentially negative points and is mature 
 enough to deal with the possible "interesting" situations. My review has not covered half of what 
 is possible inside of the sims universe.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Everything is great on the game , the aim of the game is to make loads of families and run their 
 lives, you can customize your characters, give them any family name or character. You have to keep 
 your sims alive and impress them alot, you can have babies, gay people, and even lesbians, its 
 extremely fun. The graphics impress me alot but the most impressing thing is the tilt !!, you can 
 zoom in and out and turn left and right so you are able to see anything.
  
  YOU HAVE TO GET IT
  N N N N N N N N N N N N O O O O O O O O O W W W W W W W W W W
  
  Luckylucas11 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentshooter10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I think that every single person should have this game no mater what.
  
  Gameplay- This game is fun to play and adds a lot of new things that the original game did not 
 have. The new aspeations adds a more to the game rather than just playing an endless game doing 
 the same thing over again. Also the fact that you can have a huge never-ending family tree makes 
 the game not get boring in a couple of hours.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very nice and look smooth and clean. I have nothing bad to say about 
 the graphics.
  
  Sound- The music fits and adds the mood The Sims should have. The sounds are crystle clear.
  
 
  Value- This game is worth way more than 50$.
  
  Bad things- Even though this game is AWESOME there are some bad parts. I think that you age too 
 fast but there are certian things you can do to stop the aging procses. The loading times when 
 going to a commuity lot is way too long but you don't go to commuity lots often.
  
  Everybody should have this game PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1SleepyGit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  The original Sims game was good, however it lacked true personalities for your sims, the engine 
 was getting outdated despite all the expansion packs they kepts throwing at us, and the game was 
 always limited in scope, with the same thing happening day in and day out with things like relationships 
 feeling almost nonexistant since marriage was merely a way to get a sim to move in, etc. while 
 children were always children and just got in the way.
  
  The Sims 2 corrects all of these faults, and improves in many ways. Now sims remember that they 
 are married, have proper relationships (or more detailed ones anyway) , have wants and fears based 
 on their aspiration, and actually even grow up and age! It is also in real 3D this time, able to 
 move the camera however you wish instead of the fixed isometric view you had in the first one. 
 The sims themselves also look alot better, with proper expressions and are rather entertaining, 
 and while there are newer games out with better looking graphics now they still serve their purpose 
 well and still look fantastic and were really well done. The sims voices are entertaining also, 
 simlish is a amusing language, and all the sounds seem to fit well. The personality you make for 
 your sims determine how they react to others, how well they clean things, and what they like to 
 do. 
  
  The expansion packs released since the Sims 2 all fit on perfectly and open up even more of the 
 game, vastly improving on a already great game. Well, most of them, don't bother with the stuff 
 packs, since all they do is add a few extra skins at a extortionate price, but thats EA for you. 
 A sequel that was long overdue when it was released but is worthy of carrying on the Sims legacy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 30, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Well, lets start...
  
  Firstly, in this game it is easy to learn the concepts of very quickly, although is challenging 
 to master the game without using cheats (Maxis doesn't even attempt to hide cheat codes) . Learning 
 the basics is sped up by the addition of an almost pointless set of tutorials, although i have 
 played the original Sims, which only really serve to introduce the myriad of new features The Sims 
 2 offers.
  
  When it comes to actual gameplay you can see Will Wright made every effort to simulate real life, 
 with the ratios between moods and their rates of decreasing being almost perfect, but i feel Simlings 
 can get tired a bit too quickly when coping with stressful activities, and the game fails to account 
 for the various anomalies of Human psychology.
  
  Apart from all that, my only other worry is the music included, some of it is real CRAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrynitewithyou
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a excellent game? Not only have the sims improved graphically but also smarter and 
 the gameplay is better. 
  
  The sims one was all about taking them to the bathroom ... feeding them... and having them work.. with 
 no real fun added to it. Now The Sims 2 have goals and aspirations that they want and need. So 
 it adds so much more to the game and not only that but there are life stages!!!! Before it was 
 kid. adult. die... now its baby, kid, teen, young adult (university) , adult, elder.
  
  If you have not yet purchased this game what are you waiting for!!?? Go Get It!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the guys who gave you SIms and wold domination, or at least the ability to control a few lives 
 have done it again. This time they are bigger and badder than ever. Much improvement between the 
 two games, both being very good games indeed.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are much improved from the first one. You can now make the faces of your 
 Sims unique, like SWG, you can morph eyes noses, mouths, etc. This adds a great aspect to the game.
 
  
  Sound- They still talk in their Sim language, not allowing you to know exactly what they are saying, 
 but that's okay. Again you can easily get annoyed by the TV sounds, but there are plent of TV shows 
 to watch, and plenty of other ways to interact with other sims.
  
  Playability- There have been major upgrades to the things you can buy, talk about, use, make, etc. 
 You can make your own neigborhood, and have people visit each other, or just talk a little on the 
 phone to get your friendship points up. I'm just amazed at how many things you can buy and things 
 you can do that they have added. A very good game indeed. I can't wait for Sims 3!
  
  You will find yourself spending hours with your sims, not sleeping or eating, but instead having 
 your sims eat and sleep for you. You'd be amazed that this works, and you won't want to eat or 
 sleep, so be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameslee04
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  I first wasintroduced to the sims series from my friend on the PS2 version but had never heard 
 it was on the PC until sims 2 at this time we had got a new computer and got it and how much i 
 prefer it to the console versions to begin with building is much easier and the only limit with 
 building is your hard drive. You can download extras from the website and many more websites if 
 you look around. But gameplay is the best part now with asprirations which is like depression when 
 it is platinum you feel king of the sim world but red and you a seriouly depressed and these can 
 affect your mood plus ageing this can be an affect of aspirations if it is platinum when the grow 
 older they will be better through that lifetime and live older. The only thing that scares me with 
 this game is that it is getting close to real life even pregnancy the possibility of twins and 
 many more. But dont be put off by the big memory need if you can fit it on i would highly recomend 
 getting it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonkiller55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better then the last game. The best thing is 3D-graphic, new life time aspiration, 
 more creativity and it is much cooler that the sims get older and older and then eventully die. 
 Thats really cool. The best age i think is probably the teenage life. But the bad thing is that 
 takes really long time for the family to go on from generation to generation. But still thats 
 really cool. I dont care if other people thing this game stinks. I think this is the the best 
 roleplaying game ever created. And the expansion packs are a really a big step forward from The 
 Sims 2 University to The Sims 2 Family Fun Stuff. I just say buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the Bests Simulation Games..
  
  You can play for hours, making your own family.. and and...
  
  Millions of things you can do 
 with game !
  
  No Words to say !
  
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
 Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  Just Play it !!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfire13
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  What I think: If you take a look at this game you can almost compare it to everyday a sort of basic 
 life. Although you cannot have all the necessities in the game it does give you many items to put 
 in your house which make them game all more interesting. 
  
  Graphics- Almost the best I have seen. The players stroll smoothly you can easily tell what is 
 what. Almost no flaws at all. 
  
  Sound- Well, I guess the music is alright it doesnt really appeal to me. At first its fine, but 
 then it gets kind of old. Plus when you switch from build to buy mode it switches songs. It might 
 look a little paranoid to you, but that always gets on my nerves. It is like changing a song right 
 in the middle of it. 
  
  
  Gameplay- Some of the best I have seen. Being sort of new to the Sims series I didnt know what 
 to really expect. The game is like a virtual reality you can do almost anything you want and even 
 (almost again) build anything you want. Whether you like building houses, designing houses, making 
 gardens, living out your sim, making kids (?) , doing parties, and much much much more, then I feel 
 that you would like this game. Not just for a week, but until you die. (of playing so much :D)
 
  
  
  
  Value- Definitely buy it is worth the money even at $50. You will see how good it is. 
  
  
 
  Experience- This game to me has been very addicting and kept me busy if I ever became bored. It 
 isnt that hard and fun to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithsevirit
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I love the sims always have im also a fan of MR. Will Wright I love all of his other work as well 
 (sim city, sim earth, sim ant, etc..) . In this new sim game you get the wonderous andventure of 
 having generations upon generations of children. With a huge upgrade in graphics this game looks 
 dazzaling. Also in the new generations feature you can actually pass on your genes from generation 
 to generation and so on. There is a new grid to add in the mix which has the wants (woohoo, first 
 kiss, money, ufo, etc...) and fears (death, death of a friend, ubducted by a UFO, be infested with 
 vermin, etc...) you can even create movies its a Must for any serious gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilpaintball13
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  The Sims is probably the best sim game on the market! When Sims 2 came out, it was probably the 
 greatest game that has come out! How can nobody like that thrill of taking care of your child, 
 making out with random people, dieing from death himself, getting pets, trying to find a job, getting 
 dumped, turn your house into a mansion, brag about all the stuff you have, getting robbed off all 
 your precious jewels, take a leak on the carpet and much more. This is one overall game everyone 
 should get and I recommend it to anyone who plays video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtheman4
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This is the first sims game ive actualy liked! When i first started the game i loved it! The graphics 
 were awsem (exuse my spelling) The game is highly addictive and does not take to long to get the 
 hang of the game. if you are the fan of sims 1 then you WILL love this game. Even if you havent 
 played the Sims youll LOVE it. One day my mom had to (literaly) rip me off the computer. That is 
 how addictive it is. It takes about a month of non-stop playing to get bored of it. One tip of 
 advise dont pass up this game unless you just hate the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moppy43
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  After getting hooked on the first Sims game for PC back in the day, I was fairly excited to see 
 the Sims 2 out for the PC. But, at $50, I wasn't THAT excited. So I waited. I waited some more. 
 And I got the game for Christmas instead. However, my graphics card didn't support the T&L requirement, 
 so I had to get a new one. But in all fairness, I was using an ancient Nvidia Riva, so it was coming.
 
  
  SO, after finally getting a new graphics card, I finally installed the game and began playing. 
 Starting with the tutorials (which were far more in depth than the crappy "Newbie" family in the 
 first Sims) was fairly easy and entertaining, but I could not wait to get into creating my own 
 sims to experience the full potential of the game I kept hearing about.
  
  Create-A-Sim was far better than both the first Sims and the console Sims games, in that the amount 
 of variety you have is just remarkable. Customizing almost every detail of your sim (from eye color 
 to facial features, hair color, etc.) was just fun, except sometimes, mixing and matching can cause 
 some abnormally... well, disfigured sims. Working with a sim's face to produce a work of art can 
 seem mildly frustrating until you can find a balance of how to do so.
  
  I feel that it's also worth mentioning that, as opposed to the original, the Sims 2's family tree 
 feature allows you to create family relationships from the get-go. During creation, you can choose 
 whether a sim in a family is related via spouse or sibling, or just a random roommate. In the original, 
 making a family into a family was, quite simply, difficult, frustrating, and time consuming.
  
  Now that the family was finished, it was time to move them into a house. Being one who loves 
 to build masterpieces when it comes to homes, I just had to try out the new features in home decor 
 and design. The deck and foundation tools are truly a godsend in building a home. The interface 
 in build mode was reorganized, with far more customizable items to boot. Buy mode was just as varied; 
 many items in the game are customizable, and the game gives you options which allow you to choose 
 colors and patterns on furniture and other objects. Before you know it, you can have an entire 
 living room that completely matches any look you were going for in the first place.
  
  Building community lots, however, was not so fun... While you could build a corner grocery store 
 or two, the limited options in buy mode made it seem as if going "out on the town" was only necessary 
 if you wanted to buy something. Otherwise, it's invariably pointless.
  
  Live mode, the whole reason anyone buys this game, was also well improved. The reorganized user 
 interface can be puzzling to some new players, but is easy to understand in a matter of seconds. 
 Gameplay is still basic -- you go to work, you eat, you sleep, you go to the bathroom, you communicate 
 with other sims. But the game throws yet another goal to you: the aspiration meter. The aspiration 
 meter is based on your wants/fears, which are based on the aspiration you chose for your sim when 
 you created him. It's a welcome feature, except it seems as if the aspiration meter drains too 
 quickly to be enjoyed fully. However, it can be seen as a nice replication of human behavior.
 
  
  The behaviors of your Sims are not as predictable as in the original. They aren't as linear and 
 robotic in this game; they make facial expressions and reflect their moods far better. Objects 
 also aren't as linear; you can work out to the television instead of just watching it, you can 
 do a crossword puzzle in the newspaper, you can write a novel on the computer. All of these aspects 
 and more help to build skills helpful both around the house and on the job, instead of buying an 
 item that you'll only use for that purpose.
  
  Overall, the Sims 2 was a solid gaming experience. Although some aspects of the game can be improved 
 on, the balance of the game is excellent, and the game itself is stable. The first game's often 
 blotchy graphics are a thing of the past. Music, however, is still annoying and gibberish; but 
 importing your own .mp3 files into the game's sound folders takes care of that. It can be fun to 
 listen to some Van Halen while building a 3-story mansion...
  
  I'd recommend this game both to any fan of the first Sims, or to anyone who likes strategy games 
 in general. But, I'd also think about collecting the future expansion packs, because the game itself 
 seems like it needs them. A good buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calic2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  after playing and crying during sims1 for 7 years.... i am VERY impressed with sims2. it never 
 crashes on me. never locks up. and thats just the mechanics! all the expansions have surpassed 
 the excellancy of sims2. if you play sims 1. and cry all the time like i did.... did you wipe sims1 
 about 50 times a year? and your computer 5 tiems a year? have you sent a million letters? i did. 
 and im shocked at sims2. very excellent game. great graphics. all new game play (some things were 
 taken from sims online.... LOVEING IT!) lots of oldies and goodies. and lots of great new things. 
 lots of great new actions. between people. and items!
  
  im in love with sims2 and look forward to playing it for the next 20 years. 
  unless we see a 
 sims 3 :) wont be able to resist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosajunior21
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Man there isnt words for this game....... The game does get boring after a while when youv played 
 it for 2 hours straight but in about 1 houre you are raving to get back on and keep growing your 
 sims! i cant believe im not playing right now. Theres so many downloads too for it its almost unbelievable 
 man. I love being able to "whoo hoo" lol and having a baby and anothere kool part is all the variety 
 of items to buy and how you can get sick. Im getting excited just talking about it I tihnk im giong 
 to go play right now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Sims 2... wow, think of this as your 'Desperate Housewives' tv show addiction. Yep, this game is 
 a guitly pleasure. Not alot of games let you control a family and create a home... from scratch. 
 This style of Virtual Reality is amazing. EA games has done it again.
  
  The gameplay is very simple and very fun to mess around with. From the online community to the 
 game itself, the never ending fun will keep you playing for a very long time. You get to start 
 off picking a Neighborhood to live in. From there you create your own family, you choose the family 
 name and then you work on who will be in your family. From having a mom and a dad to a mom with 
 eight sons, you can do it. When you choose if you want a new family member, you can choose what 
 he looks like, what he wears, and what his attitude will be... ex: easygoing, kind, mean ect...
 
  
  Once your family is created, you have to buy a lot or you can buy a lot with a home on it. Your 
 family starts off with only 20k, but buying lots and houses is very cheap compared to todays world. 
 Once you buy, lets say an empty lot, you get to build you own house, a house with your choise of 
 furniture/electronics, flooring, and wallpaper.
  
  Then is the crazy part, the part evereyone hates... well in life that is. Getting a job. Yep, you 
 can be whatever you want in Sims 2, from Business to the Army, you got it. When you join your job, 
 you will have to end up practicing your skills which you can make them better by studying 'Cooking', 
 and 'Cleaning' and stuff. Once you raise in skill, you will get promoted and ake more money.
  
  The online community at Sims2. com is very helpful and fun to hang out with. What I mean by 
 this is that you can download objects and lots made by other people like you! Also, by going to 
 places such as 'Modthesims2. com' you can get hacked objects such as an Xbox 360 and your sims can 
 play it.
  
  The graphics in Sims 2 is a huge improvement from the Sims. Huge. The details on the houses and 
 objects is very well done. From the characters to the grass, everything is very well done.
  
  The sound is also another important feature in every game. Duh. Sims 2 still has the 'Jibberish' 
 talking style the Original Sims has and it still works out great. The music is very Sims'ish and 
 plays and works into the game very well. When you buy a stereo, you can play some hip-hop to slow 
 dance songs, all in which sound great.
  
  Overall, one of the best games around. PC owners, please get off your ass and buy this game. Seriously, 
 stop reading this and go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinygrin
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The difference of this game comparred to the original was amazing! It was like looking into the 
 future, you could zoom up to the sims face, they would show expressions, they had a aspiration 
 for certain stages of life, speaking of stages, you could be shown pregenant with a child, giving 
 birth to a baby, than the baby would grow into a toddler, than child, than a teenager and so forth.
 
  It's amazing how much was put into this game. Also, aliens we're introduced, and sims could be 
 become abducted, like in the old games, but with a twist. You could give birth to a alien! Including 
 male sims! Also, the infamous Bella Goth was 'abducted' and also, many stories unfold in the sims 
 2 game! Also, new expansions are to be followed in the years, of course so far theres: University, 
 Nightlife, and Open for Buisness, but what will be next? Will there be a The Sims 3 10 years from 
 now? What will it be like? Will it be more advance? We can only imagine. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  i liked this one very much but i would say that they didnt but as much effort into it as they could 
 have. they should of definitly put more objects. there werent any pool tables. i was upset. but 
 even tho i loved the life lines in that game. from baby to todler to kid to tenn to parent to grandparent 
 to death and all over again. one of my familys i have had for like 8 different genuratiosn for 
 them. its lots of fun but as i said i would tell them to put more effort into it also it is great 
 how u can creat your sims with the greatest of detail. from clothees to eyes to make up and accesories. 
 i would say it isnt a waste of money but if u see another game that you like get it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgirobot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  The Sims is a well done game. But I think that the game doesn't have enough features, and if it hasn't 
 been for the expansions some people wouldn't play it. But The Sims 2 still is a great game and if 
 you play the game for the first time you will like it a lot. You can have great time with the game, and 
 if you have at least one of the expansions. The game will be even more fun. I guess that the baddest 
 thing on the game is the bugs. Even with the patches. The game sometimes has problems. The aging was 
 a very good idea, without it the game wouldn't deserve to have a 2 in it (The Sims 2) . The details 
 in the game are very well made, even when you zoom the closest. The sims, houses and enviroment are 
 also very good. Simply, the game can offer more than other Sims games, and that is why I liked the 
 game a lot including the expansions of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jad_nawfal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  The Good: Everything In This Game Is Good Superb And Perfect.
  
  The Bad: There Is Nothing Really Bad About This Game It Is Just That The Graphics Can't Get A Perfect 
 Grade So They Deserve A 9/10.
  
  The Gameplay Is Perfect This Is The Funest Game I Ever Played As I Say So Myself. This Game Is 
 Awsome First When I Went To The Store And I Looked At The Back Of The Box This Is What It Said 
 In My Own Words You Can Make Your Sim In All Different Types Of Genes You Can Get Married To A 
 Sim And Even An Alien How Cool Is That You Can Start Your Sim As A Single Or Married As That Is 
 In Every Sims Game. 
  
  The Graphics Are Superb Way Better Than The Sims 1 In This Game The Graphics Change The Sims History 
 It's Like A Startover For Sims Graphics You Can Choose How You Want Your Sim To Look Like That 
 Is In Every Sims Game But There Is Way More Options Than The First One Here You Can Choose Even 
 What You Want Your Sim's Swiming Suit To Look Like How Awsome Is That I Almost Fainted When I Saw 
 That Did You Know That When You Click On The Computer And You Press Play Your Sims Will Play SSX 
 Tricky Or SSX 3.
  
  The Sound Is Great The Music On The Radio The T. Vs The Sims Voices Everything Is Great About This 
 Game.
  
  This Game Is So Worth Your Money And Time I Love It And As For Everyone In This World BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Ive played the first chapter of The Sims and some expansion packs of it earlier. However, I couldnt 
 get into the games. When I heard that the second chapter is announced, I thought I should try it 
 out to see if its got any better. Unfortunately, there werent any big changes in the game.
  
  If you have played the first game, youll get used to the controls in no time  theyre the 
 same. Use the mouse to control the camera, to command the characters, and more. 99 percent of the 
 time, you can do everything with the mouse. The 1 percent goes to name writing before starting 
 the game...
  
  Yes. Before starting the game, you will have to create all the family members. This is fun and 
 can take a while, since there are so many things you can do to a character: change his hair, facial 
 hair, eye color, height, size, and more. You can also change their outfits: pijamas, swimming suits, 
 and more. A new addition to the game is the age customization. In the previous Sims games, you 
 were only able to choose if the characters a child or an adult. Now, a sim can be a baby, a child, 
 a teen, an adult, or even an elder.
  
  Once youre done with the family members, its time to choose where to live. You can choose out 
 of three cities. Then, you can either buy a house, or get to a clean territory and build everything 
 by yourself. Oh, one thing, though. You cant build  place walls, windows, etc. First, you will 
 have to download a building patch. Not a very good thing
  
  Youll have to earn money in this game to buy things. You wont have much money when moving to 
 a territory, so I suggest you buying only the things you really, REALLY need. Dont crowd the place 
 with trees, balloons, and more. Also, dont buy expensive things to save money. Once youve more, 
 you can sell the old items, and buy new ones. To earn money, youve to get a job. There are two 
 ways to get it: you can search for it in a newspaper, or in the internet using the computer. You 
 should use the first option since its free and you wont have to waste much money on a PC.
  
  Once youve a job, youll have to keep your characters mood as better as possible, especially 
 before going to work. The better his mood was during the day, the better hell do at work. If you 
 did well, you may be hired. This means more cash, but youll have to improve something do to better. 
 For example, if youre working at a military, youll have to have a better shape. That means youll 
 have to work out.
  
  The heads-up display shows the current time, family members mood, and more. There are many tings 
 that affect your mood: hunger, hygiene, etc. If the hunger bar is low, get something to eat and 
 it will increase. If the hygiene bars low, have a shower Try to keep all the bars as high as 
 possible. When the characters mood is bad, he will be nervous, or sad. The mood affects your relationships, 
 as well. You can meet other people from the neighborhood. When theyre walking by your house, greet 
 them, and talk to them. After some time, theyll have their opinion about you. The more friends 
 you have, the higher your Social bar is.
  
  If youve a single character, you can try to get yourself a wife, or even a lover. Meet a woman, 
 talk to her, and do anything that boosts the relationships bar. When it reaches 100 percent with 
 a person, you can marry him / her, and try for a baby. Once youre married, your family will have 
 a new member and itll be shown on the HUD.
  
  As I mentioned before, in this game you get older. So, after 10  20 days, a baby will become a 
 child, then a teen, etc. When youre too old, you die. There are more ways you can lose a family 
 member. For example, if youve an oven, it can catch on fire, and if there are any characters 
 around, they can die in flames. Careful.
  
  Theres a big variety of things you can buy: chairs, beds, TVs, bookshelves, and lots of other 
 furniture. Some things are cheap, some arent. Also, before buying something, look at its properties. 
 For example, some beds have a Comfort rating of 10. That means, if you sleep in that bed, youll 
 rest much better, and faster than in a bed with a lower rating.
  
  Although the game has some cool features, I found it boring: same things every day  sleep, wake 
 up, eat, go to work, get back from work, take a poo, eat, watch TV, take a shower, go to sleep, 
 repeat 1000 times. But thats just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the biggest PC game of all time delivers on its promises: This little toy will keep 
 you entertained for months.
  
  Tons of detail, great interactions, unlimited configurability and expandability.
  
  The Sims 
 2 improves upon the original in subtle, organic ways that deliver tremendous impact. The biggest 
 one is that your Sims now age through five stages of life, then they're off to the ol' database 
 in the sky. The challenge is to help your Sims realize their aspirations, like becoming a rock 
 star or having a giant family, before the grim reaper comes calling. Families can have or adopt 
 children and the next generation grows up to pursue their own challenges. If you can't stand the 
 gravity of watching your beloved characters grow old and die, you can always turn off this feature 
 and just sim away with eternal youth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The game, i will admit, does have much better graphics, but is it really any different from the 
 sims 1? The gameplay is exactly the same, but with new items and a few more things to do. You run 
 around controlling at least one sim, getting a job, getting more food, ect... I will not lie. I 
 think it is a good game that teaches the value of saving money and making sure you have food and 
 that stuff, but if you are really going to do that, why not buy the origional sims, because its 
 cheaper? The graphics are top notch, and the sims 2 offers a much better camera controll. The sound 
 is the most anoying thing i have ever heard. It may get some laughs out of you at first, but after 
 a while, the random blabbering gets very anoying. The sims 2 is worth a lot less than it is sold 
 for. Personally, i would check your local bargain bin for this game, or just buy the sims 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The Sims2 kinda makes me take back all the harmful and mean things i said about the Sims franchise 
 because all it is is you controlling people and making them do the things you dread doing everyday 
 in real life. You wouldn't want to play a game with people at work and you having to talk to the 
 boss and pee at the right time so you dont get yelled at and take on responsibilities on a game 
 you should only have in real life. But the Sims 2 upgraded enough to the point where i can safely 
 say it's a lot more fun than it is responsibility. You can "WOOHOO" in this one. lol. You can even 
 Woohoo 5 times in one night.: O. I love the new task manager thing now, because that narrows down 
 the responsibility factor into a 5 task list that you can do over a period of time until the new 
 ones pop up. There are just so many new upgrades that are fun and exciting. I still don't like 
 the dhowering and pissing and cooking and going to the job and personal needs you ave to take care 
 of though... gets really boring really soon. thats why i kno what the people that are giving low 
 ratings mean by "been there, done that". But i think its a good upgrade and they'll be fine if 
 they can just STOP MAKING SO MANY SIMS. this one's good, now stop for atleast a few months, jeez 
 louise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt507
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I have all of the sims 1 expansions (PC and PS2) , and I liked them. I have all of the sims 2 expansions 
 (not object packs) (PC Only) , and I loved it.
  
  The Sims 2 includes community lots, although without Nightlife and OFB, they are a little boring 
 with not much content. They are great with them though, better than the Sims 1 community lots.
 
  
  The residential lots are very good. You can build a house anywhere in you like, and move any sims 
 there.
  
  If you like simulation games, then I think you would like the sims, even if you have never played 
 the Sims 1.
  
  Pros: 3D camera, aging system, improved catalogs over Sims 1, new objects.
  
  Cons: Boring 
 community lots without EPs, things missing that were in Sims 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackmoonskye
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I must admit, the only reason i wanted this game was because of 2 things; the fact that they can 
 FINALLY grow up, and the graphics looked amazing. 
  
  i was a HUGE fan of the sims, i baught every single expantion pack and then some lol. I loved simulation, 
 and especially the sims. as soon as i saw the sequl about to come out i was so excited. i baught 
 it on the day it came out, and loaded it on the machene. it took 4 disks, and took what seemed 
 like forever to load. 
  
  so, if anyone isnt farmiliar to the sims, you create a family and put them in a house that you 
 make and design. then run their lives. simple enough really. 
  
  The Sims 2 is almost exactly the same as The original Sims. ok, yes, you can zoom in, spin around 
 in a circle, design things specificly and what-not.. but honestly.. there is not much diffrence 
 in gameplay. The Jobs are the same, and its the same concept, make babies, have a job.. blah blah...
 
  
  the sound is repetative, and the conversations get boring... But the graphics are good, and the 
 ability to design your house perfectly is good... after a while, you run out of wall colours, but 
 hey, you do in real life too. 
  
  dont get me wrong its a good game, but its the same game. If you are totally fed up of the crappy 
 limitations of the firsts Sims, then this is a good one, as you have a lot of extra fidly bits 
 to play around with.
  But, i could have done without the game, maybe not forever, but its nothing to get to excited over. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nhart71
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  If you were wondering, The Sims 2 is a great sequel and a great game in its own right, and it's 
 recommendable to just about anyone. For some, especially the devoted fans that have enjoyed the 
 first game's open-ended gameplay, which was all about controlling the lives of autonomous little 
 computer people, this is all that really needs to be said. But considering that The Sims 2 is the 
 sequel to what is reportedly the most successful computer game ever (and that's not even counting 
 its many expansion packs) , the new game almost seems like a victim of its own success. Yes, it 
 introduces plenty of new features that enhance the gameplay that was so popular in the original 
 game, but it doesn't drastically refresh it. It also features plenty of options to play with, but 
 it seems like it could've used even more content. Then again, you could simply say that EA and 
 Maxis are making sure the game has room to grow with future updates -- and there's no denying that 
 The Sims 2's additions will give dedicated fans of the series plenty of stuff to do. In the most 
 basic terms, The Sims 2, like The Sims before it, lets you create one or more "sims" -- autonomous 
 characters with distinct personalities and needs. You then create a virtual household of one or 
 more sims (you get to decide whether they're roommates, spouses, or parents) and move them into 
 a house and a neighborhood that is either prebuilt or built from scratch. Your sims interact with 
 each other and with their neighbors, children leave the house for school each day, and employed 
 adults head out for work to earn a living in one of a number of different career paths. However, 
 the sequel has several new options, including an enhanced neighborhood editor that lets you import 
 custom cities from Maxis' own SimCity 4, if you have that game installed. Plus, there are expanded 
 building options that let you build a much bigger house. But the most significant additions in 
 the new game are probably the enhancements made to the sims and the ways they act. While they still 
 have specific personality types determined by their horoscopes and individual characteristics like 
 neatness, niceness, and playfulness (which you can still adjust to your taste) , sims now have some 
 notable major new features (some of which are more important than others) , like memories, customized 
 appearances, genetics, aging, and the new aspiration/fear system. Memories are generated by important 
 events that occur in sims' lives, like getting married, having a child, or having a loved one pass 
 away. Memories impact your sims' future behavior (though not to any huge extent) , and they can 
 also be used to build out a highly customized neighborhood with its own background story and photo 
 album if you're so inclined, though they don't add much more to the basic game. The sequel also 
 features enhanced appearance editing tools that let you customize your sims' clothing, hairstyle 
 and hair color, and also let you make many adjustments to their facial features. Oddly, the editor 
 doesn't let you adjust your sims' height or their build (beyond making them "normal" or "fat") , 
 but it, along with the "body shop" utility, should let most players basically re-create whatever 
 characters they want to from their favorite TV shows or movies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalKombat147
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has very decent graphics and a great soundtrack in it but after you get past the new 
 "generation" looks there is not much new added to the formula of the original Sim series. The only 
 new editions I've noticed are the life achieving goals that go with what type of Sim you choese 
 them to be. For example romantic, family man, knowledge. You get rewards eventually from carrying 
 out these goals like making your Sims live longer ect. They have also added that your Sim changes 
 over time like a certain time for each stage of life. Besides these few additions to original formula 
 the game stays true to the original. If you were a fan of the original Sims games then you will 
 most likely enjoy this game but if you werent a fan of the original then this isnt the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittiek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves to be bought. It has a little bit of the old mixed with the new. This game gives 
 you so many options to choose from. First of all, I love the create a sim. You can go in depth 
 with how you want your sims to look like. And the sim structures are amazing. When I first started 
 playing this, I thought they looked like real people, and I still do. The movements that they do 
 is realistic, meaning they don't look like robots any more. The personality traits also deflicts 
 your sim too. They will show this just by playing this game and experimenting with new things to 
 do and find out their interests. Yes, they have interests too. Last but not least, the building 
 mode is extraordinary. You can build your house in any way you want. My last words are that this 
 game is addictive, and fun in it's unique ways. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Still the same of the first. The wishes is what bothers me. I don't feel like i can do what i want. 
 They just get depressed so easaly. Its just no fun. I liked the housebuilding and decoration better 
 then the actual game. It just my opignion. And ofcourse the simbuilding is verry fun!
  
  Graphix:
  Verry good! Some nice annimations nice and diverse tectures all add up te create a 
 living person/world. Exelent character design!!!!
  
  Sound:
  I don't like the soundtrack allot, but the feature to import youre one music in the radio is well 
 done. And i just love to hear the sims chatter in there language! And ofcourse some good ambiant 
 sound. Like eating and stuf like that have some good soundeffects wich add to the believabilathy.
 
  
  Tilit:
  It gets old fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is a life like simulator where you can live your life as a simulated character, first 
 you can pick from a choice of three naibourhoods or you can make your own.
  
  Then you can go on to make your sim, he/she can be a child teenager or adult or even if you like 
 an elder.
  
  After you have created your sims you can move into a house, you can choose aspirations these are 
 your goals in life, when you achieve one of these you gain points and the more points you get you 
 can get free items such as hot tubs.
  
  As you go through your life you get older eventually dieing, you can have a baby wich then grows 
 to a toddler then a child then a teen then adult and finaly elder. The family tree may continue 
 for as long as you want./
  
  While living your life you may find a partner, they can be asked to move in, get engaged and eventually 
 get married.
  
  Aswell as having best friends you can have worst enemys who you dispise and fight with, friends 
 over time become less of a friend and you may need to talk to them every now and then to keep your 
 friendship strong.
  
  This is a brilliant game but needs a good graphics card to run, i recommend this to fans of the 
 previouse sims.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massofgas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  -Still the same old Sims
  
  -Massive loading times discourages you from ever leaving the house... this is especially irritating 
 when you have the expansion packs.
  
  -Gets old very quickly ---by the time you get your 2nd generation of Sims you'll be be bored to 
 tears by the repetitive task queueing
  
  -How you play the Sims determines how much fun you get out of it (ie. evil Sim that decorates his 
 house with funeral urns) . Even so, after awhile you get to the point where you get sick of catering 
 to the Sims needs and you just want them to all die or maybe its just me.
  
  Graphics:
  -Big improvement from the first Sims.
  
  Sound:
  -Sims speak "Simlish" - a nonsensical giberrish 
 language
  -Music adds to that quirky, whimsical Sims atmosphere
  
  Value:
  -Once again great replay value if you overlook its repetitiveness (is that a word?)
  
  OVERALL:
 
  Love it or hate its still the Sims ---with a facelift
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metriodman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  To say that The Sims 2 is a great game is an understatement. This game has taken gaming to another 
 level if you ask me. The comparability to The Sims 2 to the first Sims game is no comparison at 
 all. In my opinion, the first Sims game could get rather dull and boring after awhile of play. 
 However, The Sims 2 has that realistic factor about it that makes you continually want to play 
 more and more. Your Sims age, they can get married, they can have a baby, they can get sick, they 
 can get depressed, they can fall in love. The Sims 2 is an extremely open-minded game. There are 
 now 3 Expansion Packs, and I recommend getting all of them whenever you can. University is the 
 first you need, as it allow you to send your children off to college once they are through with 
 school. Nightlife is the second. This allows you to go downtown to shop, meet and greet with other 
 Sims, get a bit to eat at a restaurant, or go for a walk in The Sim park. Open For Business is 
 the most recent expansion pack, which allows your Sims to open up a business! I would recommend 
 this one as well, however this is the only Expansion Pack I don't have. I will be getting it ASAP. 
 I am sure more Expansion Packs are on the way. It may seem as if EA is milking us all for our money 
 with all of these expansion packs, and the truth is that they are. However, your getting the bang 
 for your buck and then some with this game. I don't know of any game that comes close to the longevity 
 of The Sims 2. This is one of those games that never ends, and never gets dull as long as you allow 
 it. I tend to have a problem with these video games that charge $50-$60, and usually its a game 
 that is done and over with after about 2 or 3 months of play. To me, thats a rip off. I don't have 
 a problem paying $40 for The Sims 2 itself, and about $30-$35 for each Expansion Pack, knowing 
 its something thats not going to end and something that will have a longevity to it. If you want 
 something that will stimulate your brain in a good way, rather than a game that will stimulate 
 your brain to bang bang shoot em up, I recommend The Sims 2. It is to me, the best game ever created.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of the best PC games ever made out there. Besides having all of the expansion 
 packs with it. It has the best gameplay to it. But the graphics I dont think its that great. Even 
 if you have it at its maximum performance. - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - -- -- -- -- 
 --- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- fhdsajklfhdsjaklfhdsajk fhdsjaklh 
 jkhj j fdshafdsh hdhf hh hh h h hh h h h h jvkhui v huil hauli haliuhv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paticopat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  i love this game!! first I used to enjoyed the sims but now, when I bought the sims 2, I realise 
 this is pretty better than the first one. Its like the real life!! with all details.
  Im Spanish so sorry about my mistakes.
  ::pAtRy::
  all people who dont have this game yet... buy 
 it!!! a very nice one.
  
  hey! there is a spell check, now I only will have grammar mistakes..
  
  a hundred words at 
 least!! oh my dear!! well, i can also say my opinion in spanish, so lets go..
  me encanta el juego!! al principio pensaba que los sims eran los mejores, pero todavia faltaba que 
 probara los sims 2. son alucinantes!! es como la vida real , todos esos pequeos detalles.. lo que 
 mas me gusto, por ahora, fue cuando mi mujer se puso a vomitar en el bao, que fue justo despues 
 de la fiesta de cumpleaos de su hija, con lo que supuse que algo le habia sentado mal.. pero eso 
 no era!! resulta que staba embarazada!! vaya sorpresa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  The original sims was a good life sim, but with large limits, in both control and character. This 
 second game expanded it to a lot more. I've had it for years, but I still sometimes get the urge 
 to play it again.
  
  You go to a pre-built neighbourhood or make your own, then use a pre-built family or make your 
 own. Then you move in, and rule their life. There is now a much larger interaction possibilities, 
 many more meals, lots of objects, but the new stuff is even better.
  
  Now, families can now grow up-yay! You can have children, and in the proper way-do it or adopt. 
 There are marraiges, 10 careers and 10 tiers in each, and there is also now memories of good and 
 bad events, from making a new food to losing a best friend.
  
  There is also the aspiration meter, where you choose from: family, fortune, popularity, romance 
 or knowledge. Then you fulfill wants or fears, going from eating sandwiches, to more aspiration-specific 
 wants like getting to the top of a career, havung a baby, creating a masterpiece, having 10 best 
 friends, and being in love with 2 people at once. Then, you make or break the sim and watch them 
 to their death.
  
  There are downflaws: it can get boring. It will eventully get sort of samey and a bit boring. But, 
 it's good while it lasts, very good. Also, the music can grind quickly.
  
  Score: 8.3
  
  It's better than.... The Sims
  It's worse than.... The Movies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamfroman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game has definitely taken large steps from the last games in the sims series. It has many 
 features that will keep you playing for hours upon hours, while the last game might have gotten 
 old after a while. Even though I am not too much a fan of this kind of game because it does get 
 old after a while, this game can be played and enjoyed for an extended amount of time. Overall, 
 this game is definitely worth your money because of all its different features. It is like the 
 game has two different worlds, the building world and the social world. That is what makes the 
 sim series so great and this game so unique. 
  
  If you are a fan of the sims series, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireMaker005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Definatley one of my favorite games of all time. I've played games in the Sim series since the 
 third grade, starting with Sim City, Sim Ant, and Sim Tower. So this may be a bit biased, but I 
 will try to keep it as objective as possible.
  
  Graphics: One of the things that most everyone looks at.. Well, they are what everyone looks at 
 and in The Sims 2, they are definatley a good thing to look at. You've basically got control over 
 everything in your Sim world, and it looks like it too. Graphics are good!
  
  Sound: The languge in this game is awesome. There are some sounds that can get repetetive and annoying 
 (telephone...) but its okay, you can simply delete the item that causes the problem. 
  
  Gameplay: You control a sim (or group of sims) and run their lives, pretty much. This is very reminiscent 
 of the good ol' doll house days we all experienced as children. (Be it playing with the barbies, 
 or playing with the GI Joes that dated the barbies.. or.. whatever)
  
  Except now you get to build the houses, decorate them, and make the people that go inside them. 
 Very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunterd577
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  To say that The Sims 2 is a great game is an understatement. This game has taken gaming to another 
 level if you ask me. The comparability to The Sims 2 to the first Sims game is no comparison at 
 all. In my opinion, the first Sims game could get rather dull and boring after awhile of play. 
 However, The Sims 2 has that realistic factor about it that makes you continually want to play 
 more and more. Your Sims age, they can get married, they can have a baby, they can get sick, they 
 can get depressed, they can fall in love. The Sims 2 is an extremely open-minded game. There are 
 now 3 Expansion Packs, and I recommend getting all of them whenever you can. University is the 
 first you need, as it allow you to send your children off to college once they are through with 
 school. Nightlife is the second. This allows you to go downtown to shop, meet and greet with other 
 Sims, get a bit to eat at a restaurant, or go for a walk in The Sim park. Open For Business is 
 the most recent expansion pack, which allows your Sims to open up a business! I would recommend 
 this one as well, however this is the only Expansion Pack I don't have. I will be getting it ASAP. 
 I am sure more Expansion Packs are on the way. It may seem as if EA is milking us all for our money 
 with all of these expansion packs, and the truth is that they are. However, your getting the bang 
 for your buck and then some with this game. I don't know of any game that comes close to the longevity 
 of The Sims 2. This is one of those games that never ends, and never gets dull as long as you allow 
 it. I tend to have a problem with these video games that charge $50-$60, and usually its a game 
 that is done and over with after about 2 or 3 months of play. To me, thats a rip off. I don't have 
 a problem paying $40 for The Sims 2 itself, and about $30-$35 for each Expansion Pack, knowing 
 its something thats not going to end and something that will have a longevity to it. If you want 
 something that will stimulate your brain in a good way, rather than a game that will stimulate 
 your brain to bang bang shoot em up, I recommend The Sims 2. It is to me, the best game ever created.
 
  
  -Hunter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  It's really more than fun and even if I play sometimes, I find this game very fun and much interesting, 
 in this game it really reflects my attitudes upon my actions and it also helps boost my self-esteem 
 a lot, sims 2 offered a lot of factors regarding the living in real life.. I have also downloaded 
 an uncensored 
  patch for the game, it really excites me. I have been so much obcessive playing it sometimes, I 
 have also made my replica of my home in this game- yup! That's also the reason why I love this 
 game much. Even my sisters love playing this game, one of my sister often downloads many clothing 
 designs, appliances and models, well in the other hand, I just play the game and download sometimes 
 when im interested on the file. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This was a very fun game to get into. There are a few annoyances but I'll get to that at the end. 
 Basical you create a family maybe yours if you wish. move into a house and get them a job. As there 
 carrer progress you will have to increase there stances like logic, body, etc. This is where it 
 gets annoying and that would be there mood. I really dissliked how the mood meeter was alway turning 
 red so easy. It has to be green to advance in your choosen carrer. Other then that the game was 
 a joy. I would recommend this game to all fans of the Sims but if your more of an action adventure 
 player maybe not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supakilla_2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Rating this game can be hard because the rating of this game can change depending on the RAM and 
 video card of your computer if you have a good RAM and video card the game will look great and 
 move great. If you dont have a good RAM and video card like me the game will still be very entertaining 
 but you will find it slow and freezing alot. I thought the problem was the game but when I installed 
 it on a different computer the gameplay was much better. So in order to enjoy this game you must 
 make sure to have a good RAM and video card. I love the Sims so I find myself still playing it 
 now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakita87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you don't have to play one character if you don't want to. You can move between households 
 or neighborhoods at anytime during gameplay, although saving beforehand is suggested.
  You have to keep track of all the essentials from The Sims, like bladder, hunger and exercise, 
 while still going to work everyday. In the sequel, you also have to try to accomplish Wants and 
 avoid fulfilling Fears. This isn't too difficult because you know have at least two days off per 
 week.
  This game was improved upon in almost every single aspect, from graphics and manouvering, to building 
 and customizing houses and sims. You can customize individual facial features, all the clothing 
 your sim will wear throughout their life. Sims now progress from baby to toddler and so on until 
 they become an elder. You can now take your sim out to the mall or a park, or other community lot. 
 Teenage sims can date, sneak out of the house. Much more realistic than the first, and if Maxis 
 comes out with a third, maybe the game will progress through history, or at least have a community 
 timeline of some sort.
  A great game based upon and expanded from an already great idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, and a lot of people believe so. There is so much to do with this game and because 
 you can download so much stuff on the web to add on to this already great game, it makes it even 
 better!
  
  You can make someone look like dracula (by taking someone's model who skinned it) or make someone 
 look like spiderman, suit and all! There are so many options with this game, and every one of them 
 is great!
  
  The greatest thing of all, in my opinion, is the flexibility. Because of this flexibility, it is 
 extrememly easy to creat movies using the sims characters. (See an example of Sims movies at: http://sh. roosterteeth. com/home. php)
 
  
  You can completely change the look of each of the sims faces. You can make some very funky looking 
 sims, or some normal looking sims. For example, you could make your sim have a huge forehead, chin, 
 and lips, but then have small eyes and a small nose. I have done a lot of expirementing with the 
 different faces and when you make a completely bizarre face, it looks kind of scary!
  
  But other than better character customization and being able to film things much better, The Sims 
 2 was almost exactly like The Sims. You controlled your sims life as you try to get them a job, 
 teaching them skills, make them watch TV, work out, make them eat, pursue your love etc. What you 
 can do with your sim is completely open and all up to you.
  
  I forgot to mention the minor differences in gameplay. You can now make a house that is more than 
 2 stories, have your sims age, and your sims have "attributes". These attributes tell you what 
 your sim wants to do during that day (until they fall asleep) . For example, if you made your Sim 
 a love sim and something he wants to do is kiss a girl, then when you finally kiss a girl, your 
 sims get attribute points. With these attribute points, you can buy things that will improve your 
 sims life, like a drink that will make your sims live longer, or a thinking cap that will make 
 your sims learn faster. But with the attributes that will help you, there are also attributes that 
 wont. Using the same example stated above, if one of your attributes is to get denied a kiss, then 
 you lose points and your sim gets depressed. And, there is also a lifelong goal that your sim tries 
 to pursue, for example if you want love like above, then your life long goal might be "WooHoo" 
 (or have sex) with 20 different girls.
  
  Overall this was a great game and you should definately try it out. Like I said, it is worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Hi i'm mikey, i think The Sims 2 is the best people simulator game in the world, it needs high 
 specification but once you get going its the the most humoros and fun game to play, i think its 
 best for the family, top marks buy it now, no douhts you will love it, its a huge game, four disks, 
 hours of fun!!
  The specs are very high so if you need any help go to http://www. ea. com/sims2 there are many fourms 
 around and a good site for graphics cards is www. radion. com and ati. com
  Wicked
  Fun
  Funny
  amazing
  scary at times
  easy the play
  easy install
  good graphics
  never a 
 ledown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valizotha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is not the same game as the Sims 1. With lots of new stuff going from genetic inheritance 
 to everything you can hope from games of this genre.
  
  in this game, they also include new life stages, instead of being, a baby in a craddle and then 
 a boy, and growing no more, or being an adult and not dying??? No, in the Sims 2 they add new life 
 stages like Toddler, Child, Teen, Young Adult and Elderly. The game is much realer than its predessesor 
 having to potty train and teach how to walk children and actually dying when you become of age 
 and not only dying because you get the Sim in the pool and sell the ladder (that was so much fun) . 
 
  
  The appearence system is great, you get to create your Sims to your pleasing. Also the genetic 
 system is over-the-top! If, for example, the baby getting it's mother's blue eyes, but his father's 
 black skin.
  
  The Sims 2 is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to have taken all the good elements from the Sims 1, and added more! The aspiration 
 meter for example, the level it is at determines how much of your sims' needs are met. It's such 
 a good idea making the sims seem as if to want proper things, and have their own personalities.
 
  
  The game now can zoom in so much further and rotate 360 :D It's wonderful to play with sum flexibility! 
 Water and fire effects are no longer sprites, they're proper animations that look much more smooth 
 and realistic.
  
  The only thing I would've liked was weather effects : ( I know this was in the production of the 
 game, but they had certain problems with it raining inside the houses, but still I think they should've 
 fixed that and kept the weather effects, I'm sure if my sims responded to weather they'd seem even 
 more realistic, even though they already are unique in their own ways.
  
  The new feature of having downloadable content added to the game without having to restart is also 
 a great idea. Once you've opened up the game, you can simply click the 'snowflake' icon, and connect 
 to the sims online server, where you can download user-submitted content. Once you've downloaded 
 it, you can use it straight away without having to close the sims and then re-open it, like you 
 had to on the previous game.
  
  There's so much more you can explore in the sims 2, and the only way you're going to be able to 
 do this is by playing it for yourself. It really is a complete different experience to the classic 
 sims games :)
  
  Go for't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  The common question - 'Why fix it if it ain't broken?' would usually come into mind here, having 
 the original being such a groundbreaking and unbelievably fun experience. The Sims 2, however, 
 definately is what we all love in the Sims, and with it, new and fresh content which is what we 
 come to expect from sequels. Sims 2 adds new things like aspirations, a hugely in-depth create-a-sim 
 and life, so to speak, meaning you are actually born, thrown into school, progress to highschool 
 as a zitty teen, and then become a responsible adult taking up a full time job earning as much 
 as you can, and after a hard-day's life, you come to your elderly years, living off a fraction 
 of your wage as an adult, and eventually die. This adds the nifty family tree feature, making huge 
 family's and relations.
  
  So, with that, let's get this party started!
  
  Overview
  The Sims 2 is basically a real-life simulator in which you progress your Sims through their lives. 
 Through this, you have to build a home, pass on your bloodline (eg. Have children) , go to school 
 and end your life as a hopefully furfilled Sim. As people thought, this was just The Sims with 
 flashy graphics. This is definately NOT the case. Tonnes upon tonnes of content make this a must 
 have for everybody, it's hard to not have a great time with The Sims, and it's hard not to recommend 
 it someone.
  
  Gameplay
  Sims age through 6 unique stages: baby, toddler, child, teen, adult and elder (although another 
 stage, 'young adult', was added with the University expansion pack.) Unlike in the previous game, 
 when children stayed children and there was little game progress, the stages of life encourage 
 players to move the game along and create relationships between Sims. Family relationships are 
 much more integral to this version of the Sims than the previous version. As Sims age, get married 
 and have children, these relationships are recorded in an extensive family tree. In this installment 
 of the series, Sims can have more realistic marriages with engagements and parties. Sims are pregnant 
 before having children (unlike in the previous version, where children just appeared) . Other unique 
 events such as deaths, birthdays and a first kiss also take place in a Sim's lifetime. Good and 
 bad experiences are kept as memories and can affect the Sim's behaviour. In addition to taking 
 place in a fully 3D environment, aspirations of a selected Sim are also available for view, indicating 
 the Sim's "Wants" and "Fears". The graphics and house design engines have improved with more choices 
 for houses, neighborhood design, food and clothes. The Sims 2 Body Shop, a tool which allows a 
 user to design a Sim's body, clothing, genetic features, etc., was available well before the game's 
 release. The Sims 2 introduces a new aspect into the game: Aspiration. Aspiration manifests itself 
 in two ways: the aspiration which each Sim has, and the Aspiration Meter. Sims will each have an 
 aspiration which is set either when they are created by the player, generated by the game (if they 
 are an NPC) , or chosen by the player when they become a teenager. The five aspirations are: Romance, 
 Family, Knowledge, Popularity and Fortune. A sixth aspiration, that of growing up, is possessed 
 by all sims when they are toddlers and children, and a seventh aspiration, the Pleasure aspiration, 
 was included with the Nightlife expansion pack. There are six levels to the aspiration meter: The 
 highest is platinum, beneath that is gold, followed by two levels of green and two of red (red 
 being negative aspiration and therefore an undesirable state) . The level is raised when a Sim fulfills 
 a "Want", and is lowered when a "Fear" is realized. Wants and Fears are different for each sim 
 depending on several factors including aspiration type, age and aspiration meter level. They may 
 change on a daily basis, and are displayed graphically in slot-machine fashion on the toolbar. 
 When the Aspiration Meter is high, aspiration rewards may be properly used. For example, the Elixir 
 of Life aspiration reward allows a Sim to live longer. If this aspiration reward is used before 
 the Aspiration Meter reaches the gold level, however, it sometimes backfires and the Sim loses 
 life days. The Aspiration Meter also affects how long an elder will live for once they enter this 
 phase of their life. This also means that while the game still has no set goals, there is a new 
 strategic level to balancing a Sim's life as players now have a limited time in which to fulfill 
 Aspirations, meet needs, progress in a career, socialize and possibly have a family.
  Verdict - 10
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are far more realistic and overall, better. They provide 
 the player with a better look at everything and just helps an already awe-inspiring game experience. 
 They look as good as can be with-out losing the laid-back feel of the game. The textures look good, 
 and all the furniture are superb. The stand-out graphics feature is the create-a-sim. It's so in-depth, 
 that you can make yourself look true to life with some elbow grease and a bit of care. Watching 
 yourself on a monitor in polygons, who wouldn't love that? Everything is so detailed, and the ever-so-low 
 minimum specs are shocking, meaning nearly everybody can enjoy this game even on high. The graphics 
 add to a colourful and bubbly experience.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Sound
  The sound, another great feature about this game. The hilarious "Sim-Speak" in conversations are 
 deilightful to hear, and the comical sounds made by them just add more personality. The funky tunes 
 made by the stereo's make you want to hum along, and the funny sounds made by the TV add realism, 
 but doesn't keep it too intense, because if you take the time to watch the TV, it's usually spoofs 
 of current TV shows or footage from various other EA titles. There's a lot of conversations made 
 by the sims, so your not hearing the same gibberish continuiosly. Although it does get a bit annoying 
 at times, you can't stay mad at the Sims 2, it's just one of those games that you can't stay away 
 from.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Value
  Since this is an older game, I think its fair to say you would be able to pick this up very cheaply 
 nowadays. It's a bit of a gip buying expansion packs, by they're worth your money. You can easily 
 get up to, or ever over 100 hours of gameplay. Nothing limitises this game, it's leaves you up 
 to how you want to live your virtual life. The cost of this game ensures a very nice gaming experience 
 for a few pennies, and each expansion pack so far has been worth owning. Any gamer should own this 
 game, for such a low price, and such an experience should be worth anybodies gaming time at some 
 point, and it should find a home in nearly every PC gamers collection.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Overall, this game is definately worth owning, and a hugely fun gaming experience missed if you 
 don't play. This is a must-have game for PC, and should make any gamer's face smile after playing.
 
  
  Overall - 9.3 - Superb
  Verdict - 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Yeah, not beats living in a huge mansion, where you have about even bathrooms, seven bedrooms, 
 five dining rooms, six kitchens and a huge library... In Sims! The game has improved, like now 
 there are even more options what to do, like for example now you can cook more different meals, 
 do a noogie to your roommate, friend or who ever it is. But basically the game still is the same, 
 where you simply need you live your life. Shamefully there isn't much of different items, but luckily 
 there are expansion packs. Maybe that's why they didn't put more different choices for items.
 
  Now that the game is 3D you can move the camera anywhere! Almost. There graphics are pretty neat.
 
  Sounds are ok, I still can't stand that "simlish" they're babbling. Radio music is also ok.
  Fun game, if you have anything better to do. And a good engine because:
  The real downfall is 
 that you need a supercomputer if you want this game to run smoothly. Otherwise, satisfy to the 
 lagging game, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a really fun game that can keep you busy for long. It includes MUCH more stuff than 
 the first game, but the first one is more simple, making it easier to control your sims. It's more 
 complicated in 2, but it's a little bit better thatn one, with better graphics (the pictures in 
 the TV actually move) , you can customize your sim even more, with pants, swimsuit, aspiration, 
 makeup, whatever. And it's more real, they can get fat if they eat and don't exercise. They can 
 make several different ,meals, and, also, they can grow. from a toddler to a kid, a kid to a teenager, 
 and a teenager to and adult and to an elder. This is a game anyone who like creat your own tycoon 
 games will like to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Finally the 2. sims is here. I have been waitet 2-3 years for this game, so it was i big moment 
 when I first tried it. If you liked the sims 1, then am complete sure that you are going to love 
 this. There was many things that is missing in this game, but is so much good, that you almost 
 do not care. 
  
  The good: Takes the sims to a hole new level, 3D, babies, you can live in many generations, many 
 levels of ages, and babies finally looks like its mom and dad! Can't discripe more with words, 
 try it!
  
  The bad: EA promised to much, in many pictures there were cars ( at a parking place at the home) , 
 and butlers and bodyguards. There where also wheater, which many had expected. Some if this will 
 come in the expansion am sure, and some has already came.
  
  So exepept from the bad things, its a quality game, that is not is made in a full hurry, but it 
 has been made in the way game should be make. That will say a process during many years, that shows 
 the best results. And if you play the sims 1 now, if you tried this for a couple of weeks, and 
 then the sims 1 again, then you can see how much better this is. You will see big changes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  If anyone was wondering, the title to this review was written Simmish, the famous language of everyones 
 favourite group of controllable people, The Sims. After thier previous outings, the sims looked 
 a little dated, with all of its expansion packs coming to an end it looked like things were about 
 to finish. However, The Sims 2 has been created, not really as a replacement, but as a remake. 
 All the original actions and interfaces are there, except they've been made better, with the expansive 
 graphic cababilities and new physics as well as music, everything seems so much fresher than it 
 did before. Graphically, this is a splendid game, each individual character has a wide set of emotions 
 and the graphics of the faces bring them to life, happy, sad, angry, crazy you name it. And it's 
 not just characters either, all items, pieces of clothings, building materials, even grass all 
 look shiny and new. As for said items, there are hundreds. Chairs, tables, videogames, toys, wallpaper, 
 statues, tiles for flooring and walls even the famous pink flamingo. This means there will be loads 
 of wonderful items to put around your sim's home. Which brings me onto the gameplay, basically, 
 you create a Sim in your own likeness with the very wide aray of different factors, tweaking every 
 bit of thier appearance until your satisfied. You then move them into a new house or into an empty 
 lot and create a new one in your own taste. All of which so far is extraordinarily easy. Then you 
 can continue your sim's life, taking up jobs, cooking, cleaning, eating, playing games, all the 
 things in natural life. Your Sim will also have needs and fears which can be fulfilled to make 
 them extremely happy. The amount of jobs are few but each one branches quite far, whether its cleaning 
 test tubes in a school or being mayor of simsville. Another new factor is the ability for sims 
 to grow older, over a certain period of days the sim will get older and eventually die, this comes 
 in handy when having babies, which also grow older too. All of this means you can expand your family 
 majorly. Music wise, this is funny, all the sims talk in thier custom built language with music 
 that sounds like a party, that makes you bob your head, there are even rockbands singing in simmish 
 on the radio, wow. This is a great game altogether and you should definitely get this if you want 
 to play God, and we all do don't we. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightski
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Of course, i can't go out and say that this is a bad game, because thats just ignorant. However, 
 the game seems almost the same as the first Sims. It does have a few niceties to it, like the whole 
 aging thing, and the aspirations and what not, but tehre isn't really any game defining changes 
 made from the first game to this game. It still has basically the same game mechanic, and plays 
 the same as the original Sims. Of course, the going uptown to buy things without an expansion is 
 new and improved, but i think that in the area of gameplay, this game is a clone its precursor. 
 The one thing i would say that stands out in terms of gameplay is the amount of actions you can 
 do and things you can do and say to other sims.
  
  In the area of graphics, this game is quite sufficient. The models look much better and more refined 
 than on the first Sims, and the whole making your sim look like you is very easy, with all the 
 sliders and the like. Also, the models of the items in the game are also very good. When interacting 
 with items, it looks pretty natural and doesnt look out of place. However, i noticed a heavy amount 
 of freezing up and many bugs in my gameplay. Every now and then, the screen would go like inverted 
 colors, and very often, the game froze up and stood still for several seconds. And don't even say 
 its because of my computer, cuz i have 3 gigs, with a GeForce 7200 vid card. So there is a whack 
 of stability issues within this game. That doesn't make it a bad game, but all these technically 
 bad nuances to the game can make your gaming experience quite poor.
  
  The storyline your game goes thru is somewhat enjoyable and relatable, but overall the experience 
 i thought i was gonna get fromthis game was left at the till at EB games. Like i said, there are 
 a few cool additions like the aspiration meter, and the many new items and actions, but if you 
 are lookin for a completely different game from sims one, you better look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Although there have been many games similar to it and plenty of games that have been influenced 
 by it, none of them can compare to one of the most addicting and entertaining games ever made, 
 The Sims. The Sims provided players with something that was completely unique at the time, complete 
 and total freedom. Players would create a family and guide them through life. Users could live 
 out personal dreams or create their own worst nightmares, recreate their own family or make a fictional 
 one, the possibilities were endless. Now with The Sims 2 a brand new batch of players will be able 
 to experience the fun. 
  
  The Sims 2 improves on every aspect from its predecessor; gameplay, sound, graphics have all been 
 boosted. For those who have played the original Sims game a bunch of new features have been added, 
 allowing for hours of new fun and exploration and for those that new to the series a huge world 
 is open to you from the get-go. 
  
  Even with all the new features, the core gameplay remains the same. Your sims interact with the 
 world around them by you click on different areas of their home and giving them tasks to perform. 
 Other then a few exceptions everything in the sim world can improve your sims mood and advance 
 his skills. The game continues to do a good job of making your mood drop and rise without it seeming 
 unnatural. Although there were enough mood items, the skill items felt shallow, but this can easily 
 be fixed with the expansion packs.
  
  Getting as much money in the fastest possible time is a huge aspect of the Sims world. Therefore 
 keeping your sims mood high and improving their skills is necessary because it will result in 
 a promotion. There is nice variety in the job selection and in ways of getting does jobs. Although 
 veterans may find a few jobs missing the ones present, keep things interesting.
  
  The new addition to gameplay is the Aspiration Metre. There are 5 Aspirations in total and they 
 all are quite unique from each other. It works much like the mood metre, by rising and falling 
 through out the day, except specific actions must be performed to increase it. The Aspirations 
 give more depth and structure to the open-ended gameplay and also gives more personality to all 
 the sims. Unfortunately, the Aspiration metre is not as tight as the mood metre; it seems to fall 
 much quicker and is much harder to increase. 
  
  The Sims 2 also features the possibility to leave your home and have some fun by visiting community 
 lots. These community lots include parks, malls, community centres, the basic landmarks of entertainment 
 in any city. Your sims can enjoy themselves, meet other sims or even buy groceries. Unfortunately, 
 the games long load times, sometimes up to a minute, between community lots and residential lots 
 make this experience much less enjoyable. 
  
  Customization is definitely one of the most important elements of the Sims experience and Sims 
 2 does not disappoint. The create a player has been completely reworked, giving players more control 
 of how their Sims look. The face editor is by far the most improved on, allowing you to mould key 
 features on the face. This allows more emotion to be expressed then ever before. Unfortunately, 
 the rest of the body cannot edit other then adding different types of clothing. The build mode 
 for creating and editing your home looks much as it did in previews games, except it allows for 
 more control and customization. Some beautiful works of art can be created with the build mode, 
 but only if the time is taken. 
  
  By far one of the gems found in the Sims 2 game is the online community. Although the game is not 
 directly online, the thousands of things that can be downloaded from community site is incredible. 
 Clothes, homes, sims and even extra items are all at touch of a finger. Most of these items are 
 created and uploaded by players of the game and therefore some of the quality can be challenged, 
 but most of the time great things can be found. 
  
  Graphically the Sims 2 has much improved, since the original. The game has a cartoony feel to it 
 that may not appeal to all gamers, but the graphical style definitely fits the cartoony mood of 
 the Sims 2 game. Sims now feel much more alive then they did in previews version. Your sims will 
 finger point at each other, whistle, throw tantrums and pee themselves unlike previously. All of 
 these things add to create a living breathing world that will only get better with expansions. 
 
  
  Sims 2 is a fantastic game for both new players and old ones. Although it has its problems, just 
 like any other game, the overall package outshines those flaws. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought the graphics were awesome because you could see the characters way better than you could 
 in the first series of sims but this one you had way more items to use and buy which may it tons 
 more fun than the first one and that they're making more versions like night life and University 
 was better like you could get drums and guitars it's awesome and it's way better than the first 
 series but thats just my opinion but it was an instant classic was awesome pretty much becaus ewhat 
 kind of creator would think of making an awesome sims game that doesnt suck you know? It's just 
 the best sim game period.
  
  Please Reccomend My Reviews!
  
  Rebecca_Girl_1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Creating your Sims and sending them through there lives is amazingly fun. With loads of items, 
 AMAZING building abilities, mod-supported, clean for the family, this game is perfect. But there 
 is more! The genetic system is revoloutionary. How that managed that is amazing. Sims jobs are 
 cool because you make your money, and you can spend it on awsome objects, remodel, you name it! 
 Its also awsome because it adds challenge and makes it so you must get your sim to have an amazing 
 life to survive. The aging is awsome too, and the entire Sims lifespan is fun. It never gets boring, 
 a big reason is because of the aging, and expansions (That are all equally awsome) .
  
  The gameplay has changed so much, but keeping great things too! Wants and fears, aspirations, etc 
 add to the new gameplay. Loads of new socials and object interaction (Including a buttload of new 
 objects) . Controls are almost the same as the orginal, and the game still uses the pie menu teqnicue. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsj0806
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first sims game i got so i dont really have anything to compare it to. It is really 
 fun but i think there needs to be more furniture. It can get hard to start a family b/c first your 
 sim doesnt sleep and then they need to have fun and then they need to eat. so they go to the bed 
 and then they wake up to watch tv then they stop to eat then it starts over. eventually he passes 
 out and dies. i think the mood bar goes down WAY to fast. it is really hard to start a family b/c 
 once you get past the marrige your kid usually gets taken away b/c you dont feed him or something. 
 if you start it with a full family it can be fun. i think it is really cool that you can build 
 multiple levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  The Sims is undoubtedly one of, if not the biggest franchise on PC. It has sold millions of copies 
 world wide, with several expansions and console games aswell. And yet, I can't figure out why. 
 My friend is a huge Sim hater. He says he can't see what could possibly be fun about telling a 
 person to have a shower, and neither can I. In theory, this should be the most boring game on earth. 
 On paper, there isn't anything that could be fun about it. But, somehow, this game is purely perfect. 
 There are just some games that have that little something extra thay makes you want to keep playing. 
 I don't know what it is, you'll just have to trust me.
  
  The original Sims, of course, is getting on a bit. Although it is still fun to play, the graphics 
 look a bit dated and the expansion packs seem to be running out of ideas and leaving a trail of 
 bugs and errors with them. So when I heard they were making a new game, I was intruiged to say 
 the least. I wondered what they could do to keep things fresh without changing the game too much. 
 Somehow, Will Wright and his armies of pixies did it. So here's the main things that they've changed:
 
  
  Graphics - a bit obvious, but the game looks amazing with the new graphics. Creating a Sim is the 
 most detailed yet. I thought Bustin' Out was good, with their range of different noses. Now you 
 have 10 different values (length, width, size of ridge, position on face etc) that you can change 
 individually. They just look so unique.
  
  Aging - one of the big things people wanted was to see the children grow up into adults. Maxis 
 took this one step further and let your Sims age from baby, to toddler, to child, to teenager, 
 to adult, to elder, to... well, death i guess. Although this is great, I find it hard to let my 
 Sims grow old. It's only natural to get attached to them, and I normally turn the aging off cheat 
 on.
  
  Wants and Fears - my favourite addition. When creating a Sim, you can choose what their goals are 
 in life. You have choices of fortune, romance, popularity, family or knowledge. These choices give 
 sets of goals and fears in life. A fortune Sim will want to reach the top of his career, but fear 
 having his furniture reposessed. Achieving these goals will earn you Aspiration points, a kind 
 of extra currency. These let you buy furniture such as a money tree, a love jacuzzi and a fountain 
 of life. If you complete enough of these goals, your Sim gets a temporary permanent mood. They 
 don't care if they've been eating instant meals all week and smell like next doors garbage, they're 
 just happy to be alive. Of course, if you ignore their wants and their worst nightmares come true, 
 then they have a mental breakdown, start dancing with a broom and curl up in the corner.
  
  All the little things - Maxis obviously put a lot of work into making the Sims seem more alive 
 and nobody seems to notice. It's all the little touches, like when a Sim waves a friendly good 
 morning to someone they're friends with on the way to the bathroom, or wake up in the middle of 
 the night because you've been ignoring their wants. A sloppy Sim will shovel his food down his 
 throat as fast as he can and then fart in everyones face, chuckling to himself.
  
  Overall, the best thing about the Sims 2 is the things it hasn't changed. It still has it's quirky 
 humour, it's wonderful Simlish language and open ended gameplay. Despite new wants and fears, it 
 hasn't became goal - orientated like the console versions. You don't have to do anything. You don't 
 have to make your Sim get promoted just because he wants to. Get him fired and laugh at his withering 
 wreck.
  
  I know there are people who won't go near the Sims, and I understand that. But I still think they 
 should locked in a room with it for an hour or so and then see if they still want to come out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 1 was a cool little game that started basic then using the expansions let your sims' lives 
 get pretty wacky making them movie stars, witches or a crazy cat lady. One could ask the question 
 how could it get better?
  
  The makers have answered this question quite well. They have intoduced things like goals, and rewards. 
 Letting your children grow up is good too.
  
  First off it starts off already with a downtown kind of area where you can shop and enhoy yourself. 
 It also starts off with a bit of living large type of thing where you can get abducted by aliens 
 which can get weird. 
  
  The rewards for work can range from lie detectors to a candy making machine. The aspirations are 
 their goals. At the start of their life you select what there aspiration is whether it be knowledge, 
 money, love, family. These will change what the sim will want. When you acheive something that 
 the sim wants you get points. These points will amount up and let you buy rewards such age a money 
 tree or a revitalizing machine. 
  
  Anyway the game is great and adds alot of things that people always wanted in the original game. 
 The game offers a realistic world with a sidedish of weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  I havent really got much to say but this is put ill talk about; 
  I recently got the game and i think it isnt bad since i've never played any of the Sims games. 
 I started it and i somehow made an old man doin yoga and he just wouldnt stop. Then someone else 
 came along and started doin yoga. Its just crazy but fun. I realised that you can make anything 
 happen in Sims games and that what makes it a popular game. I havent played much but i think i 
 can get really into this game and for those who havent played the Sims games yet, i recommend you 
 play it. Its so funny when you make the people do weird stuff that doesnt happen in real life.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sh1nka
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is possibly the best sequel it could have been to the number 1 selling PC game of all 
 time.
  
  The Sims 2 has a heavy weight on its shoulders, its the sequel to the number 1 selling PC game 
 of all time, thats quite a legacy to continue, but the Sims 2 doesnt disappoint. The first noticeable 
 difference is the graphics, they are vastly improved over the original and your Sims faces are 
 now animated and show some very funny expressions. The customisation has also grown so much. You 
 can even choose which nose you like from a list of pre-made noses and if you cant find one of 
 those well you just make your own!!
  
  The camera is also vastly improved, now you dont have to stick with the basic 3 levels of zoom 
 and 4 degrees of view around the house. You can get as up close and personal with your Sims as 
 you can imagine. The Sims has always been a very clever game with its story, why? Because there 
 is no story!! You can do what you like and create yourself, your family or create the most zany 
 lot of crazy loons in the world. 
  
  Another New feature to the Sims 2 is the aging system, it can be a bit annoying that you put all 
 the effort into making your favourite Sim successful and rich when they suddenly die of old age, 
 but this can all be stopped with a simple cheat, but no one saw me say that ;) 
  
  The Sims 2s only fault is that it can be a little unkind to older computer systems, it can slow 
 down a lot and eventually look more like a slow motion section of a movie rather than a game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  We all know that The Sims is still the best bought game ever!
  No surprise EA released a sequel.
  In contrast to the Add-ons for the first Sims, this game really 
 adds new things. At first the game has a real 3D engine now, so the sims move and look more realistic 
 now.
  They age now like real people; they start as a baby and go all the way to a corpse (after they've 
 been very old off-course!) .
  And all those good things from the first game are back.
  Relationships, the sims language, setting your house on fire and let your kids take away by the 
 child protection service or some kind) .
  It's just a better version of the first game.
  If you liked the first one, you really have to buy this one!
  And everyone else just has to play 
 this one!
  (I know 99,9% of the people who play games have played the sims!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongetron_X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. The sound is great, music etc, all great. Graphics are amazing.
  
  Creating your Sims and sending them through there lives is amazingly fun. With loads of items, 
 AMAZING building abilities, mod-supported, clean for the family, this game is perfect. But there 
 is more! The genetic system is revoloutionary. How that managed that is amazing. Sims jobs are 
 cool because you make your money, and you can spend it on awsome objects, remodel, you name it! 
 Its also awsome because it adds challenge and makes it so you must get your sim to have an amazing 
 life to survive. The aging is awsome too, and the entire Sims lifespan is fun. It never gets boring, 
 a big reason is because of the aging, and expansions (That are all equally awsome) .
  
  The connectivity to Sim City 4 (Custom neighborhoods) is a great feature. The game also has a HUGE 
 modding community. 
  
  People who say that nothing changed from the orginal Sims game either have-
  a. Never played 
 it for more than a half hour
  b. Never played The Sims 2 for more than an hour
  
  The gameplay has changed so much, but keeping great things too! Wants and fears, aspirations, etc 
 add to the new gameplay. Loads of new socials and object interaction (Including a buttload of new 
 objects) . Controls are almost the same as the orginal, and the game still uses the pie menu teqnicue.
 
  
  My final thoughts? Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A friend got his for christmas at first i thought tht the game wud b alrite after playing the first 
 one. The graphics had improved on the sencond but tht was it. The rest was all jst copied and pasted 
 on to a disc. There are no new jobs, the bloody language jst annoys u to the point u want to take 
 a crap in a bag and send it to ea and say here is sims 2 a pile of crap. Are we supposed to know 
 wat wubba dubba or wat eva rubbbish they say actually means. Teh only rewarding thing u can do 
 on it is kill ur sim, the aspiration rewards were alrite put still pretty poor once u have bought 
 everything it gets a bit plop. I dont even want to think wat rubbish they have crammed on to an 
 expansion disc. 
  
  Overall plop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnaboy
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  The original "The Sims" was always going to be a hard game to top. With expansion packs roughly 
 every six months to keep gamers interested and EA's pockets full, the original had almost everything 
 you could want.
  
  The same could not be said for "The Sims 2". Nothing really to set it apart from the original apart 
 from 3D graphics. The gameplay is similar and the quirky expansions we come to love in The Sims 
 are gone.
  
  Save yourself the effort, dont bother with the basic "The Sims 2". Go take a look at the expansion 
 packs, they may add some value to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I am going to tell you something really great. The Sims was recently reported to be the best selling 
 PC game in history, and that is a big thing to accomplish. With its immense mount of variety, it 
 allowed you to do anything you wanted, and I mean ANYTHING. You could do everything that you did 
 in life, from building your dream house, to going to work, and buying objects for your house. In 
 terms of variety, it was the best game I have ever played. I heard that The Sims 2 was coming out, 
 and I lost it. I saw some of the screen shots and said to myself This is going to be the best 
 game ever! So, how does it stack up to the almost unbeatable expectations of the first Sims? The 
 answer is- by making it bigger and better, with more variety and control. I am also pleased to 
 tell that it has lived up to its expectation and moremostly. While it offers so many more options 
 than before, it falls short on a couple of fronts.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  For the series of The Sims, the graphics have never looked better. For starters, the character 
 models are simply light years ahead of its predecessors. The models are no longer 2D sprites, but 
 are now all 3D polygonal. If you zoom in with the new fully 3D camera (more on that in a sec) you 
 can actually see the layers of textures and polygons. The faces now have a lot more animation to 
 it. Practically, every part of the face moves when they talk. As for the camera, it allows you 
 to go deeper into the world of The Sims than ever before. You can see everything in the world, 
 from the layers of polygons on the windows, to the individual 3D objects themselves. With the new 
 neighborhood story creator (see gameplay section for more details) it makes for the perfect setting 
 to place your screenshots. There are now more animations to even the individual objects in the 
 world, such as doors, chairs, etc. If you watch closely in slow motion when your Sim is making 
 food, you can actually see all the objects in his hand, in the refrigerator, even on the stove! 
 The only complaints I have is that the smaller objects lack detail and are very bland. Other than, 
 these visuals are just downright impressive.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  Just like the graphics division, the realism has been boosted greatly with the sound division. 
 There is a sound for everything, such as opening and closing doors, using the computer, taking 
 footsteps, even mixing food with a spoon! For every action your Sim takes, theres a sound for 
 it. The voice acting is also much better than in the first. The voices sound a lot better and seem 
 more lifelike. However, your Sims still speak Simlish. On the other hand, the music is no longer 
 a Jazz theme, but rather a custom created theme that I dont know of. It can get very annoying, 
 especially during the neighborhood overview, with all its high pitched noises and isnt all that 
 great. Other than that, the sound is great all around.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  This is where it all comes down to. What made the original Sims so great was the immense amount 
 of variety it contained. You could do anything you wanted, from building a house, to cooking food, 
 to going to work and earning cash. So, how does The Sims 2 stack up to all that? The answer is: 
 by making it bigger and better.
  
  Some new traits have been added to the formula. It still retains everything from the original and 
 makes some changes. To start off, there have been a couple additions to building a house. You can 
 now add a foundation to the house which is essential for porches, stairways leading up to the front 
 door, and even basements. You can also add gates to your fence now, which allow you to but a fence 
 all around your house. Theres also a custom stairway maker, which lets you create a stairway from 
 any height or angle. Theres also a new box wall option that lets you automatically crate the 
 first level of your house. Just click, drag, and drop. In buy mode, there are all new objects that 
 include curtains, video game systems, and many other things. You can also customize the objects 
 you want with a new recolor option before you buy it, and anytime you want. Furthermore, there 
 is a huge amount of new social options added, such as red hands and punch u punch me. This 
 makes it somewhat easier to get to know somebody. If you gain a cooking skill point, you learn 
 how to make a new meal, and the more points you gain, the more meals you know how to cook. When 
 you gain body skill points, you then get to know how to do yoga and meditate. There are now many 
 other ways to interact with objects as well. For example, you can jump on couches, work out while 
 watching TV, make dessert, etc. Your Sims also have something called Aspirations. There are five 
 of them and each comes with wants or fears. The more wants you fulfill, the more aspiration points 
 you get and you can buy some really cool stuff. There are even career objects you can obtain by 
 advancing enough in the career. Each one helps out with a different type of skill point. Furthermore, 
 with the new create a family mode, you can create anyone from an infant all the way to an elder. 
 You can also add make-up, face paint, sunglasses, even take off the Sims eyebrows. Theres also 
 a bodyshop mode where you can create custom content or create your Sims ahead of time. You can 
 even package them to thesims2. com. There are just so many more things here than ever before.
  
  On the other hand, I do have a few complaints. For starters, most of the objects in the game 
 are too elegant. Theres this one design variation for the cheapest object that makes it look more 
 expensive that the most expensive object. Most of the clothes look really rich too, which in this 
 case, is a bad thing if you want to look poor. There are quite a few objects from the first Sims 
 that are absent as well such as the pool table and aroma machine. How in hell are we supposed to 
 build a classic Sims home without those two objects!?
  
  In the end, there is very little wrong with The Sims 2 and if you really love the first one, you 
 should easily be able to look past the problems and have a blast with The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Sims fan from the first Sims game. I was like 8 or 9, and I loved the new style of 
 gaming. I haven't missed and expansion for Sims and Sims 2, and they are all great. But this is 
 about the Sims 2
  
  Positive:
  -AWESOME Graphics
  -New Asparation System adds new depth
  -Aging System is very deep
  -Family tree is intersesting
 
  -Overall gameplay is great
  -Objects are new and fresh
  
  Negative:
  -Long Load Screens (not extremely noticable though)
  -Some weird Glitches
  
  Overall:
  
 This game is the start of a new gaming era. Dont fall for "SIngles" or any other cheap ripoffs 
 of this, cause this is the one and only sims 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelRender
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 takes a great game and makes it even more fun. If you had fun with the first sims games 
 you will love this game having said that if you hated the first sims games you will not like this 
 game at all.
  The graphics in the sims 2 are much better then the great graphics in the sims 1. The superb game 
 play found in the first sims has only become better with much more ways to control your sim. The 
 sound is just perfect nuf said. You could play the sims 2 forever with so much to do in it. 
  My only problem with this game is that the camera moves to slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy5555555
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game i would give it a 10 and thair is endless posobilatys so keep siming people go 
 out and buy this game now now now!!!!!! but i think that u shoud test it your self and get the 
 expantion packs so the graphis are realy good if your comp is good so is the sound but if u have 
 a bad computer you cant have as much fun. but you should buy it as soon as posible and you can 
 just keep playing for hours get the expantions and im a guy but even i think it is the best in 
 its class 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetto200313
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  OK im my review of this game what is it to you aye think about this one for a minute is it just 
 a game where you go t torture little people to me its more than just that. To me the sims is a 
 game where i can learn how to look after a family look after my self. it isnt just a game for entertainment 
 its a educational game remmeber that.
  
  I rate this game a 9.0 mainly because its a great game but they left out quite a few objects that 
 they could have chucked in.
  
  In another way this game has to be my all time fave well after doom of course who dosent love the 
 oldies
  
  this is Vegetto siging out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  ... I must admit that from the moment this one came out of the box it was an instant hit for me!
 
  
  The game play, albeit totally open-ended, which may be a bit strange at first, is so totally immersive 
 in the long run that one can spend literally hours playing this game and it ends up feeling like 
 10 minutes!
  
  To make it even better for so-called "modders" like me, the game engine is so open-ended that additions 
 to the game are almost limitless as can be seen by the dozens of third-party web sites that focus 
 almost entirely on add-on, "hacks" and objects for the game.
  
  All that can be said here as far as I am concerned is well done Maxis, and with the two expansion 
 packs that have been released since (and with a third apparently on the way) the fun just doesn't 
 end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowKaze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, it was very easy to learn even without the tutorials. Being a The Sims 
 fanatic, this has WAY better graphics tha The Sims 1, so a big improvement, and if you don't believe 
 me, look at the screen shots for The Sims 1 and compare them to these. Another improvement is the 
 aging and generations, looking at the family tree and knowing you did all that is an awesome feeling, 
 and the aging is a really fun challenge, trying to get the highest aspiration score you can and 
 keeping it there with the Wants and Fears. And, my favourite part, is the new building tools. A 
 lot more wallpapers and floors, and being able to make roofs and porches is really cool. This was 
 worth the 20 bucks I spent on it, so if you don't have it, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herrird
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing the textures are just fantastic , perhaps the price is a bite hard ! But 
 its ok i am rich hi hi hi ... Well the game play is terrific i love it ! 
  Its amazing how the finality of the game can put someone crazy about everything , i think thats 
 is the best game for pc !!!!! When im in vacation i feel totally crazyi miss the gamedude 
 , but of course when i'm home again .. ououoo god i jump right to the pc and play play many hours 
 , who i lose when i'm in vacations.... hi hi hi hi hi !! Well... i don't have many things to say..! 
 Well i think you should like my review text =D !! Well dudes far well my friends ... pEaCe_oUt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstoy91
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I was addicted to do this game the moment I played it. There's so many things you can do in this 
 game, it's going to be a long time before this gets old. You can be controlling one family for 
 the entire game and it wil never end because the offspring will create more new characters as old 
 ones die. The only annoying thing in this game is the sometime ugly graphics and the way the sims 
 talk can be annoying at some points of the game. Overall if you have nothing better to buy, you 
 won't be disappointed purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnoy_dude25
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is the epitome of simulation/strategy, I think. With better visuals and an even more 
 compelling gameplay (and a new in-your-face camera angle) , I'm happy to say that Sims 2 lived up 
 to its name.
  
  Now, your Sims have more things to do. Fulfillinf your Sims' aspirations becomes the game's focal 
 point. There are about 5 different aspirations: job, love, technology, etc. 
  
  But along the way, it gives you this mini challenges that if you succeed in completing, you get 
 this points that can be redeemed for cooler stuff!
  
  It has more neighborhoods like Strangetown and Veronaville? and you could even create your own!
 
  
  There's also new jobs and brand new more modern stuff you could purchase.
  
  There's a storytelling mode, a camera mode.. What more could you want?!
  
  However, the thing 
 that I think the Sims 2 lack is a harder challenges. The game is really easy and sometimes neverending. 
 It can get boring.
  
  Anyway, that's just a minor detail to the Sims 2 improved gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest simulators ever. I thought the Sims 2 would be a little boring and not as good 
 as the original, but I was wrong. The graphics are amazingly good and the gameplay is extoardinary. 
 The characters still speak a bunch of made up words but you don't really listen to them. I really 
 do enjoy playing this game a lot more than the original. Those of you who are tired of playing 
 shooters should find time to check The Sims 2 out and try something new. Anyone who played the 
 first Sims and enjoyed it should definitely check out the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  We are here talking about a game that maked the world shake, this game is incrinble i think that 
 this game that maked to ''eagames'' a name. with it's 
  good grafics and the best type of stratgy it will take a good place in the games storage of any 
 computer gamer.
  
  This game has a good style it shows the personal and the normal live of any person and u control 
 it with diffrent ways. 
  
  this game is helping the player in his own live it makes him feel more 
  comfartble and shows 
 them the ways to do that and that that what i see 
  about that game and it fantastic things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybonfire
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  good game for the first addictive 20 hours but then same old same old. dont buy it if you wqant 
 a easy to know all game,. the more you play the more you realise you dont know how to play. a glorified 
 dolls house which is too complicated for my 12 year old niece. it is almost not worth finding 100 
 words to describe it so that i can write this review. anyone want a copy? i have one here they 
 can have only played once by one careful owner. last time i listen to an ex girlfriends advice 
 on the next game to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I can't say anything bad about this game. The new features are amazing and everything Sims fans 
 have been hoping for. Structures beyond 2 stories, basements, foundations, easier camera rotation 
 with better views etc. All out fun fest along with some realism thrown in. For example, your Sims 
 age now and your kids can actually become adults and later on in life seniors. And of course Maxis 
 did not take away the wild things about the game like ridiculous decorations and inventions. Stores 
 are also more accesable and similar to The Sim: Unleashed expansion for the original game, instead 
 of traveling to different areas all your needs are in town. The greatest feature of this game is 
 customization. You can customize anything and import it into the game. In fact you can make your 
 own town, use the editing tool for your Sims, and have an entire town of people with purple skin. 
 This is Sim quality gaming and its hard not to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has a lot of options. There are so many things that you can do. You can play out lives 
 in loads of ways and there is always something to do. You can even create neighbourhoods and families 
 to go in it and everyone has a personality and so on. If you are real good at physics and arcitucture, 
 then you could be able to rebuild the neighbourhood that you live in. The sims in this game have 
 brains and acknowledge who is there and what to do. The sound is good in this game. The sounds 
 that you would usually hear in life. Create people with their own unique face and body is always 
 great. This is extremely original stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstudpuppy0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This Is Another Awsome Game Made From Maxis It Is A Better Vesrion Then The Orginale More Items 
 More Fun More Skins More houses More Designes You Name IT It Is An Awsome Game You Should Play 
 Befor The First!!!!! I mean The Seconds Is Usuale Not As Good As The Orginale ;) But Also Try Out 
 All The Others All Of The Sims Ok? Promise Me People ;) Also Try Out The Land Of The Dead Road 
 TO fiddlers Green The Best Game Ever :) I HATE THIS STUPIED STUPIED WRITE 100 WORDS THING YOU  
 UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH PS JUST DOING THIS SO I CAN FINISH MY REVIEW;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest simulators ever. I thought the Sims 2 would be a little boring and not as good 
 as the original, but I was wrong. The graphics are amazingly good and the gameplay is extoardinary. 
 The characters still speak a bunch of made up words but you don't really listen to them. I really 
 do enjoy playing this game a lot more than the original. Those of you who are tired of playing 
 shooters should find time to check The Sims 2 out and try something new. Anyone who played the 
 first Sims and enjoyed it should definitely check out the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Most people would like this game. If you buy this game you have to buy the expansion packs or else 
 it would get boring quick. There is lots to do in this game. Although some of it is boring, it 
 is pretty fun over all. This game opens up unlimited possiblities. Creating people is even fun. 
 I enjoy this game and I think any of you big gamers would too. I suggest buying this game and the 
 expansion packs. It is really fun. I hope this review helped you. If it did please Suggest this 
 review. Thanks alot for reading!
  
  -John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superC0olgamer9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Be prepared to fight Mom for computer time, because the ultimate maternal gateway drug for gaming 
 has just come out with a sequel, and no family intervention is going to stop your personal soccer 
 mom from plunking her expanding ass into a chair and playing The Sims 2 until she passes out on 
 the keyboard. And you know what? That's perfectly understandable, because The Sims 2 is so much 
 more involving, more expansive, and just plain more more that you might need to buy a new PC so 
 you can play it alongside Mommy. 
  The basics of the game remain unchanged: You create your own virtual people (with an incredibly 
 versatile new suite of tools) , build them a home, then start managing every single facet of their 
 lives. All of their needsfood, entertainment, companionship, personal hygieneare met at your 
 pleasure, and their family lives and careers thrive or wither at your whim. But The Sims 2 moves 
 well beyond the bathing and bladder simulator that the original game could degenerate into at times. 
 
  
  Those needs are still there but are much less urgent. Instead, you'll need to focus on the larger 
 lifetime goals and dreams of your Sims. Each Sim has a core aspiration that will help guide his 
 life: Fortune Sims will chase money, Family Sims will breed like bunnies, Knowledge Sims will focus 
 on self-improvement, Popularity Sims will throw parties, and Romance Sims will bump uglies in the 
 dressing rooms of the downtown clothing store. Aspirations create a series of constantly changing 
 hopes and fears. Satisfy your Sims' dreams and they'll earn aspiration points, which can be used 
 to purchase limited-use items to enhance their livesa thinking cap will help them learn faster, 
 the elixir of life will reset the mortality time bomb ticking in every Sim. 
  
  That's rightinstead of treading water in the time stream, Sims in The Sims 2 have a definite life 
 span. The looming specter of death adds real urgency to the gameplayyou don't want to waste a 
 day when you have only 17 of them left to live. 
  
  But this isn't a game about pushing around just one Sim. The Sims 2 is focused squarely on nearly 
 every aspect of the family. Sims don't just get old and die, they get born and grow up, and it's 
 your responsibility to figure out how well or how badly those Simbabies mature. No one is saying 
 you have to toilet train your kids, but your Sim parents will have to live with the results. If 
 kids are nurtured, they'll grow up happy, competent, and probably possessed of quite a few skill 
 points to get them started in their careers. If they're neglected, well, the fistfights in The 
 Sims 2 are pretty fun to watch. 
  
  There's a lot to manage, so you'll really need to make your families function as a unit in order 
 for everyone to thrive. Thankfully, Maxis has built-in days off for every career's workweek, letting 
 you use the time to let a pregnant Sim catch up on sleep, giving you a chance to increase a crucial 
 career skill to help bump your Sim up to the next career level, calling your friends over for a 
 raging party at 10:00 in the morning, or letting you take the whole family for a relaxing day at 
 the water park. 
  
  The 3D graphics in the game are simply outstanding. A seemingly endless series of facial expressions 
 and body movements have been modeled to bring every moment in your Sims' existences brightly to 
 life. More than anything, this is a game about small defining moments. The Sims 2 is about first 
 kisses and falling in love; it's about morning sickness and cheap showers that scald when a nearby 
 toilet is flushed; it's about blossoming family trees, cheating spouses, deadly lightning strikes, 
 and alien abductions that leave Sim men pregnant. What's not to love?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AshlieHottie-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  There aren't many words at all to describe this game! Just a few might be: Fantastic, Amazing, 
 Fabulous! Yes, you've guessed it! I LOVE this game! When I first got it which was a couple of years 
 ago, I was completely addicted to it! I love the graphics and the way that it never ends. I have 
 started with one family and gradually turned it into many different parts of the family with exactly 
 22 different houses so far! I never get bored on this game and what makes it even better is that 
 there are always new expansion packs coming out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Its a cool game that presents life 
  Ex you can biuld an adult meke it looks like you and in the game meet new peaple and Get married 
 have a baby or even ten its up to you make them grow up you get old and your kids pass from babys 
 to kids to teens to adults and make there own family With birthdays and weedings and devorces 
 
  
  Story: there is no story in it lets say that you make a family 
  
  charecters: it depends on you to make them 
  
  Envirument: the game gives you some places but 
 you can make your own 
  
  thats all i can say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  from the original sims the sims 2 make a big leap.. there is many new features that come with the 
 actual game and many that can be downloaded online anyways...
  
  Just to start to say why the sims 2 is as great as it looks because u create your own story and 
 u manage it your own way and u make it as long as u wnat it to be.. the sims 2 can be a very challainge 
 game but for the most part is very much enjoable .... if u have very little patients and like straight 
 up action but it you lie to progresse your way and test ur skills sims 2 delivers that command.
 
  
  the new feature that u can record all the special time a sims has in its life like marriage, making 
 love for the first time, first kiss ect.... is what makes the game very fun to play and very long 
 to last but even so... sims is also very famous for teh expentions packs and the sims 2 has alot 
 of those to deliver so this game will never get bored of course to get the full fell of the sims 
 2 there will be alot o playing to do and also at least $150 of cost due to the expention packs 
 that come out to be like $30 or so... but overall is a great game that shouldnt be missed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Remember the Sims? The first game was kinda educational. You can... well, control the sims. You 
 play with life, give them a hat and some shirts, make a building, enter it... and just sit back, 
 and see what they are doing. That seems boring. But isn't. The Sims 2 is almost fully able to create. 
 While sitting back and seeing how is your sims are doing, you can always use the blue bar below. 
 Here, you can actually see how your sims are doing, and look at what they want and fear with. So 
 you got gizillions of options.
  
  You can enter a bio for your sim. So if your naughty sim ate somebody else's food, you might type: 
 'I have accidently ate my brother's lunch.' or something like that. The new 'wants' and 'fears' 
 shows your sim's dreams. Does he/she want to get a job as a nurse? Does he/she want to read books? 
 Does he/she want to tickle mum (or get ticked) ? If she does as it says in the wants and fears, 
 it's her/his want. The sims has got fears. Does your sim want to avoid your dad getting killed? 
 e/g, and those are your sim's fears! Yeah! Oh, I mean: "BOOO!"
  
  Well, it couldn't have been any easier: your sims memories. Those remind you of what your sim has 
 actually done (the memories might be something you haven't even known about!) . It's so easy. And 
 the classic 'Needs' bar is here as well. Those things are sorted more complex like, but your sim 
 can always shout what what he/she needs! Creating a neibourhood is so fantastic, and a little bit 
 like the SimCity games. I called mine 'Mono's Drake'.
  
  Making houses is harder than you thought, but it's incredibly fun. You can always add some extra 
 items while playing with the blue bar. Just click on 'Buy Mode' or 'Build Mode'. You will be set 
 for a creation. The camera is frustrating at first, but once you get into it, it's easier than 
 most games. It might be hard if your mouse hasn't got a wheel as well. Creating sims is... brilliant. 
 (I'm starting to run out of ideas without the word 'good') Millions of options. You can be smart, 
 or a mean teenager, and even an elder.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2 is better than the last. It's easy pro options, creation tools, content to 
 download and body editor means this a perfect purchase. now lets see what's up with The Movies... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  The sims are back and better than ever in The Sims 2 by EA Games. Everyone remembers the original 
 sims, with very low quality, and not as exciting gameplay as it should have. Now, however, the 
 sims are back yet again in a whole new style. Now, the sims have a whole new look and gameplay. 
 The sims are now 3D and look much more realistic. 
  The creators stayed with the focusing gameplay as in the original sims, but now sims have wants 
 and fears, and aspiration levels. Wants and fears are just like our wants and fears, except it 
 can affect them in different ways. A want can be as simple as buying a new sink to wanting a promotion 
 or a engagement. A fear could be to not lose a skill point or as major as to not lose a loved one 
 by fate of death.
  The aspirations have to do with these wants and fears, and for their mood ratings. if you fulfill 
 a want for your sim, then the aspiration meter goes up higher and their mood gets better. If you 
 complete a fear, their mood drops as well as their aspiration level. If the aspiration level reaches 
 the bottom then they will become crazed and have to have a visit from the Sim Shrink. There is 
 rewards for aspiration points depending on how many points you receive, so it isn't just for nothing. 
 
  The graphics are outstanding. They look extremely realistic and your sims need the same care as 
 you or I do. 
  They don't live forever either... so keep their moods high, don't get them electrocuted, and don't 
 starve them.. or they will become ghosts and scare your other sims to death... unless that is what 
 you want then go right ahead.
  Enjoy this centuries Sims, and look for the many other expansions coming out for The Sims 2 this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ssouljah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  "Would you suck "exponent Deleted" For The Sims 2?" Prolly not but, then again you do get the urge 
 to play it none stop til you get a weird itch and everyone else starts staring at you cause you 
 haven't showered or shaved in days... Your only reply to there gawks "My sim showwers 9 times a 
 day has 9 wives, 9 Lives and 9 Jobs to max... So shove it up your" AnywayMy point is I have never 
 played any game more then the Sims, creating stories and Movies and watching them die slowly cause 
 you removed the doors and put a bunch of dishs next to them and all of a sudden there being eatin 
 alive... Lets not forget Moding... The Sims 2 has millions of loyal minions waiting fr there chance 
 to strike out at those silly Star Trek fans and be top nerds... Thats why we spend years perfecting 
 our moding skills so we can make digital versions of Captian Kirk and Picard and make them but 
 buddys... While they fight to the Village People MP3s in the background.... But, In all fairness 
 back to the review... I have played through 6 generations in this one town had 4 kids trough College 
 in each of my 30 houses and still I find ways to make my sims time enjoyable... Weiter through 
 Mods or wacky story lines... After 2 years of faithful Sim2ing I can say this game is still making 
 me laugh and bond with my simulation Girlfriend (How sad am I) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  The Sims was a really great game, and with all the expansions you really never ran out of stuff 
 to do. The Sims 2 takes almost everything from the first Sims and goes from there. You can create 
 your own sim like in the first, but now it has tons of new options such as what type of sim they 
 are, mixing up different hairstyles, clothes, facial features, personality ect. Once you've created 
 your sim then you can move them into there own house and make a living by getting a job, making 
 friends, studying, getting married, having children and so on. You'll now live your sim through 
 a lifetime as they age from babies to toddlers, children, teens, parents, and then grandparents. 
 Your sim will also have wants and fears. Fulfilling there wants will boost their aspiration bar 
 and they'll have a new dream or want. Make it come true and you'll unlock new things such as being 
 happier, and having more courage or self-esteem ect. If your fears are realized your sim could 
 be devastated, and will remember these moments forever which will shape their personality and how 
 they react to certain people.
  
  The sims careers basically don't change from the first Sims but when your on the job you will be 
 able to make certain choices that will have an effect on your sims next promotion.
  
  You'll also need to keep your sim happy by fulfilling there needs. Going to bed, having a comfy 
 place to watch TV, eating, having showers/baths, and taking a dump will all regenerate your sims 
 needs. However, if you do the opposite (drinking, eating, not sleeping ect.) you'll soon need to 
 do so, and if you don't your sims could get a visit from the Grim Reaper.
  
  Pros: The wants and fears add a nice spark to the game, great graphics, and lots of replay value.
 
  Cons: A bit laggy sometimes, the music isn't too good, they could have fit a lot more into this 
 game.
  
  Conclusion: The Sims 2 is a great game for all ages, if you liked the original you'll like this 
 one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is by far the best game in it's series. Being a Sims fan, I was really excited about 
 the Sims 2, and I know I wasn't dissapointed. This game was better than the first by leaps and 
 bounds. Everything about it made the original Sims games look like a nothing. Maxis took the originals, 
 and maxed them to make them as good as they can get.
  
  1) The graphics are better. Far better. Your original little characters of the Sims are now characters 
 that you can view from about ten feet away. It makes the whole gameplay experience all the better.
 
  2) The Sims still have sims speach and that strange music playing in the background. Quite similar 
 to the originals, but they are, of course, better. This added some originality to the game.
  3) The gameplay is great. You can do anything with your Sims. There are goals you have to achieve 
 to make your Sims happy, there are more people you can converse with, the information bars that 
 the original Sims had have so much more to offer, and there's many more of them too... The list 
 goes on, and this being only a little bit of it is amazing.
  4) This game is cool to anyone. Even if you've never played the original Sims, you'll like this 
 game. If you have, you'll absolutetly love this game.
  
  Overall, this was one of the best games I've ever played, and well worth picking up as soon as 
 you get a chance. Don't rent it first (unless you really have a bad feeling) buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a strategy/simulation computer game from Maxis and is the sequel to the popular game 
 The Sims. It is a vast departure from the previous version and various updates. It is fully 3D, 
 and, unlike in the first installment, characters age and have genetic traits that can be passed 
 on to their children. The game was officially released on September 17, 2004 in both CD-ROM and 
 DVD-ROM formats. The DVD-ROM version, called The Sims 2 Special DVD Edition, contains a Bonus Disc 
 that carries extra content such as interviews and commercials of past Sim products. Customers who 
 pre-ordered The Sims 2 received their copy on September 14, 2004. A port to Mac OS X was done by 
 Aspyr and was released on June 12, 2005
  
  Description
  Sims age through 6 unique stages: baby, toddler, child, teen, adult and elder (although another 
 stage, 'young adult', was added with the University expansion pack and "preteen" might be added 
 in future expansion packs) . Unlike in the previous game, when children stayed children and there 
 was little game progress, the stages of life encourage players to move the game along and create 
 relationships between Sims. Family relationships are much more integral to this version of the 
 Sims than the previous version. As Sims age, get married and have children, these relationships 
 are recorded in an extensive family tree.
  
  In this installment of the series, Sims can have more realistic marriages with engagements and 
 parties. Sims are pregnant before having children (unlike in the previous version, where children 
 just appeared) . Other unique events such as deaths, birthdays and a first kiss also take place 
 in a Sim's lifetime. Good and bad experiences are kept as memories and can affect the Sim's behaviour.
 
  
  
  An in-game screenshot of The Sims 2. In addition to taking place in a fully 3D environment, aspirations 
 of a selected Sim are also available for view, indicating the Sim's "Wants" and "Fears". The graphics 
 and house design engines have improved with more choices for houses, neighborhood design, food 
 and clothes. The Sims 2 Body Shop, a tool which allows a user to design a Sim's body, clothing, 
 genetic features, etc., was available well before the game's release.
  
  The Sims 2 introduces a new aspect into the game: Aspiration. Aspiration manifests itself in two 
 ways: the aspiration which each Sim has, and the Aspiration Meter.
  
  Sims will each have an aspiration which is set either when they are created by the player, generated 
 by the game (if they are an NPC) , or chosen by the player when they become a teenager. The five 
 aspirations are: Romance, Family, Knowledge, Popularity and Fortune. A sixth aspiration, that of 
 growing up, is possessed by all sims when they are toddlers and children, and a seventh and an 
 eighth aspiration, the Pleasure and Grilled Cheese aspirations, were included with the Nightlife 
 expansion pack.
  
  There are six levels to the aspiration meter: The highest is platinum, beneath that is gold, followed 
 by two levels of green and two of red (red being negative aspiration and therefore an undesirable 
 state) . The level is raised when a Sim fulfills a "Want", and is lowered when a "Fear" is realized. 
 Wants and Fears are different for each sim depending on several factors including aspiration type, 
 age and aspiration meter level. They may change on a daily basis, and are displayed graphically 
 in slot-machine fashion on the toolbar. When the Aspiration Meter is high, aspiration rewards may 
 be properly used. For example, the Elixir of Life aspiration reward allows a Sim to live longer. 
 If this aspiration reward is used before the Aspiration Meter reaches the gold level, however, 
 it sometimes backfires and the Sim loses life days. The Aspiration Meter also affects how long 
 an elder will live for once they enter this phase of their life.
  
  This also means that while the game still has no set goals, there is a new strategic level to balancing 
 a Sim's life as players now have a limited time in which to fulfill Aspirations, meet needs, progress 
 in a career, socialize and possibly have a family
  
  System requirements
  The system requirements for The Sims 2 (from the official The Sims 2 website) are as follows:
 
  
  Windows
  
  800 MHz processor for systems with a T&L-capable video card with at least 32 MB of video RAM. 2 
 GHz processor for systems without a T&L-capable video card with at least 32 MB of video RAM. 
 
  256 MB RAM 
  Windows XP, Windows ME, Windows 98 or Windows 2000 Operating System or better 
  At least 3.5 
 GB of hard drive space 
  Mac
  
  1.2 GHz processor 
  PowerPC G4/G5 
  (ATI) Radeon 9000 or better. 
  256 RAM 
  Mac OS X 10.3.8 or better 
  At least 3 GB of hard 
 drive space 
  At the time of release, many criticized The Sims 2 for needing extremely high system requirements. 
 In fact, just the required (and not optimum) system specs meant that many PC's purchased as late 
 as 2001 would not even be able to run it at all. A similar complaint was levied against another 
 Maxis game, SimCity 4, released more than a year and a half ago
  
  Bugs
  The Sims 2 contains a number of bugs. Many of the bugs listed below have been corrected in a downloadable 
 patch (Note: The installation of The Sims 2: University should correct most of the problems below) .
 
  
  "Firstborn Clone": All sims produced in the game are random, but only to a certain point. For instance, 
 the first twelve 'randomly produced' sims could be recreated if you exited the Sims 2, then re-opened 
 it, started up CAS, then clicked the randomize button. If your sims create a child without using 
 the randomizing tool in CAS, it will be a certain combination of his or her parents' genes and 
 personality. If you opened the game again a day later, and Sim A, who gave birth to Sim C, gives 
 birth to another Sim, Sim D, it would be an exact copy of Sim C, in both personality and appearance. 
 However, if before birth of Sim D, E, ect. you exited the house of Sim A, B, C+, opened CAS, then 
 pressed the randomize button an arbitrary number more than twelve, it would restart the game's 
 randomization engines, and subsequent children would share different genes. 
  "Liney" Sims: Graphical glitch with ATI Radeon 9000 GPUs. This problem has been fixed in the new 
 version of ATI's drivers. 
  "Jump Out" Bug: Time-out/scripting bug, causing characters to abort ( "jump out of" ) certain animations 
 and interactions. Solved by the Maxis patch. 
  Memory Leak: Memory leak, sometimes caused by hiring non-player characters, causing abnormal use 
 of system resources. 
  Invisible Colleagues: Graphics glitch involving colleagues visiting by helicopter, causing colleagues 
 to be invisible. Solved by the Maxis patch. 
  "Vanishing Family Members": Hardly anything is known about this glitch except that it occurs when 
 a family member goes to work or school for the first time, they don't come back and vanish off 
 the portraits of the family members on the left of the screen; there is no memory of the disappearance 
 in any of the other family members. 
  Unused objects designated as in use: Engine bug which makes unused objects appear as in-use, like 
 doors that don't close. Caused by proximity to other usable objects. 
  Floating Teddy: After a few uses, the object of the bear will float in the air and there will no 
 longer be proper animation of use of the bear. Can be fixed by buying a new teddy bear. Also would 
 float if use was cancelled during the talk-through action. This was fixed by the Maxis patch. 
 
  Carpool bug: All sims living on a lot refuse to enter cars, taxis, buses, etc, causing them to 
 fail at their job or at school. Can be fixed by moving the family to another lot. 
  Door-Clone Glitch: If you enter build mode with the moveobjects cheat enabled, go to the door creation 
 tool. Act like you're about to place a door on the lot, but then, hit the delete key. Move your 
 sim to some other tile than where they currently are. Next, change the pitch of your camera. When 
 you let go of the camera, it will start making more sims, rather than more doors. Your lot can 
 then be filled with mindless clones of your sim, since the game doesn't know whether to make more 
 sims or more doors. Another way of exploiting this clone technique for users without the Nightlife 
 Expansion is to click on and move the sim, and hold down the shift key when placing. 
  Boddler Glitch: A dangerous bug that occurs when you don't save sims after they've switched from 
 one age band to another, and then deleted them using the "moveobjects on" cheat. 
  If you have moveobjects activated and delete a sim that has age-transitioned since your last save, 
 exit to the neighborhood without saving. Otherwise, if you try to restore them by using the hidden 
 Reset Age Duration option on the trash can, they will return to the lot in the age band they switched 
 to... but accessing the behaviors and animations of the age group they left behind! 
  In the case of most age group transitions, this makes the bug harmless. Children will act like 
 toddlers, teens like children, adults like teens, and elders like adults. But if your sim was an 
 infant that had transitioned to toddler and was deleted without being saved first, then the game 
 has a skeleton conflict. 
  It will use the skeleton for toddlers but the animations and behaviors for a baby. The toddler 
 animations which the game tries to run on the baby skeleton will fail, causing the action that 
 was being performed with the toddler to fail also. This makes it impossible for your sims to pick 
 them up and tend to their needs. If the social worker shows up, she won't be able to take the toddler. 
 However, the save and exit options, which are locked when the social worker arrives, are not re-enabled, 
 because the social worker's routine failed without cleaning up after itself. This renders the lot 
 unplayable, as the game goes into an Infinite loop. The only way to escape the game is through 
 the Windows Task Manager. 
  The glitch is named the "Boddler" Glitch rather than "Toddler" Glitch because the toddler acts 
 like a baby, or "Boddler." Other age groups that act like babies produce variations called the 
 Bild, Been, Bault, and Belder. But it's the same skeleton conflict in all of them. One of the first 
 uses of the word "Boddler" to describe this is by a user on the official Sims 2 website, posted 
 to the BBS section on October 27 of 2005. Similar bugs produce groups known as the Tild, Teedler, 
 Tault, Toolder, Cheen, Chault, Chelder, Tendault, Telder, and Aulder. With University, it's also 
 possible to have Byaults, Tyaults, Chyaults, Tenyaults, and Yaulders, but these are rare. The occurrence 
 of beens and byaults increases with the presence of third-party no-townie-respawn hacks. Boddlers 
 are easy to spot, as they are toddlers acting like a baby. Byaults and Beens are also easy to spot, 
 since they are Young Adults and Teens that act like babies. 
  Bugs also surfaced relating to both expansion packs. These have been tackled with patches released 
 in October 2005
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Even if you are not a fan of the sims you may just find yourself reluctantly re-playing the game 
 due to its addictiveness. In comparison to number 1, there are a great amount of differences.
 
  
  The first thing you may notice is the extreme graphics difference. Thats right. Character models 
 have improved greatly and you no longer have a face selection of about 20 different stupid-looking 
 faces. This brings to another good point of the sims. The amount of variation and customisability 
 to your sim is boundless. You can make your character's exact face, eyes, nose, etc with stretching, 
 squashing and other such. This includes a far less.. "exotic" selection of clothing so you don't 
 have to make your sim look like an idiot.
  
  Your sims now age. This means you get a few hours with your sims unless you decide to turn aging 
 off. This can be both good and bad. Though mostly bad since your sims will have withered to old 
 age by the time you finally get to the top of the ladder.
  
  The job selection, however has gone down in selection largely. Most of the jobs you would've found 
 in the expansion are now gone and you have only the most basic of jobs from the original. This 
 will probably be fixed as the expansions are added on though. The house building system has not 
 changed a great deal (which in many ways is a good thing) , though the most notable factor is you 
 can now build as many stories as you want (as far as I saw) .
  
  Sims themselves have improved as well. Their AI seems more advanced as they will no longer get 
 stuck between sims or on the side of the house and be unable to talk to someone not in a straight 
 line. The game will stay interesting as you desparately claw your sim or sims to the top of the 
 ladder so they can plan for neighbourhood domination, though being at work is now alot more interactive 
 as you will frequently get multiple choice situations in your job where you must rely on luck to 
 decide which choice to take, normally leading to cash or a demotion or job loss.
  
  Another important factor to mention is the loading time loss. You will no longer have to wait 10 
 minutes for the game to load up and face constant lag and desparate clawing to close multiple windows 
 to stop the 1 frame a second lag. The game now has an excellent new graphics engine which enables 
 it both good graphics and a lack of loading time.
  
  Sims are far more human-like now, which makes the game alot more fun and interesting. If you're 
 a sim-fanatic you'll love this game and find it an excellent sequel to The Sims. If you're not 
 a sim fanatic then you'll probably like it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, the graphics have outdone themselves, and the gameplay is fantastic! If you 
 are a fan of the other sims games, buy this game now! I got this game the day it came out, and 
 i still play on it now! With downloadable jobs and items from multiple add on sites, the fun never 
 ends!
  
  The Sims 2 has cut scenes in mid game, such as your first kiss, proposal, marriage, the first time 
 you... well... you get the idea, its just like a playable film! 
  
  In The Sims 2, you family actually grows now, instead of staying as a child or adult forever. The 
 babies are alot more interactive, suck as they learn to walk, talk, go the the toilet and play. 
 Also, when the child is EXTREMELY young (just born) you can do more things than just feed and play. 
 People who have played the earlier sims will know what i mean.
  
  Another cool new feature to The Sims 2 is the aspiration metre. You can buy special items, such 
 as money trees, with point called aspiration points, which can be obtained by fulfilling your sims 
 wants and needs. Also, when you progress to a certain level in a job, you can buy special job items, 
 such as a punchbag for the athlete career, and an assault course for the military.
  
  Overall, i think that this game should be on all PC owners game list, as it NEVER gets old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  There are games that you remember long after finishing them, then there are those very rare games 
 you never actually finish playing.
  
  It's absolutely crazy that Will Wright alone had designed two titles of the latter kind.
  
 
  At the time of writing, Wright's SimCity franchise is entering its 17th year. I was introduced 
 to what we now know as 'SimCity Classic' late in its lifetime. Of course, I was very fascinated 
 by the concept of a game that practically goes on forever. To this day, I remain a loyal SimCity 
 fan, and still play SimCity 4: Rush Hour from time to time.
  
  When The Sims was announced, I made quite a mess of myself. I declared that everyday life is way 
 too complex and flexible to be fit into a simulator. Of course, I was proven wrong.
  
  Almost 5 years since the original's release (and its avalanche of expansions) , The Sims 2 - in 
 my humble opinion - cemented its place among gaming classics as one of the best games ever. It 
 managed to do what SimCity 3000 and 4 did to SimCity 2000, which is adding a lot of brilliant features 
 to an already superb core game.
  
  While the first Sims have you running a household where every sim is a constant in your great equation 
 of simulated lives, Sims 2 turns those little electronic people into yet another flexible factor 
 in the environment. No longer are they solely governed by the 8 needs. Now sims seek to fulfill 
 their desires and avoid their fears (if you want them to, of course) , they grow old, they can pass 
 on their characteristics to their children before passing away. They have lifelong dreams of their 
 own. These things make Sims 2 much more involving, not to mention far more handy than the first 
 game as a storytelling platform.
  
  Those complex additions, though, would've gone to waste if Maxis didn't push the other aspects 
 of the game to their limits. Of course, they enhanced the interactivity between sims with a myriad 
 of new actions to choose from. Mundane household objects are given more features, and your first 
 time watching a sim wander around his residence interacting with stuff is a revelation. Even things 
 like sofas and toilets can be interesting in this world.
  
  Those who dismissed the first game for being 'repetitive' won't find anything to change their minds 
 here, as Sims 2 - despite the massive amount of new features - remains in essence the same game 
 as its predecessor. For me and many fans, the only thing I can gripe about is the framerate. While 
 the visuals are vibrant and lifelike, it can put even the most powerful PCs to their knees at the 
 highest graphic settings. Having a lot of sims bumbling around in one lot takes the framerate down 
 to barely playable levels.
  
  'Innovation' may no longer be an industry buzzword, but all developers should look to the Sims 
 franchise as an example of creativity done right. With a truckload of enhancements to a winning 
 formula, plus top-notch production values (the music!) , a game filled with hours and hours of going 
 to the toilet, eating meals, and going to bed can sell millions of copies. The Sims 2 is, for me, 
 one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mommy2andrew200
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  One of my male sims got pregnant by a alien... Interesting. I wish I was a sim at times since they 
 have it so easy. If you are buying for a preteen I would supervise a little cause some sims get 
 carried away if u know what I mean. I love how the fights break out and how a family has its own 
 name around town.. I couldnt wait til I got this game.. I was counting down the days til it came 
 out. So, go out and buy it and u will get addicted beyond belief.. Mind you I have a 3yr old so 
 he can keep me from my game. I even dream of the sims at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_snake_243
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  This game is great, you can do everything you could do in the first sims but just alot more now 
 with better looking graphics. I never really liked the sims, just seemed like real life to me, 
 so why play real life when you could just live your life?? Well, in sims 2 that reason is so you 
 can screw the sims you created over, torture them, drive them crazy, or make them as happy as possible, 
 plus you can also build your dream house... The graphics on this game are still pretty solid even 
 after it's been out for awhile, and the length of it should be just as long as the first one was 
 if not even longer. Not much of the first sims player, then you probably wont like this one, I 
 know...... But if your trying to escape reality, then hers your free ticket there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicknfeet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  "Hi my name is chicknfeet... and I'm a Simaholic."
  "Hi Chicknfeet!"
  
  For those that don't know, I'm a sim fanatic. So it should go without saying, this next gen sim 
 game was destined to join my collection. I must say, my expectations were high for this game. Thankfully, 
 Maxis didn't shoot my love for the sims to hell. 
  
  For those that have ever played any of the previous sim installments (PC, PS2, GC, etc.) , you know 
 pretty much how things flow. Well in the sims 2, the general idea still remains: create your little 
 sim, move them into a nice house, raise a family, and build a social network to advance your employment 
 standings. This time around, the formula got tweeked. Now, rather than just drudging along with 
 your sims for ever & ever (assuming you aren't a sick bastard and end up killing them off) your 
 sims now have the ability to age and die off from natural causes. This new aspect of the game, 
 in conjunction with the new aspiration meter, make it more challenging to get life long goals accomplished. 
 Mind you, if it were just the age factor that enhanced the gameplay, it would be a little more 
 easy paced and less tedious to manage (due to the neat little gifts they give you in the game) . 
 But why would anybody want that? Enter the aspiration meter. Think of this as being an indicator 
 of your sims mental status. Similar to their moods, the aspiration meter lets you know when a sim 
 is mentally sound, sitting on top of the world, or just plain out of their minds (52 cards short 
 of a full deck) . It's a nice addition to the formula, but can get to be a little tedious sometimes. 
 There will be times you get so worried about improving your sims mood, or advancing them up on 
 their respective career tracks, that you'll forget about fulfilling their aspirations. This seems 
 to be especially true with the old sims. They seem so simple in their day-to-day routines, that 
 you forget they want to do well in the short period of time they have left in the sim world. 
 
  
  The pace of the game seems to have sped up a little bit also. I still play the old sims game and 
 I have noticed that the rate at which things move and take place are noticably slower than in the 
 sims 2. Not to say that this is a bad thing, but it certainly makes you work harder to try and 
 take care of your little sim. Of course with this increased speed comes more trouble that your 
 sim can get into. One of the biggest things that might bother you is how fast your sim will go 
 to the refrigerator and pull out a full meal (especially when they aren't even hungry) . Or some 
 of the social interactions they try to pull off when there is no friendly relationship between 
 two sims can be rather annoying. But as stated before, it just makes you work harder.
  
  The graphics are a nice change of pace. Moving from 2D to 3D is very impressive. Even though they 
 tried to do something to that effect on the console games, they were able to pull it off to a greater 
 degree of success on the PC version. There are some things like house rotation/zooming/lot scrolling 
 that might mesh together unintentionally and make for difficult view control. 
  
  The sound really hasn't changed at all. Those silly sims still talk in that silly simish language. 
 Sometimes it would be nice to know what they were saying, but overall it's no big deal. Sometimes, 
 listening to the simish on the radios or television can actually be funny. If you ever get a chance, 
 actually listen to the Martha Stewart knock-off on the cooking channel (and zoom in and watch it 
 too) . When you actually see this lady burn to death on television and hear her crying out for help 
 in this enigmatic language, you'll probably be ROFL. I certainly was.
  
  The items they have in the game are cool... limited though they may be. But it seems that they are 
 saving themselves for all the following expansion packs. I ended up getting the holiday edition 
 of the sims and even with that, the item selections are limited. That might be frustrating to those 
 that have invested in the first sim game and all of their expansions. Again, however, it seems 
 they are saving themselves for all the soon-to-come expansion packs.
  
  Overall, the game is good. In spite of some of the technical issues I had with the game (yay! I 
 worked through them) it seems solid. Of course there is more to the game than what has been written 
 here, but you can read the actual review for all that good stuff. I tried to make this an unbiased 
 opinion, but that in itself is a paradox. So if you like previous sim games, pick this one up. 
 If you know this is not your cup of tea, then keep on moving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karooomy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  really, when thinking of sims 2 score, and how much i'm goona give 2 it, i can't think of any particular 
 bug or any thing wrong within the game , if u r a sims fan , this game'll captivate u for nearly 
 a month :) , believe me i tried it, graphics awesome, music is good, what else?
  great differences from sims 1 and its family, u can build more than 2 floors, nw astonishing renewable 
 wallpapers and paints, u c ur children grows up and die, what am i saying ! ofcourse u know :)
 
  when i bought this game i was afraid of bugs and slow motion on normal pc, but it amazed me, it 
 works just great @ the minimum requirements.
  i was going 2 give a big 10 score but when i think of the options the game gave me, i reel on.... the 
 game became very massive, so u can say that the only disadv. of this game is that it has much more 
 options and specifications than ever expected :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a dangerous game. Only buy this if you are prepared to sign away weeks of your real life 
 to the lives of assorted virtual characters. Describing The Sims 2 as addictive would be a massive 
 understatement.
  
  The Sims was a fantastic, innovative game that allowed you to control the day to day lives of characters 
 that you created. This was fun, however there seemed to be no real purpose to the game as there 
 was no way to complete it and your creations would live forever, going about their same activities 
 indefinitely... short of any tragic accidents. The Sims 2 gives the whole thing a purpose by introducing 
 aging into the mix, thus allowing you to create dynasties and giving you the pleasure of watching 
 your offspring grow up. Hang on, I mean't to say "your characters offspring". This is the danger 
 of the game - you can start to care too much, as the game offers an almost unparralled sense of 
 realism in gaming terms. While the lives of your Sims can never truly parallel real life, in this 
 game it comes pretty close.
  
  Obviously, this realism is exactly what the developers were trying to create, and all credit to 
 them for achieving their goals while still keeping the game fun. The game has enough detail to 
 be realistic, while still simplifies enough to make it fun. Make no mistake, you have to work hard 
 to keep your Sims happy and successful, thus extending their lives, but this is achievable. Of 
 course the sadistic gamer will relish in the opportunities to bring death and suffering to his 
 virtual victims though in all honesty it is not possible to gain any real satisfaction from playing 
 the game like this. It is far more rewarding to try and fulfil your Sims aspirations, as this gives 
 access to some cool items and stylish cut scenes. 
  
  By having a photo snapshot facility and a section where you can record key events in your Sims 
 lives it is possible to create a family history spanning countless generations, and a good record 
 of what you've achieved in the game.
  
  A major advantage of The Sims 2 over its predecessor is the introduction of genetics. Now your 
 Sims kids will look like their parents. This is another reason why it is worthwhile spending time 
 on developing generations of a family, as you can really see the family's physical characteristics 
 transfering from generation to generation. Also, your Sim parents can encourage their children 
 to develop the same personality traits that they have, meaning that kids will develop much like 
 their parents physically and psychologically, much like in real life.
  
  The career opportunities and actions that they can perform with other Sims are of course simplified 
 from real life, which deducts from the realism though obviously improves gameplay and adds to the 
 fun. I mean, it would be pretty dull if all the Sims worked in run-of-the-mill jobs and simply 
 came home to discuss finances and make small talk with their families. Instead they are all astronauts, 
 mad scientists and business tycoons, plus theres at least one kitchen fire or toilet accident a 
 week! This is what keeps it fun though - this game is escapism at its very best, allowing you to 
 be involved in and control the dramatic lives of these virtual characters.
  
  The Sims 2 has the trademark quirky background music of its predecessor, but this is in keeping 
 with the spirit of the game. You hear the music and you can't help but smile. It wouldn't be the 
 Sims without this friendly elevator music. Sims speak in a nonsensical language, as they did in 
 the original game. This language, while having no discernable words is full of emotion, and its 
 quite easy to work out what your Sim thinks about a certain issue by listening to the tone of their 
 voice and the nature of the words they speak! They also seem to speak about some pretty crazy things, 
 judging by the pictures in the speech bubbles. One of my Sim families had a daughter who would 
 constantly talk about what appeared to be an octopus. Every conversation came back to the octopus 
 in the end. Its this zany humour that makes The Sims 2 so endearing though.
  
  Despite my obvious love of this game, I do have some criticisms. The loading times are very long, 
 especially when families have many members, large houses or a long history. Also, when there are 
 loads of Sims in a house at one time the game slows down dramatically even on machines that exceed 
 the recomended requirements. 
  
  This game allows you an incredible freedom in that you can design people however you want them 
 (you can create yourself, your friends, your favourite celebrities, whoever) and you can let them 
 lead whatever life you want them to lead. This level of freedom is unparralled in any game. The 
 introduction of aging, genetics and life aspirations/fears gives the game a purpose that the original 
 Sims lacked, and allows for a truly rewarding experience in seeing your virtual families live long, 
 successful lives and develop into grand dynasties. Plus with the ability to export your neighbourhoods 
 to the web and download other peoples creations it is entirely possible that you could be playing 
 this game exclusively for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northpunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the whole Maxis lines right from Sim City on super Nintendo, and when 
 they came out with the first generation of the Sims i was impressed. But ever since they came out 
 with the new all 3D version I could not believe it when i played it.
  
  Full 3D graphics, 360 degrees of camera, aging, the career potentials, even the body scale. Forget 
 to work out and it actually shows. There is nothing like it except for maybe your own life, but 
 this one gives you more control over what you do with it.
  
  An absolute must for any control freaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMEER157
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  I really do like this game. I have been looking forward to this for quite some time because I was 
 getting really sick of the expansions for the first one. They started to get really old. Now that 
 The Sims 2 is in glorious 3D the love for this game is rekindled. The Sims 2 is really just The 
 Sims but in a 3D package. All the great things about the first one has been brought over to this 
 one with some nice improvements. You have days off now!!! They probably could have made some more 
 improvements to the sound because after hearing the stupid music they put into the build and buy 
 modes you will definately import your own MP3's.
  
  All-in-all The Sims 2 is a fun game and should keep me busy for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 is just freakin down right Fun! You create little digital people who u get to play god over, 
 and the create a Sim is Deep with so many options (endless if you include custom content)
  
  Creating buildings and houses is even funner, my main reason for playing, best simulation for 
 building houses i have ever played and just PLAIN FUN!
  You can making anything and with some cheats u can make some crazy buildings and upload them to 
 the web for others to download. 
  Or if u not into that u can download others from online so you can play your sim Families.
  
 
  Playing the little digital people is CRAZY! its so much fun and can make so many different life 
 styles, good life with a mansion and everything or if you want make their life a living hell and 
 drive them crazy!
  
  Im not gonna get into some deep explinations but im telling you Graphics rock with a good comp, 
 sound is that great sims music, and The story is UR CONTROL, you make what you want out of this 
 game and its just a game that never ends and is an endless sandbox!
  
  Get this game and be prepaired to be sucked inside this huge game of multiple tools to create your 
 own virtual world!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  One of the things that made the original "Sims" a serious household product was its customization... every 
 week you'd spend hours Downloading new animations, new items and clothing.. but in a move that has 
 many community modders scraching their heads Maxis has yet to release the promised dev tools that 
 will allow us modders to go to town. So we are stuck with recolored items some sparse updated items 
 that maxis provides and some expansion packs.
  
  That is not to say Sims 2 is a bad product just not as groundbreaking or as imersive as the original 
 Sims and this is where it limits the imagination.... so only time will tell if this outting has 
 the staying power of the original. 
  
  Now to the actual game... it's graphics and character creation is quite well rounded, sound as always 
 is nicely done and there are plenty of things to keep you busy in the sims2.. the addition of several 
 features such as "the creative creation of a basement" was a welcome addtion and the inspiration 
 meters always added an element of RPGing to the game. The addition of your lady being with child 
 and carrying to term and now aging and dying adds to the "make your own soap opera" ability. It's 
 a game that is worthy of being called the sequel and a worth pickup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomer_TV
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 has everything about simulating a real life.
  
  Now you get to play through their lives. they grow older, have more job choices and can die in 
 the blink of an eye. Sims take the learning of walking, potty training, and talking into account. 
 But as a toddler they have to have fun! then comes homework with school. Teens can now be employed 
 in small jobs. They also go to high school. Adults are what really makes the game. They control 
 the entire household. The income, (Even if it is bad) rennovations, or what color wallpaer goes 
 on the bedroom wall! But when they grow old, they become an elder. Here they can retire and see 
 how much pension they earn.
  
  Sims 2 is awesome! It is the best gmae I've seen and almost all of the Sims 2 expansions match 
 up to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edvs89beauty
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game in all ways it's graphics are good and it is very addictive has more options 
 that the first Sims game and is more real than ever. It is very funny seeing your Sims fight of 
 get fired you're going to laugh a lot with this game it is just awesome how you can build houses 
 and do almost everything like in real life. You will never gonna get tired of playing it because 
 it doesn't have and end and u will always have something to do.
  
  I recommend it to everyone you gonna have fun :) ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shyuio
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  You can do almost everything even make a paper airaplane
  
  i recomend this game to people that like like life games where you look after your character in 
 this case a (sim)
  
  A good game for the kids to the adults pretty dear at the moment worth every penny but i think 
 if you waited for a few months the price might go down slightly but not much.
  
  It is a big game to install it will make your computer slow if it isn't big (fast)
  I like how 
 you get little selective missions when you get home form work and you have to choose 3 things once 
 i picked the rong one and got demoted down 4 levels it took me ages to get back up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  I love the statement on the back of the game box: "The Next Generation People Simulator"
  
  That little quote, more than anything else, sums up the whole point of this game. It is a simulator 
 of virtual peoples lives.
  
  This really is a great game, I can't stress that enough but I understand that it is not for everyone. 
 I think though that most people would get something out of it, it really is that varied and interesting.
 
  
  What sets this version apart from the previous, ground breaking Sims games is that they have introduced 
 DNA into the mix. So when you create your first Sim and they get together with another Sim and 
 have babies, the parents personalities and DNA is inherited and so on and so on.
  
  This makes for quite an interesting game as you can see resemblences to real life here and everyone 
 who has a child will understand what I mean.
  
  The other things is that you get to look after them from birth to death as well. You get to see 
 all the stages of life and help them all along the way.
  
  The game itself allows you to create your own houses and neighbourhoods as well and you can, if 
 you put the time and effort into it, create reall family dynasties.
  
  Like the previous version, EA are releasing updates and expansion packs that give you even more 
 options and additions and it keeps the game fresh and fun to play.
  
  This is definitely one for the collection and should keep you amused for some time to come yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game and I do recommend this game to you. This time you don't need the expansion 
 to go to other places but when you get the expansion you can go to more places which is different. 
 I think that they should add more things in the game. I think that the expansion for Sims 2 has 
 really filled the things they need and comparing the Sims to the Sims 2 I would say the Sims 2 
 is way much better. Because they have improved their graphics and they have more objects. To wrap 
 it up, overall its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gckiddo11
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Getting the up close and personal feacher is great but there is so much more. Death ringing your 
 doorbell is alot more commen with aging. You can stop this program using cheats. Hold crtrl, shift 
 and c and enter "aging off" (with out the quouts) and put on to have your sims age. Proubably the 
 most fun way to dye is death bye flies. All you need to do is leave food on the floor for a few 
 days and put a sim in that room and **** **** ***** ** *** fly. So I give the game a 10 aout of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZERICW
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a great game. The sound clarity and the high-end graphics is probably the reason why 
 most critics awe when looking at this game. he game play is really cool. There are thousands of 
 actions with all the really cool usable items. Although, from The Sims to The Sims 2 there are 
 some positive aspects in the original Sims and the Sims 2. In the Sims there are lots of more objects 
 such as leisure items for your Sims to interact with and different styles of stairways. But there 
 has been some expansions that have been filling in those categories. To wrap up though, this game 
 is overall very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  the sims is utterly the most borign game ive played to date. i lost strategy/rpg whatever but this 
 one sinks the barrel. 
  my sister enjoys these games so we have them : (
  i am a girl myself and i dot know but i just really hate this game. i only half enjoy it with cheats 
 otherwise its just like wasting ur life trying to live out ur own on a computer screen -_-
  the only good thing i can say about it is the added features from the first. but all the kids will 
 just be making them make out all day because they spend their lives watching it virtually than 
 going out and making it happen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega-Fox
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  I brought this as soonas it came out (well maybe a few months) But the biggest problem with the 
 game for me is, that the game just would never save progress and would always like to freeze, making 
 me reset the computer.
  
  The graphics looks good, the sim design is cool as well.
  Plus The first release of the sims always has little items to play with.
  
  Unfortunatly I 
 dont have the possestion of the game anymore as I traded it in for another game. I just really 
 did prefer the original sims as it had only ever freezed up once.
  
  My tip- Rent it first to see if your computer can take the game.
  
  Good Game, shame about 
 the spec. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdoc2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say for starters is that this is the one true sequel to the original "The Sims," 
 the sequel has alot of new and innovative features added. If your a true Sims fan, you'll love 
 these new add ons-if not, there'll be some getting used to of some of the new features. 
  One of the new features are:
  -You directly control your sims aspirations, such as, you could 
 lead a life of romance, wealth, knowledge, etc.
  -And other features you'll have to see for yourself.
  
  If you read this and think you up for- 
 if you have a boring life ( like me) , then go out and purchase this game.
  
  superdoc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyBolt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't just for gamers, it's for everyone. In short, Sims 2 is Sims 1 after a long overdue 
 shoe polish, and some expansion packs thrown in there for good measure. The graphics and sound 
 are top-notch for a game in the genre. This time around it's in full 3d, so you can skew the camera 
 angle however you like. You can play the story mode, or create something new altogether. Everything 
 in the game works smoothly, I didn't catch any noticle bugs. A. I. is intelligent, and act realistically, 
 despite whatever you throw their way. 
  
  Sims can mature. Sims can have children, you can even create a long running family line. The game 
 doesn't bring anything new to the table (neither did I by using that cliche) , but it does what 
 it does brilliantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better than the first Sims game. Both graphics wise and gameplay wise.
  
  There are so many new objects compared to the first Sims game.
  
  But the best part of 
 The Sims 2 is that you can now literaly start a family. Before you could only adopt a baby, but 
 now you get to build a relationship with a sim and slowly start your own family just like you do 
 in real life. Though you can also create and entire family and you won't have to build the relationships, 
 etc. and you'll just have to raise your kids and make sure that your family memebers grow up well.
 
  
  There have been some glitches in this game, but updates are always released not long after so it 
 doesn't make much difference.
  
  I would recomend people buy this game. There are still many expansion packs that will be released 
 in the following years before The Sims 3 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Which game rocks? THE SIMS 2!!!!
  awesome new stuff and aspiration is a cool thing to use. Much better than the poopy old sims 1. 
 The graphics look pretty decent too. Although which bothers me the most is the large amount of 
 space it takes on my computer and if you don't have a good computer, the prahics look clunky and 
 slows down gameplay that makes it lagg alot. But that doesn't spot it from being a very fun game. 
 I like how you can have sex but the sims like to call it WooHoo.
  This is a must own game! And for all those who think this game is bad can go to a mental asylum 
 or seek a psychologist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  how the hell do these people keep making money off this crap? same as the other 40000 versions 
 and just as crap. still cant do sod all and will someone get them to change that bloody annoying 
 language!! my shoe no , rabba dabba blabba da ee shooo de boo badadaba. omg its so annoying. complete 
 waste of money... at least it was a christmas present.... another shiny addition to my christmas 
 tree along with sim city 4. graphics good but still who the hell take a shower whilst spinning 
 round in some kind of vortex? boring boring boring boring boring boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JankoiTom
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't need a comment, it's perfect!
  
  The Expansions are also brilliant, get them all if you have the opportunity!
  
  Long live the 
 SIMS 2
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  You must have it! You must have it! 
 You must have it!
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must have 
 it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must 
 have it! You must have it!
  
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it!
  
  You must have it! You must have it! You must have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CASHMONEYRECORD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Objective: Create a sequel to the best-selling PC game of all time. Maxis and Electronic Arts have 
 more than proved themselves capable of accomplishing the task, and have already released no fewer 
 than seven expansions to The Sims. Now, with The Sims 2, Maxis has taken their addictive life simulation 
 and snazzed it up with a fully 3D engine, the addition of some neat new gameplay elements, and 
 a brand new story mode that lends an organic feel to the dry neighborhoods of the past. They were 
 smart enough not to tinker too much though, and we are happy to see that all of the charm remains 
 intact; from the new Simlish voice acting to the flies buzzing around old trash. The result may 
 not offer much that is really all that different from the original, but gamers that loved The Sims 
 will feel immediately at home - and those that wondered what all the fuss was about the first time 
 around will have plenty to keep themselves occupied with for quite some time. 
  As in the first title, the concept of The Sims 2 is rather simple: you play a simulated individual 
 or family and guide them through the ordinariness of everyday life by keeping an eye on such needs 
 as comfort and hunger, socializing with other sims, and earning simoleans with which to purchase 
 items, household upgrades, and services such as pizza delivery. Such a humdrum description is a 
 disservice to the complexity within, however: from purchasing items of increasing effectiveness 
 in true role-playing fashion to managing your sims' bladders, fans of the series can testify to 
 the wealth of content to be discovered. While there are some subtle changes, the interface remains 
 mostly the same: point-and-click your sims through their activities while keeping an eye on their 
 meters below. The Sims 2 also provides more social interactions than ever, letting you build and 
 destroy interpersonal relationships as you see fit. In fact, your sims will bring workmates or 
 schoolmates home for a visit from time to time, in addition to the usual invitation-making and 
 party-throwing, which are always just a phone call away. 
  The game ships with three neighborhoods with plenty of lots from which to choose, and several community 
 lots to visit. Much to the delight of our sandbox instincts, you can now create and customize your 
 own neighborhoods in a manner that reminds us of Maxis' scrapped Simsville project from a few years 
 back. Not only can you place houses and build community lots in your neighborhood, but you can 
 add decorations like trees, rocks, flocks of birds, and rainbows, and even change the layout of 
 your roads (a la Sim City) . As with the previous game's expansions, you can also call a taxi and 
 visit a community lot, where you can visit other sims, meet various needs, or shop for food (you 
 now must replenish your refrigerator) or new clothes. In build and shop modes, there are some nice 
 improvements, such as furniture fashions that come in a variety of colors, and the ability to group 
 home improvements by style, as well as room or item type. Sadly, you are still stuck arranging 
 your items on a grid, keeping aspiring interior decorators as frustrated as before. To help make 
 up for this, newly-created sims can be customized in countless ways, allowing you to tailor their 
 faces and appearance to specification, and even letting you designate sleepwear and workout clothes. 
 
  While the passage of time works much the same as before, how it affects your sims is new, both 
 in terms of their age and their work. Finding a profession is pretty much the same: search the 
 paper or the computer for a job, and the carpool will arrive at the predesignated time of day and 
 cart you off to your job in the slacker career, the medical career, or so forth; increasing your 
 skills in certain areas then allow you to get promotions, and with them, more simoleans. As an 
 added bonus, as you progress at the job, you can also earn work aspiration points, with which you 
 can purchase unique job-related items. Now, you get two predesignated days off, so there is less 
 need to risk missing work and getting fired. You do, however, accumulate paid vacation days as 
 the game progresses, so if you need to take an extra day off, you can simply use your vacation 
 to focus on your sim's needs without missing a day's wages. Your sims now age: infants (who inherit 
 the personality and physical traits of their parents, with impressive results) become children, 
 children become adults, and adults become elders. Your sim's lifeline is now part of the mostly 
 familiar interface, and yes, your sim can die of old age, although there are some pretty clever 
 ways of cheating the grim reaper. Elders don't go to work, but still receive pension based on their 
 job standings upon retiring. 
  Some of the greatest additions to the gameplay itself give the player more structure without removing 
 any of the freeform options that made The Sims so appealing. The primary enhancement is that of 
 the wants and fears system, which gives you a few major goals and fears at any given time, based 
 on your sim's personality and the basic aspirations you choose for him upon creation. For example, 
 a romantic sim might have a hankering for the girl next door, so one of his wants may be to flirt 
 with her. On the other hand, being rejected for the same flirt may be one of his greatest fears. 
 Fulfilling wants will grant your sim aspiration points, which can be used to purchase all sorts 
 of goodies, from money trees to a fountain of youth. Having a fear rejected will subtract aspiration 
 points, and in severe cases, your emotional reaction may warrant a visit from  the therapist, 
 of course! One of our sims was so traumatized by a fire, that not only did he lose aspiration points, 
 but the therapist dropped down via umbrella in Mary Poppins style to counsel our sim until he felt 
 well enough to move on. Cassandra Goth (yes, the Goths are back, although the Newbies are conspicuously 
 absent) , shattered by a rejected marriage proposal, was reduced to a blithering mess. This should 
 please the sadistic instincts of the fans who delighted while their sims died of starvation or 
 wet their drawers. How well you are fulfilling your sim's needs and avoiding his fears are measured 
 by the aspiration meter, which you will want to keep high, lest the use of your reward items cause 
 some nasty side effects. Your wants and fears are subject to change from day to day, although you 
 can right click them to hold onto them, if you wish to keep them static. 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Another enrichment 
 to the The Sims 2's newfound focus is the story mode, which allows players to either create a story 
 from scratch, using screenshots and movie clips to provide moments of reference, or to play out 
 one of the neighborhood stories conveniently provided. In the Veronaville area, a Romeo and Juliet 
 story is unfolding and you can choose to carefully play each role as you wish and bring the story 
 to a dramatic close or mold it to your own liking. In Pleasantview, Mortimer Goth is searching 
 for his missing wife and coping with the growing pains of his adult daughter. Insert story points 
 as you wish, or simply ignore them altogether. There is no doubt, however, that players wishing 
 The Sims had a more central purpose will find much to like about the mode, although its scope is 
 somewhat limited, as the player's actions in live mode ultimately decide the outcome - and the 
 mode itself is simply a journal mechanism that allows the player to keep track of story progress. 
 Still, between the story mode and the aspiration meter, there is very little chance players will 
 be at a loss of what to do; and with their sims' personalities so intertwined with the story, wants, 
 and fears, they will never wonder why they are doing it in the first place. Still, there are always 
 surprises in store. Your sim may get a phone call giving you a stock tip, and you will be pressed 
 with a choice: purchase it on your own, tell your boss, or do nothing? When you stumble across 
 an ancient ruin, will you explore it or leave it be? Your decision will affect your simoleans or 
 skill points, either positively or negatively. These moments seem a little too random, but still 
 liven up the gameplay by keeping you on your toes.
  Undoubtedly, one of the finest aspects of The Sims 2, as in the original, is that there is simply 
 so much to do, and the pleasures of the mundane are as fascinating as ever. Still, is it enough 
 for the casual gamers whose addiction to the original and its multiple expansions has kept them 
 occupied for all these years? Well, yes  and no. In some ways, it is encouraging to see that Maxis 
 fulfilled many of the wishes Sims fans had: a fully 3D camera, improved pathfinding and AI (artificial 
 intelligence) , and greater control over the neighborhood itself. On the other hand, with the gameplay 
 possibilities already explored in the best Sims expansions, like Vacation and Makin' Magic, the 
 door to future Sims 2 expansions is noticeably ajar. The new game seems so familiar, its innovations 
 now so commonplace, that we sometimes can't shake the notion that something is missing. While the 
 impending official additions and community objects and camaraderie are sure to be exciting, the 
 evolution of The Sims is a constant reminder that there is still plenty of opportunity for its 
 sequel to grow.
  The Sims 2s graphics look really good. The new 3D camera lets you swoop right up close to the 
 action and swing it around to any angle you choose. The real triumph, though, is the animation 
 quality that needs to be seen to be appreciated. Zooming into your sim will show some terrific 
 gestures and facial expressions, whether its the look of discomfort on his face when his bladder 
 is full, or the dance of excitement after he returns home after a long day of work. As in the first 
 game, the greatest pleasures are in the details, from the bubbles in the sink while your sim washes 
 the dishes, to the way your married couples cuddle in their sleep. More impressively, animations 
 are different based on your sim's personality. A neat sim will eat tidily, while a messy one will 
 spray potato chip crumbs; a playful sim will get down and dirty to the music, while a stodgier 
 one will dance conservatively. Once again, system requirements are not too high, but there are 
 more settings available that should keep players on a variety of systems happy. Not all is perfect 
 in Simsville, though, and you will pay the price with frustratingly long loading times and occasional 
 frame rate jitters. You will also notice clipping and other small issues from time to time. 
  As in the original, the audio is a real treat, and a whole new batch of Simlish phrases has been 
 added - so many sounds, in fact, that it will take quite some time before you notice them being 
 repeated. As with the graphics, the personality of your sim shines through in his gibberish, and 
 you will be constantly amazed at the tiny details that really make the audio stand out. The music 
 remains as appealing as before, although it does seem a tad more simplistic than that of the original. 
 
  The Sims 2 remains outrageously addictive, and the new gameplay elements have spruced things up 
 enough that those that stopped playing The Sims a few years back would be well served to pick up 
 the sequel. Gamers that wanted more freeform control, as well as those requiring greater focus 
 to keep them interested will be happy to find augmentations in both directions. Dedicated fans 
 of the original may be pestered by the pesky notion that the sequel doesn't add enough to their 
 already bloated Sims collection, but most will be kept too busy to care, for the most part. Charming, 
 unselfconsciously mundane, and exquisitely tailored, The Sims 2 fits like a toasty mitten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk1992
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is an awesome game! Great graphics, great sound and great gameplay. And what is more 
 fun than managing other people's lives? This Version of The Sims 2 contains tons of new features 
 which weren't available during The Sims 1 and their expansions.
  Aspirations: Now you can fulfill your Sims' Wants and if you want make their fears come true. But 
 be careful, realizing alot of fears may cause your sim to go lunatic.
  Aspiration Rewards: As you fulfill aspirations, you gain some score. This score can be used to 
 buy several items which will help your sims' lives including increasing their lifetime.
  Work Awards: As you work, you get promoted. When promoted and while working, you get a pop up giving 
 you a situation where you will have to decide what to do. You can either Ignore the situation or 
 choose to do something. But be careful, if you choose something bad, that action may cost your 
 sim's job or even get demoted or one of your skills.
  Teens can now have part-time jobs.
  Your sims have a period of time to live.
  Realizing your aspirations increases your aspiration 
 meter. If reached 3/4 of bar, you get Platium mood, where you sims are overjoyed. During that stage, 
 Needs don't matter.
  A Tutorial is available to help you get started with the game.
  That's practically it with some new actions and some features which weren't mentioned... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lillie26
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I found it hillarious and very intriguing. I had so much fun playing God with 
 people controlling every movement they make. Not that you couldn't do that in the original sims, 
 but this time there are more ways to communicate and have each sim interact with one another. The 
 only thing I have to say that is bad about it is the viewing and moving options. I find the original 
 sims version is much easier. However the game's new elements such as the wants, fears and the aspiration 
 meter is pure genius. It makes the game have more purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaurdian_112
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Exactly. They left out so much stuff from the game just so they could make more money on expansion 
 packs. This game is bare bones. It has nothing, the objects and stuff you can use in the game are 
 not worth mentioning. People are already jumping back to the original. This is basically Sims with 
 better graphics and less stuff to do.
  
  The music is definately amazing, as are the sound effects, which definately helps push this review 
 up. The gameplay is pretty much the same, I saw no difference actually, which is kind of sad. There 
 are a few things here and there, and you can definately customize the way your character looks 
 a bit more this time around, but in general, alot of things are missing, and its obvious they just 
 want to cash out on expansions. IN the first one, they didn't make it so damn obvious.
  
  Wait for a gold pack with the expansions, I guess. 5.7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgiy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Sims age through 6 unique stages: baby, toddler, child, teen, adult and elder (although another 
 stage, 'young adult', was added with the University expansion pack) . Unlike in the previous game, 
 when children stayed children and there was little game progress, the stages of life encourage 
 players to move the game along and create relationships between Sims. Family relationships are 
 much more integral to this version of the Sims than the previous version. As Sims age, get married 
 and have children, these relationships are recorded in an extensive family tree.
  
  In this installment of the series, Sims can have more realistic marriages with engagements and 
 parties. Sims are pregnant before having children (unlike in the previous version, where children 
 just appeared) . Other unique events such as deaths, birthdays and a first kiss also take place 
 in a Sim's lifetime. Good and bad experiences are kept as memories and can affect the Sim's behaviour.
 
  
  The graphics and house design engines have improved with more choices for houses, neighborhood 
 design, food and clothes. The Sims 2 Body Shop, a tool which allows a user to design a Sim's body, 
 clothing, genetic features, etc., was available before the game's release.
  
  The Sims 2 introduces a new aspect into the game: Aspiration. Aspiration manifests itself in two 
 ways: the aspiration which each Sim has, and the Aspiration Meter.
  
  Sims will each have an aspiration which is set either when they are created by the player, generated 
 by the game (if they are an NPC) , or chosen by the player when they become a teenager. The five 
 aspirations are: Romance, Family, Knowledge, Popularity and Fortune. A sixth aspiration, that of 
 growing up, is possessed by all sims when they are toddlers and children, and a seventh and an 
 eighth aspiration, the Pleasure and Grilled Cheese aspirations, were included with the Nightlife 
 expansion pack.
  
  Image: Sim sad. JPG
  
  There are six levels to the aspiration meter: The highest is platinum, beneath that is gold, followed 
 by two levels of green and two of red (red being negative aspiration and therefore an undesirable 
 state) . The level is raised when a Sim fulfills a "Want", and is lowered when a "Fear" is realized. 
 Wants and Fears are different for each sim depending on several factors including aspiration type, 
 age and aspiration meter level. They may change on a daily basis, and are displayed graphically 
 in slot-machine fashion on the toolbar. When the Aspiration Meter is high, aspiration rewards may 
 be properly used. For example, the Elixir of Life aspiration reward allows a Sim to live longer. 
 If this aspiration reward is used before the Aspiration Meter reaches the gold level, however, 
 it sometimes backfires and the Sim loses life days. The Aspiration Meter also affects how long 
 an elder will live for once they enter this phase of their life.
  
  This also means that while the game still has no set goals, there is a new strategic level to balancing 
 a Sim's life as players now have a limited time in which to fufill Aspirations, meet needs, progress 
 in a career, socialize and possibly have a family.
  
  If you like The Sims series and all its predesseors, this is a pick up definitley.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hervel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  sims 2 is one of the best games i've ever played on the pc. i think that it is my favourite game 
 ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the graphics are amazingly great best graphics i've ever seen in 
 any game ever. The gameplay is incredible and had a lot of fun playing it. Thats is absolutly amazing 
 game. You can do such things as create a charater, build a house, grow up, get married, have children 
 etc......
  You also have wants and scares, wants like forfill your dreams like become an actor and scares 
 get fat etc.......... And thats how i can summerise the sims 2 and i sugest that you get it and 
 have a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master__F
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the amazing games I've ever played. It's that simple. It greatly improved on the 
 original structure, with actual camera angles, better graphics, and different music. And it improved 
 on the game play, with new interactions, more floors in the house, and new objects.
  
  Not to mention the fact that you can completely customize your sims now. Its no longer just certain 
 heads, these are one-of-a-kind sims. You can change every little detail, from the size of their 
 ears to what their makeup is.
  
  Game play has changed some, but it just made it more fun. Your sims have wants and fears, which, 
 after they add up over time can liberate them or obliterate them. Getting more wants gets want 
 points, which add up to buy your sim bonus objects
  
  All in all, its a great game for beginners and for veterans of the first. I highly recommend it 
 and Sims University as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  From the creators of "The Sims" MAXIS brings you The Sims 2!
  
  One of the most addctive strategy games there is. With great graphics and great sound this game 
 is almost perfect. It will only be perfect when every expansion pack is released. And when The 
 Sims 2 has reached perfection it will be inferior to The Sims 3 when it reaches perfection (it's 
 endless) .
  
  One of the many good attributes is the sound and the animations. One of the best things is using 
 your sim to talk to people. You could become there most evil enemy or thier best friend =) . But 
 things don't always turn out the way they should... like getting rejected for marriage. 
  
  Once you have played this game for a few days you will be what most people will call you.. "Addicted". 
 As this game is so fun and entertaining it's also addictve so I suggest playing a variety of games. 
 One i could recommend is Maple Story. Or just have a break now and then. But overall this game 
 is entertaining, fun and addictive.
  
  PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  this game rocks it's almost the best game in universe i really loved the money tree and yoga chair 
 i really think this is one of the miracles of man kind but still 2 weeks more working on it would 
 of made it better then Gran Turismo 4 cause the sound and graphics could of been better but when 
 you ear someone saying this game is not good he's mistaking I think that 49.99 is good price i 
 loved this game the objects the social mode everything was so good that i had to buy it well that's 
 it for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russbuster
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The only good thing about this game is that you know that expansions are going to come out for 
 it, and even then its still disipointing to see that you've waited all this time for something 
 that doesn't even keep you excited for more than 2 hours. It does look quite realistic but it's 
 nothing compared to Doom 3 and F. E. A. R. this game might be at the top of your shelf for a week 
 or two but after that it will probably go to eBay or some where else. But if your looking for some 
 thing that will never end, and will come up with a little suprise every now and then, then don't 
 let me stop you. But don't say i didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOtero1170
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  My computer is a horrible one that I'm sure is filled with some kind of viruses or spyware or that 
 kind of crap. Regardless, this game is fun as all hell. Cheats are awsum too. I love the extra 
 clothes you can get. I also love the infinate... sorta money. The thing where you can kill people 
 for fun is awsum too.
  Back to the actual game. I'd say this is one of the most annoying sound tracks ever. Being in build 
 mode for too long gives me a headache, but the radio is pretty cool. Nice variaty... not that I 
 can understand what they are actually saying but it's still good music. 
  I have a big question. Does ANYBODY understand simish??? Lol. The graphics are great. You can make 
 your character look like you. That's nice.
  Let's see...... I love how they can... get frisky if you know what I mean. And with a cheat, you 
 can take the censor off- not that I would EVER do that. lol
  All in all, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphericaleclips
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, with plenty of game play and never get board. If yiou do then design your 
 own cloths to ware or even design your own dream home. 
  The graphics are good and if the game is running a little slow for you then increase the speed 
 untill the next set of commands are needed. I have to say I really enjoy this game. But watch out 
 you could find yourself hooked and you cant leave the game alone. 
  You can start as a single person, making friends and lovers and finally choose a mate and start 
 a family. Once the are more than one living in a house the game play gets harder and you really 
 have to think in advance to keep all your sims happy.
  The learning curve is big as you keep leaning all the time, but it is easy to get going and before 
 you know it youve be absorbed into the game and have spent 10 hours, and it's time for school or 
 work. I'm 32 and all I can say is the game is adictive, so watch out. 
  If you don't want to senp hours and hours on a game then this is probaly not for you, or set an 
 alarm to say Get of the comp now.
  I love this game and I know you will to, go and buy it now. Dont rent it just buy it, you wont 
 be dissapointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first sim.. u can pretty much understand the idea.. however if u never played rhe 
 sim... then you are in for an experience
  To make things short... Sim allows you to create a family... couple.. single people... groups of friends 
 or other.. and you can create the neighbour hood.
  Genes and characteristics can be passed on to generations.
  You can get a job, make money,. buy 
 stuf,,, make friends, family, love or create enemies
  Sims 2 allow you to choose a particular 5 aspiration in  
 and Knowledge.
  the graphics are good.. the sound is not bad.. the gameplay is easy.. and there is a possiblity pf 
 getting addicted to this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loaderke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  So super sequel. But it gets boring after a while, just waiting for a promotion or something else. 
 And now you see you're character so much better, in the sims you just had these kind of little sharp 
 ends on the face of you're character. Can't wait until they launch Sims 3 (if they're going to make 
 it) i hope so. Should be cool, time will tell. Also nice are the expansion packs like Nightlife and 
 soon Open For Business, i hope you can start you're own. That Will Whright really is a great guy, make 
 more of the sims and faster also. Must be cool to just starting to make a game and when it launches 
 its such a hype.
  
  Greetz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y2kRobie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Its so good, still has issues like older sims-1 games crashs/lock ups and can be very annoying 
 at times, but When it doesnt do that (which isnt always common) its the best game to spend 8 hours 
 of your life away.
  Plus with all them downlaods on you cna get from other sites its unlike any other game out there, 
 perfect and fun.
  Plus with Expansions out every 6-7 months how can you go wrong with this game? I cant wait for 
 them to bring pets into the sims 2 world again.
  Even though after you downlaod so many things like hacks/mods it can be very boreing you just somehow 
 get yourself intresred all over again like as if you frist bought it. Since the game is in 3-d 
 now fans from sims 1 will be so impressed (like me) they look better then the consoleversions and 
 with the the great cameria angles you just cant gowrong with all this and so much more its $50 
 well spent on a game I'll play a million years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniaticMeat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  If your expecting some sort of amazing, freaky, unidetified, to some extent, scary 3rd dimention, 
 then this just abut sums it all up. Create your own person or family, plan out thier lives and 
 fate and watch it all happen in The Sims 2. It's kind of like a dream, and you can be your sim 
 and decide what adventures are in store for you, but when you wake up, you want more. The twists 
 that lie beneth the cd rom is just another bonus. It wouldn't be fun if there wern't the odd stargazer 
 being abducted by aliens, as you do. Or the ocasional stupid guy who lets off a firework display 
 inside the house!
  The adventures just go on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  I must confess that i'm a Sim addict... but once again, i'll try being objective in my review...
 
  THIS GAME ROCKS !!
  i spent a good couple of weeks not leaving my room, not seeing the sun light, and doing nothing 
 but managing my sim's life, and occasionaly ,from here and there, having some snacks...
  the gameplay is EXTREMLY addictive, you've been warned, and the controls and menu's are just as 
 comfortable as they can get... you'll find yourself not willing to leave your PC and barely going 
 to the bathroom... yes its that addictive.., well its not a real surprise i mean, is'nt all of sims 
 games like that? hh... eny ways for the gamplay i give it a perfect score.. i get bored easly.. and 
 this game succeded in grounding me for two weeks in my room.. think about it...
  enyways, the graphics are ALOT better than the former sims, it'll run good in every pc ,i think, 
 because it demands not too high performance... so overall the graphics are really great and suitibale, 
 enough for this g'aaner of games..
  soundtracks are cool, you got your chating sims and some radio and tv...
  Overall this game absaloutly 
 takes it all, specially in the gameplay.. so go and get it, and after you do, dont forget to take 
 a break and strech a little every half an hour of playing it :) ....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Thus began my foray into The Sims 2, the inevitable sequel to one of the most successful PC games 
 of all time. If you have no idea what Im talking about, youve obviously spent the 
 last few years living atop a lonely peak in the Himalayas meditating on the oneness of humanity. 
 Originally released four years ago, The Sims became a PC institution and the number one game for 
 women, with a whopping 7 expansion sets. The game sold so well, in fact, that in one recent August 
 week, games bearing The Sims name occupied 5 out of the top 10 slots on the PC sales chart. Aside 
 from the glorified chatroom The Sims Online, every single game released under this franchise was 
 a best-seller.
  
  All of this success naturally made the The Sims 2 one of the most anticipated games of the year. 
 Now that its here, we can honestly say it wont disappoint current fans 
 though it doesnt offer anything nearly as original in terms of gameplay. Lightning only 
 strikes once, you know.
  
  The original Sims was a breath of fresh air. While your individual Sims had minds of their own, 
 you had a certain level of control over them, guiding them to do things that may or may not have 
 been against their nature. The play style has remained identical in The Sims 2, albeit with better 
 graphics and more intelligent AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is fit for everyone in the family. Kids can have really fun with it, teenages can have 
 real fun with it and adults can have fun with it as well.
  The graphics in the game is also very good. You can really see the details of the game really well 
 and it looks very real. 
  The sound effects is good, but the sims is still talking... the sim language.
  You can play this 
 game for a while and it can be played over and over again. This time you can go through the whole 
 life to ur sim and if you dont want to turn the age of, its pretty neat and refreshin in a weird 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  this a really good game. but only if u into simulations. the game is like the previous one only 
 with a lot of additions, base of the game is that u have to take care of the sims at all cost, 
 their are many types of ages - baby, child, kid, teen, matured (middle ages) , old aged, etc -. 
 u will not have objectives besides fulfilling ur sims dreams or making them into brilliant people 
 or idiots... they are ur servants u can do wateva u want with em ... well this this a good game 
 ... ill suggest u rent it and then buy... or else just buy it and have fun doin watev u want wid 
 ur sims 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have played, this universe is almost real, it has a lot of features, 
 the best thing is graphics. This game's graphics are amazing, the sound effects are good, its the 
 best life simulator ever made, besides it is very funny and entertaining to manipulate someones 
 life you can make your sim to the top of the best or you can make it very miserable it's all up 
 to you.
  
  This is the first of the series to incorporate an age system, your sim can have it's whole lifetime 
 from baby to child, to old, there are a lot of new customize options and features.
  
  It has EA Maxis' backup which is famous for making the best simulators ever made ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2000, Sims has literally surprised gamers across the globe with its innovative gameplay 
 of controlling peoples live in a virtual world. You can either lead your sim to a life of wealth 
 and success, or lead your sims into the world of living hell. In 2004, the gibberish talking, life 
 controlling simulation is back with a new coat graphics and gameplay. Some new features are added 
 to the original Sims gameplay mechanics, which gives much more challenge and depth to an already 
 awesome game. 
  
  Gameplay: It is as addictive as ever. All new aspiration mechanic gives players some real challenges 
 (but you can ignore them if you want to. New aging system gives players more reasons to have your 
 sims ---- well ---- have more family members. Downloadable contents from the official websites 
 allows players to get new possessions and so on...
  
  Graphics: Fully 3D graphics. Every sims have fluid and lively animation. Very colourful and detail 
 scenery as well as great character models. However, there are some framerate issues and the animations 
 feels limited sometimes.
  
  Sound: Good background music during pause mode. Humorous conversations from the characters and 
 funny sounds from televisions and radios. The sims still speaks gibberish though.
  
  Value: This is practically a never ending game. There are no trial and error types of gameplay. 
 Therefore everytime you start a new game, it still feels like a fresh game.
  
  Tilt: Absolutely enjoyed controlling people's lives. No other life simulation games is this addictive.
 
  
  Overall, It is a remarkable game. Period.
  
  DJ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playa_69_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Its another sim game where you try to raise your family or impress people with money and the way 
 you handle things around your house. You can get a few more jobs now and there are many new objects 
 in the game that you would like to have to make life easier. Now you can handle many members in 
 your family! but i think it isn't such a good idea to have so many unless they have good characteristics 
 skills. Or try story mode which is somthing how to move out and impress neighbors to have a better 
 life. You can choose to live in a few different neighborhoods in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  I thought the first sims game was a pain in the ass and I had trouble maintaining them and having 
 fun at the same time. This game balances out alot better and has made itself more fun in my eyes. 
 They do stuff on their own if you don't feel like clicking over and over so it's easier.
  
  I made this guy cheat on his wife and I felt kinda bad.... I told her to work out downstairs but 
 she came up.... oh man... the drama. I felt kinda bad... I felt like a real jerk doing this but I just 
 couldn't help wanting to find out how they would react to certain things.. It's like watching a 
 damn sitcom. You can make you own sitcom with this game basically.
  
  I'm still sick and tired of the sounds you hear when they talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning, there was Sim City, the father of the software toys created by Will Wright. 
 From Sim City came an entire genre of games, all culminating in Will's brainchild, the Sims. The 
 first Sims game was a fun life simulator with surprisingly good AI and great gameplay. It sold 
 so well, it spawned no less than 7 expansions, all of which spent a good long time on the best 
 seller list.
  
  Now, that game has been improved upon by the sequel, which takes your Sims into vivid 3d. Now, 
 it looks even better, and the gameplay has improved. You still take control of the life of a family 
 of Sims (the digital inhabitants of the Maxis worlds) , you still have to find ways to help them 
 make money, meet their needs, and so forth. You still have to deal with these critters having their 
 own minds and their own personalities. But now, it looks, sounds and plays better than ever.
  
  In this game, you have to take your sims and deal with all of the problems of their lives. 
 You have to find them a job, keep them fed and happy, and give them a fulfilling social life. In 
 addition to dealing with the original needs from The Sims, you now have aspirations, which act 
 as a sort of overriding personality modifier. For instance, your sim might be intent on making 
 money, or having a family, or even just having relations with as many different sims as he can. 
 The game generates Wants and Fears based on the aspirations, and it's up to you to help the sim 
 meed their wants and needs both, and avoid their fears. It's an added level of gameplay that works 
 well in the overall game.
  
  On top of the Sims themselves, you also can design and build houses using the excellent tools provided 
 by EA/Maxis. You choose the clothing and what items the families own. In short, you are really 
 running a whole show here.
  
  The graphics in the Sims are very good. The sims themselves are distinctive looking and attractive, 
 the colors are bright and the actual homes look fantastic. Camera controls allow you to maneuver 
 easily around a lot to see what's going on. You can even go into picture mode and zoom in for screenshots. 
 The sound is also good, with environmental sounds galore. If you zoom in on the radio while it's 
 on, you will hear the music get louder. The real treat in the audio department is the sims themselves. 
 They speak to each other a lot using a language called Simlish. It's nonsense sounds that almost 
 sound like talking. Even though there are no real words being used, it's very easy to determine 
 mood by listening to the tone and watching the facial expressions.
  
  The best part about the game is the amazingly huge community that it has spawned. Ever since the 
 first Sims game, Maxis has encouraged the players to make new clothing, items and homes for each 
 other, to the point where they host an exchange for people to upload their creations to so that 
 others may enjoy them. The tradition has continued with the Sims 2. Literally thousands of homes, 
 lots, clothing items, hairstyles, etc are available from the official site and hundreds of fan 
 sites. The community is just amazing in size and ability. Even now, years after its release, the 
 original Sims are supported by new creations from the fan base every day. The Sims 2 promise to 
 keep the same community spirit.
  
  The only ding I have for the game is that even good computers can get bogged down graphically. 
 It can get very demanding graphically, and a large crowd of sims all doing their own thing can 
 lower the frame rate dramatically. As I have said before, though, the same can be said for any 
 3d game with great graphics, so this is not really a complaint, just an observation. There are 
 a couple of bugs that can be found, but patches have taken care of a lot of them, and the rest 
 are not show stoppers. And EA/Maxis shows every sign of supporting this game for a long time to 
 come. I anticipate this game staying on my hard drive pretty much forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: So much to do so much added on since the last one its so re-vamped and it offers tons 
 and tons of hours which will pass days and night in no time. I got sick of it suprisly, I love 
 the build mode but the gameplay got me sick so much more then Sims1 its just too much to take care 
 of and do without your sim charater going g@y... hes hungry, hes sleepy, hes blah blah and doesn't 
 do what you want like comon boy study no I wanna play games, so I let him play video game in fact 
 its the best pc and its sweet yet after that no don't feel like studying so I get the mom to slap 
 the boy and talk to him no the boy won't do homework or study still!!! stupid boy... man just too 
 much it's either stupid AI or just dumb all over didn't feel like this in Sims1 tho : ( big letdown 
 on the gameplay part, the buildmode rocked tho.
  
  Graphics: Totally upgrade, reflections, water reflections the nice effects on everything tv, microwave, 
 pc effect ect... a 9 does I think.
  
  Sound: Nothing wrong here the soundtrack got me pissed off same song over and over I wanted techno 
 but couldn't get it playing while in game??? The sound effects are all well basic and normal nothing 
 special.
  
  Value: If you love the gameplay then this is endless hours of gameplay fun seriously hours will 
 go by like crazy. It's either you love it or hate it, after playing so much of Sims1 and all the 
 expansions after playing this one for about 20h a little more maybe .If you missed out on Sims1 
 this still is a game you must experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N-SHADY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Objective: Create a sequel to the best-selling PC game of all time. Maxis and Electronic Arts have 
 more than proved themselves capable of accomplishing the task, and have already released no fewer 
 than seven expansions to The Sims. Now, with The Sims 2, Maxis has taken their addictive life simulation 
 and snazzed it up with a fully 3D engine, the addition of some neat new gameplay elements, and 
 a brand new story mode that lends an organic feel to the dry neighborhoods of the past. They were 
 smart enough not to tinker too much though, and we are happy to see that all of the charm remains 
 intact; from the new Simlish voice acting to the flies buzzing around old trash. The result may 
 not offer much that is really all that different from the original, but gamers that loved The Sims 
 will feel immediately at home - and those that wondered what all the fuss was about the first time 
 around will have plenty to keep themselves occupied with for quite some time. 
  
  As in the first title, the concept of The Sims 2 is rather simple: you play a simulated individual 
 or family and guide them through the ordinariness of everyday life by keeping an eye on such needs 
 as comfort and hunger, socializing with other sims, and earning simoleans with which to purchase 
 items, household upgrades, and services such as pizza delivery. Such a humdrum description is a 
 disservice to the complexity within, however: from purchasing items of increasing effectiveness 
 in true role-playing fashion to managing your sims' bladders, fans of the series can testify to 
 the wealth of content to be discovered. While there are some subtle changes, the interface remains 
 mostly the same: point-and-click your sims through their activities while keeping an eye on their 
 meters below. The Sims 2 also provides more social interactions than ever, letting you build and 
 destroy interpersonal relationships as you see fit. In fact, your sims will bring workmates or 
 schoolmates home for a visit from time to time, in addition to the usual invitation-making and 
 party-throwing, which are always just a phone call away. 
  
  The game ships with three neighborhoods with plenty of lots from which to choose, and several community 
 lots to visit. Much to the delight of our sandbox instincts, you can now create and customize your 
 own neighborhoods in a manner that reminds us of Maxis' scrapped Simsville project from a few years 
 back. Not only can you place houses and build community lots in your neighborhood, but you can 
 add decorations like trees, rocks, flocks of birds, and rainbows, and even change the layout of 
 your roads (a la Sim City) . As with the previous game's expansions, you can also call a taxi and 
 visit a community lot, where you can visit other sims, meet various needs, or shop for food (you 
 now must replenish your refrigerator) or new clothes. In build and shop modes, there are some nice 
 improvements, such as furniture fashions that come in a variety of colors, and the ability to group 
 home improvements by style, as well as room or item type. Sadly, you are still stuck arranging 
 your items on a grid, keeping aspiring interior decorators as frustrated as before. To help make 
 up for this, newly-created sims can be customized in countless ways, allowing you to tailor their 
 faces and appearance to specification, and even letting you designate sleepwear and workout clothes. 
 
  
  While the passage of time works much the same as before, how it affects your sims is new, both 
 in terms of their age and their work. Finding a profession is pretty much the same: search the 
 paper or the computer for a job, and the carpool will arrive at the predesignated time of day and 
 cart you off to your job in the slacker career, the medical career, or so forth; increasing your 
 skills in certain areas then allow you to get promotions, and with them, more simoleans. As an 
 added bonus, as you progress at the job, you can also earn work aspiration points, with which you 
 can purchase unique job-related items. Now, you get two predesignated days off, so there is less 
 need to risk missing work and getting fired. You do, however, accumulate paid vacation days as 
 the game progresses, so if you need to take an extra day off, you can simply use your vacation 
 to focus on your sim's needs without missing a day's wages. Your sims now age: infants (who inherit 
 the personality and physical traits of their parents, with impressive results) become children, 
 children become adults, and adults become elders. Your sim's lifeline is now part of the mostly 
 familiar interface, and yes, your sim can die of old age, although there are some pretty clever 
 ways of cheating the grim reaper. Elders don't go to work, but still receive pension based on their 
 job standings upon retiring. 
  
  Some of the greatest additions to the gameplay itself give the player more structure without removing 
 any of the freeform options that made The Sims so appealing. The primary enhancement is that of 
 the wants and fears system, which gives you a few major goals and fears at any given time, based 
 on your sim's personality and the basic aspirations you choose for him upon creation. For example, 
 a romantic sim might have a hankering for the girl next door, so one of his wants may be to flirt 
 with her. On the other hand, being rejected for the same flirt may be one of his greatest fears. 
 Fulfilling wants will grant your sim aspiration points, which can be used to purchase all sorts 
 of goodies, from money trees to a fountain of youth. Having a fear rejected will subtract aspiration 
 points, and in severe cases, your emotional reaction may warrant a visit from  the therapist, 
 of course! One of our sims was so traumatized by a fire, that not only did he lose aspiration points, 
 but the therapist dropped down via umbrella in Mary Poppins style to counsel our sim until he felt 
 well enough to move on. Cassandra Goth (yes, the Goths are back, although the Newbies are conspicuously 
 absent) , shattered by a rejected marriage proposal, was reduced to a blithering mess. This should 
 please the sadistic instincts of the fans who delighted while their sims died of starvation or 
 wet their drawers. How well you are fulfilling your sim's needs and avoiding his fears are measured 
 by the aspiration meter, which you will want to keep high, lest the use of your reward items cause 
 some nasty side effects. Your wants and fears are subject to change from day to day, although you 
 can right click them to hold onto them, if you wish to keep them static. 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Another 
 enrichment to the The Sims 2's newfound focus is the story mode, which allows players to either 
 create a story from scratch, using screenshots and movie clips to provide moments of reference, 
 or to play out one of the neighborhood stories conveniently provided. In the Veronaville area, 
 a Romeo and Juliet story is unfolding and you can choose to carefully play each role as you wish 
 and bring the story to a dramatic close or mold it to your own liking. In Pleasantview, Mortimer 
 Goth is searching for his missing wife and coping with the growing pains of his adult daughter. 
 Insert story points as you wish, or simply ignore them altogether. There is no doubt, however, 
 that players wishing The Sims had a more central purpose will find much to like about the mode, 
 although its scope is somewhat limited, as the player's actions in live mode ultimately decide 
 the outcome - and the mode itself is simply a journal mechanism that allows the player to keep 
 track of story progress. Still, between the story mode and the aspiration meter, there is very 
 little chance players will be at a loss of what to do; and with their sims' personalities so intertwined 
 with the story, wants, and fears, they will never wonder why they are doing it in the first place. 
 Still, there are always surprises in store. Your sim may get a phone call giving you a stock tip, 
 and you will be pressed with a choice: purchase it on your own, tell your boss, or do nothing? 
 When you stumble across an ancient ruin, will you explore it or leave it be? Your decision will 
 affect your simoleans or skill points, either positively or negatively. These moments seem a little 
 too random, but still liven up the gameplay by keeping you on your toes.
  
  Undoubtedly, one of the finest aspects of The Sims 2, as in the original, is that there is simply 
 so much to do, and the pleasures of the mundane are as fascinating as ever. Still, is it enough 
 for the casual gamers whose addiction to the original and its multiple expansions has kept them 
 occupied for all these years? Well, yes  and no. In some ways, it is encouraging to see that Maxis 
 fulfilled many of the wishes Sims fans had: a fully 3D camera, improved pathfinding and AI (artificial 
 intelligence) , and greater control over the neighborhood itself. On the other hand, with the gameplay 
 possibilities already explored in the best Sims expansions, like Vacation and Makin' Magic, the 
 door to future Sims 2 expansions is noticeably ajar. The new game seems so familiar, its innovations 
 now so commonplace, that we sometimes can't shake the notion that something is missing. While the 
 impending official additions and community objects and camaraderie are sure to be exciting, the 
 evolution of The Sims is a constant reminder that there is still plenty of opportunity for its 
 sequel to grow.
  
  The Sims 2s graphics look really good. The new 3D camera lets you swoop right up close to the 
 action and swing it around to any angle you choose. The real triumph, though, is the animation 
 quality that needs to be seen to be appreciated. Zooming into your sim will show some terrific 
 gestures and facial expressions, whether its the look of discomfort on his face when his bladder 
 is full, or the dance of excitement after he returns home after a long day of work. As in the first 
 game, the greatest pleasures are in the details, from the bubbles in the sink while your sim washes 
 the dishes, to the way your married couples cuddle in their sleep. More impressively, animations 
 are different based on your sim's personality. A neat sim will eat tidily, while a messy one will 
 spray potato chip crumbs; a playful sim will get down and dirty to the music, while a stodgier 
 one will dance conservatively. Once again, system requirements are not too high, but there are 
 more settings available that should keep players on a variety of systems happy. Not all is perfect 
 in Simsville, though, and you will pay the price with frustratingly long loading times and occasional 
 frame rate jitters. You will also notice clipping and other small issues from time to time. 
  
  As in the original, the audio is a real treat, and a whole new batch of Simlish phrases has 
 been added - so many sounds, in fact, that it will take quite some time before you notice them 
 being repeated. As with the graphics, the personality of your sim shines through in his gibberish, 
 and you will be constantly amazed at the tiny details that really make the audio stand out. The 
 music remains as appealing as before, although it does seem a tad more simplistic than that of 
 the original. 
  
  The Sims 2 remains outrageously addictive, and the new gameplay elements have spruced things up 
 enough that those that stopped playing The Sims a few years back would be well served to pick up 
 the sequel. Gamers that wanted more freeform control, as well as those requiring greater focus 
 to keep them interested will be happy to find augmentations in both directions. Dedicated fans 
 of the original may be pestered by the pesky notion that the sequel doesn't add enough to their 
 already bloated Sims collection, but most will be kept too busy to care, for the most part. Charming, 
 unselfconsciously mundane, and exquisitely tailored, The Sims 2 fits like a toasty mitten.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  You can make a highly customized family, even if all you want is some Nerds. Nerd family genetics 
 at work. Parents pass on their traits to their children in The Sims 2. The Grim Reaper poses the 
 age-old question, 'Can you hear me now?' Sims can still die, but now they can grow old and have 
 a family tree. His work complete. The Grim Reaper curls up in front of the dead family's TV. Fortunately 
 fulfilling needs is a bit easier in The Sims 2 . . . if you want it to be. You can use edited neighborhoods 
 from SimCity 4, but the robust editors of The Sims 2 do not seem as robust as they could have been. 
 The sims still has moxie. This is not always a good thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSMan23
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This was a fun game and it lasted a loooong time. It was different from the computer verison because 
 in the xbox version you were a single person and you start in a junky house. Eventually after you 
 fill your sims aspiration meter you can move to another house. I dont remember how many houses 
 there are but it took me awhile to beat. The 2 player is suprisingly fun. All it is is the same 
 thing as single player but it is split screen. When i came home from school i played with my father 
 and he fell in love with it. He convinced me to leave it at home so he could play. What i dont 
 like about it is that your people dont age. I was excited about it after i had sims 1 for pc when 
 the new one came out and your people age. Well thats my review.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like it's old versions, great. The gameplay is solid and the controls are easy. 
 It offers a lot of gameplay for those who like to mess around with it.
  Graphics were okay but not elaborate or crappy. It was good for a machima and it was just right 
 for those who love to build houses. In my opinion this game is oaky but not perfect. If I wanted 
 another Sim game then I would have just played the old one but the expansions keep it fresh and 
 new.
  
  All and all it was a great game and deserves some reconition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starvix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I like this game alot and have had it since it came out. It is very good fun and the main fun is 
 to be had in finding love for you character and building a family although a career is still gd. 
 The wants and fears that u can acheive is a very gd idea. The music gets a bit repetive and so 
 can gameplay. The expansion packs are not very gd compared to the original. I enjoy it thoroughly 
 and go on it alot. There are many already created character but u can create ur own characters 
 along side these built in households. Sims gives u a chance to build a house and see what it is 
 like to be god and mess around with love and friendship and knowledgee and money. This game is 
 amazing and i really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  this is the best sims created in PC for this reasons:
  
  1) Yo can grow and die for old
  
  2) You can make a lot of foods and have 1.000 more times of graphics than the other sims ever 
 created ( except the expansions)
  
  3) creat a famil and grow with they, have fun, call your friends, make BBQ and burgers, visit the 
 localas, see the tv at your bed and more.... Meet the handymans (pizza's man, maid, newspaper reparting, 
 etc...)
  
  4) Make love and enjo the good graphics of the new sims game 
  
  in my opinion it can been worst, just play and don't think to don't buy it or i kill you in a little 
 pieces and i'll eat your organism and your bones... that was fool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreepBraker
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is nice but after building some houses it is the same thing all the way... maybe 
 they should make Sims2 online with an FPS mode ( shoot some sims yay! lol joke) anyway its the same 
 thing as Sims1 .. After 2 weeks it's getting boring. Anyway.. nice game but I'll wait for Sims3 
 online or Simcity5.
  I describe this game as Boring and .. how to tell.. we don't want to now anything after discovering 
 all new objects.. we know the game will be just boring after this... It's kinda slow and makes you 
 feel bad.. they should adjust it.. or are all the Maxis's games boring? Simcity4 has something 
 like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I love the Sims what better than to have a sequel, huh. I like all the things that you can do on 
 sims2. com and upload in to your game. There are tons of cheats for the game i use the 'motherlode' 
 one all the time so i cam build my mansions with $50,000 at a time. I spend more time building 
 houses, than actually playing the game, the game is fun too. i like the abbility to have cell phones, 
 mp3 players, and video games. i also like going to commercial places. most of the time they are 
 built by me. 
  
  I like the expansions for the game like University and i want to get Nightlife too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Same as Sims 1, better graphics, and some new features that make it a b it more interesting. Aliens, 
 more objects, you can get probed by an alien and have an alien baby. Overall it is really yhe same 
 game as Sims 1, but like I said it has some new differences and better graphics. Maintaining a 
 family of more than 2 is insanely hard, so just type in some cheats and get some easy money. The 
 family management is a bit tough, because it seems the kids are never satisfied and they never 
 do what they need to do. 
  
  Its a game many of the old Sims 1 lovers will enjoy, so go get it.
  Wait til its a Deluxe Edition 
 with its 55 expansions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  The sims is back and now there is more to do than go to the toilet! The sims 2 has made a big change 
 since the original. The most noticable is the way your sims have different life stages and they 
 eventually die of old age. Death can be avoided by bying an item with aspiration points. Aspriation 
 is like a task in the game that shows an obvious objective in the game, fufil your sims life wants. 
 Unfourtanatly I cannot say what what the graphics are properly like because of got it running on 
 a low spec pc but I have heard they are great. If there is a bad point to the game it is the loading 
 times which can take awhile. Overall this is a great game and I strongly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercufaw
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  It's a shame, for the majority of computer users with or without the internet, with or without 
 the biggest, evil most Gaming computer, The Sims 2 lacks in.
  
  It takes up a beefy un-recommendable space on your Hard Drive, just leaving you enough to auto-save 
 a text document in Microsoft Word.
  The computer requirements are by far out of the blue, and with over 65% of the computer user population 
 playing games with a family computer, with little or no graphics and power, it's hard to imagine 
 The Sims 2 even exists anymore.
  
  I had to take the game to a different level and purchase it for the PS2 to expect more from a good 
 graphics engine, but this is the PC version, right?
  
  I love The Sims, no lieing about that. I love creating a family, living in a dream home and doing 
 what you wouldn't normally do in the anti-undo world we live in today, and that's probably the 
 biggest buzz you'll get out of a game now a days.
  
  The gameplay is understandable, the living and life space your permitted to have is amazing and 
 it's un-completable!
  Unlimited (phrase of speech, not exactly true) furniture, wallpapers and windows to chose from, 
 and the added extra freedom of upto 5 floors in your residence. 
  
  The camera angles are the probably the best aspect of the game, but with a useless computer, the 
 game doesn't get far at all.
  
  I recommend you re-sit the decision to purchase this game, until your wealthy enough to buy a gaming 
 computer and a neat Hard Drive that a lot of us crave to have... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great fun game that is a huge improvement to the original series of The Sims games. 
 The graphics are very good and highly detailed, but you often feel that the game gets boring and 
 repetitive when you play for a large amount of time. I would say that if you do buy this game, 
 you shouldn't play it too much and too often because you get sick of it. Treat is like chocolate; 
 play when you deserve a break from your life and have time to control other lives. A must-buy for 
 The Sims lovers. (Also, the expansion packs are great and give you lots of new cool items! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locke002paul
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I know I will have to look over my shoulder from now on, to be on guard from angry Sims fans.... 
 but here it goes.
  Why make a game which has no real task? I don't know but this seems to be EA's policy.
  Actually 
 the game's mechanics are decent and so is the graphics (though the fact that the game area is divided 
 in squares is really annoying because it is easy to get your items or yourself blocked.... I mean 
 how the hell you can't you squeeze between considerable space)
  The sound its at the level of the whole concept (lousy) ... some silly tunes that try to make me feel 
 as a silly kid.
  It's value ..... well...... useless. It's a waste of time to simulate life. Go out there... where 
 the real life is. And its not even that good simulated... c'mon your girlfriend won't marry you 
 because you don't have something in the house to entertain both of you ?!?
  And to make things worse..... EA starts pouring tons of expansion like a nympho keen on sex. So 
 in the end this game is a lame excuse to extort more money from silly people who have way too much 
 free time.
  AND the fact that this game is first ranked on PC shows me that the game industry ain't going nowhere. 
 Its a shame for the few game producers out there who really make good games.
  
  Oh yes.... Yo Sims fans i hope you are not angry on me cause it was written above the Write a Review 
 button: Tell the world your opinion on this game.
  So I did it. Anyway I don't care if you are swearing me when you are reading this (sa ma sugeti 
 de pula) .
  Till next time ..... Semnat cu mult respect, Omul cu cea mai lunga si groasa pula din lume (25,25) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargedPower
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  "The Sims 2" will have you sitting in front of the computer all day not knowing where the time 
 has gone at first, but eventually you'll get really bored. The main goal in this game is to make 
 a family and just control their lifes. Will your sim be living a life of fame and fortune, or will 
 the ending not be so happy? It's all up to you. The graphics are truly impressive compared to the 
 older Sims, but not everything is perfect. There many times the game just freezes for five minutes, 
 and to get a good clothing selection you have to download from "The Sims 2" website. Despite that, 
 this game is great fun! How many of us have ever wished we could control our friends' life? Well, 
 now you can in the virtual world. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midgar_4559
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the sims for a long time and when the SIMS 2 came out I know I had to get it. 
 I washed videos and thought the game would be great. I was right. This addictive game blows away 
 the earlier sims games and shows how much better it can get. There are two expansion packs for 
 this game, and they are both good. The graphics are good the gameplay is good. The sound is good 
 with the classic sims music, and you will keep playing and playing. There are an array of new features 
 and things your sim can do like make a baby, the are age lines and your sim can accually die when 
 he is an elder. There are also personalities that the sims can get when you create them. If you 
 do what the sim likes, you will get special points that you can buy interesting items like money 
 trees and fountains of youth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  In the most basic terms, The Sims 2, like The Sims before it, lets you create one or more "sims" -- autonomous 
 characters with distinct personalities and needs. You then create a virtual household of one or 
 more sims (you get to decide whether they're roommates, spouses, or parents) and move them into 
 a house and a neighborhood that is either prebuilt or built from scratch. Your sims interact with 
 each other and with their neighbors, children leave the house for school each day, and employed 
 adults head out for work to earn a living in one of a number of different career paths. However, 
 the sequel has several new options, including an enhanced neighborhood editor that lets you import 
 custom cities from Maxis' own SimCity 4, if you have that game installed. Plus, there are expanded 
 building options that let you build a much bigger house. 
  
  But the most significant additions in the new game are probably the enhancements made to the sims 
 and the ways they act. While they still have specific personality types determined by their horoscopes 
 and individual characteristics like neatness, niceness, and playfulness (which you can still adjust 
 to your taste) , sims now have some notable major new features (some of which are more important 
 than others) , like memories, customized appearances, genetics, aging, and the new aspiration/fear 
 system. Memories are generated by important events that occur in sims' lives, like getting married, 
 having a child, or having a loved one pass away. Memories impact your sims' future behavior (though 
 not to any huge extent) , and they can also be used to build out a highly customized neighborhood 
 with its own background story and photo album if you're so inclined, though they don't add much 
 more to the basic game. 
  
  The sequel also features enhanced appearance editing tools that let you customize your sims' clothing, 
 hairstyle and hair color, and also let you make many adjustments to their facial features. Oddly, 
 the editor doesn't let you adjust your sims' height or their build (beyond making them "normal" 
 or "fat") , but it, along with the "body shop" utility, should let most players basically re-create 
 whatever characters they want to from their favorite TV shows or movies
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbb14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:   
 Because it is so good and it is so additive. If u find a better game contact me at cbb14@hotmail. co. uk.
 
  
  y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yyyy y y y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy y yy y y y y y y yy y yy y yy y yy y yy y y yy y6y y yy y 
 y y yyuy yy y yy y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y because 
 it is. thanks for reading
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakutakuraku
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yoyo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yoy o yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo y o yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yoy o oy o yo yo yo yo yo oyo yo yoyo y yo yyoyo 
 gkfgfd fd gfd g fdg fd gfd gd gf dgf dg s g h gd hgs n h d n rhghges j dh gr gt a gbxhgh thhg h 
 gdgd g fdgfdgf gfdgfdg fdgdgd gdgf dgfdgfdg fdgd gfd gf g gf g g fdg fg ffd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummermike6380
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly lives up to what it is supposed to be. I loved the first Sims pc game for sure. 
 But this game tops the original even with its expansion packs. The new additions to the game, such 
 as Wants, Fears, and Aspirations really helps the gameplay and develops the game into something 
 special. Aging was definitely a great addition as well. All in all, The Sims 2 is one of the best 
 PC games i've ever played.
  
  At times however, the game does tend to get a slow framerate at certain parties and gatherings 
 with many people. Turning down the resolution on the game and some of the extras helps to remedy 
 this. There are also a few bugs here and there, but that can be expected for such an innovative 
 game, and most of them are minute anyway.
  
  I highly recommend this game to any fan of the original series, and even if you've never played 
 a Sims game in your life, here's the place for you to start. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:48 am PT
Review:  I didnt really like the Sims at first, my sister was eager to play it, so I bought the first one. 
 As I watch, I was amazed because I could not see what the hype was all about. The game just was 
 enjoyable, fun and at times, exciting. The ability to build a house, bring up a family and make 
 friends was exactly what you see in real life. Of course, its not real, its fantasy, the ability 
 to build a massive file of friends that you either have crushes on or love is just a bit of fun.
 
  
  Move over Sims 1, come in Sims 2 and my word, they made a big jump. I was truly stunned at how 
 they made advancements on the game previous title The Sims, it simply was emaculate. The graphics 
 were going to be an improvement of course and so the was the playability but the game was created 
 to allow expansions and these expansions are going to be bigger than before.
  
  The game is easy, fast and strong realibility where bugs are so minimal, you probably wont even 
 notice, heck, there are no bugs. I started off this game with a big family, married couple with 
 four kids, two teenagers and two babies. All hell broke loose, I could not quite believe how difficult 
 it was to manage the babies, especially when they needed changing and sleep as well.
  
  So, I gave up and started again, with a new challenge. This time on my own and believe me, its 
 much better to learn the process from scratch rather than jumping to having families, its good 
 to allow you enough time to decide when to marry and when to have children. Although life seems 
 to short, it would bore people to death but the great thing is, it could last for ages with many 
 generations of families, one after the after, creating your family tree. It may include all the 
 options you have in life but its just about right, not too much to handle and not very little to 
 do, it would be interesting to see how the expansion packs pan out.
  
  Sum it all up, new gameplay engine adds more realism, graphics are a vast improvement looking more 
 real, sound is about the same where you cant do much except maybe replace the gibberish, value 
 for money? No doubt everyone should get this game and sit there spend hours with a challenge because 
 again, the game is everlasting, you never run out of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcgirl5549
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of The Sims and I thought maybe the new version of it would be better but it was 
 kind of confusing. I had no clue how to view above the house when I was building my houses & how 
 I was planting my furniture. But all of the options were good, you didn't have to make your sim 
 tired all the time from working everyday & night you just got to work twice a week!. And also the 
 way you could create your Sim was cool too!. There were like hundreds of options for clothes, accessories, 
 hairstyles, and age difference was also amazing to see!. I think that this game is worth buying, 
 it's just you get to learn how to use the building & furniture options lol. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeyayo23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The Sims series have made a lot of games but i think the Sims 2 was the best one yet. Like i said 
 this game is just incredible. The graphics of this game are very good. There are better styles 
 now. I cannot believe this game did not win an award at the gamespot awards. The reason i love this 
 game so much is that you can play 1-3 player in story mode. i also love the new aspiration points 
 which makes the game more exciting. The only bad thing about the game is there were no jucuuzi 
 tubs! Well this game is amazing is a must-own. Get this game the next time your planning to buy 
 battlefield 2 or call of duty 2. Trust me, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurtizz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Wonderful game!
  
  I never played this game before.
  Even if you don't have any experience with this game it's so easy.
  
  The value is perfect. The 
 graphics are great even if 
  you have your graphics set on low.
  I didn't have to do that but I tested it.
  
  When you want to build a house it takes time, 
 but the result is great.
  It's so easy to build a house.
  
  But what I don't like about the game is:
  -when you want to abort an action it takes to long.
 
  -sometimes you get stressed about some things
  
  But this game is a very good.
  It's addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSChik2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  It's still the Sims we all know and love, only better. 
  
  New features were also added. The sims now also have aspirations they have to fulfill. There are 
 also more stages of life, instead of just baby, child and adult. The Sims 2 offers baby, toddler, 
 child, teenager, adult and elderly. Also when creating your sim, you can personalise the faces 
 a lot more than in the original game. 
  
  All in all, it's a fantastic game. The possibilities are endless, so you won't be over this game 
 in a flash. If you liked Sims you're going to love Sims 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofpillows
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 brings even more great gameplay to The Sims, which was already one of the best game 
 of all time. Building homes has been taken to a whole new level, literally, by allowing up to 5 
 floors in a house which allows for much more time to be spent perfecting your house, and the roof 
 tool is very flexible and useful and makes a wonderful addition to the build mode. The buy mode 
 menu has been made easier to go through, which is a very good feature to have, and also adds more 
 variety with a larger amount of items and the ability to have them in different colors allowing 
 you to create a perfect dcor. The live mode has also improved, allowing for many more options 
 for interaction with objects, and especially with other sims.
  
  Unfortunately, the game isn't exactly perfect, as is shown by the sim creation mode of the game, 
 which has a lot of variety, but the face customizer can be very confusing and can make the most 
 beautiful face into a total disaster in just one stray click. Another small imperfection of the 
 game is the inability to change the path of the music used for the game, forcing the player to 
 either move music into a very hard to find folder or just sticking with the game's own music, which 
 isn't for everyone. Also the neighborhood editor is fairly limited, not allowing the creation of 
 new roads or areas (without Sim City 4) .
  
  Overall this is a sequel that does do not only live up to the original, but surpases it by leaps 
 and bounds with superb, addicting gameplay and a fairly smooth transition into the realm of 3D 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtdheHoxha
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is a perfect simulation & arcitecting game. I mean that you will be very fast addicted 
 to the game and you cant stop playing all day long.
  You can control things that you cant in real life so thats a good feeling, to build houses, neightbourhoods 
 and familys. It has many more availabilitys than the first one and many more life periods. From 
 a little baby, to a old grandpa. I mean that the game was what i expected when i bought it and 
 i recommend other peoples to buy it to. You just need a computer with not many recuirements.
  This game deserves more fans and players because of its fun and joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Truly a Excellent Game I love this Game it Takes off from the start
  
  Expansion pack talk:
  
  University-Going to Collage is Fun for this Game i like the Game play 
 
  From Growing up to Getting a Girlfriend/Boyfriend is As good as it gets here folks 
  
  Nightlife-The title Says it all Its living large in the night time (There is Daytime still lol) Is 
 a Excellent way to live taking time to go to a Bar in ur GTS coupe is Nice. This expansion Pack 
 gives the Game THE SIMS 2 a Good Name
  
  Thats Basicly All the Game Expansions they Put out for it.
  
  I love the Game you have a Verity 
 of things to Chose from.
  
  EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS GAME IS A 10 AND THATS WHAT I GIVE IT!
  
  THIS GAME IS FOR DIE HARD SIMS FANS GET OUT THERE AND BUY IT YALL!!!
  
  THE GAME IS SIMS 
 2 FOR PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2... Another one of those sim games from which we all love and enjoy. Sims 2 is almost like 
 sims 1 but guess what its improved..... of course makes sense and i would hope so. Anyways the game 
 has it like before but this time you get to pick 3 different cities which i love well not really 
 cities but anyways living areas. Each area has its own cool stuff such as environment and stores 
 stuff like that.
  
  The game also adds a community option which is you being able to make a store or library ... etc 
 for all your sims to enjoy. This is a neat feature and is fun to have if you want to make stuff 
 like A movie threatre where your kids can go have some fun. The game also adds a new clothing system 
 in which you get to pick your character's clothing down to her or his underwear.
  
  The game has jobs which your character goes to but still has the you cant go with them and see 
 what the job looks like. You can custom build your house and of course the thing we love the most.... there 
 is the robber that comes at night to break in and take the toliet ya he takes the toliet and other 
 junk now.
  
  Problems i have notice though were death is coming too fast. The game has a problem that tends 
 to have it were your character only lives so many days so it maybe six days in real life but to 
 the sim ingame it feels like 100 years lol. There are cheats to fix this and a patch somewhere 
 that fixes it but still..
  
  Overall another sim that you should get and bring to the comfort of your heart like the classic 
 sim games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzx01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  A game who features great graphics, sound, gameplay and tilt and requires an average computer ( 
 PC) to play it is great! If you have an average machine ( PC) that you bought in 2001you can play 
 this game obiusly not with the best settings but you can play this masterpiece. You can play the 
 SIMS 2 forever, myself I played when I bought it a lot the I give it a break but a couple of months 
 later I continued playing it, you can play and play this game without getting bored that's why 
 I think is great. It has great graphics, and, the most important, a n awsome gameplay, the best I 
 ever seen. I has several improvements from his previous version, lots of great items. If you get 
 bored of the same old items, clothe, sims, residential lots, community lots, you can download lots 
 and lots of these things online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniflannery
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great new experience for gamers all around the world.
  
  It takes virtual gaming to a whole new level, as it has many more advantages than the 1st Sims 
 game. The Sims 2 is addictive from the start, and is a very worthwhile game to buy in my opinion. 
 
  
  From the beginning, I have been a particularly large Sims fan and was looking forward to the release 
 of my favourite game, and I can tell you this I was not disappointed when I purchased it.
  
  It was a good idea to launch the Sims on other consoles, such as the Playstation 2 and the 
 XBox, and games like The Urbz and The Sims: Bustin' Out have proven to be a big hit in the game 
 world.
  
  So well done, Maxis and EA, you have wowed us with a Sims release yet again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Hi i'm mikey, i think The Sims 2 is the best people simulator game in the world, it needs high 
 specification but once you get going its the the most humoros and fun game to play, i think its 
 best for the family, top marks buy it now, no douhts you will love it, its a huge game, four disks, 
 hours of fun!!
  The specs are very high so if you need any help go to http://www. ea. com/sims2 there are many fourms 
 around and a good site for graphics cards is www. radion. com and ati. com
  Wicked
  Fun
  Funny
  amazing
  scary at times
  easy the play
  easy install
  good graphics
  never a 
 ledown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I am sim addicted. I have them all that is out for PC and run a yahoo group addicted to the sims. 
 The new sims graphics are very realistic and you have many options for game play. However it can 
 be very time consuming if your computer will not run the graphics. You have to have a new fast 
 running computer with a up to date graphic card. and as the expansion packs come out more room 
 is needed to play. You pretty much can only play the sims on your computer there is no room on 
 the computer for any other games. So far the expansion packs have been worth the money. I prefer 
 the nite life to the university. There are many downloads off the computer to add to your collection 
 of objects and skins if you have a winzip to load them. The expansion packs are comming out at 
 good times by the time you have a expansion worked through another pack comes out. It also seems 
 like the creators are listening to the game players and responding to request for future expansion 
 packs.
  I would score this game higher if it was more computer friendly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frios302004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well personally i've to accept im a super fan of EA Games from MOH to NFS!! I love the great creativity 
 of this company and this one wasnt the exception , i didnt play Sims 1 but immediately i got involved 
 in the game, i a real life simulator here are the "why's" of my score:
  
  The Good:
  
  *Great Gameplay
  *Huge variety of genetic in order to custom your own sim
  *Super realistic 
 (just pay attention when a sim is cooking ;) )
  *And exist a body shop to create your own custom stuff (including xxx material, so interesting 
 lol!!! just joking)
  
  The Bad:
  
  Well just little details like:
  
  *Cant choose your own custom shoes , hope i can do it in the next expansion..
  *Sims get old 
 so fast, thanks god that can be fixed with the "aging off" cheat
  *when you work you cant watch your sim's job, you've to wait 'till he comes home...
  
  that's 
 it , hope this help gamers to make a good decision..... see ya!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5410344
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 is of course like its older version a highly addictive game and with its constant releases 
 of expansion packs it keeps you coming back for more. The amount of furniture at the beginning 
 of the game without the expansions is very limited which makes it kind of disappointing considering 
 this is a game that is supposed to let you customize your house to your liking. The game now introduces 
 a wants and fear meter that goes down depending on if you made your sims worst fear come true and 
 it goes up if you made your sims wants come true. When the aspiration meter is at maximum you enter 
 a special platinum mode that makes your sim have full meters in every need but this only lasts 
 for a little while. This new version also introduces aging which is good especially when you have 
 a baby because it is so annoying but once it grows up and becomes an adult I don't really want 
 it to die or become old luckily there is a cheat to turn off aging. The sims 2 also features higher 
 detailed environments and you can make a sim with such precision that you can make it look like 
 one of your family members. Sadly the graphics are so highly detailed that loading times are very 
 slow and if you have a old PC or if you dont have a video card in your PC then the sims 2 is practically 
 unplayable because of lag so dont be surprised if you need to upgrade your PC. This game also suffers 
 from glitches but if you bought it at the time of this review you can download patches which will 
 make it a lot better. Overall this game is worthy of a purchase if you liked the original and only 
 if you have a medium to high end PC with a video card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripperkiller1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The more i play this game, the more i get addicted too it, it's Very Addicting. The Graphics are 
 Superb, and the Camera has improved since the last Sim's. The only down thing I can think of in 
 this game is that the Sim's seem a little TOO Cheerful. Also it's very annoying when a sim starts 
 complaining about something, and you go and try to fix it and he complains more, causing him to 
 delay the time it takes to fix whats wrong, other than that, this game is flawless. If the sims 
 3 comes out, this game would most likely be so good as to be up in the ranks of Halo 2 and Half-life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link66
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game, just like all the Sim games it super adictive. Overall i think that is 
 very complete its well made and the controls are easy to use. Its also very easy to learn all the 
 little things in the game in mite take a few sims to get it right but its fun getting there. The 
 way the sims act is pretty realalistic, and they can get really demanding, and controlling multipul 
 sims is pretty challanging. I one area i think could use improvement is the house buliding its 
 kind of a pain, and running out of space to put things like pools add ons to homes and things inside 
 is a little diffacult. But its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeloader12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is good in every way. The graphics are good since character models and facial expressions 
 are detailed and nice. But backgrounds are kinda of bland. And at a distance it gets somewhat fuzzy. 
 The sound is good also but if you play for long periods of time then it might get repetitive, but 
 then again you can modify it with your own sound. Game play wise You will be taking care of your 
 sim and controlling everything thats good enough. And you can get extra items with expansion packs 
 and download items such as sims, lots, and objects. As that will keep you busy for a really long 
 time. This game isn't as original as the first one, but its really the only excellent one in its 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Pro's: To many to say :D, great gameplay, fun for hours, you can play god, graphics are nice, love 
 their language, and much much more
  
  Con's: sometimes I wish I knew what they were saying : (, a few glitches cause people to get stuck 
 in things and die.
  
  Sound: everything that needs to sound good does, love their language as always.
  
  Graphics: 
 pretty good for the date it released, could use a bit of help with the FPS though.
  
  Gameplay: you can get stuck in this game for hours, I suggest you free up your day to create your 
 trusty little Gaming family. The map editor is great, you can make your own cities, create your 
 own houses, it's amazing fun.
  
  Overall: great game, defiantly worth buying, always something to do when your bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario46011
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great game... AWESOME!!! I love I am the short attioned pearson, but this caught 
 my eye, I was a preiveous fan of The Sims, Great game! But The Sims "2", WHAT A SIMATHON!!! (or 
 a famnomathon) Controllling your people in 3D is so cool! Yes, I am a couch Potato, But Sinse The 
 Sims and Thes Sims 2 came out... I am Computer Chair geek.
  Anyway, great game loved it, I say they should come out with one with pets,
  kinda like The Sims 
 Unleashed. Millions of sim Fans at Thesims. ea. com /us/ say whrer are the pets on The Sims 2? on 
 The BBS.
  I am 46011 by the way for anybody who knows me.
  
  Thank you EA. Thank You Maxis. and Thank You Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is a game you can't mess with in all honesty it covers just about everything in every 
 sense, when it comes to giving you a summary on what to it nearly falls into the catergory of being 
 impossible theres to much to do as your task is to handle life with sims, when all loading up which 
 can sometimes take a while depending on how much memory or how powerful your computer is you can 
 either choose the choose a family chosen by the game or make your own i made my own, when making 
 you own sim and can be proven to be a lot of fun as you can pretty much make a face, and cover 
 every part they game does'nt struggle when it comes to detail, you can muddle with your sims lips, 
 nose and hair e. t. c then you can dress your sims, there is a loong range of clothes to choose from, 
 from every genre if you like your ghetto style theres something for that, if u like your punk style 
 theres something for that, and then you casual and so on once you've created your family (the size 
 of your family is limited) you can choose where to live, or make your own house which falls into 
 its own place alltogether.
  
  There are 3 neighborhoods the best place to choose for the people who like an adventure is strangetown 
 as there is a rreally good story line through that, which includes aliens sounds childish but it 
 works out in the end, theres pleasent view, which is the more urban like place to be then vironaville 
 (excuse my spelling) which is a really calm place to hang out wherever you choose theres always 
 a different style to it, including different shopping malls and different stories in familys.
 
  
  So once your at you neighborhood you can build your house, you have everything you need to make 
 any type house you want its hard to make a house exactly the way you want it to at the start but 
 you may gt use to it as you start getting inspiration from other houses you've seen something about 
 the sims which is so amazing is how many items are available it always amazes me, you dont only 
 have to create houses you can create shopping malls, or leisure centres it gives you all the tools 
 you need to use to make a nice looking place theres so many items to choose from you could build 
 all day.
  
  So once you've made your house or bought one from the ones they have made you can enter, once your 
 there theres a little video clip thing of the taxxi taking you there and you being outside your 
 house, when there you will need to fuurnish your house which again will take a really long to build 
 as there are so many to choose from, wallpapers, games and much more, once all the building is 
 done, the serious stuff happens you may end up starting by food, you'll have to get to your fridge 
 by clicking the fridge and preparing a meal for everyone already it sounds realistic eh.
  
  From here its all real life simulation, you will have to get a job to get by though there are lots 
 of jobs to choose from, you can get them from pc or the papers the papers r the best option as 
 you dont need to buy a computer, computers usually are used for entertainment and social because 
 you can chat to friends so once you have chosen the job which settles with a decent pay and e. t. c 
 it gives you a date in where you have to leave around then your off during your job days you can 
 settle with promotions you get promotions by building up things like body skills and cooking skills 
 you build them up by studying them areas. 
  When it comes to basic life its excellent you can make babies i wont say no more and grow up, from 
 a little baby to and elder but it takes decent time.
  
  Through the game you may have two adult sims who arn't going to be relatives or are married already, 
 these two can make a child, simple by making both of them relax in a bed then clicking on try for 
 a baby but you you need your relationship up with the other sims (on tips on how to manage your 
 sim click on help when it comes to the neighborhood selection screen) so once you've tried for 
 your baby life gets rough.
  
  So when the baby has come it will come with a video scene of the baby popping out, its not so realistic 
 but it is the sims imagination is everything, once the baby arrives you will need to make the baby 
 a descent bedroom with your cot, game she/he can play and you will need to feed your child, play 
 with it and teach it how to walk, talk and use the potty, two sim days are pretty long (long enough) 
 then they grow into children about 5-8 years of age thats how old they look anyway then from there 
 they go to teenagers all in all it takes a pretty long time to grow a sim as you dont only look 
 after the child.
  
  Once your a teenager, you can do a lot of mature things shall i say as you can finally cook and 
 prepare proper meals, you can get amatuer jobs and go to school like the *children* can, you can 
 also go to university, as the sims 2 has expansion packs which extends gameplay for you and adds 
 additional really cool things, the sims 2 is a really powerful game as it needs 4 discs for installations 
 and a lot of PC memory.
  
  I could go on for hours about the sims 2 but i must end here to end it off i'll summarise the different 
 areas.
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazing, its the best simulation game around it involves taking car of families and having a good 
 time at the same time, there are so many situations it puts you in, there is unbelievably so much 
 to do its impossible to count.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is amazing very lively and can be changed from the settings or from the radio which can be 
 bought through items there are different genres all are good in my opinion.
  The menu music is very good aswell.
  
  Graphics:
  Simply amazing depending on your graphics 
 card. If you have a good graphics card then the graphics will outstand you they are just really 
 good.
  In every place theres a lot of detail to the corner of chairs, to the wires of the tv to the shadows 
 and in settings they can all be configured with as you can take away shadows or even enhance the 
 graphics
  
  To top it off:
  To review this game is really hard as there is to much to talk about along with its highs it has 
 lows, the game does sometimes have minor glitches and can get repetative but that depends on the 
 way you play the game.
  If you dont like simulation games like this dont buy it as you wont like it simple as simple goes 
 really.
  At the end of the day i recon this is the best game i have in my games collection and will be for 
 a very long game, the game its self is a legendary game in my own opinion go out and buy it you 
 have to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first. As i played the original for some time, and found its very frutrating 
 just to get to the fun part, only to find out that i already did the fun part, and soon grey insanely 
 tired of it all. Not to mention Maxis milking the franchise for all its worth in the past (what 
 was it? near 7-8 expansion packs? god)
  
  So i installed it to my computer. This time i went right for the fun part. And i wasn't dissapointed 
 with any of the boundries. The customization, while not as intense as most wrestling or tony hawk 
 games, is still in depth enough to make your sim a unique one. So i made a female, living by herself. 
 And whats my biggest ambition in this game? thats right, to make a lesbian. Of course, straight 
 couples in the sims series is just plain boring. Going unorthidox and playing with the boundries 
 of the game is always alot of fun. 
  Oddly, it only took the course of meeting a single woman on the street by the name of Angela (a 
 character one of my friends made in the town, unbeknowest to him, haha) , and inviting her over 
 once for a massive talk session which resulted in flirting which resulted in near marriage! Its 
 150% easier to get a couple in this game than it was in the original sims. And im not complaining. 
 Trying to run a relationship in the first sims was a big pain. 
  
  building a house, is also alot more fun because your given an even weirder and more diverse set 
 of objects to make your house in. And its very possible to create some of the most eligant and 
 swank looking penthouses, with some of the cheapest houses on the block (just ask another friend 
 of mine who made a sim in my town, my god) .
  
  A new feature is the ambitions dial (thats what i call it anyways) and it gives you 4 things that 
 that sim specifically wants to acomplish. When you accomplish one or more of these your given points 
 which can eventually put you in the coveted platinum mood. If you want to quickly gain the ranks 
 in your job day by day, its always good to be in a platinum mood (and regardless if your bladder 
 is about to fail, this mood will stay for some time) .
  
  Careers are much more interesting this time around, and can actually be alot of fun waiting to 
 get a high enough rank to get the career award. Liz and Angela had totally different jobs. Angela 
 had a career in military, and her award was a training course. And Liz was a culinary artist, and 
 her reward was a dream chocolate creations machine. Both have their benefits in heling out getting 
 to the top of their profession.
  
  The graphics are a big improvment. No longer are the characters so static and boring that its annoying 
 just to look at them, and no longer is the environment unpopulated either. Though the game does 
 have its graphical glitches, such as, you put a mirror in a room, sure enough it reflects everything 
 around it, unfortunatly it doesn; t reflect walls. You can get some pretty interesting reflections 
 in those mirrors. 
  
  Ive wasted a many hour playing this game and having fun screwing around with the other sims in 
 the neigborhood, especially how bad you can screw over your friends sims so easily. 
  
  Its a highly recommendable game. Though dont feel bad that when you get back to Counter-Strike, 
 youll feel that your skills have somewhat diminished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_man001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  I like this because she has many advantages. The first one is that she has a perfect gameplay, 
 graphics, sound and value. She is my perfect game, she is acting the real life but in a small box. 
 The Sims 2 teach the teenagers how to act in their real life. She is the road to the peace and 
 to the destinity is how to work in a live. I love it and i think you will love it too. I prefer 
 this perfect game, i play all the sims like sims house-party, living-large, vacation ... and The 
 sims 2, The Sims 2 University and also the new one.
  
  Steve Dahdah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaryus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Sims 2 hoping it would be just as good as the original Sims. Need less to say, I was 
 blown away. The game is head over heels better than the first one. Graphics, Sound, Gameplay. You 
 name it! Aspirations were an excellent idea and kept the game fresh and Wants and Fears change 
 the dynamic of the game all the time. I have no real complaint about this game besides the fact 
 that sims have the pathfinding ability of a retarded mole rat. I'm not the type of person to ramble 
 on and on so i'll tell you straight, great game overall (especially for those who have too much 
 time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shelly42591
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  the sims 2 is absolutely 100% better than the sims 1. i would give this a 10 anytime compared to 
 regular sims. i really enjoy playing the sims 2, because if the gameplay, graphics, sound, music, 
 value, and my point of view. the ability to zoom closely with the scroll of the mouse is a very 
 nice additive to the game. the sims 2 is just a well put design and game. i would like the makers 
 of the sims 2 to be thanked and appreciated of the effort and time put into the project of this 
 game. they deserve more credit than the sims 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leox5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This is just the best that ever came out and everyone should try it. Its plain and simple, and 
 gets addictive after hours of playing. And you might forget to sleep and eat. Also it works fine 
 with most computers, even if you have one with 256 mb of ram. And is just plain fun and i recommend 
 it. And everyone from young to old should play this game, And the graphics look great. Also the 
 character create has a variety of options to make the perfect sim. and decide their future and life 
 so they go all the way with their goals and dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the sims and this has been a wonderful game to add to my collection. What has 
 inspired me to be such a fan is just the way the game looks and feels. It feels like your actully 
 in the game and that's what I like about games, they just pull you in into all the action. I hope 
 that all of you out there like this game to. Boberson, one of the people that I'm tracking has 
 a totaly diffrent feeling about this game. I like it couse it likes me. I now pronoce us, game 
 and husband. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradW92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  The sims revoloutionised the gaming industry by being hte best selling game of all time. Now with 
 the Sims2 they should sell just as many.
  The graphics have gone through a total revamp and couldnt be better the sound is great and the 
 gameplay is pretty intresting as there is so much to do.
  The sims themselves have great details and endless combinations of clothing and hair etc
  With 
 loads of differnt career paths and hundreds of new and intresting objects you cant fail to have 
 fun, plus aspirations can fufill your sims wants and needs in their lives so as there popularity 
 and love life to what they want for their lunch.
  There are a few downsides though, sims have a strange attraction to the stero systems which is 
 very irratating as they keep on putting on the salsa music which gives you a headache. A few other 
 downsides include a rather buggy game which can be sorted out, and the massive tech specs the game 
 requires which include 4gb of the hardrive. 
  Get this game and have great fun with it, but make sure your computer will be able to handle its 
 great requirments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Undoubtedly, one of the finest aspects of The Sims 2, as in the original, is that there is simply 
 so much to do, and the pleasures of the mundane are as fascinating as ever. Still, is it enough 
 for the casual gamers whose addiction to the original and its multiple expansions has kept them 
 occupied for all these years? Well, yes  and no. In some ways, it is encouraging to see that Maxis 
 fulfilled many of the wishes Sims fans had: a fully 3D camera, improved pathfinding and AI (artificial 
 intelligence) , and greater control over the neighborhood itself. On the other hand, with the gameplay 
 possibilities already explored in the best Sims expansions, like Vacation and Makin' Magic, the 
 door to future Sims 2 expansions is noticeably ajar. The new game seems so familiar, its innovations 
 now so commonplace, that we sometimes can't shake the notion that something is missing. While the 
 impending official additions and community objects and camaraderie are sure to be exciting, the 
 evolution of The Sims is a constant reminder that there is still plenty of opportunity for its 
 sequel to grow.
  
  The Sims 2s graphics look really good. The new 3D camera lets you swoop right up close to the 
 action and swing it around to any angle you choose. The real triumph, though, is the animation 
 quality that needs to be seen to be appreciated. Zooming into your sim will show some terrific 
 gestures and facial expressions, whether its the look of discomfort on his face when his bladder 
 is full, or the dance of excitement after he returns home after a long day of work. As in the first 
 game, the greatest pleasures are in the details, from the bubbles in the sink while your sim washes 
 the dishes, to the way your married couples cuddle in their sleep. More impressively, animations 
 are different based on your sim's personality. A neat sim will eat tidily, while a messy one will 
 spray potato chip crumbs; a playful sim will get down and dirty to the music, while a stodgier 
 one will dance conservatively. Once again, system requirements are not too high, but there are 
 more settings available that should keep players on a variety of systems happy. Not all is perfect 
 in Simsville, though, and you will pay the price with frustratingly long loading times and occasional 
 frame rate jitters. You will also notice clipping and other small issues from time to time.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend The Sims 2 to any fan of the original. It's one of the most fun 
 games to be released all year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mud12345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is like awsome. Once you start you can't quit. I had some much fun with the game. It 
 is got a revamped graphics engine the make the game feel more alive, better gameplay, and more. 
 It has been 3 years that we have been waiting for this game and I have to say it has been worth 
 the wait. No doubt the Sims have made the gaming world better. I would not have a great day without 
 The Sims. That just shows how much I like The Sims. I just have to say go buy this game for yourself. 
 So go pick up a copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  SIMS 2 , the best selling life simulator sequel is jus what you would have expected from a sequel 
 of such a great game , it has enhanced graphics and many more items and stuff to interact with.
 
  
  SIMS 2 will do what the predecessor did to you when you played it the first time , it will hook 
 you right from the beginning and before you know it you will find yourself in front of the pc screen 
 spending hours of your life in such an amazing game.
  
  The variations of characters , items , and stuff you can interact with will make it one unique 
 gaming experience , its like living your life on a game , you will find yourself caring for the 
 little fellas that you make and caring for their social lives and needs .
  
  I give it a 4 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenaswarrior
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I have played this game for five to six hours streight doing nothing more than 
 building a house from scratch, which includes erecting the walls, floor plan, wallpaper, furnishings, 
 flooring, and the whole nine yards. I've even become fond of making balconies and even making garages. 
 The only thing I would do to improve it is to have cars and trucks become a standard item in the 
 game like the furniture and fixtures. I'd also make the "birthing" part more realistic. Anybody 
 who can play a game like sims is old enough and mature enough to know where babies come from and 
 how they get here, you might as well show the women having babies the way it happens in real life, 
 cleaned up of course. I give this game two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  What can I say? I've never played a game that is more addictive than Sims. It's always "Just one 
 more career level. Just one more friend" and hen you look again, you where up till 4 in the morning 
 playing Sims.
  
  The graphics are great, the camera movement is great, the actions everything is just excellent. 
 I was amazed the first time I played Sims 2. I just could not help but call my mom to show her. 
 THEY HAVE FACIAL EXPRESSIONS. I mean, OMW!! Everything they do has a facial expression. If they 
 do excuses you can see them struggling by just looking at their faces. If they smell food you can 
 see if they like it. It's great. 
  
  I absolutely love this game. It is hours and hours of fun in one box. Loads to do. Loads to concentrate 
 on. Things like you Aspiration meter that adds an objective to your Sims life. The fact that they 
 get old and die is also great. Coz I got bored of my immortal sim. There was no challenge. Now 
 you have basically got 27 Sim Days to get your sim to as high a career level as you can and have 
 a family and reach Platinum Aspiration. 
  
  Great Game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokynajapalica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is an amazing game that everyone should own. This game is great. It is very addicting 
 and it's worth the time spent. Buy it. Very good graphics, the main problem is the music. It gets 
 a little bit annoying after a while. But just turn your speakers down. BUY IT. I bought this game 
 for my sister, and ended up taking it from her, after I found out how great it was. It is even 
 better than the Sims, if that is possible. Absolutely wonderful. I hope you all, get this game, 
 and have the same amazing experience that I did. Good Luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyMonk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  I found it a lot easier playing with a minimum of 4 sims, when it goes into higher numbers, I just 
 can't control the family, WAY too hard. The motives just bounce out of control and I can't keep 
 in time anymore, especially with too little bedrooms, and bathrooms.
  I once made a family of 1 Man, I named him Greg, as soon as he got with this chick, it was true 
 love. They got married, had a boy, he grew into a teenager. Then, out of no-where, HE BECOMES AN 
 ADULT!
  I had the whole freeform thing on, so my sims could satisfy their own needs... too many 'what's 
 this?' though, he gets with some guy (Ew.) and there's now FOUR people in the house, they adopt (I 
 never knew he was gay...) .5 PEOPLE! I lose control, most of them die.
  Oh, whoopee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok i was a fan of the original I had every expansion so i was serious with it now that got a new 
 comp decided lets see if Sims 2 is really better than the first and yes it is. Ok first thing thats 
 very noticable is the graphics huge change and very beutiful colors are vivid and animations are 
 solid. Sound is still a downer no true music seeing the Sims dont speak english they speak "Simolian"....... 
 so no real music or dialouge just jiggerish. Gameplay is where this game excels the improvements 
 in this one are great with actual story lines, family trees, actually able to make one guy then 
 grow as a family threw marrige, improved community options, and many more improvements. In the 
 original you werent able to make a family and watch them grow this one you can in flying colors 
 with the family tree you can check out your family's past which is more interesting than it sounds. 
 You can give birth to sims and thats when the age system kicks in your sims will now age and get 
 old when you have a kid they start as baby after so many game days they will grow to toddler then 
 child, teenager, adult, and elderly this adds alot of depth into the game. Your Sims will die i 
 know very sad they die of old age after 100 days of life with that character which is interesting 
 cause not many people live to 100. The game is perfect tho the same anoyances from the first are 
 back to haunt you such as that Sims are very annoying sometimes they wont do what you tell them 
 which can be very annoying and hindering to the gameplay. The new wants feature is nice but is 
 more annoying some of the wants they have may not be what you want your character to do and there 
 so they may not get happy if there not happy they dont listen to you or grow up bad. Overall this 
 is byfar one of the most addicting, inovative games around and does a great job of improving on 
 the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_love_Harmony
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the original sims for the pc and the fact that you could control people and take control 
 of their lives then this game will impress you highly. There is a new 3d graphics engine with a 
 camera that can be rotated at a full 360 degrees angle. This brings the world of the sims 2 to 
 life. Objects and Characters in full 3d make this game very immersive. The sims themselves have 
 facial expressions and move in a vary realistic and less robotic way compared to the original. 
 Other improvements include the new use of Genetics where children will inherit their parents genes. 
 Your sims will also age and live out their whole life before they die. As a result you can play 
 on for generations. This game is just awsome for it's new engine alone but the added gameplay feature 
 make it into a game that you will play for ages before you get tired, and then after that you have 
 the expansion packs of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickobretto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  Starting as a baby you work your sims life up through toddler, child, teenager and aldult before 
 you become an elder and die. There is also a new aspiration bar that tells you what your sim needs 
 to do or he'll get depressed and go crazy. There are new actions in talking and so many more 'relevant' 
 objects. You can also download objects and skins from the internet and your sims have new bonds.
 
  The graphics in the game are great with new facial animation where you see if they are depressed 
 or happy. The gameplay could have you playing for hours on end. The sound is if a little annoying, 
 good and has some good songs on the radio.
  Overall this game is really good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlkLBL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I was Highly anticipating for this game to hit shelfs and It was worth the 60$
  (Canadian) I definatley worth the money no regrets.
  This game is way to good to descibe. Iv'e 
 spent pretty much 2 weeks straight playing this game, It does take a little while to learn, but once 
 you have the hang of it You wont eat, sleep, or **** because this game is highly
  addictive. Exellent additions are put into this game such as, Growing up
  and death from old age. This 
 games game suffers no lagging, or being repetitive. I recommend this game to people who have time 
 to play it and will be able to withstand the pretty long learning curve.
  
  Pros:
  -Good Graphics
  -Way more Additions
  -Not repetitive at anytime
  -Worth the money
  -Being 
 able to age and die old
  -Great addion to the Sims Title
  
  Cons:
  -Sims Speak a Really anoying 
  language So Be aware
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon1001001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a masterpiece. I have played the game many times and I am use to it and the way the 
 graphics, sound, gameplay and other things are, I think no one will get tired of playing it. It 
 should take weeks or even months for someone to completely stop playing it or give up on it. I 
 still have the game but it won't work. At least I had a lot of time to play it. People like this 
 game because:
  
  . It has varitey of clothes and accessories to chose from .
  . The way you can costumize and build up your sim .
  . How you can get jobs and make your funds 
 go up .
  . You can build more than 2 floors.
  
  I jumped to conclusions on the facts that I already knew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2:
  
  Here is a good question, If i give you a game where you can re-make who you love an hate, kill 
 and marry who ever you whant you, you could work very hard and have a maid, or, work low hours 
 and play allmost all the time would you accept? Now i would have a smple answer for you. YES. this 
 game ticks all the best boxes over average value and sound good graphics and a great backround 
 for you to make the game the way you like it. So a great game all in all, a MUST have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  i tried to start with sims....
  in the start its realy fun cus u build houses and they grow up and u buy stuff
  and that stuff 
 that goes on sims... but after, it getting boirng..
  i mean u dont have what to do with your sim... he grows up and then he move and then u play with 
 him.... and if he have a brother or a sister so u play with them 2... and u tried al the time that 
 they will be happy and u try to have
  the highest job rank.. to see how he will go to work... and u try to collect 
  the prises but if 
 a sim move the house he does'nt have it any more...
  and its all the time the same... so its nice in the begining 
  but after a while it getting boring 
 and u dont want to play it any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhsoccer14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for everybody. Although it takes a good deal of time to play, it's time well spent. 
 It's ten times better than the original Sims which is saying a lot since The Sims was one of the 
 best games of its time. In the Sims 2, contrary to the original, families grow older and people 
 eventually die due to natural causes, which to some may seem gruesome, but it's realistic. The 
 aspirations and life goals just increases to the fun. The only problem is that there isn't much 
 content, which leaves the makers room for expansion as we know they will take advantage of. If 
 you are a lover of The Sims, this is a must buy, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  Well, Not saying it's rubbish, but it's not exactly awesome, the sims 2 is good but not many people's 
 type of game, the characters have alot of needs, toilet etc you can do it all in real life! to 
 me it is a goodgame, not exactly my cup of tea but a good game, and the sims 2 site makes it an 
 achievement when you build something, if you ARE going to buy it, buy it on pc, its much more free 
 and much better gameplay, make sure you have high speed and high memory, i reccommend a graphics 
 card but it's upto you.. that's all i have to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  It's an nice game but not for boys. This game is nice maded and the controls are easy, but is boring, 
 if you start the game is nice. Make your own family create your own house, make the interior and 
 stuf like dat but if you play it about a hal hour is starting to be boring. However the game is 
 for girl you must be realisic and you can say that is nice maded. But when you start and go t create 
 you personage, the clothes sucks. only stupid clothes. No bling bling, no earrings, no chains no 
 bracelet no nothing. A nice game for a girl of for sombody who it's cray about the sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRume89
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 allows you to fully customize the life of your sims. Now that there is something we 
 call an internet transfer, customizing your sim will be almost indecisive. Whenever you go online 
 to see the latest skins and objects and whatever, you'll feel like you'll need everything there. 
 The Sims 2 is so addictive that you can find yourself playing for an entire day. You can get so 
 entangled in their lives that you forget to eat yourself. You can customize their hair color, skin 
 tone, body type, eye color, definitive facial details, shirts, jackets, hats, beards, pants, dresses, 
 skirts and much more. you can even assign them to specific life long goals which will determine 
 what needs and wants they'll have. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has been called one of those love it or hate it games. I disagree, anyone who takes 
 the time to get into into it will lose track of their own lives for tinker with the lives of their 
 sims! The graphics depend upon the capabilities of your pc, but for the most part they are really 
 good. The beuty of the Sims is that it never ends and that you can make your own fun. There is 
 no "i beat the game in 2 hours!" You forfill your sims wants and needs and keep them happy or you 
 can torture them by indulging in theor fears, its up to you. The coolest new thing though is the 
 genetics. Now when the sisms have kids, they look like the parents and their personalties are determined 
 how you raise them. You can have a family tree the size of a redwood if you play long enough. They 
 even have memories of joyus occasions and traumatic experiences. So whether you are into to toturing 
 people or living a dream life, the sims 2 is where you wanna be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  I've been so busy doing so many things at the same time, that I completely forgot I never sat down 
 to write The Sims 2 a proper review. 
  
  It's one hell of a transition after playing The Sims for four years. All of a sudden, everything 
 was fully rendered in 3D, and the Sims were now aging, having kids, growing old and dying. And 
 that's where my disappointment started.
  
  I played with one of the families that came with the game, the Broke family. Single mom with two 
 kids and a baby on the way. Let me tell you, managing the three kids at the same time wasn't really 
 fun. The mother had to cook, clean and take care of the baby, while the other two refused to do 
 their homework all the time. No one had time to work on skills, and they were about to grow up 
 with very low aspirations because time just goes by too quickly for them to work on the skills 
 they want. Playing the game without cheating is just not fun at all.
  
  So first, I got the money cheat. That solved some of the aspiration problems because I could buy 
 what they dreamed of. It solved my problems with the baby and cleaning because I hired a nanny 
 and a maid. And then I decided to work on skills, but between homework, fun, sleeping, eating and 
 personal hygiene, the only one gaining skill points was the mother. But time was still going by 
 too quickly, and one of the boys grew up with the worst aspiration meter possible. 
  
  So I went looking for the no growing cheat. Now we're talking, lets stop time and learn every skill 
 we can. But even that didn't work the way I thought it would. The Sims stopped growing, but the 
 days kept on going by, so it was back to the same routine.
  
  Eventually, I got bored of taking care of the baby (even in TS1 I didn't like having them) , so 
 I call the adoption center thinking I could put my baby up for adoption and there's no such thing. 
 Instead, I got another baby delivered to my door.
  
  I confess, I went looking for a game guide. The whole thing with potty training, diaper changing, 
 helping with homework routine was driving me nuts. And I eventually found the solution for my problems, 
 which was actually sitting quietly on my hard drive already: Sim PE. That's right! Sim PE conveniently 
 let me modify everyone's relationships, aspirations, skills, personality and interests to my liking. 
 It was kind of like using those amazing hacked objects for TS1 that let you green up everything 
 in seconds or buy your skills and personality points, but with an exterior program.
  
  That made my game enjoyable. Finally, no more worrying about grades, skills or relationships. Yeah, 
 they still had to do their homework, but I can go back and change the grade level again if I want 
 to. But I could focus on the family's enjoyment now and sit back to watch how they interacted with 
 each other.
  
  It's funny to see all the different animations and how Sims act in certain situations. I nearly 
 died laughing with the yoga exercising; it's like watching a sim turn into a pretzel! But the coolest 
 thing is watching how the free will works. A baby will find more fun reaching in the toilet and 
 splashing around in water puddles (this makes a single puddle nearly look like a flood after a 
 while) than playing with his own toys. Eating spoiled food will cause your Sims to be sick and 
 vomit all over or clog the toilet and make a mess out of the bathroom, so clean up dirty dishes 
 as soon as the flies start showing, or someone might actually pick up a plate and eat it. Kids 
 and teens occasionally will bring a friend home from school or work. Sims will get random phone 
 calls from friends and neighbors, asking to talk to this or that member of the family or saying 
 how they've been neglecting their friendship.
  
  I did have problems with Sims getting stuck while playing a video game (the little console that 
 you play SSX on the TV with) . My solution to that was to move the family into the family bin and 
 then move them back into the house.
  
  Most of my fun with TS2 right now comes from using tools that allow me to make my own things. I 
 expected the game to have more furniture options reminiscent of the original The Sims, more building 
 items and a lot more plants and flowers for our landscaping needs. 
  
  I spend a good number of hours a week creating my own custom content to use in my game or to share 
 it with others. Although I'm not an expert, I can easily run Body Shop 2 and make a new dress for 
 a Sim, since the ones that came with the game aren't really that appealing to me. In some cases, 
 I'll launch Sim PE to recolor a bed spread or some shower curtains to match my decorating tastes, 
 or even go on an interior dcor spree and create sets of wallpapers or floor coverings with Home 
 Crafter 2.
  
  I still launch the original The Sims now and again because there is just so much more to do in 
 it, and the community lots are a lot more interesting to visit. TS2 again lacks in content here, 
 there's just not much to do and not many objects to interact with. You just can't compare going 
 on a little trip Downtown in TS1 (where there are restaurants, bars, boutiques and more) to going 
 shopping in a TS2 community lot.
  
  The Sims 2 looks really great, but to me it's basically the ultimate 3D building and decorating 
 challenge, with the occasional fashion show.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=sims2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nooby_Loki
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  The first sims was ok easy on the graphics... but this one holy this is an earthquake headed directly 
 to the sims 2 awsome graphics awsome sound nice and clean and crisp.... i would compare this to 
 i dont know there isnt anything out there as good as this one if you want to buy a sims game this 
 is worth it dont spend your money on completing your other set of the sims 1 this is truely the 
 best sims and rpg i have played in a while... I hope Ea comes out with some more sims expansions.... 
 well ill be helping in the forums for others read my name... i used to be a retard and having to 
 reset my game systm and all that other stuff well 
 
  obviously u chatch my  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipermonkey34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great sequel and a great game in its own right, and it's recommendable to just 
 about anyone. For some, especially the devoted fans that have enjoyed the first game's open-ended 
 gameplay, which was all about controlling the lives of autonomous little computer people, this 
 is all that really needs to be said. But considering that The Sims 2 is the sequel to what is reportedly 
 the most successful computer game ever (and that's not even counting its many expansion packs) , 
 the new game almost seems like a victim of its own success. Yes, it introduces plenty of new features 
 that enhance the gameplay that was so popular in the original game, but it doesn't drastically 
 refresh it. It also features plenty of options to play with, but it seems like it could've used 
 even more content. Then again, you could simply say that EA are making sure the game has room to 
 grow with future updates -- and there's no denying that The Sims 2's additions will give dedicated 
 fans of the series plenty of stuff to do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonexcistint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  To simply put it.... The Sims 2 is amazing! I Love that you can finally watch your sims literally 
 grow. This is the only game I have ever played where you can have fun playing from a babys age 
 to a seniors age. The sims aspirations were a great modification, now you know what they want 
 and fear. They even recognize other sims and know whether they love, like, dont know, or hate 
 them. You really feel like you are living out the sims' lives with them. Everything is totally 
 customizable, which makes your game more unique. You get what you want and you get it how you want 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is AMAZING. The graphics are unbelievably realistic, the sound is catchy (I've found 
 myself humming it to myself time and time again) , and the gameplay is fun. Perioid. I think I've 
 spent more time playing this game than I can count. It's just too fun. It's not like Animal Crossing 
 or Harvest Moon, or any other simulation game, because it never gets boring. Once you've done what 
 you wanted to and are getting a wee bit bored, one of two things happens: one, something really 
 cool happens in your game and you can't wait to do it again, or two, a new expansion pack is released. 
 This game is amazing. You have to buy it or you haven't lived (someone elses life....) . I don't 
 know what I would do if I didn't have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTheUnionX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  As I Said Before, The Sims 2 Is A Steal. It Is An Incredibly Open Ended And Customizable Game. 
 I Reccomend People Going To The Store Right Now And Buying It. Fans Of The Old Sims Will Not Be 
 Dissapointed, This Game Compliments The Series By Kicking The Graphics And Options Up A Notch.
 
  
  The One Downside To Any Of The Sims Games Is Lack Of Direction. It Is Easy To Lose Focus And Get 
 Bored With the Game, But Setting Goals Or Objectives Livens The Game Up Significantly. Were It 
 Not For The Lack Of Direction, This Game Would Be An Easy 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The SIms 2, maybe on of the biggest sequels ever. IT does a lot of things that made the first one 
 great even better, but leaves you wanting more. Although some of the expansions will resolve the 
 problem, who wants to pay more money for what should have already been in the original package? 
 I sure don't. All in all, you should buy it if you like the series and are willing to buy a few 
 expansions, for the rest of you, you may want to look this title over first before buying it.
 
  
  The gameplay of this sequel is pretty much the same. It expands on everything taht you would want 
 it to. Instead of just cooking a meal, you can choose waht to cook and it will can vary on how 
 much it will take to prepare and how much it will fill up your sim. Work in this sequel hasn't 
 really been changed much. All there is, is the choices that can either give you a promotion or 
 can get you fired. You still can't play at work, but there's gonna be an expansion for that, for 
 another $30. Character development is much better. You can change how big a persons forehead is 
 and how big someones eyes are. However, there is no way to change a sim's height and the overall 
 number of clothing is pretty small. The number of social interactions has been increased pretty 
 high, and is pretty interesting. I also like how the sim's can tell you how they like other sim's 
 and their lifetime moments. The whole aspiration thing is fun, but on the repetitive side. After 
 a while, you'll have to make sure that the needs and wants are both made with the small amount 
 of time that you have. As I have already said, this game will last on your hardrive for about 2 
 months and then, poof! You'll be done with it. Gameplay: 7/10
  
  The graphics in this game are 10x better than they were before. The environments are amazingly 
 detailed and it is really nice to see that they put a lot of effort to make the camera work better 
 and for the game to look awesome. The only real problem here is that the faces can look really 
 odd when you are up close. But everything else looks realistic witha bit of a cartoonish taste 
 to them. I am really glad to see that this interface is so user-friendly. Graphics: 9/10
  
  Sounds can really help immerse you into a game and this is succeeded well. The sounds seem like 
 you're really in someone's home. Someitmes the music can get old, after your 100th time playing, 
 which you'll reach in about one and a half months. The sound effects when cooking are the best 
 in the game. When someone is whipping up dough it acutally sound like it! Believe me, you'll get 
 immersed after you start life mode, guarateed. 
  Sound: 9/10
  
  I think that if you have ever played the sims before, you may want to wait a while to get this 
 game because it doesn't offer you much more than what the first one already has. Anyway, the packages 
 for the first are a much better value than getting this one. You'll have what this one has only 
 with less custom options and worse graphics. If you've never played the first, I'd reccomend this 
 to you. You'd be enthralled for a long time and will probably want to get some of the expansions, 
 too. Those taht are content with the first, wait a year. Value: 8/10
  
  Most people will find that this game is cheery and fun, without being annoying. It has great custom 
 features, while being a bit of a let down with a shortage of improvements. Buy it if you want to 
 invest in the expansions. IF you don't fell like doing that, wait a year for prices to drop or 
 just get the first series. Probably 80% of the people that buy this game will be happy with it 
 to some degree yet will still be wanting more from it. Tilt: 9/10
  
  That's is a true review. I liked the game, sure. It just came up a little short with my expectations, 
 that's all. Buy it, I reccomend it. It can last you from 2- infinite months. Just remember, it's 
 far from revolutionary, only a pretty good improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathismycure
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game at the beginning. You like being able to make your Sim do whatever you 
 want but after a few months it gets tiring and you begin to stop playing it and find another game 
 that sparks your interest. If you like to spend all your day making a life for your Sim then this 
 is the game for you. Great for slow playing gamers but also fun for long time gamers. A fun but 
 disappointing game after 1-4 months. Maybe try it out somehow, ask a friend if they'll let you 
 play it for a week. Not the best but some people might find it addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vNoti
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  what wrong with all you people that you love the game.
  i try to love it or just have fun with it but the idea of taking care of some one in the game it's 
 not my idea of fun but as my girlfriend say "I LOVE IT ".
  so she love it and she dont stop to play it but i notice that if you play a lot in the game they 
 only fun for it (for me only dont know what about you guys) is to kill your Sims or to make him 
 safer.
  the only thing i loved in the game is to build the house after it was fun for sometime to take 
 care but not too much.
  i say dont look on this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  was well worth the wait for the PC virtion kills it's pre-dasesore but is missing something. The 
 sims 2 was well worth the wait, has great options, clean layout and very easy game play, but it was 
 missing much it was alright but when Uni came out it got slightly better but more buggy, when Night 
 life came out it fixed lots of bugs with Uni and added lots of great gameplay yet it's still missing 
 some of the old charm TS1 had. Maybe it's the bugs? I'm not sure. But with my horrible Niva Geforce 
 2 I barley get to induldge in the great graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  + wonderful graphics so much better than the first. u can see the reaction of the characters faces. 
 but theres some glitches in them
  + reely good sound but its not english Y?
  + the gameplay is pretty much the same as the first but with more customization for the charcters, 
 u can acually make someone look like Adam Sessler or Morgan Webb and thoes other ppl and the building 
 tools are good too.
  + the camera is much much better.
  - not enough places to visit, still no cars to drive.
  - no pets no magic no vacations and thoes 
 other stuff
  - too easy to get promotions.
  + u can see girls naked in this just that its a video game......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I got this game from my friend and I thought that this game is a big disappiontment.
  
  Gameplay: You build your own family and then you run their life. It gets really boring after you 
 play for like 10 hours and in the beginning when you build a house it is really hard.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are much improved then last titles. The people are beautiful and overall, 
 everything about the game's graphics is beautiful.
  
  Sound: The souind is the same sound as the last titles. I wish that the developers will change 
 the languege of the game to English and not Simish.
  
  Value: You can play for like 10 hours and then you will be boring. But still, it won't be cool 
 if in the next there is going to be an online mode which you have this big neighbourhood and all 
 the kids that are playing are runnning there own family's life?
  
  Reviewer's tlt: Overall this game is for the ones that like to build houses and familys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatewaygal01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  For those not familiar with this game by Will Wright you can create people and wreak chaos in a 
 SIM-ulated world. You can start out with an already existing SIM or Sim-family in the game or go 
 straight to customizing your own!
  
  There are lots of options-more so in this new installment. You can customize your Sims body type 
 from the size of their head, the length and shape of their nose, and even the shape of their eyes. 
 On the Sims2 site you can easily download other color options for eyes, skin, makeup, and new styling 
 clothes.
  
  Another option (that I ABSOLUTELY love) are the age options in the game. Instead of just having 
 babies and then adults, there are now a range in the life of your sim. Starting out with baby, 
 then toddler, child, teenager, adult, and then old age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenlover900
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kokool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolol kool kool 
 kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool koolkool kokool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolol kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkoolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kokool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolol kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  ... I must admit that from the moment this one came out of the box it was an instant hit for me!
 
  
  The game play, albeit totally open-ended, which may be a bit strange at first, is so totally immersive 
 in the long run that one can spend literally hours playing this game and it ends up feeling like 
 10 minutes!
  
  To make it even better for so-called "modders" like me, the game engine is so open-ended that additions 
 to the game are almost limitless as can be seen by the dozens of third-party web sites that focus 
 almost entirely on add-on, "hacks" and objects for the game.
  
  All that can be said here as far as I am concerned is well done Maxis, and with the two expansion 
 packs that have been released since (and with a third apparently on the way) the fun just doesn't 
 end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  Yeah here comes another Sims game! But that one is for crazy, baby killer, little girls. Not for 
 Teens!! No this is real. This game foes out of control, and start to do some stupid stuff .Lets 
 count it:
  1) In the game characters shows what they want in the bottom but how come they just want 4 things? Like 
 in the real life u just want 4 things?
  2) If adults get crazy they imagine a bunny! What the hell? Do u imagine a bunny when u dont talk 
 to people like 5 hours?
  3) They really dont have many junks to sims play!! They really dont have!
  4) There is only one 
 different thing. Kissing!!! Nothing else new accept 3D.
  5) If u let them to do whatever they want (the sims) and just put things what they need like pee, eat, sleep 
 they can do it by their-self's. Even the baby knows how to drink and play in the toilet in the game 
 :) .
  And more....
  SO IF U HAVE A LITTLE KILLER SISTER BUY THIS GAME AND LET HER KILL ALL THE SIMS!!! BUT IF U DONT 
 DO NOT BUY THIS GAME !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdaniel025
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Me and my wife love this game The only thing is is missing is the love bed but if anyone know were 
 I can get one at then please let me know thanx alot. My wife is addicted to this game i have been 
 a big fan of the sims since simcity -- the tirst one, I recommend this game to be played by everyone, 
 They expect me to type at least 100 words but I hae a trick for that watch this 
 
  
  Me and my wife love this game The only thing is is missing is the love bed but if anyone know were 
 I can get one at then please let me know thanx alot. My wife is addicted to this game i have been 
 a big fan of the sims since simcity -- the tirst one, I recommend this game to be played by everyone, 
 They expect me to type at least 100 words but I hae a trick for that watch this 
 
  
  Me and my wife love this game The only thing is is missing is the love bed but if anyone know were 
 I can get one at then please let me know thanx alot. My wife is addicted to this game i have been 
 a big fan of the sims since simcity -- the tirst one, I recommend this game to be played by everyone, 
 They expect me to type at least 100 words but I hae a trick for that watch this 
 
  
  Me and my wife love this game The only thing is is missing is the love bed but if anyone know were 
 I can get one at then please let me know thanx alot. My wife is addicted to this game i have been 
 a big fan of the sims since simcity -- the tirst one, I recommend this game to be played by everyone, 
 They expect me to type at least 100 words but I hae a trick for that watch this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ieatdirt456
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  What Can I Say, Its The Best PC Game Ever. If You Are A Gamer, You Have Played This Game! Me And 
 My Buddy Ben (real life) Made Us Roomates. But I Know Every Guy Makes There Dream Girl, And Make 
 Them Woooo- Who With Them! (now wait, thats me) oh well! but it seems like the movies are trying 
 to rip the sims 2 off! What Is So awesome About the game is the teens. and more peeps that come 
 to your party! i made out with a girl after the party! YEE HAW YEE HAW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! DUKIE STYLE!!!!! 
 OR HOOTERS STYLE OR ME STYLE!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElBarto111393
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is probably the best computer game ever!!! I just love the fact that you can create 
 yourself, build your own houses, and getting a job! Man, it's just amazing that you can get a raise 
 for your job. If you've never played The Sims 2, first of all, shame on you, I'll give you some 
 of the jobs they have. You can be in the Sports profession, Medical, Slacker (to look for chicks) , 
 Business, and Military. Too bad you can't drive anywhere, but that's what expansion packs are for! 
 Like Nightlife, University, and the new one that's coming out, Open for Business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  God the first sims pwned this sims. The cool thing about it was how you can change the color of 
 all the items. So if you want a green couch but the only green 1 is fr! cken $999,999,999 u can 
 buy 1 4 like 0.50 and make it green. The character making was also better. The gameplay was a little 
 bit confusing. The Aspirations and wants i thought took up way much interface 4 it to be worth 
 it. One other good thing was the pretty peeople. 
  
  So i think only a real sim addicts or n00bs should buy this game
  
  --_-- -_- _- -_- -_- -_- 
 -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewTaK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out, after the console versions I felt I had to write a review. 
 If you havent already got this game, go buy it.
  Do not, and I repeat, DO NOT buy this game for a console. It doesnt matter which console (Xbox, 
 Ps2, GC) , they all are bad. The computer version is the best choice here, I still play this game 
 almost every day.
  From the creation to the death of a sim, this game is awesome. Not only is the game good out of 
 the box, but you can create your own careers, objects, ect. using "SIMPE". Of course you need to 
 know how to work this program, but if you dont wish to learn, out of the box this game comes with 
 its own editor (Body Shop) .
  Like I said before if you havent got this game yet, go buy it. It's well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  this game has the most replay value ever just over and over again different stories families tasks 
 etc. the music can get very repetuve esspecially if your playing the game for a while which you 
 probaly would be. the graphics are a much improved from the last version they really are pretty 
 good this time around appart from the repetiveness which some sims fans would argue theres not 
 and they have a point e. g different jobs wishes etc hopefullt soon they will create an online expansion 
 pack to extend the gameplay even more. also i dont know if its just me but i found it hell hard 
 to keep my sims alive.
  overview: gameplay pretty decent can be repetative tunes are not so good graphics are truely amazing 
 and great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great improvement of the sims, of course, compared to the sims, this one has had some 
 huge changes, just by looking at the graphics you could tell, I loved how many different interactions 
 you could choose to do on your sims, as well as their behaviour and their actions. e. g how the 
 sims would walk around while they talk on the phone, you could tell that maxis has put alot of 
 time in thinking of every detail into the sims2. 
  I also liked how you can zoom further in and out, and the smooth rotations compared to those in 
 the original sims where you only got to zoom in 3 times and rotate around the house 4 times. 
 
  There are 3 lands in the sims2 ( you can also make one of your own) , and all of them are very much 
 unique, from their landscape, to the houses, and the people, and it isn't a problem making friends 
 with your neighbours, since you've got a large range of choices e. g interacting with NPC's. so 
 you wont have to worry about making the same friends over and over again. 
  
  Ive rated the difficulty as very easy since there isnt much to learn about the sims2, as long as 
 youve got a family and youve moved them into a neighbourhood the rest is for you to discover. In 
 the sims2.
  I find the aging system the most attractive, because in the pervious sims, i got so tired of playing 
 the same sim over and over again, since they never die by aging, but in this one you can watch 
 the changes of their appearances over a certain period pf time. 
  
  I found playing the sims in a long period of time can get very repetetive and boring, since you 
 dont have a aim and objective in the game, sims2 has improved on that i guess, by putting wants 
 and fears into the sims, and so you get to have a little fun controllin their lives, and if your 
 sims has a job you might even get a box that pops out, enabling you to chose what decisions to 
 make in their jobs.
  
  Making your sims is great fun, with the wide range of clothes, makeup , and customizing your sims 
 faces, it just makes the whole game very special. 
  other than just cuztomizing your own sim, you can also build their dream house for them, with the 
 wide range of floorboards, to wall papers, to rooftops, i found myself spending alot of time trying 
 to make everything perfect, until i actually even started playing. 
  
  Overall I think this game is totally worthplaying, and you've played the sims you should definately 
 get the sims2, anything in there can suprise you, and its alot of fun watching your sims carry 
 out your instructions, but playing too long would also make it boring, since there isnt a very 
 clear objective and aim in the game it could get quite mundane, but then again, you'd have to spend 
 ages on it before it starts getting repetetive. 
  Its a great game for people who enjoy playing simulation games, or even for those who just enjoy 
 building mansions, with swimming pools, and making their sim the richest in the whole town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidgen3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Sims2 is crazy fun and has endless oppurtunities to make something new everytime. This game 
 is all about creativity and customization, well a good portion. The other is a life simulation 
 that is at times alittle tough to play and sometimes has some funny animations and feels satisfying 
 when moving ur sims up the rank. Gameplay - If ur new to the series and never played the first sims 
 then u might be alittle confused when it comes to building and living ur sims life. But rest assured 
 u can easily get the hang of things right off the bat thanks to a simple interface that tells u 
 everything u need to know and is easy to navigate when creating a sim or home. 
  
  Building is EXTREMELY fun and to me its the best part of the game, i download tons of custom objects 
 and tiles and wallpapers online to create a personlized look for my sims home.
  
  Creating a Sim can be so much fun when going through the first time and even after the year i've 
 had the game i still love it but find myself still wishing there are more styles but the each expansion 
 pack is taking care of that.
  
  Graphics - Just top notch and look great... aslong as u have a good graphics card and the animations 
 are very well done.
  
  Value- this game just goes on forever and can span generation after generation and i mean i just 
 love playing this game. It really has a perfect replayability to it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Congratulation for maxis for suceeding in really improving the quailty of the game from the SIMS 
 into The Sims 2. Sims 2 is really different compared to the first one. Could be say that the basic 
 of it is actually quite the same, but however, the gameplay and how we really play the game had 
 really changed the global views towards the sims2 as well as the sims. First of all, something 
 bad i want to say about the releasing of the sims 2. One, i really dont appreciate the maxis publisher 
 of releasing so many expansion for the first sims which in my opinion is extremely addictive for 
 the lovers to keep buying the expansion. AND NOW, after the sims2 had come out, the previous sims 
 version as well as all of the expansion had come to a waste. Come one, i had spent merely almost 
 $500 for buying all of them and here we come again another addictive game, the sims2 with it's 
 current expansion : University as well as night life. For now, i just buy Night life as i had discovered 
 that university is indeed a failure and almost a flopped game ever created for the sims creator 
 to create. Nevertheless, for now, i keep thingking, would there be the SIMS 3 later ?? If there 
 is, will the sims and the sims 2 being a waste for me again ?? For now, i had retired playing the 
 game... thinking of my future of buying a stupid addictive game that indeed had tricked all of 
 us.. Well, as much as i can say, this game is addictive and behind it's addictivness, be careful 
 because maxis creator had just always love to suck up ur money to make and release another it's 
 addictive creator, and probably it would be THE SIMS 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game adds to the Sims legacy with a bang. The thing that boosts this game is the graphics, 
 and genetics.
  
  The graphics are about seven times better than they were in the sims upgrading from barely 3D and 
 blocky to clear 3D and smooth figures.
  
  Genetics now, they're amazing. My grandma actually looks like me, and my mom looks like my brother. 
 Maybe, my kids in reality will look similar to the ones on the sims 2. This also adds to the phenomenal 
 graphics
  
  Now... To the bugs. There are a few graphical bugs where the sims intersect while walking and freeze. 
 This may be only a problem on my computer, I don't know. Everlasting Chess, ever heard of it? Well 
 it happens in the Sims 2. My Sim was playing chess with his child and the child left and my Sim 
 was still playing, I thought, oh well he'll stop when he gets tired. Turns out he missed five days 
 of motive raising (Life) and was fired from his job. I finally figured the problem out and used 
 a cheat.
  
  If you are a sims fan, this game is what you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: probot6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to think when i bought this game. I have not had great luck with sequels and 
 often find improvements actually hinder gameplay. Not so in the sims 2, all the new features i 
 find are very helpful and are well incorperated into the game. I think this game deserves a 9+. 
 The only complaint i have about this game is the annoying music, after playing this game for many 
 hours, you kind of want to stab your eardrums with a toothpick to make the music stop, though you 
 can know put custom music on the radio quite easily, Im still grading down on sound, because the 
 music with the game was not good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarborough001
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  I like this game the most over all the sims games (including PS2) . I play this game all the time. 
 I have built many houses and there all over 120,000 simoleons. Its that fun that you can just sit 
 down for hours creating a house. The most time I've spent on a house is three straight it doesn't 
 get boring. after building the house it was worth 615,000 with nothing it by the time i put stuff 
 in it was way over a million, and i'm still adding more. What i'm saying is no matter how long 
 you play, it's a game that will never bored me. It's one of the funniest games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 can be enjoyed by almost anyone, because there are so many different things you can do. 
 I, myself, enjoy building houses the most, although family mode is a lot of fun too. If you are 
 creative in the sense you like to build houses this game can deliver, you can make a mansion over 
 an hour or less, depending on your detail, then export it on-line. Or there are many pre-built 
 houses that you can use. 
  After you are done with the house you can make a family, which I did not enjoy as much, it always 
 seems to innocent and not serious enough, but it is still fun. Like The Sims, you can pretty much 
 do anything with your family, have them get jobs, find friends, throw parties, and A LOT more. 
 
  The reason I enjoy simulations is that they are so relaxing, instead of watching your health and 
 ammo constantly it is a much slower paced game. You never really have to worry about anything in 
 this game, which is what makes it relaxing.
  
  This game, although not as perfected as it could have been, is a worthy sequel to one of the funnest 
 PC games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  like i said before anyone that likes the sims are going to like this one it is 
  really good its not hard you will get the hang of it in on time my self 
  less than 30mins the 
 graphics are better than the other and the sound the music its great and the game play it also 
 great my sister never did like playing the sims but she loves this one i cant get her off lol 
 
  so if you want to buy this game and dont know i f its good or not just take it from me this game 
 is the best sims ever 
  If i were you go out and buy it it is worth it trust me 
  
  thanks ashley 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pat_Crap
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  this game was just the funnest game ever im a big fan of the sims i like the fears and wants because 
 on the first sims if you bild a huge house and get to the top of your job then the game gets boring 
 and in the first sims your kids dont grow there is a lot more to chose from to build your house 
 and now the tv is not just a picture there is a lot of glitches my sim went in to the hot tub and 
 he couldnt get out hes been in there for 10 days now and theres a limo out side my house and it 
 wont leave but it dosent matter becouse this game is still the best game ever i can just sit there 
 for hours playing it thats why it wasnt very hard to give it a ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiligh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  First create a sim is reasinably advanced especially to do with moulding everypart of the facw 
 exacly how you want. you can select there everyday, formal, undies, pjs, swimming and athletic 
 wear. Then build them a house. there are so many gret building tools you can make fondations and 
 balconies and then almost everyobjects has adjustable colours using the desighner tool. then play 
 through he generations and watch lifes greatest moments like birth, marrage and not so great ,death. 
 your sims grow from babies to todlers to kids to teenages to adults then elders and sooner or later 
 die. The graphics are
  great your sims have expressions ,memories ,fellings, wants and fears and
  fitness. you can get 
 the gratest angles and zoom so close to theire face you can go through there eye balls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puppylove4me999
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I love it my name is Monique Hunt and my friend says i am wierd because i play the sims 24/7
  
  Will Wright thank you for creating the sims 2
  I love the sims 2 evlove, love, love, love, 
 love, love, loveen though i don't have it yet, the internet tells me everything i need to know 
 about it. Will Wright do not stop making the sims 2 games Please i love, love, love, love, love, 
 love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, 
 love, love, love, love, love, love, love The sims 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bad_boy_sam123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  this gmae is great and beats its legendary 1st game 'the sims'. you control everything. you own 
 ervything. build your own families and houses. i cant see this game ever getting old.
  there is alot of customisablity from clothes to sunglasses and hairstyles. you can also download 
 new designs etc from trusted websites.
  the characters dont actually talk a real languagge which makes it quite funny. try making a character 
 based on you. its alot of fun to see how you turn out. your sim can get a family have a job with 
 prommotions and midlife crisises all the way through.
  this game will fulfill your needs.
  with the great deal of expansion packs on theri way the game can only get more fun and practical.
 
  short review i know but im having so much fun playing it right now and so should you!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much and it really is great, but the one thing that really slows this game 
 down is.... well... slowing down. If you just downlad one thing for this game it slows so far down 
 that it even isn't worth playing for anymore. Also I miss not being able to use the updates from 
 the old games. The game is great and get it if you get a chance, but DO NOT DOWNLOAD ANYTHING!!! 
 Also I forgot to mention another point. The addition of already made families is kind of dumb and 
 not worth it. The story lines are good, but it is kind of boring just watching an all ready made 
 family to live it's life. Making a house rocks to because the designs are limitless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freak24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is good!!!! Really really good!!!!! You can now zoom right in to the sim's eye unlike 
 the camera in the first sims game. Now with expansion packs too. The sims 2 pack that you buy does 
 take a while to install but the nice people at maxis help you with boredom by including a mini 
 quiz game. The sims 2 now is like at least 2 expansion packs and now you can go downtown and to 
 places like the swimming pool. There are reward objects too now. They include things like the love 
 hot tub, the exlier of life and more. More carriers!!! More relationship options!!!! It is GREAT! 
 And you never get to a point where you want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gamer_57
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 for PC had alot of work put into it and was a great game. Many people wud enjoy it. 
 It had cool new features and a detailed tutrial. I had fun for hours creating and killing sims 
 and also building houses.
  
  One of the only bad point I found in teh game ws that wen u were rotating oir moving aroudn the 
 house it would freeze up for a second and hten finish what ever commands u put in. 
  
  One thing I would hope for in teh futrue and this porbally wont happen is to be able to understand 
 what the sims r say and not just hearing the blah bla fa la stuff.
  
  Other then that this game was great....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiwiTeen
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  When I first bought The Sims Deluxe Edition I was hooked and preceded to buy every expansion pack 
 available. I spent countless hours deciding my sims fates and earning money to buy them interesting 
 new toys and thing for the house. I found the challenge of reaching the top of the career track 
 exciting and addictive. All in all the original Sims was a masterpiece of computer gaming and so 
 when I heard that Sims 2 was in development I was naturally excited. I expected The Sims 2 to be 
 bigger, better and bolder than the original with more bells and whistles and obviously better graphics. 
 I got what I expectedin part. When I first installed The Sims 2 I was impressed with the improved 
 graphics, well I was until it took a half-hour to move one family into a house. Then came the slow 
 moving camera, the career possibilities that were the same as the ones in the original Sims games, 
 the excessively long loading times and repetitive game play.
  
  While the graphics have been improved and new features added such as wants and fears, I still felt 
 as though I was moving along a well-walked path and I found myself bored with the game after about 
 two weeks.
  
  The Sims 2 is a good, solid and quite fun game (more so if you have a fast computer) and probably 
 worth playing if you have some time to kill and dont mind spending money on an OK game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fireheart203
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  It's an totally awsome game... but...
  It's sort of repetive. You make a family, you go through life span, sims die. I for one get bored 
 VERY easily. I was totally hooked on the Sims 2 for about a month. Then it got just a tiny bit 
 boring. My advice. If your like me and you don't want to ever get tired of the sims, get ALL of 
 the expanion packs. And take risks be the evil player that destroys the perfect family! Do anything 
 you can! No I'm not saying that the Sims 2 Is a snorefest. But all I'm saying is that is needs 
 more perks to make it more exiciting.. whitch all of the EP's help. All and all it deserves a 9.7! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spore_9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has a great gameplay ( just like The Sims) I think this game had a fabulous gameplay 
 because it uses creativity and is fun. I would give this game a hundred percent if the sound and 
 music is a little more attractive. Though, I still think it is the game you need to buy. The graphic 
 is also great and this game worths buying for $49.99 If you had a chance to play it, I'm sure you 
 will be addicted. For the last time I command you to buy it!
  
  P. S. PLZ Have a look for Spore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  the sims too is a good game could have been better but thats not important
  
  The bad : the ai can get frustrating at times the graphics could been better too. It feels too 
 similar nothing new and when they are doing something new they need too make 10 . 000 exspansions.
 
  
  The good : its fun its fun with the sims they can be very funny the graphics on the people is good, 
 good arcithecture. the value is good very good. 
  
  So is the sims something you should buy maybe maybe not i think you should call a friend thats 
 playing the game so you can see how it is.
  
  The score 7,7 means that is a good game but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wayzzism
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  After being a sims player for 5 years and owning the first version with all its expansion packs, 
 I must say EA games and MAXIS has complete stepped up and shown exactly HOW a sim game should be 
 played. Graphics are completely untouchable and the hidden surprises are wonderful. Keep up the 
 good work!
  
  Also this game is NOT for the easily addicted types such as myself. People will find joy in the 
 site's download section with which they can get more things for the sims as well as share their 
 own sims with others.
  
  Happy simming ya'll! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domino_13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AMAZING THE TEXTURES THE REALISM THE ASPIRATIONS THE STORY IT BLEW ME AWAY THE ONLY 
 GAME THATS BETTER THEN THIS GAME IS MAX PAYNE THE SIMS 2 THOE IS AN AMAZING WORK OF ART AND IT 
 SHOULDNT BE MISSED BY ANYONE ON THIS PLANET BUT BEFORE YOU BUY MAKE SURE YOU HAVE AT LEAST 512 
 DDR MEMORY AND AN 9800 PRO VIDEOCARD AND A GOOD PROCESSOR AND YOULL BE SUPRISED AT HOW GREAT THIS 
 GAME IS BE SURE TO PICK UP THIS OUT COPY FOR (PC!!!) DONT BUY THAT LAME ASS PS2 COMPY DONT BE FOOLED 
 INTO BUYING IT BECAUSE OOOOOOOOO U GET CREATIVITY IN MY COMPY I GOT A CAR THAT I CAN DRIVE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogle10000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 definately improves upon the first incarnation of the series ... The trouble is: the 
 "wow" factor has been greatly diminished. When "The Sims" first hit the scene the whole concept 
 of even modeling the lives of people was incredible! The improvements made by "The Sims 2" are 
 definately welcome, but unfortunately it suffers from the same downfalls as before.
  
  The Sims 2 does have fun gameplay but to what end? I must really question the level of reward one 
 receives for achieving this relationship or making somebody happy. Isn't it more rewarding to do 
 that stuff in real life? The further this series progresses, the more disconnected it feels from 
 real life. Its still a good game though, it is just that in my mind people have misplaced the rewards 
 of playing a game like "The Sims 2." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12345678909964
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game blew me away. It was very daring to completely change the format of such a successful 
 series, but it has been done in style. The new things include another skill to maximise called 
 cleaning. Now, when you create your Sims, you will have to choose them an aspiration. Don't worry! 
 This will determine how your Sims will act to the new game feature. If you have an aspiration, 
 you also have aspiration wants. And fears of course. If your Sim is a teenager, and he/she wants 
 to have his/her first kiss, you will get aspiration points. In this case you will get 8,000 points 
 for having your first kiss, but you will lose 3,500 points if you get rejected for it. There are 
 other things as well, such as maximising all 7 skills, gives you 30,000 points.
  It is all put together well and it is a definite must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee6a
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  Hey there all Sims fans..........
  I can say that I've played this game for a period of time that actually makes me a Sims GAMEMASTER! 
 :D So i'll try to give my true opinions on the game......
  
  Cool stuff --  First of all, the game makes an excellent first impression. As soon as u open it 
 u'll be attracted with the 3D graphics that are better than ever....... The Story mode is just awesome 
 (the stories are rather really god) ............ The game includes tons of new features which makes 
 "The Sims (1) rather pitiful. (features including the new mood meter, unlocking special rewards, 
 and of course the "woohoo"feature :D
  -----Who could have believed that u'll see the grim-reaper in Sims 2!!!! ---- 
  The game also 
 has a fun and attracting interface and gameplay that encourages u to sit infront of the screen 
 for hours!
  
  NON-Cool stuff ---  Inspite of the story mode ..... some people may get lost as there is still NO 
 CLEAR OBJECTIVES for the game. And still it may be a bit hard to be on top of the character's needs 
 that have to be accomplished. .... one more thing, the game gets a bit boring after a while (maybe 
 that's y they keep making expansions for the game!!)
  
  In a nutshell, it is a MUST GET GAME that any true gamer must have (or at least have tried) . I'll 
 give it a 8.0 rating myself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is very advanced i would guess the best life simulation game
  on the market i would recomend you play at friends house or buy it
  anyways try it you will not 
 regret buying or tryin it but if you dont like the sims 
  or its not your kind of game or think its kind of lame, thats fine but i would say that this game 
 rocks cant think of what else to say so just write me about why you like the sims 2 if you whant 
 personaly the sims started out pretty good i wish that they would have a sims 2 pets and let you 
 have more things your pets can do such as bite, cuddle , scrach , hiss , bark, ask for food and 
 water animals flying animals gofers to i could keep going on
  with thing but i bet ea games will never get light sheed on this message i wrote and agian write 
 some messages back to me please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeybones4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the meaning of the expression "Your in your own virtual world". In this game you can 
 do a lot of stuff that you can do normally. Unlike the other sims games, you can grow older until 
 you die. You can even be ubducted by aliens. In this game there are endless possibilities to how 
 your house or neighborhood can turn out to be. You can do anything from going to work, to having 
 "woohoo" with a girl or guy no matter what gender you are; you can even have same-sex marriages. 
 You can have almost as many floors as you want to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Will Wrights brings out the sims 2, over 5 years of making and now it is gone world wide. The sims 
 2 is the next sequal to the sims, it is a new generation to the sims universe. The sims 2 was pretty 
 impressive when they all glazed at the screenshots when it was announced. Everyone was extremely 
 excited when they got their own hands on the game after a couple of days the sims 2 was one of 
 the best sellers ever. It was suprising why such a good game could be so popular.
  
  Getting to know the value which was a long expensive year to buy the game but even though there 
 were about 4-disks to install which takes an awful 3.5 gigs off your computer and while waiting 
 it takes almost a hour to install! But at least maxis left a little mini-game to play while waiting 
 for the installation to finish. Soon enough sims players get to experience the life of the sims 
 once again.
  The realism comes to the sims 2, making it more like real-life, but would you want to waste your 
 life time playing a simulation game? the answer is yes because it would take 1 second to get obsessed 
 in this game. The game is also a new 3D engine to make games come to life!
  
  Once installed the game you will find a nice intro and then you start to play the game. This time 
 there is a tutorial that will teach you to play the game. The create-a-sim has improved which allows 
 you to create and customize your sims completely, you might want to check out the nice beards or 
 maybe check out the clothes you might want your sims to wear? There is also a new feature which 
 is that your sims have genetics and now they can have real families. 
  
  The neiborhood in the sims 2 has improved since the sims 1, but this time sim players can customize 
 their neiborhood or even create their own nieborhood. Sim players can also place their sims houses 
 where ever they want which is connected to a road. Sim players who have "Sim City 4" can customize 
 neirborhoods by placing roads where they want. 
  
  The most exciting other classical feature is building a house. When building a house in the sims 
 2 it is much more advanced and improved. There are new Building tools you can discover and this 
 time the tools are in catagories so it would be much more easier to build houses. Same goes with 
 buy mode. There is another mode called story mode which lets you create stories of your sims. To 
 create a story in story mode you might need some camera shots, just like the original sims which 
 you could take camera shots. But in the sims it now allows you take videos when playing the game. 
 
  
  In sim mode there are lots and lots of new features with the gameplay and also the sims are now 
 3D. The asprision system is a new feature to the sims 2 that depends on if your sims is getting 
 what they want or if they are facing their fears that is also why there is a want and fear system 
 which is now easier to make sure that your sims is got what they want ot fulfil what they truely 
 want. Once fulfilling their wants the asperision will rise but mostly if low it might get annoying 
 that the sims will start to use desperision. The aging system is the most exciting in the whole 
 game which now born sims starts as a baby and goes throught lifetime to toddler, child, teenager 
 e. c. t. 
  
  Sims now have memories of what events happen through their lifetimes. The sims can also have affairs 
 which is mostly expecting. Going through career paths in the sims 2 there are now chance cards 
 which sims may face small little missions through out their career life. The game is so real, you 
 can almost feel the game coming to you. Say if i had a sim called Brad Purn and he was in the kitchen 
 cooking food (when sim create food you actually see them making them! very impressive) and he brings 
 it to his lounge and sits down and watches tv. (continue review soon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 really brings out the best in Will Wright's work and improves on the original in gameplay, 
 graphics, and all other aspects. The Sims 2 definetely improves The Sims 2 in gameplay allowing 
 players to experience features like movie making, improved camera angles, denser neighborhood's, 
 and just overall improvement in all areas of consideration. The Sims 2 achieves in making storylines 
 for the families of each neighborhood and individual and making their stories intertwine in order 
 to further explain the behavior of the Sims of that given neighborhood. The Sims 2 improves the 
 graphics of the original greatly but not as well as we all hoped. The graphics aren't as good as 
 we hoped but we can forgive them because it really does work with the game well enough to portray 
 things the way needed for the player to better understand and interpret the game. There were a 
 few things that could use improvement including the lack of items. I understand why all of the 
 items available in The Sims and its expansions weren't all included (EXPANSIONS!) but I wish they 
 were so that I wouldn't be in a way re-living The Sims but in a much better fashion. Enough of 
 my gripes, this game deserves this score for being one of the best simulations to date in all areas. 
 The Sims 2 is a huge improvement on the original and has great replay value because of the many 
 options (besides the lack of items) that it allows for its players. The Sims 2 is a masterpiece 
 of its genre and will be remembered as a classic, revolutionary game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is the sequel of the most sold game of the 20th Century.
  
  The main upgrade that this sequel has are the graphics, the graphics are truly amazing, they are 
 complete 3D graphics. The Sims creator is very cool, now you can customize even more your Sims.
 
  Another great thing added to the game is that your Sims now get older, you can start with a baby 
 and we will grow up untill he is old and he will die. Now the kids look like their parents because 
 of genetic, yes now the son can have his mother eyes and his father's hair because of the virtual 
 DNA. Now you will play the game even more because there will always be fresh generations, unless 
 your sim dies without leaving a new generation.
  As for the sound, it has some good musics that you can hear on Sims radio.
  Tilt: Sure you will 
 enjoy the game a lot because it leaves you lots of hours playing without getting bored.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 5, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 is the same thing as the previous games except there are some more things like ageing 
 and all those types of new things and the customisation is a lot better, you can customise everything 
 in this game, you can even build items in this game with the right program! but otherwise this 
 game is dissapointing, they could have done so much more with this game to last just a bit longer. 
 
  
  This game gets boring too quickly, its amazing the first time you play it but then its just the 
 same thing over and over again. you dont even need to work hard to keep the sim alive, you can 
 leave it and he can do it his or herself which i think sucks because they inturrupt whatever you 
 tell them to do to do what the hell they want at that time which i think is stupid, youre supposed 
 to be the brain of that sim! The lifetime goals are all very similar and very easy to accomplish, 
 and it happens again and again which is so stupid, once youve accomplished the lifelong dream, 
 then its not a dream anymore is it? its an accomplishment but i dont think the producers of The 
 Sims 2 took that into account. 
  
  You can fully customise houses and walls and all that stuff like you could in the previous games 
 except there is a bit mroe to do in this game which isnt even all that much but its good fun anyway. 
 Also this game is very big and will run slow on some computers which is a downside.
  
  I played this game for 2 hours and i mastered it, i finished all of the sims lifelong goals and 
 they kept coming back, i fell in love, i woopeed, everything. everything happens quickly which 
 is a bad thing. you might play this game more than me though because i think its just boring after 
 youve done everything but others might love it. its a good game, worth playing once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Maxis have done it again with 'The Sims 2', easily one of the best, and most addictive games... 
 ever! Whether you enjoy building houses, controlling lives, or creating machinima movies, 'The 
 Sims 2' has it all!
  
  'The Sims 2' clearly doesn't need an introduction, so let me just run through some of the pros 
 and cons of the game...
  
  This game is really similar to the original Sims game (duh!) , but you'd definately prefer TS2 over 
 TS1 (if you have a computer that can run it, that is) as the AI has been improved immensely, the 
 graphics are great, and there's just so much more to do, even if you don't have all the nifty extras 
 from the expansion packs.
  
  A remarkably addictive, and straightforward game, 'The Sims 2' is recommendable to absolutely anybody 
 who enjoys this sort of strategy game. I was a bit disappointed with the music though; it didn't 
 have that classy feel that TS1 had, although TS2 certainly has some very memorable tunes.
  
  And the greatest thing is, if you do get sick of this game, at least you can make movies with 
 it, which I really enjoy doing, but sadly I haven't got enough time to make any these past few 
 months. :- (
  
  In conclusion... get 'The Sims 2' now! You won't regret it. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 30, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is the best selling PC title. After creating the Sim City series, Will Wright made a perfect 
 working "People Simulator". The Sims 1 was a big hit and every one loved it. The Sims 2 had a long 
 wait and now its finally out. EA made many new additions to this new title. The Graphics are very 
 much improved and the game has tons of new animations and special effects. People wanted reality 
 so EA brought it. Once you will play the game you'll actually feel your self in it. Apart from 
 the next generation graphics the game play physics are also very much improved. You can interact 
 with another character via many ways.
  
  
  You'll have to make friends. You can make girl friends / boyfriends. And yes my favorite feature 
 is that you can have sex ;) . Ok the other sims will interact to you in different ways , if you 
 are nice they are nice if you are mean than they are mean. The game has a default of 3 neighbourhoods 
 , you can create your own neighbourhood if you want. Test Your architecture skills and create your 
 own home instead of the built in ones. You can either play with the in-game default characters 
 or you can create your own Sim. Creating a Sim is fun , there are tons and tons of new features 
 even small ones like eye brows and lips etc. Mess Around with your hair and your garments. Yes 
 you can say that the new creating system is marvelous.
  
  You'll have to manage your sims needs just like the previous Sims game, which are Hunger , Comfort 
 , Bladder and a few more , a Total of 8. You can increase the "Fun" meter by Watching TV or Listening 
 the radio , you can increase your social meter by talking to another sim or hugging or kissing 
 him/her. But Basic needs are not the only thing to worry about, you need to build you skills too, 
 Which are Cleaning Skills , Cooking Skills , Body Skills , Creativity skills and a few more. Skills 
 help you during your job's career and also they can help in your daily life like The mechanical 
 skill can help you unclog the toilet or fix the sink.
  
  You can actually live your life in the Sims2. I mean yeah you can marry A Custom Made celebrity 
 And Have 8 Children. Surely You Wont get Bored with this one. You can have jobs your children can 
 go to school, yes you can choose between different careers, eg: you can either choose a mobster 
 life or a politician. You'll have promotions. Missing work can get you fired. The in game interactions 
 are interesting, if you love some one yes you can ask her/him to stay for the night and have some 
 fun :) . 
  
  The Sounds And The Music is very well done. You can buy a radio or a high-fi Stereo System to Enjoy 
 the music.
  
  
  Further more you can arrange a party or a wedding ceremony and not forgetting birthday parties. 
 Treat Your Guests well your party will be rated good.
  
  Finally , The Graphics Are Awesome The Game play is quite real and the life Span is Long. You Wont 
 get bored for a long long time. The Sims 2 is worth your money.
  
  Even though the new expansion out now (The Sims 2 University) is a disappointment but the original 
 is quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TPF-Goldmember
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2005 3:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very simple, with a very nice UI. Building a house can cause some minor frustrations 
 tough, as some small quirks (you can't put a light in front of a door) . The create a sim mode, 
 though, is a masterpiece, with a gene blender to create genetically correct babies. The sim's emotions 
 are complex and will astound you sometimes, such as when a sim is afraid of a stove because he 
 made one fire. Some things just happen randomly and keep the pace of the game going.
  
  Graphics:
  The game has gotten an major update, as now everything is rendered in full 3D. If 
 you can run it at all high, you will see every little detail has been tended to. The swimming pool 
 floor and wall shimmer, mirrors actually reflect, and windows cast shadows on the floors. But, 
 the graphics are not anything extremely special, coming from a person who has played Half Life 
 2.
  
  Sound:
  This is one of the game's down points. There is music when you're in build mode and buy mode, but 
 the music can get downright annoying. The music sims dance to is also annoying, but you can change 
 that music.
  
  Value:
  The sims, as many of you now, has an unlimited replay value. Some people go as far as saying that 
 it's more of a toy than a game. Therefore the game's value is excellent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  Sims 2, nothing more to say if you have ever had any experience in the Sims 1 world. Simply nothing 
 more to say! Sims 2 is not a very demanding game as far as your graphics and video card goes. I 
 have a 512 MB Ram PC with a God knows what graphics and video card. It's not demanding at all, 
 which opens it up to a bigger crowd.
  
  The Sims 2 graphics are amazing! Which is really a good thing and a bad thing. You have 100% free 
 control over the graphics which goes hand in hand with the graphics. The graphics are good so you 
 know there is a catch. Controlling the camera is a little more difficult than in Sims 1. To tell 
 the truth, at first I hated this game. But I got use to it.
  
  The sound is better and you can tell they spent tons of time on this game. Because there is even 
 a real hour on the television worth of movie for the in-game TV. And they made it to where you 
 can record your own videos and it wont record the menu that is opened up. So you can make them 
 do actions and it not show up on the video.
  
  My sister loves this game and has spent about 20 hours on it, and we've only had it for like.... a 
 day and a half. So, its worth $50 completely. Alot to squeeze out of a parent if your under-age, 
 but hey, I did it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  This game has lots of customization, possibly more so than any other game out there, and I love 
 customization. You begin by creating a Sim with a ton of things that you choose (hairstyle, clothes, 
 face, etc.) . Then, you choose your Sim's Aspiration. Babies, toddlers, and children all have the 
 same Aspiration (Grow Up) , but once they mature into teenagers, you can choose their Aspiration. 
 The Aspirations are Fortune, Knowledge, Family, Romance, and Popularity. Take the Fortune Aspiration 
 for example. Fortune Sims want lots of money, which means one of their Wants is to take out a job. 
 Family Sims, however, want to spend as much time with their family as possible, so they never have 
 a want to get a career. Fulfilling these Wants will give you Aspiration points, which you can buy 
 special rewards with. After that, you move your Sim (s) into a house, decorate it, and start livin' 
 the life (of a Sim, that is) .
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The graphics were good, but after seeing other games out there, such as Half-Life 2, they could've 
 been better.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  The voice actors did a good job of making the language of the Sims sound like a real language. 
 I call this language Simian, because your Sims usually end up acting like monkeys sometimes. The 
 music is also good, or at least improves on the music of the first Sims.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  Like I said for RPG Maker, this game has as much replayability as you have imagination.
  
  
 TILT: 10/10
  The Sims 2 is an awesome family simulation where you can do things that you would never do in real 
 life. For any fan of the original Sims, go pick this up right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  After playing Sims 1 for 4 years, I had a fun time with game and including the expansion patch 
 like: Livin large, House party, Hot Date, Vacation, Unleashed and Superstar. But now that Sims 
 2 came out in Sept 14, I've been playing this more than Sims 1 and I'm lovin it.
  
  This game has been improve from environment, character, and layout. In this game you can do anything, 
 just like we do in real life. Just to name a few: They have six different ways of kissing, They 
 have four different ways of hugging, they have four different ways of talking and now you can fight 
 in the game. Also you can make a baby now, so you don't have to adopt one, but the opinion is still 
 open. Sims can now age from baby, toddler, child, teen, adult and old.
  
  The people from Maxis, put in a system that makes your sims show feeling, emotions, and joyful 
 traits. Let's just say that Maxis made this game more life like than the previous Sim game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryry92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 in my opinion is one of the best games of 2004. For starters, the graphics made a huge 
 leap from the fan hand mini people to fully 3D somewhat cartoony mini people. The gameplay is still 
 the same accept for the new aging option. In the original Sims, you got married made friends and 
 had kids and that was it but in Sims 2 you grow old, die and the next generation takes over. The 
 objects are awesome and I liked the option of changing the colors of the objects. Another big feature 
 is the memory system, woo hoo! your sims can remember the last time they burnt the chicken! But 
 really its a good feature. Another good feature is the fully movable camera so you can always keep 
 track of what your sims are doing. The game is an innovative experience but i really miss controlling 
 mindless people that would burn to death at the push of a button. The game was well worth the wait 
 so what are you standing around for? Buy it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19682685635022650119595314255397-kqlyn
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  Look... I won't bother writing too much about it. This game is the best game ever and that is all 
 you need to know. The replay value is infinite (literally) . It is an awesome experience. I ended 
 up caring about my sims to the point where it becomes ridiculous. They are videogame characters 
 for god's sake! But I love them. When they are sad, i'm sad. When they are happy, i'm happy. When 
 they cry, I cry. When they laugh, I laugh. It's so magical. Not even the Final Fantasy games come 
 close to this gem. This game is perfect in every respect. 
  
  PS: Will Wright... I love you. (he is teh creator) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  + Graphics and animation is vivid
  + Great range of activities to do with the Sims
  + Aspiration rewards
  + Musics are quite catchy
 
  + Addictive - for most people
  
  Cons:
  
  - AI gets stuck at times even with the patch
  - Building homes can be confusing at times
  - 
 Addictive gets to you and you end up losing quite a bit of hours
  
  Summary:
  
  Well this is a great sequel to the original Sims, in fact, a lot better. There's just so much to 
 do in the simulation game... you just find yourself sucked in for a bunch of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Diverse_X
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Title: The Sims 2
  Publisher: EA Games
  Developer: Maxis
  Rating: Teen
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in The Sims 2 is very good and very easy to master. You point and click 
 on an object and watch what happens. Its as simple as that. And that is why is it so great.
  
  Graphics - This has very good graphics, but compared to other PC games like Half-Life 2 and 
 Rome: Total War, this lacks in comparison. But even though they aren't as good, it is still a giant 
 jump from what The Sims looked like.
  
  Sound - The sound in The Sims 2 is superb. The Simlish they speak sounds very good and the Sim's 
 everyday sounds sound like real life. You can hear tham snore while sleeping, or hum while walking.
 
  
  Value - You can do just about anything in this game. You can go through infinite generations of 
 families and still have stuff to do. You can seriously play forever. You can start a family and 
 follow that family's name forever. Like if Billy Bob had a kid, Rob Bob, and Rob gets married, 
 etc. etc.
  
  Tilt - You will have so much fun with this game it will last you for a very long time, and you 
 still won't see everything.
  
  Therefore, The Sims 2 is a joyous game. It's just plain fun and no one should miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkertons
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  In Sims 2, your sims act, look and react around eachother just like normal people do. It is very 
 creative on how you can design your own person to exactly how you want them to look and jeans carry 
 through the family. Sims don't forget things very easily too and can have many different feelings 
 about one another. Some sims just don't get along as hard as you try to get them too while other 
 sims fall in love at first sight. The furniture isn't as good as the first i think but the rest 
 of the game makes up for that. The graphics are very nice and your rotating view makes the screen 
 even more delightfull. Sims 2 is a great game for everyone from age 8-25. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a great game with only minor faults. It is a great game if you have a top-of-the-range 
 computer, but if you dont, you will need to spend a lot of time waiting for it to load.
  
  The concept is set like the original sims, which is to create sims and live their lives, but The 
 Sims 2 adds more of a realistic feel to the game, which has added more enjoyment and opportunities 
 in the game. The addition of the ageing process is much needed, and so are the days of the week 
 and teen-jobs.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The Sims 2 sticks with the fundamentals which originated with the original sims, making and sims 
 and controlling their every movement, but The Sims 2 has added many more options and controls which 
 contribute to the excitement of this game. The Sims 2 gives you more options and ways to control 
 what your sim is doing, and this adds to the quality of the gameplay, and it gets surprising when 
 your sim does something that you didnt expect and that you didnt know that it could do.
  
  The only problem with the gameplay is that if you didnt get it in the original sims, you wont 
 get it in its sequel.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  You cant beat the supreme graphics which you experience in The Sims 2. The colour collaboration 
 is sensational, as you can see exactly where the shadows should be in comparison to the light sources, 
 and the details in each object is so specific, from the dirt on a dirty shower to the different 
 colour patterns on a quilt. Also, the choices you have in designing your sim and the way they look 
 is so life-like that you can specify everything from the shape of their nose to the size of their 
 eyes.
  
  The only problem with the graphics in this game is that it takes a long time to load on slower 
 computers and this can become frustrating when you just want to play the game.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The Sims 2 has good sound effects that go with objects, but they arent perfect. 
 The sounds which are made are good (water coming out of the tap, toddler rattling the bars of when 
 they wake up) , but they dont necessarily match up exactly with the action, like the weights being 
 dropped sometimes dont match perfectly with what is being shown. The music is very good, as it 
 is the same simmish music which is custom with the sims. The way they talk is also the same simmish 
 voice sound.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Even though this game costs a lot, it is worth every cent, but be shore that you read the minimum 
 specifications, as they might not be what your computer is capable of, and you would have wasted 
 a lot of money.
  
  Overall, another great Maxis game which will be enjoyed by many, but as with most games, it has 
 minor downfalls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics.. really something u can enjoy if you have a nice computer that is 
 ( poor old me with p4 2.4ghz using geforce 4 mx 440 : ( | there is some really cool stuff added 
 like new items.. new actions and most importantly new graphics.. Before you'd just make money for 
 your family, make new relationships and gain new skills for your job.. but u still get all that 
 plus now u have a new thing that every sim has from an baby to a fully grown adult. Its called 
 "wants" yes wants ppl how exciting! Basically ppl have these "wants" and u have to fullfull it 
 for them.. dont worry there arent farfetched.. and u have to keep these wants coming for theres 
 a bar that these "wants" go to and if u dont give the sims what they "want" they wont feel like 
 doing anything either doing their hw, going to work or gain knowledge. So basically your forced 
 to constantly make the sim happy and fullfull their wants so u dont have time to relax :P I have 
 to say its a game that will not dissapoint you if u've been waiting for this. An advice is not 
 to play this everyday for long hours of time. Even u want to keep playing, it might get boring 
 after a while but still that shouldnt stop u from getting this game! Great game and good value 
 too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pecktwby
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 9, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2
  
  please take into consideration my own following parameters: 
  
  New features 7
  Gameplay 6
  Graphics 9
  Frame rate 2
  Sound 8
  Fun 6
  Addictiveness 
 9
  Value 5
  Overall 6
  Should I buy it? No
  
  New features:
  
   Customisable 3D camera angle
  
   Sims grow up and die
  
   Hopes and fears fears  
 you must help your characters to achieve their aspirations, doing so will give you rewards amongst 
 other things - to stop your Sim from growing old if you so wish 
  
   You can live through as many future generations as you want
  
   Body shop  allows you to 
 fully customise your own character and their clothes, you simple edit their clothes in Paint or 
 any photo editing software. Also you can again customise their personality and aspirations
  
   Design your own town, you can also upload your sim city 4 towns into the game
  
   Loads 
 of new building items  foundations, 2 story windows, awesome designer spot lights to name a few 
 
  
   Loads of new furniture and other house hold objects
  
   Loads of new downloadable items and software including a wallpaper editor similar to the one 
 for the original Sims
  
   New more detailed character interactions
  
   Up to 5 story/level homes can built
  
   Go into town and buy food, clothes, video games, 
 magazines etc, of just go to the park or go swimming, and invite your friends with you
  
   Upload your Mp3 music into the game
  
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The Sims 2 plays much in the 
 same way that the original Sims did. The new 3D camera angle is easy to use, and adds much realism 
 to the experience. But the terrible frame rate stops it from being user friendly
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game looks great and it will allow you to create your dream home. Superb lighting, 
 shadow and reflection effects add realism to the experience. The colours are so uplifting and it 
 puts a smile on your face, this game is aesthetic.
  
  
  Frame rate:
  
  Terrible, awful, abysmal, any word meaning bad really. I have a top of the range PC and this game 
 will not run smoothly when a lot is going on. And changing the graphical quality has no effect, 
 no matter how good or fast your PC, this game will not run smooth for you in certain situations 
 and it probably will ruin the experience for you as it did me. It goes from bad to worse the more 
 people you have in your home and the bigger the home.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  Great  there is a feature that allows you to upload your favourite music in the form of Mp3 into 
 the game and your Sims can listen to it on the radio or on the stereo. the sound effects are solid, 
 but the Sims still speak nonesense.
  
  
  Fun:
  
  Yes its is fun but the poor frame rate spoils the experience and will just annoy you.
  
  
 
  Addictiveness:
  
  Despite the terrible frame rate, this game is ridiculously addictive, you will probably find yourself 
 spending full days on this maybe even missing meals. 
  
  
  Value:
  
  You get a lot of game for your money, you will find yourself wanting to help your Sims children 
 grow up and get good jobs and then do the same with their children and so on. but you will again 
 be put off, and become fed up with the frame rate.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  This game feels like it has a lot of depth, but it is frustrating in the fact that this sense of 
 depth you get when the game is actually very deceptive. You feel as though there is more for you 
 to do and see in the game, when in fact there really isnt and when this dawns on you will stop 
 playing it. And there are no patches which fix this frame rate.
  
  
  Should I Buy it:
  
  No, keep your money, it will keep you occupied all day everyday for about a week but then you 
 will probably have had you fill of it.
  
  Although if you are a fan of interior (and exterior for that matter) design it may appeal to you, 
 if not to just design a home but not actually play the game
  
  Reviewed by Tim Peck aka pecktwby. 09/06/2005
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 25, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2... man... I thought it was going to be just another worthless cash-cow like the 9,093 
 expansions that came out for the original, but it wasn't... much. The game is nothing revolutionary, 
 but it's not slouch either. The game is one of those that you get ultra hooked into, and then just 
 stop for one day -- probably the day after you go, "Ok, so I've done everything there is to do... 
 until the next expansion." Eventually, that expansion will come out, and you'll play it, and then 
 you'll again come to that stage whereby you say, "Ok, So I've done everything there is to do until 
 they make yet again another expansion... but do I really want to start from scratch again to play 
 this next expansion?" And the ultimate answer, for me at least, was, "Nope." I'd say this game 
 is worth a bargain bin or used purchase, but I'm not paying $50 for it, or $30 for any of the expansions, 
 that's for sure.
  
  Oh, oh, oh, how could I forget!? A friend of mine claims that this is a hard strategy game and 
 refuses to believe that I can take every character through the college expansion and get straight 
 4.0 grades. Really, this isn't a hard game at all and offers very little challenge. Frankly, the 
 challenge of the game is making it fun AND challenging at the same time. You can focus on doing 
 all the extracurricular stuff and then everything else becomes secondary, or you can focus on the 
 tasks and never do any of the "wacky, zany antics in The Sims 2!" that they talk about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastelite
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I bet all of you remember the Sims, a game that let you control your own family and make their 
 live great or a living hell. Maxis has done it again with The Sims 2, a major improvement over 
 the first one and all of its expansion packs combined. This game is a phenomenal work, easily one 
 of the best games I have ever played through most of my life. Here is a summary of what it is about. 
 The Sims 2 lets you play as a family only this time, they age and have DNA. Yes they can start 
 out as a baby, then a toddler, a child, a teen, an adult, and finally, an elder until they die. 
 They now have a family tree so you can go over with who is your father's father and so on. The 
 Sims 2 has three neighborhoods you can play around with but you can create your own. One of them 
 is Pleasentview, 15 years after the original neighborhood that was in the original game. The other 
 two are Strangetown, a desert that kinda has an area 51 theme and Veronaville, a town which the 
 story is kinda like Romeo and Juliet. Once you set up your family, you can play with them until 
 they die of age or anything else. There are some new additions besides the age and DNA like they 
 now have memories and aspirations which if you fill it up, you will make them extremely happy no 
 matter what but if its too low, your sims will go crazy. There are some new jobs and something 
 called rewards. They are aspirations rewards which if you have enough aspiration points, you can 
 buy special things that may improve or deprove your sims depending on their asperation meter and 
 career rewards which you get from a certain level in a certain job. There are a lot of improvements 
 over the graphics. Your sims now have facial expression and no two sims look the same thanks to 
 DNA. You can now rotate the camera to get a good look at your sims, house, objects, etc. The sound 
 is also good as well. To me, it feels more realistic and not that repetitive like the last one. 
 The music also show some improvements. This is one of those few games which you can't think of 
 anything wrong with it and this is a must have for any Sim-fanatic like me.
  
  Merits
  Your sims can now age and have a family history
  Full 3D
  A bunch of improvements over the 
 original
  
  Flaws
  If you don't like the Sims, you might not like this
  Ummm..........
  Simlish if you expected them to talk :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is exactly like the first sims. you command your sim around everywhere, and live your 
 life and whatever. It gets very difficult when your sims have a kid which will constantly whine. 
 THis is realistic though. 
  
  graphics: The graphics are quite good. The mirror and water effects that you see are absolutely 
 amazing, and look perfectly realistic. There are no complaints here, besides that the game will 
 lag on occasion. 
  
  Sound: The sound fits the enviornment very well. The ambience music and everything is perfect. 
 The sims still speak in mutilated language, which is fine for expressing emotion. Nonetheless, 
 there is nothing new about the sound. 
  
  Value: Hopefully there will be a good expansion pack to play later, because this game isn't going 
 to last you too long if you've already played/got tired of the first sims. Its still relatively 
 the same game, but babies now grow up (thank god)
  
  Tilt: I tiled it to a nine because it added some improvement to a very good game. The most popular 
 pc game in history's sequel lives up to the name and adds something new. Its worth getting if you 
 are ready for a few changes from the first sims. 
  
  What I found amazing was how customizable the characters were. I could make a sim look exactly 
 like me, or a very ugly version of me. It was really neat. I wasn't expecting much change from 
 the first one though, so this game lived up to my expectations. 
  
  The game really does get challenging when you have a baby and you sim has an unbalanced lifestyle, 
 and begins losing social points due to cleaning up a kicthen. There are still a few annoying pathfinding 
 problems that are very annoying, but the game is fine either way. 
  
  Great game, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutComeTheWolfs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to believe the original "The Sims" was released a scant five years ago. I also find it 
 hard to remember a time before the best selling game in history was on store shelves and in our 
 homes helping us waste our lives away. What started out as a relatively simple game blossomed over 
 the years through a series of expansion packs, and console iterations. And finally after a long 
 wait the sequel has made it's way on to store shelves.
  
  The Sims 2 has seen a major graphical overhaul since the first game. Gone are the clunky 2-D backgrounds 
 and almost sprite like 3-D characters. In their place are shiny new fully 3-D environments with 
 fully 3-D characters. And in spite of the new graphics, it truly feels like the same old Sims, 
 only much better. The same basic formula applies here. You create a Sim build him/her a house and 
 manage his/her various wants and needs. Only now it feels much more complete. You can, in fact 
 have a whole town of custom created sims and homes. Hell, you can even create the town itself! 
 The sandbox gameplay has been overhauled to allow for you to create truly unique sims, homes, and 
 circumstances. The first thing you need is a sim. Upon entering the "Create a Sim" mode you will 
 encounter a dearth of new options. You can choose your sim's sex as always, but now you can also 
 determine their age and placement in a sim family and their life aspirations. In addition there 
 is an enormous amount of facial construction customability. From eyes to cheeks to chin to weight, 
 there is an almost limitless number of combinations. If you are anything like me, the first Sim 
 you create will look like you. I personally managed to find my exact hair style and clothes for 
 my digital self which was quite satisfying in it's own way. There are also a lot of options when 
 it comes to home improvement. Some are useful however, some are just there for show.
  
  When you have your house and your sim set up you basically do the same thing you did before. Keep 
 them fed, having enough fun, enough sleep, and keep them clean and going to the bathroom regularly. 
 You'll of course also need a job, which is where the game actually seems to have detracted from 
 the original. I wanted my Sim to be in the entertainment industry and eventually become a world 
 famous actor, but that career, among others, has been removed. You are left with career options 
 such as science, medical, political, and slacker careers. Its not a huge blow to the overall game, 
 but it would have been nice if my Sim could have been in the career of my choosing. A few new gameplay 
 features have been thrown into the mix this time around. Your sims now have aspirations which, 
 if they are successful in achieving they not only get a mood boost but also points that they can 
 use toward a variety of different "special items." Unfortunately these items are essentially magic, 
 and end up making the game feel shallow if you actually make use of them. One such item makes any 
 interaction you try on another sim 100% successful as long as your aspiration rating is gold at 
 the time. While this is neat and all, it really kills the point of interacting and meeting new 
 sims. You could end up marrying two sims have nothing in common, without any real effort. Which 
 brings us to one of the more interesting parts of the game. Your sims have certain interests that 
 other sims may not share. If one sim loves talking about sports and the other detests the subject, 
 they wont get along until (and unless) they can find some common ground. Its an interesting addition 
 that makes the game more realistic. Some sims no matter how hard you try, will never truly like 
 each other. Each sim has their own type of person that they like to be around. I've found that 
 most sims with hideously deformed faces won't ever get hit on by attractive sims. Poor sims rarely 
 hang out with rich sims. And homosexual sims are often shunned by sims with more typical beliefs. 
 This all paints a somewhat sad, but truthful portrait of real life. Another important new feature 
 is that of the genes system. When two sims fall in love and have a child, the child will share 
 its parents characteristics and physical features. This creates the opportunity to have some fun 
 finding out what it would look like if Sim A and Sim B had a baby. Hell it might even give you 
 an idea of what your kids are gonna look like, if your sim resembles you enough.
  
  As in the expansion packs to the original game, you are able to call up a taxi and leave the house, 
 to embark on daily adventures, such as shopping for new clothes or new videogames, or going for 
 a swim in the local community pool. There you have a better opportunity to meet new sims and try 
 new things. Its a fun addition but it creates a sort of time paradox. You typically arrive back 
 home hours earlier then when you left the lot you've just visited. There are several such time 
 paradoxes in the game. Certain sims are non-playable and will remain in a state of suspended aging 
 for ever. A sim who was a childhood friend to your sim may meet their great great descendants of 
 your sim after he is long dead and his childhood friend will be as young as he ever was. It's a 
 confusing problem that detracts from the realism of the game.
  You can't always predict what a sim will do either. One sim has been terrorizing me for weeks. 
 Out of nowhere he will run inside my house, uninvited, and slap my sim silly before promptly leaving. 
 Maybe its because he's jealous of my sims success, maybe its because I kind of almost killed his 
 wife. Who knows? All I am saying is, with this game, any thing can happen. And that anything includes 
 strange glitches. A sim may completely ignore your orders and do the opposite of what you tell 
 him. This results in missed days of work and school and can be extremely annoying. Also never try 
 to interact with a sim that is ascending or descending the staircase. It will result in an almost 
 infinite loop of both sims walking up and down the steps trying to reach each other.
  
  One of the coolest new features is the ability to put your own music on the radio and your own 
 movies on the television. While this is a very nice addition, it is somewhat muddled by picky sims. 
 If the sim doesn't like the music playing they will turn it off and there is no way to stop them. 
 This is especially annoying when you are listening to a really great song and it gets cut off by 
 your sim. But I suppose you are there to act as a God like force and not to listen to music.
  
  While I do have many complaints about ingame problems, The Sims 2 is still an addictive drug 
 that will have you hopelessly hooked. It has problems, but if you can over look them, you will 
 find a rewarding experience in watching your sims live, grow old, and eventually die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solah-dax
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 8, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I think The Sims 2 is awesome, it's only that miss how creative the old Sims was. 
  You could manage all in-game files, getting rid of very ugly walls or floors the game brings standard 
 and place your own made very simple on Photoshop.
  
  I played the old Sims for about 3 years and never got tired. There was always some new piece of 
 furniture to design and later play with. 
  
  I played The Sims 2 for 2 months and got tired with the three suits kids have, short wardrobe for 
 teens, hairstyles, etc...
  
  I miss my Old-school Sims fun.
  
  Dax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 7, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  OK, new Sims, new ways to watch someone go to the loo. But seriously, this game is really quite 
 good. Playable addictive, advanced enough to call it a sequel rather than an add on pack. 
  
  The game boasts better graphics, better AI, better this, better that, and so on and so forth. 
 However, it still has one residing flaw. Longevity, yes this game will entrap you for a while, 
 but considering that the previous Sims has SO many objects, the new 'Sims 2' seems to fall quite 
 short in your ability to customise your Sims environment. It's almost a joke. 
  
  We are all still waiting for the community objects builder of some description. Still waiting to 
 be able to put in 'that sofa I have in the shed' or 'my brand of TV'. 
  
  This simple thing seems to lessen the amount of time your going to play (at least until new expansions) .
 
  
  But it's not all bad, the Sims them selves have better emotional expression, way more interactions, 
 the age and have stages of life.
  
  It's nice to see they finally added weekends, time to rest, always a good thing
  
  An interesting 
 addition is aspiration points; Sims can attain a state of permanent happiness by doing things during 
 the day, kissing someone, buying something. And these points can also be spent on items like money 
 trees and life potions. 
  
  And then the icing on the cake: DNA. Yes the Sims have a form of virtual DNA, passing down traits 
 to their offspring, which is a nice addition. Every sim can track their family tree it's nice to 
 see where you started to inbreed... woops. 
  
  The game can get a little repetitive sometimes, however in it's own right, it's playable, it's 
 fun, and that's all that matters. Yeah so it's a little thin at the moment, but things can only 
 get better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwisdom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  So - the sequal to the biggest selling computer game ever, with an amazing seven expansion packs, 
 hundreds of sites devoting their lives to the little computer people - developers Maxis had a lot 
 riding on them to get this game right. But they have had the last laugh - as The Sims 2 is a worthy 
 update to a perennial favorite.
  
  Bringing it down to it's roots, or categorizing the game for easy reference is not to easy - nor 
 would this review be. The Sims 2 is unlike any other game (except The Sims of course) , but it can 
 be best summed up as a lifestyle sim. For the 3 people out there that never bought or have played 
 the game the next paragraph will tell you what you need to know.
  
  The Sims 2 allows you to create and customise a "Sim" - a generic autonomous character with whom 
 you can outfit and tailor to your liking. You can make up to 8 of these per family - and all families 
 live in the one house - which you can also design and build to your taste. You may also decorate 
 and outfit the home with whatever you can find in the catalog - which you can update easily thanks 
 to a quick button for access to a object exchange that EA have set up.
  
  And then you can watch your sim go about their every day lives. Find them a job, get them married, 
 have kids, go to school and do it all over again. But if that sounds repetitive - I assure you 
 it isn't. Each character exerts a distinctive personality, and their social skills help shape them 
 into the person they are.
  
  Its something akin to watching a daytime soap opera - except your in control! And there are weird 
 options to. Perhaps the Father is having a mid-life crisis and begins to do more with the Maid, 
 or your son gets an F in school cause he wants to play sport - or any number of things. Each character 
 is different - and they allstem from their in-game parents, so they inherit features from both, 
 yet their personality is mostly guided by how their upbringing is.
  
  The biggest new feature to The Sims 2 is definately apsiration though. In the original Sims, your 
 characters felt a little bland - and while that always gave us enough to play with, it wasn't going 
 to go over well with the sequal. Thankfully, Maxis have succeeded in creating realistic characters 
 who have aspirations and goals in life.
  
  Whether you bend to their whims and try to help them get them is another matter entirely. The game 
 is a virtual toybox - there is so much customisation. Each gameplay session should be different 
 enough - you will keep coming back. Aspiration plays an important part in determining how your 
 Sims act - and react with one another.
  
  So you have their basic needs sorted, and now their human needs, but their is still their social 
 needs. Getting 2 sims together will require patience on your part - but it is fulfiling in the 
 end. Naturally there are financial benefits - but it should life both Sims moods too. Having a 
 baby, buying that Plasma TV - you control the actions and their choices. And while the game is 
 automated for some of the more basic choices - you wield a lot of power in these Sims lives - meaning 
 that the amount of customisation and personality you give each character in completely up to you. 
 You decide what memories they will have.
  
  Which brings us to another new feature - Memories. Memories work with the special moments in every 
 Sims life. Whether this may be the birth of their child till the first time they see an alien - 
 there is a lot of memories that each Sim has - and takes with them as they age.
  
  That's right. Your Sims will now age - through 6 different stages of life. Starting as a baby, 
 you progress to toddler, child, teenager, adult and elderly stages of life. This is marked on a 
 graph - to show where you are in your life. The interface for this is easy - marked out well and 
 clear.
  
  The entire interface is actually well designed. This has been tweaked and playtested a lot - and 
 the result is a clean and non-interfering interface that is easy to navigate. Hotkeys can also 
 be easily assigned - and there are also 2 tutorial missions to help you out. But this game really 
 is the Virtual Toybox, so if you get something wrong - you can always go back and correct it.
 
  
  Graphics are realy quite good. Focusing on small lots only means that the games 3D graphics (a 
 first for the PC Sims games) are incredibly detailed. You can zoom in easily very close. Animations 
 are very important here - and naturally they are done exceptionally. The characters look good and 
 move well. Overall the graphics are pretty impressive.
  
  Sound is also very good - with the music starting to get repetitive after a whil. Speech is once 
 again spoken in Simlish - that language we all came to love from the original. All the emotions 
 are spoken well here - and the language itself has been expanded - so you rarely hear the same 
 thing spoken twice.
  
  Effects are also suitably well done - with everything sounding as it should. No mean feat - when 
 you consider the size of the game - so it is good that they got this right.
  
  Overall - including gameplay, this is a superb game. It raises the bar for game similar - and makes 
 you appreciate how far games have some. This is a game that should have appeal to non-gamers, A 
 very worthy follow up to the original's impressive debut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw0rdfish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game will appeal to any fan of The Sims franchise. What may look like a fresh 
 coat of paint, is actually a full wall-mural waiting to explode!
  
  Many of the things you loved about the first game are still around... including Bella, Mortimer, 
 and the Goth family... well, sorta. The friendly and comfortable control system is unchanged, making 
 it easy for the new-comers to get right in there, and the veterans of the series to get right back 
 into it... Read: Building your dream homes, and getting the layout/design just the way you like 
 it.
  
  Naturally, as expected, the Sims 2 comes with a bunch of new and updated furniture, pictures, appliances 
 and food! That's just the tip of the iceberg of new things though. Maxis has introduced 5 seriously 
 sweet systems to The Sims game play;
  
  1 - Wants/Needs: What a great addition. Basically these are short term goals for your Sims to aim 
 for, such as buying a bike, reading a book, or getting some sweet lovin' from the girl next door 
 ;) Associated with this system are points and rewards that can help you in the game. From mood 
 enhancers to, life extenders ( WHAT? LIFE? Yeah I'll get to that! ) . The needs and wants are based 
 on the second new system...
  
  2 - Aspirations: When you create your Sims, you can give them Aspirations. These are long term 
 goals for your sim. It drives the everyday life of your sim, and gives you reason to focus on what's 
 important to them. Be it popularity, fame, fortune or knowledge it's up to you, just make sure 
 you go the route you'll enjoy... If you don't like making friends with the other Sims, don't bother 
 with popularity, you'll be constantly having to make new friends.
  
  3 - Life: Yep, that's right... Your sims have life! They're born, they learn, they grow, they make 
 babies, they get old, and they die... While it's a feature you can turn on and off, it's a interesting 
 aspect to the game, and you can delay the process using your reward points if you choose too.
 
  
  4 - DNA: What's better than making babies? Making babies that actually look like you! No more adoptions! 
 You get to do it the old fashion way. Find a mate, hop in the sac, do that "Wa-hoo" with them and 
 watch her stomach grow! When the kids are born, they actually come out looking similar to the sims 
 that created them! It's totally killer!
  
  5 - Memories: If you get caught cheating on your wife with the maid, you wont be able to just go 
 on with it... It's gonna cost you, and cost you dear! The sims relationships are now affected more 
 deeply than just an increase or decrease in points when you do something that affects that relationship... 
 Be it having a great time at the park, or get caught kissing the gardener in the shrubs. Your better 
 half is gonna make you pay, if they don't just leave and never comer back.
  
  While the overall feel for the game is a little more mature than first edition, it's still a game 
 for all ages, and it's one hell of a great time. I've never been able to kick the Sims fever, and 
 this game has done an excellent job to feed the need... Now lets sit back and wait for the expansions 
 :P
  
  Game Hard!
  sw0rdfish ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNewSimman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  As far as gameplay goes with this game its great. It has great functionality and almost and endless 
 amount of objects that can be interacted with. Though some of the simplest things are missing from 
 gameplay, such as handling two objects at once and muti-tasking. Not having these things in the 
 game make it frusterating at times. It also gets hard managing your Sims moods. I just download 
 an object hack for that though so i can play other aspects of the game. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are amazing. I'd have to say this game has the best graphics for a PC 
 game to date. The objects are smooth and real looking, the world your sim lives in has great shadowing 
 and lighting effects along with great animations. The sims move in very smooth motions, just like 
 a human would. 
  
  Sound
  The sound in this game it good. When you are in buy and build mode cool music comes up, but after 
 about 10 minutes of listening to it you want to import your own mp3s into the game which is possible. 
 When the game is in live mode the sound effects sound unbelievably clear. If you buy this game 
 i would recommend importing your own mp3s into the game. 
  
  Value
  The game is a great value. I would pay $49 for this type of game any day.
  
  Summary
  Overall 
 it is a great game and is very enjoyable to play. It might get a bit boring after a while but you 
 can always go to your favorite fansite and download new objects or wait for the next expansion 
 pack. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 14, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was a massive hit, everyone was hooked from the day it was released to the day the last 
 expansion pack was made. Everyone was also looking forward to the next in the series 'The Sims 
 2'.
  In my opinion, the game was quite a big let down. I to was a fan of the first Sims, and I have 
 quite a few of the expansion packs, so I was looking forward for this so called 'Ground-Breaking' 
 game to be released.
  The day it came out, I went to the shops to get it. I played it for around 4 hours solid, and was 
 hooked once again! But the next day I came to play it, I found out it was basically The Sims, but 
 with a revamped Graphics Engine.
  Sure, there are some new items, but nothing too drastic! The time that was spent making the game 
 was a huge let down. I was hoping for a lot more items and much more 'customization', but it wasnt 
 so...
  Anyways, onto the review :D
  
  Gameplay - 7 / 10
  
  The gameplay is quite good, and can get enjoyable if you get into it. But after a few days playing 
 it, you realise that it is becomes boring to live another 'sims' life on your pc. The phrase that 
 I can best explain The Sims 2 is : The Sims, but with some new clothes!
  It has hardly any of the originals items, and not many new items to play around with. It has the 
 same sort of mechanism that you played around with in the original. (E. g Toilet, bed, work, dinner, 
 bath, toilet, bed etc. etc.) it's like the Sims, but with better graphics, and I wasnt pleased 
 : (
  
  Graphics - 9 / 10
  
  Unfortunatly, this is probably the best part about the game. It has a very nice 'revamped' Graphics 
 system. And your sims actually look rather cool :D When you create your sim, you can change LOADS 
 of features that you couldn't do in the original. Also the shadows in the game look rather cool 
 too (eg. Shadows look Crisp when your outside, and look circular when your inside) .
  
  Sound - 7 / 10
  
  The sound has not come much further from the original either. The same old 
 mumbling from your sims. Its pure rubbish to be honest. I must admit though, the music in the game 
 is rather cool :D But I think it would be sooo much better if your sims actually talked English, 
 rather than nonsense.
  
  Value - 7 / 10
  
  The value for money is rather poor. As I said earlier, it's exactly like The original Sims, but 
 with a revamped graphics engine. It probably would have been a much better value for money, if 
 the Sims 2 was an expansion for the original rather than a whole new game.
  
  Overall - 7.6 / 10
  
  All in all, its a very cool game, but it just don't do it for me. Fans 
 of the original sims may like it, but some may not. I guess you'll just have to try it out.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9Beast9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2005 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-9/10-With new gameplay features, such as the fully functional camera, that zooms in all 
 the way from every side, new create a sim options, and the new generation feature, where your sims 
 actully grow old and die. Sims 2 has all that Sims one had, with much more. The only thing that 
 the game lacks are very many objects, but I know it will get more when expansion packs come along. 
 The first sims had a lot of expansion 
  packs, therefore, way more objects and options.
  
  Graphics-10/10-The graphcis have made a revolutionary leap from the first game. The sims look 
 remarkably real in this game, with lighting and shadows portrayed very well.
  
  Sound-9/10-The sound will be a flashback for people who played the first sims because basicly what 
 the music Sims 2 offers, is a different version of original songs from Sims one, with a few new 
 songs.
  
  Value-9/10-Sims 2 is worth buying, because not only are you controlling their lives, you're writing 
 their story. Wether your playing as your family, yourself, or someone completely fictional, you 
 will have a great time with it.
  
  Tilt-This is a great new addition to an already outstanding game. The Sims, was one of my favorite 
 PC games of all time, and with all the old features, and so much more to offer, Sims 2 is definitly 
 one my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basketballfg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly, I did not really like this game. I must say I was new to the Sims series and went 
 right to Sims 2. This game is hard, and you need to pause it a lot to think over what you are going 
 to do with your people. If not, the opportunity will probably go away quickly, either the person 
 will have walked away already or something else. One thing about this game is there is endless 
 customization available. I tried to make my sims look like people I know and the resemblance was 
 surprising. If you like the Sims series you should probably get this because there are lots of 
 new features, and it is a good looking game. The reason I didnt like it was probably because I 
 had not played the Sims that much before, and wouldnt have liked it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banankraken
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  The first sign of it's cruddy programming is that it comes on 4 discs. I mean, why? It's not like 
 there is lots of content in this piece of absolute garbage. The second sign is that it takes bloody 
 forever to load absolutely everything. Be preperad for loadtimes as long as 2 minutes. When the 
 gameplay finally does start it feels like yet another The Sims expansion pack, but with better 
 graphics. The whole aging process is hyper and glorified crap. Every few couple of days your sim 
 simply magically changes character model. Yay... Anywya, back to the signs. The third sign is that 
 it plays like utter trash. Many, as in more than 5, objects on screen at once and the framerate 
 stutters down into the 20-30s. And I have a 6800GT for crying out loud!
  
  Back to the gameplay. As I said, the gameplay remains largely the same, with more interactions 
 the ability to produce babies. Which makes the experience even more tedious and unfunny. The other 
 added mechanic is the wants/fears BS. Depending on your sims personality different wants and fears 
 pop up randomly each day. If you fulfill your sims wants, the mood meter goes up and you get some 
 kinda points you can buy a bunch of lame stuff that makes no sense at all for, plus they are cheats. 
 Fulfill the fears and the mood goes down. Eventually he'll go crazy and a doctor will pop out of 
 nowhere. This is funny the first time it happens. As is everything else in this game. When you've 
 seen it all just once it becomes a ho-hum experience and the game just dies.
  
  So.
  
  Gameplay
  To create a sim is fun, to wait for it to load and to play the actual game is not.
 
  
  Graphics
  Pretty nice, but boring, and the framerate sucks horribly.
  
  Sound
  Terrible nonsense and hideous music.
  
  Value
  2 days. EA will never release an SDK, so forget 
 about any decent content or mods.
  
  Tilt
  What can I say, I hate it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  In 2000 the #1 PC Game of All Time! was created, with the goal of giving the gamer to live any 
 type of life they choose. You could be a wealthy person, a popular person, or just be plain mean 
 to your Sim. Any way you played it; there was always fun to be had. The Sims 2 takes what was great 
 The Sims, and adds more value and fun to the #1 PC Game of All Time.
  
  Along with the simulation title, The Sims let you build computer people that live any type of life 
 or fantasy that you would like to see played out in real life. You can build them a house, buy 
 them furnishings, make friends with local neighbors or just send them into a complete downfall. 
 You can give them one of the many different jobs, and have them experience many of lifes great 
 moments. Anything you can possibly do in real life, you can pretty much do in The Sims 2.
  
  The most notable addition to the Sims series is the ability for your Sims to age. From Newborn 
 to Elder, your Sims will live a long life, full of fun and family. Each age group has their own 
 series of unique wants and need that fits the stereotypical thoughts of that generation. For example, 
 kids and teenagers will have more desire for Social and Fun that an Elder would. This helps the 
 gameplay along very well, as it adds variety and keeps you coming back for more.
  
  Along with aging, the Sims now have aspirations. This makes gameplay flow from one moment to the 
 next, which is one of the best new additions to the game. At the beginning of the game, you choose 
 an aspiration, Family, Wealth, Knowledge, Love or Population. Each choice chooses the way you play 
 the game. For example, choosing a Knowledge aspiration would give your Sim wants such as gaining 
 a skill point, or seeing a ghost. A Love Aspiration would have him/her chasing after as many Sims 
 of the opposite sex as possible. This adds not only more fluency to the game, but more replay value.
 
  
  Much of the fun to be had in The Sims 2 is mixing Sims with different aspirations together in the 
 same house. Putting together Family and Wealth Sims are a good combo, because the Family Sim can 
 take care of the house, and the wealth Sim can bring home the Simoleons. The combinations are endless 
 and is the one of the best aspects of the game.
  
  In The Sims, you had the almost surreal ability to make a Sim in your likeness, and let him live 
 his life, in a way you would wish to live yours. The Sims 2 brings character creation to a whole 
 new level with a creation option with so much depth, theres almost no way to make the same Sim 
 twice. The appearance editor lets you pick your Sims clothes, hair, facial features and personality. 
 The detail is amazing, and there are so many options to the option, that you can spend almost an 
 hour creating a Sim. If you dont like the options available, you can go into the body shop option, 
 and create Sims that resemble your friends, family, and even you.
  
  Along with facial features, the Sims 2 has a large variety of torso options. You can make your 
 Sim normal or fat, which also plays a role in the game. You can choose what type of bathing suit 
 to wear, or what your Sim will wear in everyday life. You no longer have simple shirt and pant 
 options, but pages upon pages of different shirt and pant styles to choose from. If you decide 
 later on that you dont like what you chose, you may go downtown and purchase new clothes.
  
  As with the Sims, you may choose your Sims personality. You can make them outgoing or shy, 
 neat of messy and so forth. This has an affect on gameplay, as a messy Sim will never clean up 
 around himself or even want to. Although, if you catch a Sim at an early stage of life, you can 
 change the way that Sim will act. For example, if you have a mean teenage Sim who is always fighting 
 with his brother, you can have an older Sim come along and encourage certain traits. For the mean 
 Sim, grandma can come over and encourage him to be nice, and over time, he will become nicer. Personalities 
 play a large roll in the game because certain Sims have different fears depending on what kind 
 of person they are.
  
  With all creation aside, making average Sims makes for dull gameplay, especially down the road. 
 When you Sims have a child, the kid will inherit physical and personal traits from the parent Sims. 
 If you have a Sim with drastically different traits, and the other completely opposite, the Sim 
 will either be a mix of one, or follow in a certain Sims footsteps, as they would in real life. 
 This can make gameplay endless, because you can keep having Sim after Sim after Sim, and play each 
 generation as you would the one before.
  
  Family ties are important and surprisingly easy to keep. As long as you dont force the Sims to 
 hate each other, the game keeps them pretty friendly. If the father of the family marries someone 
 from work who the child has never met before, the child Sim will go about making friends with the 
 new family Sim.
  
  Over time, you Sim will eventually have to move out and grow up on there own. This will result 
 in grandchildren Sims coming over to visit (and mooch off of) grandma and grandpa Sim, and vice 
 versa. But to for everyone to keep in contact, you must play with every Sim that you wish to keep 
 current. While growing up, you may have a certain sweetheart that you have developed a crush on, 
 and this makes it easier to marry when growing up. But, if you want to keep them at the same age, 
 you must play with that Sim. If you dont you must constantly find new loves, and make sure to 
 marry them before you reach the next age group.
  
  But, if your Sim is doing well in life, hell age slower. This means, if he/she completes numerous 
 aspiration goals, they will live longer. As well as aspirations, good memories are key to a good 
 life. When you experience your Sims first kiss, they will remember that forever. Not only good 
 memories are stored, but bad ones as well. So if your Sim throws a bad party or is rejected for 
 WooHoo, they will remember this, and it will have an effect on their life. So, its smart to 
 keep your Sims happy if you like them, or else theyll die earlier, and ultimately be more exasperating 
 to play with.
  
  Of course, you can choose to send your Sim into a total downward spiral. If youre the sick and 
 twisted person who enjoys doing this, the game has options for that as well. If you want to make 
 your Sim wet his bed, experience all of his fears, and have no social network, hell be visited 
 by numerous characters that boost certain areas of life. For example if you have a Sim with a life-long 
 goal of Love, and you choose to make him a failure, he will result to making himself a mop lover, 
 and flirt with it until he is sane again. Your Sim will ignore all commands during this time 
 period, and eventually come back to his or her good old self.
  
  Eventually, your Sim will die of old age (or other causes) and will affect the Sim family in a 
 way that reflects how much of a friend that Sim was. If your Sim had lots of Family friends, then 
 he or she will be mourned for by many people. But, if your Sim was mean and avoided all contact, 
 chances are no one will care. Although, nearing death will have your Sim looking back upon things 
 you did for them. They will reflect on memories, aspirations, and friends. They will tell these 
 to their grandchildren, who will tell it to their friends and so forth.
  
  As well as passing down stories, Sims can pass along gossip and events that they experienced. This 
 can be the toughest aspect when playing with a Love Sim, as one of their mates can hear of them 
 cheating with them one the girl next door, and will come to pick a fight, even if she wasnt there 
 to experience it. This is a great way to make friends, as events are happening everyday.
  
  But if you are a stay at home Sim, you can watch the news or read the paper to learn of current 
 events and other topics. This will make your Sim even more popular, and make speaking with other 
 Sims more of a positive issue than a negative.
  
  Of course, to pay for your house, your parties, and yourself, your Sim needs a job. This time around, 
 Sims 2 makes the career track a little bit easier. It stays true to the Sims and is pretty easy 
 to follow. Your Sim will choose a career at the beginning of his teen/adult life, and work your 
 way up. Along the way, you will need to make family friends and gain skill points, which makes 
 sure you dont neglect your Sim and their need for knowledge. If you dont do these things, youll 
 be knocked down a level, and have to work your way back up.
  
  Your Sims wont feed themselves, they must learn to cook, among other things. As in the Sims, you 
 have to build up knowledge points to make your Sim better in some areas. For example, you can work 
 on body points, giving your Sim a slimmer body and more confidence in him/herself. Also, you can 
 gain creativity points and create and live off of your paintings. Knowledge points are also key 
 if you have a knowledge Sim. So, playing around with the skill points is a fun filler between your 
 job, eating, sleeping and any other important task.
  
  The main complaint about the Sims was that you pretty much played the entire game going to the 
 bathroom or taking a shower. In the Sims 2, this has been fixed. You eat 3 (sometimes 4) meals 
 a day, take two showers, and go to the bathroom occasionally. This give you more time to make your 
 Sim more fit, smarter, or gain more friends. Of course, certain activities will make your Sims 
 task bars drop faster. For example, exercising will make your Sim sweat, and he will therefore 
 have to take a bath or shower. If you choose to ignore these simple tasks, there will be consequences. 
 If you dont shower, you will smell bad, and people will avoid your Sim. Your Sim will then become 
 sad, because no one wants to talk to your Sim. Along with this, your Sim can wet their pants, and 
 pass out, among other things.
  
  The Sims 2s artificial intelligence is overall much better the original Sims. Your Sim will take 
 faster routes to wherever theyre going, and will take much more logical actions. This means that 
 your Sim wont start to talk to someone when youre dying of hunger. Of course, since your Sims 
 are smarter, there is more fun to be had. You can just sit back and watch the action, without touching 
 anything. Of course, if want to put the time and effort into it, you can film your Sims daily episodes, 
 and watch them over and over again.
  
  The Sims 2 also features more tools to build the house of your dreams. Of course, if you dont 
 like making the house, and just want to play, you can add pre-made lots and hit the ground running. 
 Of course, if you enjoyed the ability to make your own place, you can do so by buying a blank lot 
 and making it your own. Along with your residential lot, you can build commercial lots as well, 
 such as restaurants, shopping malls or just a plain park. When you go to a commercial lot, time 
 doesnt pass on your residential lot. So if your Sim has energy to burn at 11 PM, going shopping 
 is a great way to shed the energy.
  
  You could say that the Sims 2 is The Sims with most of its expansion packs. You can have parties 
 (a la House Party) or go out of your house (a la Hot Date) . But there is also tons of downloadable 
 content to come, and theres a ton now. You can go to thesims. com and download houses, Sims and 
 even furniture that wasnt available at first. There is sure to be tons more to come, and even 
 some for sure expansion packs.
  
  Along with content, the Sims 2 looks gorgeous. Even when its set on its lowest quality, the game 
 flows smoothly, and looks superb. It looks must better than the original, and runs on an entirely 
 new 3D engine. When the game plays at its highest quality, detail is not forgotten, and even the 
 textures in the furniture look beautiful. As well as the graphics, the animations in Sims are hilarious. 
 You can juggle coffee mugs, play with your kids and millions of other fun things. They flow nicely, 
 and all fit very well. Of course, turning up the graphics all the way makes everything slow down 
 slightly, but is worth it in the long run.
  
  The sound in Sims 2 is great. Your Sims still speak simlish, which is pretty much just mumbling. 
 Although, sometimes the mumbling can turn into words, but not often. The sound effects are very 
 interesting, many of them high-pitched and up-beat. This last statement is true about the music 
 as well. The styles of Mark Mothersbaugh fit very well in your own little world. Although, it sometimes 
 seems odd when the Grim Reaper comes, clipboard and cell phone in hand, but overall, it pretty 
 good.
  
  The Sims 2 offers what every fan wanted out of the Sims. You have more fluent gameplay, less frequent 
 basic needs and more. It brings great gameplay to the table, and is somewhat addictive. You can 
 play it for 5 minutes, or 5 hours, depending on what mood your in. In short, the Sims 2 is great 
 as a sequel, and as a standalone game, and should be picked up by any gamer, big and small. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk_knight_200
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is very solid and really ups the ante from the original sims games. I give sims 2 a 9 
 in gameplay due to the fact that pc's that just meet the requirements to play the game experience 
 quite a bit of lag. Other then that the gameplay is remarkable, youre sims are at your mercy. 
 The downloadable content not only makes a better gaming experience but, it also lets you be creative. 
 Compared to the original sims games the graphics have improved a lot, I'll leave this one short 
 and simple, it gets a 9. Sound gets a solid 10 because you can add in your own music, plus the 
 default music and sounds fit well. I say that if you love to be in control of people lives, or 
 just want to have plain old fun buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylean1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  When the original The Sims was released the world had gone crazy for those little computer people 
 who you tell them what you want them to do. So Maxis (the creators of The Sims) decided that, after 
 the huge success that there would be seven expansion packs which will be installed on the original 
 game and this will add a little interest. But after YEARS of crazes about one game with several 
 expansions, it got boring. Your Sims never dies or at least ages, there are no goal except going 
 to work and advancing in your career. So Maxis decided to introduce the sequel to the most successful 
 game EVER. It would be THE SIMS 2! With new added 3d views and WANTS and FEARS where your sims 
 can actually have aims in life. Sims now grow up, marry, work, age and eventually die. BUT, their 
 kids will also grow up and your family tree will keep spreading across the city. Take my word for 
 it. This is a great game even if you don` t like The Sims, still, buy it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  
  Sims 2 is simply the best game in the series. The game uses a newer 3-D graphic engine and establishes 
 itself as one of the greatest simulation/strategy games of all time. If I were to sum the game 
 up in one word I would say fun. The game is a lot of fun if you play alone or with a bunch of 
 friends. There is a large amount of options in the game like: create family, create a Sim, create 
 a neighborhood and a story mode. You are able to take snapshots and short videos of your simology 
 at work. The game has a decent amount of items to purchase and has a decent amount of renovations 
 that you can do to your home. The create a Sim option is very detailed right down to the eye lashes 
 and eye brows. It is very fun to create your own family and force your relatives to perform varying 
 tasks without their consent. You are God! You control these virtual beings: you control their interactions, 
 their needs, their emotions, their aspirations and follies. 
  
  The game has many details and entertaining cut-scenes. For example, the woohoo cut-scene will 
 vary depending on where you are performing woohoo. Oh, and hasnt anyone ever wanted to get abducted 
 by aliens? Heres your opportunity! Yes, basically anything can happen in this virtual neighborhood. 
 The game is basically an update of the old classic and definitely lives up to expectations. The 
 only thing left is to create a Sims 2 online function. 
  
  The game comes with preexisting families and some old favorites from the previous Sims experience. 
 You will definitely find yourself playing this game more then you intended. However, when you have 
 totally attacked every single angle of game-play in this game, the game might get put on the shelf 
 for awhile. However, just like any simulation experience it will rekindle memories of various incidents 
 in the game and have you grab it once more.
  
  It would have been nice for the developers to have a language setting function on The Sims 2. Instead 
 of the Sims speaking their random babbles, they should speak in English or any other language that 
 one may desire. I think that would be a great icing on the cake.
  
  The Sims 2 offers not only your home as a building and entertainment domain. Sims can travel alone, 
 or with other Sims to various local establishments which are pre-created by the game developers. 
 However, you can also create your own city facilities. The Sims can go shopping, swimming at the 
 local pool or go try their luck with some arcade games. 
  
  What is totally new to the Sim family is that each individual member has particular aspirations 
 at varying times in their lives. Aspirations give your Sims certain types of goals which will boost 
 their life experience and eventually lead them to varying rewards that can be purchased through 
 aspiration points. This addition is fairly innovative and adds another area that Sims fanatics 
 can divulge to the very bone of existence. 
  
  The game-play in The Sims 2 revolves around a click = action mode. You click on your Sim and 
 tell him/her what you wish them to do. The Sims can interact with various obstacles in their environment. 
 The game has a large menu bar at the bottom of the screen which gives you access to all the possible 
 options that you crave. If you are a first Sim-timer then it might take you a bit longer to adapt 
 to the game. However, the instruction manual and the in-game help pop-ups are highly useful and 
 helpful.
  
  The graphics of The Sims 2 are not revolutionary but they are quite nice for a simulation game. 
 As I mentioned earlier the Sims and their environments are totally 3-D. The graphics are a big 
 step up from the previous Sims titles. I have played the game with a 64MB video card and a 128MB 
 card, and I noticed a dramatic difference in game slowdown. The game is playable on a 64 on lower 
 resolutions but is much more enjoyable on a 128MB video card.
  
  The sounds in the game are very well done. All interactible gadgets have their own sounds and effects. 
 However, there is not much diversity in these sounds and youll find that you're hearing the exact 
 same sounds when a Sim plays a computer game or cooks. The sound is still very well done and definitely 
 makes you feel more involved and in control of a real life simulation in a virtual way.
  
  Overall the game is an immersive experience which everyone should play at least once. Even if you 
 do not enjoy simulation/strategy games at least give it a try, you never know you might fall for 
 the game. The Sims 2 is a successful sequel and leaves you wanting more simological extravaganza. 
 The Sims 2 is totally different then any other game and it will grab a hold of you until you realize 
 that you live in a real world, not one of virtual simtastic pleasure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaAznGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  These days every gamer is about First Person Shooters, Sci-Fi Action, Racing, MMORPG's, and a whole 
 lot of other good stuff. But when it comes down to simulating and guiding little eletronic people 
 that you can mold an image of yourself to, it doesn't sound like it will have any real lasting 
 value. 
  For those of you who have played the original Sims, this game will not really make you commit to 
 any game in this genre much. The fact being is that Maxis still doesn't really get it. I really 
 hated the fact that there were about 5 expansion packs to the original Sims, and when Maxis announced 
 it would make a new sequel, I was thrilled, but now with the new expansion pack coming for The 
 Sims 2, I feel a sense of deja vu all over again.
  Even though the new engine is quite impressive, your choice is to either have a good computer with 
 a decent video card or tone down the resolution and detailing. But all in all this is a great game 
 but seems to have little potential of being what if could've accomplished, many lessons that arose 
 from the first Sims wasn't really fixed; but instead Maxis added more bugs onto it. Also trying 
 to multi-task and manage more than one sim is more hectic than it was in the original sims.
  Although many new concepts were added to improve on overall gameplay like the fact that your sims 
 can grow and age, or that you can now try and accomplish many of the individual sim's wishes or 
 dreams, turning this game into something that you have to help your sim to work on before he/she 
 dies. Even though all these new features are interesting, the overall core gameplay remains the 
 same, graphics improved, sound has been updated, and all the stuff you'd expect for games now a 
 days. But if your a fan of the Sims, this game will not dissapoint you but will leave you wondering 
 what many more things and enhancements that Maxis could've added before publishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS3-SS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  
  Same mixture of The Sims, but some tweaks make it impressive. You won't drop this game like for 
 two months. The game hypnotises you and you will not want to play anything else.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  A great level of detail on graphics was developed for The Sims 2, making it 
 a nice visual journey. You will fall in love with the level design and the character models.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Sound is mega-important in this game. Your sim makes sound, so does the stereo 
 system, so does the computer, so does the TV, so does the cars, so does the telephone, so does 
 the fire alarm and so does the burglar alarm. If you don't have sound, you won't enjoy this game 
 as much as other people.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Countless hours of fun make this game worth its bucks.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  
  Great game, 
 higly addictive and nice graphics.
  
  Total: 9.3 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joint2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Though this game had a lot of positive reviews, I find this game is not all up to hype.
  
  However, this game is great, but cannot beat the Sims in terms of orginal idea. That game deserves 
 to be called the best game ever. The Sims 2, however, cannot. The game starts off quite complex 
 for newbies, with 3 large neigbornoods with lots of chracters in them.
  
  However, I would recommend detleing them, because I do not find it to be very good. 
  
  Second, 
 The Sims 2 has a lack of Community lots and chracter in houses.
  
  Third, The Sims 2 has long loading times.
  
  On a positive note, the game has excellent graphics 
 and sound. The Game is very abmtious in trying to create Human-like stories, however the amount 
 of ease to make it a diaster is quite easy. The way who-hoo is implented is quite disapointing.
 
  
  The Game suffers from being too much like a graphics masterpiece and gameplay average.
  
  However, this game has high production values and is worth your money.
  
  If you can deal 
 with the shortcommings of the game, buy it! 
  
  Maybe in March, University will fix the ideas that were broken in the Orginal (The sims 2.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknwn1150
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2005 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Still feels like The Sims; aspirations and aging offer a great gameplay twist
  Cons: Pathfinding is still weak; Sims still behave oddly; more objects would have been nice
  
 
  The Sims. Its a love/hate kind of thing. Either you get it or you dont. Fortunately for Maxis, 
 enough people got The Sims to make it a smash hit. It transcended traditional gaming boundaries 
 and seeped into the mainstream. Its the kind of game your girlfriend would play. Maybe even your 
 mother.
  
  The Real World, But Kinda Better?
  
  But when all is said and done, The Sims 2 is quite an achievement. It retains the feel of the original 
 game and adds some significant new gameplay twists. Like other Maxis titles, its a game where 
 you choose your own goals. And with all of these new elements in The Sims 2, you have even greater 
 flexibility in finding your own path to fun.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is every bit as ambitious, jazzy and bouncy as its predecessor - only bigger, deeper 
 and much more satisfying. What else do you want to know? Well, it also happens to be one of the, 
 if not the best simulation game ever made. This is a big deal, a really big deal, believe you me. 
 
  
  Like the original game, The Sims 2 is not for everybody, however, it is much more focused and non-linear 
 that its forebear, with a greater sense of being and depth. The aspiration part of this game alone 
 is worth the price of admission, but The Sims 2 goes well beyond just that innovative feature. 
 Under the bonnet you will find the same quirky gameplay which defined the original, as well as 
 a superb realisation of the sims themselves. 
  
  The growing online content and custom options, plus the many planned expansion packs is going to 
 ensure this game lives on for years. 
  
  The Sims 2 comes Highly recommended!
  
  9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRLester
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 21, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has great graphics and sound, but the gameplay is weak. There are quite a few options 
 to make the game go how you want it but there is not a lot of conflict nor the room to create it. 
 The hype about the game is just that hype, its hard to find a machine that will take it and play 
 it properly and you are given per town, family, or person far to few options to make the game more 
 interesting. Rent this game if you can before buying it or borrow a friend's copy, before deciding 
 to pay for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer1185
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that you could play for days on end. The gameplay is great but, sometimes 
 the Sims don't do what you want them to do. I was wondering why some of the features and things 
 that were in the first Sims expansions were taken out of this game. For example, you can't own 
 pets and that was in Unleashed. The graphics kick the first sims ass. The sound is great but the 
 sims can't speak any language really. They sound like apes. You kind of learn from your mistakes 
 as you make them. This game is the best game, aside from Halo 2, that I own. Get this game and 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was the #1 PC game of all time for 2001, and now the moment you've been all waiting for 
 is The Sims 2! This game is not bad its actually fun! live up as life's biggest moments! although 
 the music in this game is alright The Sims 1 music was actually better, but this game still lives 
 up for any fans of the sims. Great 3D camera view it can zoom up pretty close to your sims face 
 which really makes this game 10 times better than TS1. But be prepared your going to need a really 
 good 3D graphic card to play this game, you can't play this game with an Intel graphic card it 
 will run really slow if you do, although Extreme Graphic card should be alright. Sims even have 
 facial expressions now, isn't that amazing! there's only a couple of channels in this game, its 
 like 4 or 5 channels, but no action channels. Well all I can say is go and get your copy now what 
 are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VibratingDonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Better graphics, more animations, new generations, more interactions. But once you've eaten the 
 delicious apple you come down to the rotten, worminfested, brown, ugly, repulsive, turdtasting 
 core. It still plays exactly like it's predecessor. With some added fluff. Go to toilet, poo with 
 your pants on, make dinner, eat, watch TV, read for your baby, woohoo with your wife. It could 
 just as well have been the tenth expansion pack.
  
  Fears and wants feels like a cheap gimmick that just stresses you even more. You don't have to 
 follow them but you end up doing just that anyway. One new feature that does add something to the 
 game is the aging process. Watch your baby grow up as your sim grows old. Though I got bored with 
 the game before I got that long.
  
  Half of the playtime consisted of waiting for things to load anyway. Start game, load, enter neighborhood, 
 load, enter lot, load for a minute, exit lot, load, enter community lot, load for two minutes. 
 I'm not kidding. It's the most hideous loadingtimes I've ever encountered. And I've had a Celeron 
 800MHz with 256 MB RAM for the past 4 years up until recently. the actual gameplay is far from 
 smooth as well. With a Athlon64 2800+ 512 MB RAM and a Geforce 6800GT I thought I would have no 
 problems running the game on High. And there are no problems either... if I stare at a wall. A moderately 
 large house and 5+ sims and I get to watch the framerate drop below 20 and hover around 30. I mean... what... the...****? 
 The graphics are otherwise fine, and the sims animate and express themselves pretty wildly. No 
 fancy effects or anything, it just looks good.
  
  Another thing which annoys me is the lack of content. There's not much more stuff in here than 
 in the original. On the official site you have an Alienware PC available for download. ... what 
 is this? They want me to download product placement they didn't have time to include before release? 
 But if I'm not happy with that I can always download a The Urbz box... or a couple of useless bushes. 
 An SDK would be nice, but that won't happen. EA wants to make money of their expanion packs.
  
  I will admit that the game was entertaining the first couple of days. I guess it was interesting 
 to see the sims interact and animate a bit differently for a while. Plus it was fun to play around 
 with the simcreator. Ridiculous and brilliant stuff you can create with that thing. But then I 
 lost interest of it completely. Haven't touched it for months now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthegreat232
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  Great but could be better. Its fun if your a fan or a newbie. provides hours of gameplay, but gets 
 stale after a month or two. 
  there is much more to do then in the first one. the graphics have made huge leaps and improve the 
 game further. More interactions between people and the fact DNA is passed on is great. People finally 
 age! There is Finally twins! AND YOU PICK WHAT TO EAT! From Mac and cheese to Baked alaska. Its 
 a really good sequil to a great game. needs more items but the EP will fix that.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: litledog1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid i've done somthing very evil here- i've had to give the graphics 1/10 just so i could 
 get the score down. I'm afraid I was a fan of the first sims for a few minutes, but after prob 
 10 hours of playing (which i admit is prob near my average) . The graphics are fine, but what is 
 new? you can do the sims makeup (YEYEYEYEYEY) for example. WHY would you want to do that? You can 
 do that to yourself if you're so inclined!
  
  What so infuriates me is the addons. ALREADY we have Sims at University or whatever in the works 
 - adding things you can download for free online is hardly what i call a great addon. We had seemingly 
 HUNDERDS of addons for the sims, and this overworked series is going to go on and on - because 
 CONSOLE players have come to the PC! People who know nothing about PC games are playing console 
 games on our systems! HELP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, here is the deal. The Sims 2 is basically the exact thing as the original was a few years back. 
 It has great potential but gets repetitive due to the lack of things to do, just like in the original. 
 The Sims 2 is really lacking tons and tons of items which make the game fel sort of disjointed 
 and makes you feel that Maxis just wanted to leave tons of items for expansions just to make money. 
 
  
  Dont get me wrong here, the game has some amazing gameplay and huge replayability not to mentionn 
 the beautiful graphics. It really sometimes makes you feel as if you're part of the game world 
 with everyone else. 
  
  Then come the character interactions. Amazing, truly amazing. Tons of variety added here for those 
 sim fans (or newbs)
  
  The sound is overall great with a good music soundtrack and interesting variety in character emotion 
 sounds.
  
  I would rather suggest you wait for the University expansion before buying the game because it 
 really feels like its lacking that something that the original game had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emh74656
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  I found it extremley irritating playing this game, evertime i tried to build it would just give 
 me the hand tool. Furnishing a room proved near impossible as the 3D interface made EVERYTHING 
 get into my way. The gameplay hasnt changed much since the first one and the only improvment over 
 the first one is the graphics. The choiced of furniture is limited and overall the game takes away 
 from the first one. When I made my first charecter i was impressed with the advanced making of 
 the faces but that was the last time I approved of the interface from the very beggining trying 
 to build my house i wanted to throw things at the screen, After that I just bought a house and 
 when i tried to furnish it , it took 15 minutes to furnish one room because i had to find an angle 
 at which I could see the entire room. It may hold some improvments but overall the frustration generated 
 by the flaws in the games interface make it almost impossible to play in the gamers opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoFaustino
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2004 11:15 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about the best sequel of best game ever, and in my opinion the game of the year. 
 Like all the sims games we get tired of it after playing a couple of times, i only received this 
 game at christmas so i'm not tired yet. The graphics are awesome at least for the type of the game, 
 the controls and the camera couldn't be better, the sounds are awesome they give to sims 2 the 
 final thing to be an awesome game. But what i like more in this game is all the new stuff include 
 in the game like sims making "whoo whooo" , sims most wanted wishes, a lot of options when using 
 an object or interacting with another sims, etc. The rest i leave it up to you to discover.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisherman1990
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2004 4:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best of the sims triogy; it's great for veterans and newbies to the phenomenon. 
 the graphics are crisp and the framerate is smooth; even when the game is on the lowest settings, 
 it still looks pretty decent. how the sims interact with each other is absolutely hilarious. if 
 you like torturing your sims, you'll laugh your head off; for example, if a sim's social rating 
 is down, a NPC named the "social bunny" will suddenly appear, and your sim can do whatever you 
 tell him or her to do, whether it's kissing it, or beat the living crap out of it. it's sorta evil, 
 but nonetheless uproarious. it's even more entertaining to interact with the new objects in the 
 game. some of them u obviously purchase with your simoleans, but there are new objects where you 
 can buy with your "mood" points, which you gain by fufilling a sim's specific need. by doing so, 
 you can make them live longer and benefit from its rewards... but with a price. you can only find 
 out their side-effects by actually purchasing them, for they are not explained in their descriptions.
 
  overall, i think this game will be more successful than its predecessor, since there's so much 
 more you could do in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostcurse
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2004 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The perfect game for a strategy fan! This game has alot to offer. As you take control of a sim, 
 there is a life in your hands, you decide how they will grow up and even how they will die! Very, 
 very, very addictive game, once you start playing; you cannot stop! This game is playable for everybody, 
 from 7 years old kids to 80 years old people or even older and they will enjoy it very much! Awesome 
 graphics and sound, also it has a great value and the most important thing; The game is nearly 
 infinite! Decide if your sim is going to be a thief, doctor or even a mad scientist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I am reviewing this game probably a couple of months after it came out. I bought this game immediately 
 following its release, got bored of it, then started playing it again recently once i got bored 
 of World of Warcraft (ughh) . I am going to tell you flat out what this game is if you play it right- 
 amazing. Aspirations, memories, gene passing, having babies, getting to have sex!!!!!!!!- all comes 
 down to a game thats one hundred times more enjoyable and deep than sims 1. I started off creating 
 the families of me as a teenager and my friends. Now I have grown up into a senior living in my 
 own mansion with the top job on the science career ladder with a wife and a baby, with my parents 
 long dead and my friends in close contact with kids of their own. It has truely been a life experience. 
 I've been caught talking to my friends about a girlfriend that I have had in sims 2, speaking like 
 she is actually my gf in rl. This game is so immersive. The graphics engine is cool also, theres 
 a fully 3d camera that you can make movies and take snapshots with, and the sound makes you feel 
 like you are right alongside your sim buddies.
  
  The only complaints I have about this game are the sims' AI, EA game's disgusting way to make tons 
 of money off of this game, and some other minor issues. The guys in the game sometimes have trouble 
 getting from point A to point B because of some minor obstacles as in the sims 1. Also, sofas positioned 
 incorrectly may become impossible to sit in and impossible to delete because they are bonded to 
 the television for some reason. Once again, having to do trifle tasks for your sims can get boring 
 but is highly rewarding once your sims lives have ended and they have created a long term legacy 
 for themselves. As for EA game's fondness of creating ten + useless expansion packs for sims 1, 
 they are doing the same thing for sims 2, and I can assure you that I will NOT buy every expansion 
 pack that comes out for this game despite my love for it. sims 2 UNIVERSITY? come on... you could 
 have at least added pets. This is Livin' Large all over again...
  
  If you havent bought this game, buy it NOW. It is probably at a discounted price by now because 
 its release was a while ago, so there is no reason to miss out on this awesome awesome game. Get 
 it if you have enough money after buying gta san andreas and half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahmbert
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 14, 2004 8:33 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 will not run properly without messing with the Processes and if you think thats bad. 
 They are going to add expansion packs so its going to get worse. The Sims 1 ran on most standard 
 AGP cards but this one doesn't you really need to ramp up your machine if you haven't upgraded 
 lately. There is still the matter of Sims 2 fighting for resources just to run. It is evident that 
 not enough warning to some of the casuall PC gamers was given since I have heard many people say 
 that they just gave up trying to run it and moved on to something else. I had a great deal of hope 
 in this games release and I am very unpleasantly disapointed. I am going to try to find a game 
 that suits my interests but for now its a boring waste of time. I am one that isn't going to set 
 myself up to be let down anymore. The Sims saga is over for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2004 11:32 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original Sims I found myself getting frustrated with it in recent months as 
 I waited for the release of the Sims 2. I had heard so much and seen so many shots of it that my 
 old game seemed to be a little lacking in shine. So when I opened the pack of the Sims 2 I half 
 expected to be disappointed. I wasn't, not even close. The game plays wonderfully. Every aspect 
 of the original is intact but the improvements in interface and graphics particularly mean that 
 you get even further sucked into the world of the Sim. While it is in no way a huge step forward 
 from the original it improves upon it enough to be truly amazing. More than once I have found myself 
 laughing at their new interactions, reactions and abilities. This is a worthy successor to the 
 greatest game ever made and is a must for every Sims fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: The Sims 2, the highly anticipated sequel to the best selling game of all time, The 
 Sims. Maxis released the Sims 2 recently to high praise. It would not be an easy job to improve 
 and enhance one of the best games ever created, but Will Wright and the geniuses at Maxis/Electronic 
 Arts easily managed to do so, improving on the original concept and graphics in almost every possible 
 way.
  
  Gameplay: The Sims 2 gameplay has been improved over the original game, but still at heart is the 
 same simple interface which makes the game so easy to play and enjoy. You start off by creating 
 your Sim, your simulated person. Previously we had a choice of clothes, and heads, but that's been 
 changed with Sims 2. Now you can completely customize your Sims head, altering every part of its 
 face to get the perfect Sim. Once done that, you can edit every facet of its clothing, shirt, pants, 
 underwear, swimsuit, you choose it all. You then give your Sim its characteristics, like how outgoing 
 it is, how playful, how neat, etc, along with an Aspiration, a series of random events that your 
 sim strives to complete, like, for the Family aspiration, your sim would want to get married, have 
 kids, have there kids do well in school, etc. Once your finished creating your Sim, you move on 
 to the house. Your given 3 neighborhoods with dozens of houses, and premade house templates that 
 you can move your Sim into. You can also design your own house, like you could in Sims 2. The process 
 is very similar, but more detailed. You can now add more floors, and even a basement if you have 
 the imagination to. After alls said and done, you can move your Sim into there house, and furnish 
 it, giving them everything they need to survive, a bed, a toilet, a fridge, a new $4000 computer, 
 everything. As with The Sims, you interact with your Sim by clicking and issuing it commands. You 
 can see a group of bars which indicate its current status. If your Sim is hungry, you can click 
 on the fridge and have it eat, to lower its hunger. Of course, herein lies one of the changes in 
 The Sims 2. In Sims 1, when your Sim was hungry and ate, they ate a generic looking plate of food 
 from the fridge. With Sims 2, Maxis has made so many changes. Now you can choose what your Sims 
 eat, Mac n cheese? Sandwich? TV Dinner? A roasted turkey? Its up to you. Almost every action in 
 Sims 1 is back in Sims 2, and completely redesigned and upgraded with more features. Theres no 
 end to the possibilities with the Sims 2, however the game is somewhat limited at the moment. The 
 Sims had 6-7 expansion packs at the end of its run, and Sims 2 has none yet ( tho the Sims 2 University 
 has been announced, yay ) . Also, the Sims community has made millions apon millions of user created 
 items for the game, and the Sims 2 hardly has any object support as of yet, excluding a few hacked 
 objects, but this is understandable. Even the Sims took a good while before there was a wide variety 
 of objects and such, and no doubt the Sims 2 will reach the same level in time.
  
  Story: ...... you havent been paying attention have you? Hello? Maxis? The "Sims"? Why would there 
 be a story? Seriously tho, there is a kind of story. Each of the 3 main neighborhoods has a small 
 backstory. The first neighborhood has the Goths, the family from The Sims. Mortimer is now an old 
 man, and Cassandra is an adult. His wife has disappeared, but if your smart enough, you'll find 
 her and reunite them ;) . The 2nd neighborhood has an alien backstory, with a family of aliens. 
 Lastly, the 3rd neighborhood is basically a modern twist on Romeo and Juliet.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics and sound are vastly improved from The Sims. Unlike the fixed 
 view in The Sims, you now have a 3D, 360 degree view of your Sims and there house. You can turn 
 the camera around, raise it up and down, and zoom right up to your Sims face. Now even the smallest 
 of actions has an animation, giving an incredible touch of reality to the game that we couldnt 
 have with The Sims.
  
  Replayability: Duh?
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, I HAVE to give The Sims 2 a 10/10. Maxis took one of the best 
 games ever created, and improved it drastically. Maxis is sure to release a dozen expansion packs 
 to enlarge the game and add much much more then The Sims ever had. The Sims 2 is one of the most 
 addictive and immersive games ive ever played, an instant classic, and is sure to overtake its 
 predecessor one day as the best selling game of all time, and will appeal to any type of gamer 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndresChile
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I never imagined that there would be a game better than The Sims, but I made a mistake, Sims 2 
 is amazing. Personally I enjoy much of their new 3D graphics, and I recognize that I am an addict 
 of the building of residential lots.
  
  The most importat is that you now can build houses with basements, with six floors, different kind 
 of sizes of terrains, and the tools for create differents houses styles.
  
  The option of create new sims, with all this genetic characteristics is another plus, this is very 
 fun, new colors, new people, etc. with an infinite numbers of genetic combinations, they make that 
 your sims is never same.
  
  The best thing of everything it is that surely this the first of a series of new expansions that 
 will surely make that the game is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbx69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2004 2:57 am PT
Review:  've been hearing negative reviews about the Sims 2 and how it hasn't lived up to the hype. Being 
 a sim fan myself, I find that the game has gone through some major upgrades.
  
  What do you expect from the sims game play? Pretty much a point and click to navigate your sim. 
 The best feature in this years sims 2 game play allows you to rotate the camera every which way. 
 That's a big plus + in upgrade this year.
  
  Last years sims looked ... well how should I put it? Dull? Thanks to the many sim fans we have 
 out there, they provided us with good skins and clothes. When game developers heard about the PS2, 
 they said "WOW, the things we can do to our games using the PS2 engine." Well, the same goes with 
 sim fans who love designing clothes and skins. This year, they get to create more realistic looking 
 sims and detail their face and body to portray the human race. The scenery is amazing, the objects 
 are amazing. The graphics have been beefed up. Major + for graphic upgrade.
  
  Shwada ma, shwada ma, efrae dona dat girl is frenshy wabba da. Yup, the sims jibberish language 
 is back. Don't you just love that language? The sims 2 offers a better sound track to the game 
 allowing you to upload your mp3's to the ea sims 2 folder to play on your stereo. The Sims didn't 
 allow you to do that with Mp3's thus 3rd party programs were created. Excellent job in keeping 
 the sound quality the same and allowing us to upload mp3's.
  
  I'm a little disappointed in maxis for not bundling up Sims 2 with a whole lot more objects and 
 clothes. I understand that sim fans have created thousands of clothes and objects. The game was 
 published with only the sims body shop which allowed you to create a sim and clothes. What ever 
 happened to the objects? The game is empty in material, and the wait for the Object creator could 
 be one year from now. Yea I know, it bites! The game is fun as the original and the interactions 
 are way too cool. Inspirations and fears will keep you busy until the expansion is announced. There 
 is nothing boring about the Sims 2 if your a fan of the original series.
  
  I love this game and I highly recommend you buy it. If your a sims fan, you probably already have 
 it. It may seem a little empty, but there are plenty of web sites that offer clothes, skins and 
 objects for you to download. This is one of my favorite games of the year.
  
  GO MAXIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damanwitdaplan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2004 3:31 am PT
Review:  When I played the Sims 2, the first second of the game I knew it was going to be a classic! And 
 my predictions were correct! The Sims 2 has a lot of things to enjoy that The Sims 1 didnt have. 
 The graphics have really improved in the game, for example, the humans and backgrounds look better 
 and pretty much everything has improved!
  
  What I think on what's the best mode on The Sims 2 is the DNA processor! It's amazing how it does 
 it with the technology it has! Also another thing I loved in The Sims 2 is the aging! From cradle 
 to grave you can make your sims live their lives the fullest or lowest!
  
  I would DEFINITELY recommend this game to ANYONE who owned a computer and was a fan of The Sims 
 series!
  
  My Overall score would be Superb and my last words are GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leithal
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the graphics are very nice and some of the new options are really entertaining 
 but it just feels way too much like the original. That being said, the game is still very addictive 
 and overall great but I really wish they had done more with it. Maxis had a great opportunity to 
 make a smash hit game and only got an average game that will need several expansion packs before 
 it reaches it's potential.
  
  I find that some of the issues that plagueq the first game are still found in this version. For 
 on my sims still find ways to get stuck when navigating around eachother and then forget everything 
 that you have told them to do and just stand there. After sorting out who is going where I have 
 to reassign the list of tasks that I had queued up. Some areas are far improved though, the language 
 and animations make for far more entertaining interactions between sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 12, 2004 11:54 am PT
Review:  It's a fun game, but after playing it for a week, I felt the same as I did after playing the original, 
 sort of like, I've seen everything I can see now... all what's left is to rinse and repeat day in 
 and day out. It leaves you with an empty feeling after playing it.
  
  When I first fired the game up, I was playing the first sims game. I knew exactly what I needed 
 to do, when to do it, how to do it, etc. The game play is almost identical! There are new tweeks, 
 but it's all surface, and while the sims has always promised a very interactive, and immersive 
 experience, it still remains very superficial. I mean, you can get a person to fall in love and 
 marry you in pretty much one (sim) night. The personality traits are really superficial too. There 
 are some people that just don't click in life, no matter how hard you try. In this game you can 
 make anyone fall head over heals in love with you within a 12 hour span. Am I the only one that 
 feels this is ridiculous?
  
  My main beef with the game is that nothing you do actually effects the exterior world of the sims. 
 You already exist within a self contained aquarium (your neighbourhood) , and you're further confined 
 to the fact that your actions only really effect you and your property.
  
  I think the idea spanning this game has real potential, but based on where the original sims took 
 gaming, and where this edition took gaming, the leap is so superficial and rather disappointing 
 to me. As it stands now, it's basically the original sims (with aging) and a few elements from 
 hot date and house party. The objects, and building choices are stripped down, and all the functionalities 
 remain the same. The conversation is flat, superficial and all the choices can pretty much be experienced 
 within an hour of gameplay.
  
  The game fell short of my expectations, and perhaps they are too high, but I don't think it's unfair 
 to expect a little more than a minor upgrade to the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad205
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2004 3:30 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a lot like the original. However, it is about ten thousand times better. Do you remember 
 the first week when you got the Sims, you must have played it for hours. This game is ten times 
 more addictive. Here, your main goal isn't to prevent your sim from pissing on the floor or having 
 all green mood. Your sims actually want stuff. They have aspirations. You can choose from five 
 aspirations, and your sims wants are based on which one you pick. Also, the build/buy objects have 
 improved imensly. Now, you can make love on any bed you want, without having a baby. Now, you can 
 choose an object, then change it's color or texture. Overall, it's a lot better. If you're a fan, 
 by this now... eventhough you've already bought it. I wonder who will actually read this review. 
 WOW, I'm a loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkSmith
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2004 12:41 am PT
Review:  An excellent sequel, and an outstanding game. Go get it now!
  
  Graphics: Not great, but as good as it gtes for this genre
  
  gameplay: Mixes the amazing gameplay 
 of the original with fresh new goodness
  
  sound: Pretty good
  
  Value: Not that much inherently: they're going to milk the game with a myriad of expansion packs. 
 The community gives it some nice potential tho.
  
  Tilt: Just a flat out enjoyable game. Its the sequel to the best selling pc game ever for a reason!
 
  
  In summary: Go buy bthis game,. Don't be scared by a lack of action, this isnt a boring theme park 
 creation game or anything, this is the real deal!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirtai
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2004 3:21 am PT
Review:  I know this should be a real review, and if you liked the sims1, you'll like the sims2. I can't 
 vouch for anyone else, but that much is true. It succeeds on nearly every level of gameplay, taking 
 things one step further than you could with the sims. You really, really care what happens to your 
 sims, and that is why this bug is so devastating. From what we (the players) can determine, if 
 you play the game long enough ( get a sim to around 50 -60 days) , you will get the "Jump Bug". 
 In Maxis' only statement about the bug, they have said they believe it has something to do with 
 the memory system, and here is what it does: it keeps the infected sim from doing anything - anything- 
 where they use a "chat interaction". This "chat" is used anytime two or more sims are spending 
 idle time together, be it eating dinner together, being in the hot tub, watching t. v., or lying 
 in bed. When an infected sim attempts one of these activities, he drops, or "jumps" from the activity, 
 and loses all queued interactions, and will suddenly appear a bit away from his earlier position, 
 standing around doing nothing. It essentially stops gameplay. If a sim cannot interact with other 
 sims, he is critically handicapped, from having a family, friends, and a career, as well as jeopordizing 
 his very life, by having a social bar in the red all the time, and hunger if he can't eat because 
 of jumping.
  You can see the quality in the game through this warning- I care so much about my sim I fear him 
 losing his family or life. Once this is fixed it will be the game to beat all games. Oh, by the 
 way, the bug will spread to other sims, even if they are not old enough to start it themselves. 
 
  
  Just thought you should know, if you are looking to buy this game and the patch for this hasn't 
 been release yet. Buyer beware! If you haven't bought it yet, I'd wait for a patch.
  
  P. S. The soundtrack isn't nearly as good as the first game in my opinion, I replaced it with old 
 music in my game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2004 4:54 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say the game is simply amazing. Hats off to EA for designing a very good 
 addition to Will Wright's Sim series. I did run into a few problems, though.
  
  First, if you have never played The Sims, then this game will be one of the best you have ever 
 played. However, if you already played the original, you pretty much already know the general jist 
 of the game.
  
  Also, I do not know about any of you, but I did rush out to by each expansion pack for The Sims. 
 Now, I feel lost and confused: not only do I have to move on to a new game, but a lot of the cool 
 features that made the expansion packs so awesome are missing from The Sims 2.
  
  And finally, how many expansion packs should we expect for this game before The Sims 3 comes out?
 
  
  I am not complaining, because I do not have a problem with buying expansion packs, but a lot of 
 effort seems to have been wasted in expansion packs for the original game when lots of the features 
 in them did not translate to this game.
  
  All in all, still a very good game, with little things just nagging me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomicfireball
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is better than all of the Sims 1 and all of the expantions put together, believe me, 
 I have them all. The Graphics are totally amazing, even on the low setting, but it is one of the 
 best graphics in a game that I have ever seen on the high setting. I suggest you to get up right 
 now and buy this game. I bet it would be even more awesome when the expansion comes out. If someone 
 doesnt like this game, they need to be put in to the asylum. Once you get this you wont stop playing. 
 The premade sims are totaly awesome, and so is the new create - a - sim , and the new body shop 
 editor, which comes with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sojss
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 12, 2004 4:39 am PT
Review:  Do no why this game got so high rating? After playing sims one and other expasion back few years 
 ago, I had to admit this really feel like the first game with no expasion again ! just major graphic 
 improve and few minor gameplay content not really a major step over the sims 1, gameplay pretty 
 much the same, graphic only good if had the popular brand, the new ea game make difficult gameplay 
 graphic for those who don't had the popular brand video card. Which is a major problem. This game 
 is best if u haven't play yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praxis22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2004 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin?
  
  First the negative, it comes on 4CD's, (or 1DVD) takes so long to install they give you a flash 
 game to play, and the online registration stuff is best left to a real browser. It also suggests 
 you do dumb things like turn off all background processes, including the virus checker and 3rd 
 party firewall's both when running, and when installing. Which, for a game with online registration 
 and downloadable content & patches, in game, is damn near sucidal. Not to mention telling people 
 things that can really screw their PC up if they don't know what they're doing. It can also take 
 a while to load and save, and if your PC is not up to snuff, can lag more than a little. It also 
 has more than a few bugs, stupid things like the cleaner getting stuck cleaning the fishtank, oddly 
 positioned limbs, and the inability of maxed out sims to make food.
  
  The positive is that the game looks wonderful, once you get used to the 3D camera it looks so much 
 better than the original. From dumb things like the family portraits, and the "create a sim" room, 
 to the incidental graphics used everywhere. The whole game positively reeks of polish! The sounds 
 are all amazing too, from the radio stations doing all manner of music, all in the now familair 
 "Simlish" To the TV stations and incidental effects. But what really gets your attention, is the 
 way the sims behave, right of the bat, if left alone, your sims will just interact sponaneously, 
 invite a few people over and it can really get lively in there. The only dissapointment, (more 
 because of the first games success than anything else) is the lack of "stuff" that comes with the 
 sims2. I'm used to having so much stuff it can take me a while just to chose what to use, this 
 is not a problem I have with the sequel. Though it is a problem likely to endure, as there are 
 no tools able to create objects, other than the bodyshop for clothes, hair and makup, etc. Though 
 this of course will change with the inevetable add-on packs that will role out in future.
  
  That said, it's as open-ended a game as you could hope to have, to say nothing of the storytelling/movie 
 making possibilities, and the advanced construction set that is build mode. Basically it's a superset 
 of the first game, a fairly unique sandbox of a game, with as many ways to play as you have time 
 and imagination to conceive of, added to this are the "new" sims themselves, who like thier parents 
 before them, will likely confound and astound in equal measure.
  
  If you liked the first incarnation, you'll love the second comming, if you've yet to play, you've 
 no idea what it is you've been missing. Come on in, the water's lovely :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3RV
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The Sims original was the first pc game that everyone in the family could play. It blended everyday 
 activities and tried to make them less mundane. It succeded in this, and because of its wide demographic 
 it has sold more copies than any other game.
  When I heard of the Sims2 I thought that they game would be the original with afew graphics tweaks. 
 I was wrong.....
  The sequel offers an extreme diversity of gameplay and a vast array of improvements over the first, 
 while still keeping its trademark "simian talk".
  What sets the 2nd apart from the 1st is that there is much more to do. Also the blend of mundane 
 actions with impossible realities makes the game very humourous.
  All in all all the new tweaks and greatly upgraded visual display makes the Sims 2 a great game. 
 The oncoming downloadable content can only make the game longer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRC513
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 8, 2004 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It relly was the new breath of air that the series needed. The graphics are 
 great and the music is not nearly as annoying as the first one. If you are a 
  Sims fan you will love this and if not then im sure if you give it a chance then you will like 
 it as well. I would recomed it to just about anyone unless you hate the Sims. The gameplay hasnt 
 changed all the much which is kind of a let down but the coure gameplay still happends to be fun. 
 This is a game that you can sit down to years from now and still enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Easy-Target
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 8, 2004 10:33 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is a fantastic follow up to the greatest PC game of all time. Now your families actually 
 grow up, from a toddler to a child, teenage from adult, oldman to 6 feet under.
  
  There are so many more options, items can now be customized and the face creator is the best around.
 
  
  Now you have the option of a family tree, which stops say the son making out with his mom.
  
 
  Teenagers just want to kiss, while children want to grow up. You have to make this happen, by 
 making their lifes as rich and fufilled as possible.
  
  However, this game is a monster. You need a very good machine to run it in all its glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHIFTMAN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2004 1:22 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 is a good game new features and better graphics. I will start with the features there is 
 better voices and new items better life you can get out of your home its worth it. The Sims 2 is 
 a good difficulty its harder to raise motives and harder to get married and get a job. Sims 2 voices 
 sound a bit like the same but a bit different like compare Sims for the PS2 and The Sims Bustin 
 out for the PS2 there just a bit different. Sims 2 has crazy new graphics they look better but 
 you have to have a good graphics card to play it you can get it from any electronic store. Also 
 Sims 2 has better human like emoctians, better socials for taking to family, friends, children, 
 or strangers. Another new thing is the items they are new items and they look more real I cant 
 tell you some new items you will have to play the game. Well this is the end of the review. Fin 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrosepa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2004 5:52 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to have friend? Ever thought of having a job and making 
 money? Or even getting married to the one you love? If you've answered Yes to any of the above 
 questions, you need a life. Or you could buy The Sims 2
  
  The original Sims opened up a new door to simulations, and offered something very unique. That 
 something was to take care of people, or commonly known as Sims. Almost everyone instantly fell 
 in love with this game. I'm sure that a lot of girl gamers loved it because it's almost like playing 
 Barbie, only it's so much better. Now, many years later, and almost non-stoppable expansions, the 
 Sims 2 is released to Sim fanatics everywhere. With almost everything being new, this is surely 
 a game that every gamer around the world has to experience.
  
  When I first started playing the game, I did feel a bit uncomfortable with the camera system. But 
 as I kept playing I got more and more comfortable to it, and now I'm actually very good with it. 
 I'm sure that everyone will agree that it is much better then the previous title, especially the 
 high zooming to get up close and personal with your sim. Another camera feature that was added 
 was the top-down view in building mode, which I think is something very handy when you want to 
 construct the basis of your house. It also gives you more of a perspective of how big your rooms 
 are, which is a big added bonus.
  
  The graphics closely resembles the original Sims, but now is much smoother, and sports some very 
 cool features. The Sims has a unique look, and luckily that stuck to the Sims 2. The character 
 animations are smooth and physically possible, the environment is much more 'alive', such as the 
 TV screen actually having a moving picture when watching, or playing console games. The outside 
 is also very well done, with shade from trees, and lights in the evening. This does push some graphics 
 cards, but is easily customizable in the settings menu. 
  
  Another unique feature is the new Aspirations, which you decide when creating a new sim. This ranges 
 from being rich, to being popular. My sim I chose to be rich, so if he gets a lot of money, his 
 aspirations meter will rise. With the aspiration points, you are able to buy unique objects, such 
 as the money tree. Which actually grows real simoleans. This was especialy important for my sim 
 as he loves money. You also get job rewards where you can buy job specific items, for example a 
 practice operation table for a sim in the medical field.
  
  Another important note is the sound. The music is calming, and actually really nice to listen to, 
 and sometimes will be stuck in your head for the whole day. The environmental sounds are really 
 well done, from drawers to the showers to crickets. Even snoring is something that might irritate 
 you a bit.
  
  Overall this is a great game, and very enjoyable. A brilliant sequal to a brilliant game. I do 
 wonder how many expansions Maxis will make for The Sims 2.
  
  My score: 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 5, 2004 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing a product like The Sims 2 can be fairly problematic. Primarily, this is due to the fact 
 that it's such a broad and diverse game that one can either love it or on the adjacent side of 
 things, hate it. Unfortunately, there are no revolutionary features this time around... And so 
 instead of having a crowd of two opposites, there is now a balance to the equation. Simply put, 
 The Sims 2 is a Great game but it doesn't live up to its predecessors. Sure, there are some pleasant 
 additions and minor touch ups but in the end, you're stuck with playing a "pretty" version of the 
 original.
  
  Upon first glance, the biggest thing you'll notice is the graphics. The Sims are now in a 3D world. 
 Not only do things look alot better, they touch you in a way the previous Sims title could not. 
 For example, your sims will now express their emotions through physical gestures as well as facial 
 expressions. While nothing special, it is a nice addition and can lead to some serious contemplation 
 as to where you want to lead your Sims (They can get pretty emotional) . With that in mind, it's 
 a no-brainer that the folks in Maxis also spent quite a bit of time touching up the environment. 
 Looking at a screenshot, you'd know what I mean. Nothing spectacular but a definite (And much needed) 
 upgrade to the graphics in comparison to the previous Sims title.
  
  Graphics aside, the Gameplay is fairly solid. Nothing is dramatically changed from the original 
 but you'll notice some pretty neat [and new] features. The biggest, perhaps, is that your sims 
 now age. In theory, this would be amazing. Especially with the implemented goals, fears, and aspirations. 
 You actually get a sense of accomplishment when a teen grows into an adult... Or an adult, into 
 an elder. Yet there's a missing ingredient to this blend of potential that could leave a gamer 
 feeling as if things are a bit repetitive. Rest assured, this isn't your imagination. The Sims 
 kept gamers into the blend of things because it was something of a foreign experience. That isn't 
 the case, for most people, with The Sims 2. Hardcore fans may find a sense of comfort in all that 
 which is offered... Others may, in the long run, feel disappointed.
  
  What is there to say about the sound? You'll hear your sims "Gibberish" in the trademark which 
 is their language, music indifferent from the aforementioned, and a pleasant feature which allows 
 you to throw in your own tunes. By no means is it "Superb" but its just barely enough to qualify 
 amongest the "Great" of things.
  
  As a whole, The Sims 2 is a great game. It's not dramatically different from the previous Sims 
 title but has just enough additions, tweaks, and gameplay elements to appeal to the fans of its 
 genre... And beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2004 10:03 pm PT
Review:  My biggest regret about this game is that it can't possibly live up to the hype. The reason the 
 first one was so great was due to the fact that it was a completely new idea. I think Maxis should 
 have held back on some of the expansions and tried including them in Sims 2, because immediately 
 after i started playing, i got bored with it. There isn't a whole lot that is new to the game. 
 
  
  Sure the graphics are a heck of a lot better, but they are missing tons of items. I feel that about 
 75% of the fun is improving your home and getting better stuff. But the choices are so limited 
 in this that this portion of the game feels bare. I think it would have been a lot better had they 
 included an object maker with the game to get this ball rolling. Instead we can only make people. 
 
  
  While the people are fun to make, some of the choices are odd to me. Like why can we customize 
 everything in the face, but we have 2 sizes of people... stick or fat. 
  
  I also was annoyed with the way they arranged the items in the purchasing catalog. I too, like 
 the reviewer for Gamespot had a problem finding a crib, which really killed my child-raising ability. 
 
  
  Anyways, sorry for such a negative opinion, but i feel this game got too hyped for what really 
 feels like an expansion pack onto what i already had of the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocuba
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 5, 2004 4:56 am PT
Review:  I have read some of the reviews from the community, and I think its pretty obvious that The Sims 
 line of games is incredible. The original provided players with a very addicting, yet fun opportunity 
 to run the lives of tiny people called Sims. To those who played the original, it was a must have 
 when The Sims 2 was announced. We waited and waited...... and waited..... ohh and we waited, and 
 then bammmm. I got my new The SIms 2 DVD version home, popped it into my home computer and to my 
 surprise, the game didn't work. Granted there may be problems here and there with games, so I decided 
 to put it on my laptop. It worked. So, off I play for a while, and I find that the game mirrors 
 the original far too close. Sure there are some pretty neat new features, such as of course the 
 recent graphics update, and the aging process, not to mention a bunch of others, but the game itself, 
 besides a few minor gaming differences, is just a shnazzed up version of the original. So, was 
 it worth the wait for The Sims 2? Probably not, but the game is still a good game, just not "new" 
 enough for my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2004 1:20 am PT
Review:  I've been hearing negative reviews about the Sims 2 and how it hasn't lived up to the hype. Being 
 a sim fan myself, I find that the game has gone through some major upgrades.
  
  What do you expect from the sims game play? Pretty much a point and click to navigate your sim. 
 The best feature in this years sims 2 game play allows you to rotate the camera every which way. 
 That's a big plus + in upgrade this year.
  
  Last years sims looked ... well how should I put it? Dull? Thanks to the many sim fans we have 
 out there, they provided us with good skins and clothes. When game developers heard about the PS2, 
 they said "WOW, the things we can do to our games using the PS2 engine." Well, the same goes with 
 sim fans who love designing clothes and skins. This year, they get to create more realistic looking 
 sims and detail their face and body to portray the human race. The scenery is amazing, the objects 
 are amazing. The graphics have been beefed up. Major + for graphic upgrade.
  
  Shwada ma, shwada ma, efrae dona dat girl is frenshy wabba da. Yup, the sims jibberish language 
 is back. Don't you just love that language? The sims 2 offers a better sound track to the game 
 allowing you to upload your mp3's to the ea sims 2 folder to play on your stereo. The Sims didn't 
 allow you to do that with Mp3's thus 3rd party programs were created. Excellent job in keeping 
 the sound quality the same and allowing us to upload mp3's.
  
  I'm a little disappointed in maxis for not bundling up Sims 2 with a whole lot more objects and 
 clothes. I understand that sim fans have created thousands of clothes and objects. The game was 
 published with only the sims body shop which allowed you to create a sim and clothes. What ever 
 happened to the objects? The game is empty in material, and the wait for the Object creator could 
 be one year from now. Yea I know, it bites! The game is fun as the original and the interactions 
 are way too cool. Inspirations and fears will keep you busy until the expansion is announced. There 
 is nothing boring about the Sims 2 if your a fan of the original series.
  
  I love this game and I highly recommend you buy it. If your a sims fan, you probably already have 
 it. It may seem a little empty, but there are plenty of web sites that offer clothes, skins and 
 objects for you to download. This is one of my favorite games of the year.
  
  GO MAXIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  On the good side: it's the sims, only more complicated. Better in some ways, i. e. graphics are 
 outstanding, full 360 viewing and zoom put you IN the game. Buildings are more intricate and detailed, 
 more opportunity for customization. Personal relationships and interplay are more complicated, 
 but personal motivations are also easier to see. The fact that not all Sims get off on acquiring 
 stuff, and have other needs, wants, and aspirations make for a more interesting, detailed game 
 as you try to balance all the family members desires. Watching as a child becomes a teen or a teen 
 an adult is a huge rush.
  
  That being said, I must go on to the bad side; this game is not for the weak computered. I am running 
 a 2.2Ghz laptop w/256 ram, and I close all exteraneous programs, but sometimes the game still hangs/locks 
 up. This is quite frustrating, so I recommend saving often to avoid losing game play data. Weighing 
 the good against the bad, I have to say that Sims 2 comes out on top. It is fun, entertaining, 
 and easy to get sucked in to. I give it a 1 1/2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubese
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2004 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has already sold over 1 million copies in it's first 10 days of being on store shelves. 
 That fact alone should tell you something about the game. However, maybe it won't, because most 
 of the audience of the original Sims games were not exactly the most hardcore of gamers. Most people 
 who play The Sims are casual gamers who just play it to waste time (although I'm sure plenty of 
 hardcore gamers play games to waste time too) . So, with that said, many of the units being sold 
 are bought from people who buy it because of the title alone.
  
  All things aside though, this is The Sims. Sure, it has another number on the end of it, but this 
 game is still what it was nearly 4 years ago. This time around though, EA gives us a bit more of 
 a goal to the game (if you want to) . Not only does it have aspirations which act like quests , 
 it has an aging system where your Sims actually die of old age in the game. The graphics have also 
 been bumped up significantly, but that isn't saying much since the original Sims graphics were 
 quite close to crap. You won't see amazing lighting effects, bump-mapping, or insanely high quality 
 textures, but you will see the same great graphical style that we saw in the first games.
  
  The gameplay is also essentially the same thing again, but some of the options for emotions 
 and interactions between Sims are better.
  
  If you liked the Sims, you will like The Sims 2. If you didn't like The Sims, I can pretty much 
 guaruntee you won't like The Sims 2. But, maybe not. So do yourself a favor and go try it out for 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theace18
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I personally felt this game was much better than the first one. I will agree, it is pretty stripped 
 down, in comparison to the original Sims with all the expansion packs... But I am sure we will be 
 seeing some more expansion packs with Sims 2 in the months to come.
  
  The characters expressions and mannerisms are funny as heck! I love watching my Sims do their thing, 
 and see how they react. 
  
  The create a sim has been completely overhauled. Now Sims will never look the same... Facial wise 
 that is. 
  
  I highly recommend this game, to previous Sims owners, and news ones as well. Well done EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 27, 2004 6:27 am PT
Review:  I've been excited about the Sims 2 for over a year now. I loved the first game and was really excited 
 to see what they would do in terms of gameplay to make it even more emersive and unique. Boy was 
 I fooled by the screen shots of the game on IGN i saw prior to the release of the game. Other than 
 an extreme jump in the graphics, supplied by a new graphics engine, and the game being in full 
 3D there is absolutely nothing new about the Sims 2. 
  
  Please heed my warning! Gamers expecting to be blown away by the sims, your going to be severely 
 dissappointed. After playing it for two days im already bored. It comes down to the same old stupid 
 NPC characters that really have no AI or personality to them at all. Relationships with people 
 consist of clicking on chat, over and over again until they become a friend and one more tick towards 
 your family friends goal in your chosen career path. The game limits you from having fun and exploring 
 the new options by making you constantly go to the bathroom, take a shower, sleep, eat etc. There's 
 just not enough time in the sim day to try and create "storys" and relationships with people because 
 of all the meneal tasks you have to perform, over and over again. Shame on Maxis and shame on you 
 for buying this game after reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythoras
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2004 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I first played the sims a few years ago and I dind't like it, every day in a sims life was the 
 same so it became boring after some time.
  
  But then I played the sims 2, it really rocks the gameplay is really cool not a single day the 
 same. 
  The graphics and facial expressions are very nice done
  
  For the sound, good music but kinda basic so I gave it an 8
  
  You can keep playing the sims 
 2 as long as you want, so a 10 for value
  
  I really love playing this game, hope the expansion packs will come soon ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemphx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 26, 2004 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that after playing for almost a week that this version of the Sims 2 is like comparing 
 the original Doom graphics to Doom 3. The visuals are absolutely stunning on this game and the 
 cinematic cut scenes that feed of the game play are amazing. I love the whole life cycle aspect 
 because it gives it more of a game feel than a life simulator. Don't get me wrong though the life 
 simulation is all still there.
  
  Some things I'd like to see in the next expansion pack though... hope Maxis is reading these... would 
 be:
  
  1. Seasons... we've got phases of life it would be great to see the weather change too.
  2. Macros... I 
 was hoping to see a macro function to automate some of the more everyday routines.
  
  Those were the big ones I saw missing in few weeks. Otherwise I'm totally hooked and can't wait 
 for the first expansion pack and the custom content to start showing up on the web. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  The original Sims for the PC was a classic. It let you create a family, build their house (or use 
 a pre-built one) , and control most parts of their lives, from their look to their career to their 
 relationships. A plethora of expansion packs let you throw parties, go on vacation, get pets, or 
 become celebrities. However, the game was flawed. There were no goals besides getting to the top 
 of your career and being rich. Your characters stayed the same age forever and never looked different. 
 Everything was predictable, even if it was random. With Sims 2, however, Maxis fixed everything 
 wrong with the original while leaving the completely open-ended gameplay intact. In Sims 2, you 
 can control every single aspect of your Sims life, from their looks to their actions, from birth 
 to death, with a scary amount of realism. Sims 2 raises the bar for detail, depth, realism, and 
 overall polish for games in general, no matter what the genre or platform is. It's the rare game 
 that appeals to hardcore and mainstream gamers equally and is still an incredible, unforgettable 
 game. Regardless of whether you hated or played the hell out of the original, you will love Sims 
 2. It's what every sequel wishes it could be, but it's still a masterpiece in its own right.
  
  The game revolves around being God, like all simulation games. You create your character in 
 a mind-numbingly detailed, fun character creation system, and if you want, you make an entire family. 
 You then choose one of three neighborhoods, and either build your own house with a detailed, extremely 
 customizable building tool or chose one of several well-designed pre-built homes. Then the real 
 game begins. You complete the house with hundreds of detailed, useful items, and then you start 
 being God. You control your characters by simply left-clicking on another object, whether it's 
 a shower, a fridge, a bed, or another sim. You then bring up layers upon layers of interactions, 
 each one effecting the long-term or short-term feelings and/or actions of one or more sims. You 
 have to keep your sims' moods high by fulfilling needs like going to the bathroom, eating, sleeping, 
 and having fun. Furthermore, you can control time, either pausing it, having it go normally, having 
 it go at 2X speed, and having it go at 3X speed.
  
  There are some great new additions to the game, like a system that ages your sims after a pre-determined 
 amount of days, an in-game calender that tells you what day of the week it is (and thus a system 
 that gives everyone with a job two days off per week as well as vacation/sick days) , and the Aspiration 
 system. Aspirations are four Wants and three Fears that are assigned daily to each sim, from one 
 of five aspiration sets (fortune, knowledge, family, romance, popularity) . Every time you complete 
 a Want (without taking a long time) , you get Aspiration Points and an Aspiration level (or, every 
 time you complete a Fear, you lose aspiration points and an aspiration level) . Once your Aspiration 
 Level is Gold or Platinum, you use your Aspiration Points to obtain new items, like a Money Tree, 
 a Thinking Cap, and a water cooler that brings your sim, upon drinking it, back to the beginning 
 of their aging cycle. While you don't need to fulfill your Aspirations, you can if you want to, 
 giving you the same type of freedom that makes the Sims series so great. Another addition is the 
 frequent questions from work. You'll constantly have a little box appear, which gives you a situation 
 and two choices from your sim's work. One choice helps you from earning skill points to getting 
 you promoted, while the other choice hurts you from losing skill points to getting fired. Overall, 
 the gameplay additions make the game much better due to making it more realistic, goal-oriented, 
 and yet open-ended.
  
  The gameplay is perfect. It's easy to learn but hard to master, it has a small learning curve, 
 and it's highly addictive. It may have some flaws- like, though improved from the original, lame 
 AI, in which sims will do stupid things, like play videogames (all EA games, by the way) instead 
 of feed their screaming child- but the sheer amount of fun that the game provides makes it easy 
 to overlook the few flaws the game presents gameplay-wise.
  
  Graphically, Sims 2 is incredible. It easily has the most detailed game engine ever. From the amazing 
 animation and emotions to the individual details like seeing individual pieces moved on a chess 
 board or watching a shower rust away due to extended use without cleaning. There's a brilliant 
 3D engine at work here, letting you rotate and zoom in at any angle to capture any moment you want 
 with an in-game video capture system and/or an in-game screenshot system. It can be hard to use 
 the 3D engine at times, but the pause feature the game gives you lets you freeze time whenever 
 you need to in order to get front-row seats for the game of life.
  
  There's not much to say about the game's graphics. They're incredibly polished, detailed, and realistic. 
 From the individual pancakes that gradually disappear during a breakfast to the pimples on a teenager's 
 face, everything is done accurately. Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 get all the credit for having advanced 
 graphics engines, but Sims 2 easily puts their engines to shame.
  
  In the audio department, Sims 2 does well. A catchy, original soundtrack sticks in your head and 
 makes you hum it throughout the day. "Simlish", the sims' gibberish language, is back and better 
 than ever, now being more appropriate for the moment. Sound effects help keep things realistic. 
 The game's audio may not be the best of any game ever, but it gets the job done and helps make 
 the game more realistic.
  
  Let me try to explain this to you... If you like games, you'll like Sims 2. If you like Sims 2, 
 you WILL spend at least 20 hours playing it hopelessly. Moving through generations, families, and 
 neighborhoods lets you truly be God in the world of the Sims.
  
  Overall, Sims 2 is one of the best games I've ever played. Addictive gameplay, beautiful graphics, 
 catchy audio... Sims 2 has it all. It lets you create a family, build their house, lead them through 
 life, and watch generation after generation fly by in the Sims world and in the real world. It's 
 a polished, addictive, unforgettable game that both hardcore and mainstream gamers can pick up 
 and enjoy within minutes. Sims 2 is such a remarkable game that calling it one of the best games 
 ever doesn't do it justice. It's going to be remembered as an instant classic that improves in 
 every way upon its predecessor, and that's exactly what it is- an amazing sequel and an amazing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackJohnFlint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 26, 2004 2:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not gonna lie.... I never really got into the original Sims. The tedium of having to tell my 
 sims to do literally everything was just too much to keep it enjoyable once past the novelty stage, 
 and I probably only played it for about five or six hours total. For those reasons, I only took 
 a passing interest in the next installment, but as I followed development I thought things were 
 looking up for the franchise. As release neared, I felt pretty confident buying ---and I'm not at 
 all disappointed.
  For the most part, improvements abound in the Sims 2. I won't rehash the Gamespot review because 
 it sums things up pretty well. Here are my personal favorites from what has changed:
  graphics ---pretty darn sweet. Obviously it's not meant to look realistic, but it's a perfect blend 
 of cartoon and real. Zooming in (which I didn't do much initially) reveals cool little details 
 that really add to it. I got a kick out of seeing tiny footprints on the unfinished wood of a foundation 
 that I was constructing, obviously left by construction workers. Overall, the game looks great.
 
  gameplay -- I no longer have to constantly babysit, which was clearly the most-needed improvement. 
 Yes, if you want them to do just what you want you need to tell them to, but otherwise, they mostly 
 take care of themselves. No more fears of public "accidents", or need for adult diapers, or other 
 stuff that you just shouldn't have to worry 
  about. 
  sound -- the sound is very well-done. All the little mandatory items are there, the simspeak seems 
 less irritating and actually pretty informative, as you can pretty much tell how they're feeling 
 etc at any given time. Much of it is pretty humorous, as before, and different sims have different 
 ways of blabbering. What environmental sounds are there are great, and the music is pretty good 
 too ---though I usually leave it off unless I particularly want to hear it. Again, lots of cool 
 details in the sounds that objects make, etc.
  design -- the UI is generally great, with very few confusing moments within menus, etc. The only 
 gripe I have is that same as I had with the first one ---it's sometimes frustrating to have sims 
 making choices as I'm trying to find the right action in the radial menu and I sometimes find myself 
 doing the old "No! Don't do that! Come back here!" etc, but now that I've learned the layout pretty 
 well it's a minor issue. In the "construction" mode you spend some time digging through the choices 
 and 
  something isn't quite right that I can't quite put my finger on, but it's also well-done overall. 
 Tons of items for your sims, almost limitless looks for them (the "bodyshop" editor is very deep, 
 though it lacks modifications to the actual body shape other than basic "slim" or "chubby") , etc.
 
  Another major addition is the ability to roam about the neighborhood, visit commercial locations 
 (and invite other sims to meet you there) etc, and it works very well. Adds a much-needed dimension 
 to the game and makes the neighborhood/world feel far more real than it did before.
  Most importantly is the new "fears/desires" aspect for your sims. I like it pretty well and again, 
 it adds major depth to the game and far more uniqueness to each sim. Plus it's just alot of fun 
 to see how far you can push their mood up (or down, if you're inclined) by playing on their wants 
 and fears. For example, one of my sims is the single guy player-type, and he's got several girlfriends 
 he's juggling at once. I've had him visit the home of three sisters, two of which he is currently 
 um... spending
  time with. At one point I had him in the jacuzzi with one sister when the other appeared and the 
 mayhem ensued. I actually felt bad as the second sister got angry and then cried her eyes out ---I 
 had to bail out and not save my progress as it was just too cruel. It's pretty funny though to 
 see his "wants" consist of basically getting busy as much as possible and his "fears" made up of 
 "getting engaged", "getting married", etc. True to form, he doesn't want to lose the ladies but 
 is avoiding "settling 
  down" at all cost. 
  everything else -- some of the details in how the game works actually amaze me. It does things very 
 smartly, especially in the editor when you're building houses, landscaping, etc. Some excellent 
 design here, and everything works very well. No major issues to detract that I have found.
  
  To sum it up, The Sims 2 is quality, fun, and a huge time-suck. To be honest, I'm having as 
 much fun designing neighborhoods, houses, and lots as I am actually playing with the little digital 
 people. I've discovered that there are lots of ways to play the game as well., and the game is 
 just alot more fun as opposed to the "work" of the original ---in other words, it's more a really 
 cool toy instead of an irritating job. Sometimes I spend alot of time micromanaging a particular 
 sim for awhile, other times I just hop around the neighborhood and play each of them for a short 
 while, other times I spend hours just building new homes and lots for them to occupy. If you liked 
 the original even a little and -- like me -- saw alot of unfulfilled potential there, the new version 
 will definitely do it for you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2004 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is technically the second go-around for the Sims series, but with an army of expansions to 
 the first game, this title does its best to recreate the enjoyment of the original without being 
 seen as too empty (lacking the weird and numerous items of the Sims 1 and all it's exp. packs) . 
 The Sims 2 does this very well, and not only are the graphics, gameplay, and interface immaculate 
 and improvements in all categories over the original, but most items can now be customized right 
 out of the box with a variety of colors and materials. This helps to alleviate the fact that the 
 developers have certainly kept many cool items back for later release in expansion packs to the 
 Sims 2. The Wants/Fears that each sim has according to his/her/its Aspirations are a fantastic 
 improvement to the gameplay and really give you something fun to work for and against. Sims still 
 speak their unique variety of language and it sounds better than ever in the Sims 2. This is hands-down 
 a fantastic sequel and equally fine game in its own right. If you loved the first, you have no 
 choice but to pick this up. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruesome__Toast
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 23, 2004 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This time around Maxis decided to give the gamer more things to accomplish within the game. The 
 gameplay is very rich and entertaining to watch as it is to play. More interactive objects and 
 environments, people, and more customizable people help to make this game playable for hours on 
 end. I would recommend everyone who has played or owned The Sims to go out and buy The Sims 2 now! 
 You will enjoy it. 
  
  The only thing I ask of the developer is to release a patch or upgrade where you can walk down 
 your street to your neighbors homes rather than only being able to take a cab to the market or 
 mall. Get the poor sim out and let him explore his neighbors homes on his own... let him go look 
 through an empty home to see if maybe he would consider moving to a new house, or let him walk 
 to a friends house down the street to see if they can hang out rather than only being able to bring 
 people to your own home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 3:28 am PT
Review:  Let me clear up one thing first..... Im not a hardcore Sims fan. Yes I own the original game and 
 I even bought 2 of the expansions. But if I had to actually add up how much I played the games 
 it couldnt total more then maybe 30 hours or so. Not the hundreds of hours the true fans Im sure 
 have spent reigning over their little Sims lives.
  
  I always enjoyed the game but to me it always felt as though something was missing. I didnt enjoy 
 it to the same level as others who got more out of the game by experimenting with more obscure 
 ideas and playing.
  
  With Sims 2 I feel they have taken the things that Sims did right and then improved it in the 2 
 ways it needed most:
  
  Graphics and finally an agenda of sorts if you so choose to use it.
  
  The graphics are about 
 as good as I could have wanted in all honesty. The camera moves great and you can now finally zoom 
 way in and get a nice up close view of what is going on. Everything looks great. There is a awkward 
 angles you have to fiddle with here and there but without a doubt it is better then the original 
 game so no problem really.
  
  The other big thing for me is the new "Aspirations" system. Now I know some may say "Well you must 
 not have a very good imagination if you couldnt occupy yourself in the old game and need Aspirations 
 to keep you entertained...". I guess that could be true to a degree but.... for me the Aspirations 
 system is exactly what I wanted out of the game. 
  
  It allows you to play your own game but at the same time gives you more of ...... short term goals 
 to try and acheive. Yeah you still have the job, get married, get cool stuff that the orignal game 
 had but now you get other cool things to try and pull off like get a a kiss from Nina or buy a 
 new sink over $500 or even do "Whoo Hoo with 5 different Sims". These are nice little "hey if your 
 bored try this..." stuff to do and if you actually pull them off your sim gets a heightened mood 
 and you also unlock new fancy items to use in the house.
  
  You can read all the other details on the game in the GS review which is pretty accurate but I 
 had to share the reason the game really clicks for me. 
  
  If I had to make a negative mark on anything its that they seemed ot have held back way too much 
 in the items department. The game has a nice variety of items but the definetly skimpped overall. 
 I mean there is only 2 refrigerators!!!!! They held back too much for expansions. That is a bit 
 aggravating to me to be honest but..... everything else is done so well I guess I can half forgive 
 it. ;)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiben
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 22, 2004 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is a time eater! Its crazy! You think you're playing since 45 minutes but 
 when you check the clock the first thing you know is that you're not playing since 45 minutes but 
 since 2 hours! Really its scrary in a way :-P
  
  Its addictive.
  
  Graphics looks awsome, nothing to say. You need a good computer to run it. It can be hard when 
 your house is big and full of stuff ans sims.
  
  The GUI (graphic user interface) is like the last Sims serie and like many EA games: Nice looking, 
 ergonomic, do the job very very well.
  
  The Sims 2 is a high quality game, we can see they put a lots of work and money into it.
  
 
  When you're tired playing with your sims, you can just have fun building houses, its pure fun.
 
  
  The new features are cool too.
  
  Finally, if you like the 1st one you will like this one for sure. If you dont like RTS games I 
 dont think you will like the Sims 2.
  
  I can't wait to see what kind of expansion packs EA will bring to us... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 22, 2004 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is, quite simply, the most charming game I've ever played in my life. I purchased the 
 first one all those years ago not knowing exactly what to expect, but knowing that, since I had 
 so enjoyed many of the other Sim-themed games, I would probably enjoy The Sims as well. Who could've 
 suspected what a huge success it would turn out to be, or what path it would take, or the type 
 of appeal it would have.
  
  Well, everyone pretty much knew what to expect with this sequel. I've been anticipating it myself 
 for about two years or so, and my expectations were quite high. I can confidently say that I have 
 not been disappointed. The Sims 2 completely fulfills the promise of the first Sims, fixing every 
 major issue, and adding almost every feature needed to round out and complete the experience of 
 running a group of families in a neighborhood.
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to the original, with a very smooth and intuitive interface. The 
 design keeps the relatively complex controls convenient and straightforward. The free will of the 
 sim themselves has been much improved. There were problems in the original where they would complain 
 about a need being unfulfilled, yet fail to take care of it themselves. In this game, they are 
 much better about taking care of themselves, which is a huge and crucial improvement. The pathfinding 
 is also much better, and some critical fixes have been made that almost completely eliminate some 
 of the worst problems, such as sims getting stuck in impossible to resolve "traffic jams" and the 
 like.
  
  For example, in the original, only one sim could walk up or down stairs at a time. The could be 
 a nightmare of logistics in a large house with many residents or guests. In The Sims 2, you can 
 have sims walking up and down the stairs simultaneously, which is an immense help, although it 
 still appears as though you can only have one sim walking in each particular direction at a time. 
 This can occasionally cause problems, but this is not often enough to detract very much from the 
 fun.
  
  As I said, there are a number of improvements, but I have noticed one area or situation in which 
 there are still some problems. When your adult sims have babies, there can be some difficulties 
 getting them to do what you want. I've found that adults will more often than neccesary want to 
 pick up their baby or toddler, and stop doing whatever else I've told them to do. This isn't an 
 utter disaster, as with careful attention and some pausing in the action, the problem can be minimized, 
 but it is somewhat frustrating on occasion. The only reason I'm pointing this out is because I 
 have one family that had twins, and this problem became much more noticeable with two babies to 
 pick up.
  
  With so many amazing looking games coming out these days, and with all the pre-release time to 
 look at videos and pictures of the game, it's easy to take the graphics in The Sims 2 for granted. 
 But four years of technological advances in the gaming world has made this sequel immeasurably 
 ahead of the original in terms of graphic quality. The 3-D engine was of course a must for a modern 
 game, but the style of the original is preserved, with changes that don't detract from what we've 
 come to expect from the Sims. Suffice to say the look is very satisfying.
  
  The music is also pretty good. The music for the buying and building phases is pretty good, not 
 amazing, but I think where the game really shines is in the music that plays on the stereo systems 
 that the sims can purchase. The styles have really been nicely updated for 2004. I especially enjoy 
 and am amused by the pop songs included. They perfectly parody the trends of the last couple years, 
 and the fact that the lyrics are gibberish actually enhances the pop qualities. Pop songs have 
 mindless lyrics anyway, so this it is fun in that way.
  
  The fact that the sims can age and pass on their genes and wealth to their children makes this 
 game so much deeper than the original. Also, the number and types of interactions have been noticeably 
 improved. From playing different games to the crazy variety of kisses you can have, The Sims 2 
 has so much more personality than the original, I can barely scratch the surface of it all.
  
  Another thing that is amazing is the potential for storymaking and drama in this sequel. In 
 the original, there were limited options as far as relationships. In fact, there were no official 
 blood relationships. Even after a child was born, it was not noted whose child it was, or anything 
 like that. In The Sims 2, all relationships are explicated, and all major events are remembered. 
 It's possible to get engaged and then break up before getting married, or be left at the altar, 
 or even to have babies out of wedlock. The possibilities are endless. One could create stories 
 that would make a soap opera writer blush.
  
  This game is amazing. The joy of seeing children grow up and families grow and evolve, the complexities 
 of relationships, everything is just a treat to witness unfold. I've been playing this game for 
 a week, and I haven't even touched the pre-generated neighborhoods. I feel like I've just barely 
 discovered all there is to do in this game, and I think I'll be playing it for a long time. Judging 
 from the original, I'm certain there will be a vast number of expansion packs, and a never-ending 
 supply of user created sims, houses, and items. The value of this game is infinite. While there 
 are a few very minor issues, they don't come close to taking away from the immense fun of this 
 game. It's recommendable to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2004 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in The Sims 2 is horribly repetitive and boring. Daily routines can be created no 
 matter the combination or variety of sims that your in charge of at the time. Such as when you 
 wake, eat something, go to the bathroom, and than shower and go to work. Same thing every morning 
 to max out 3 meters which are the only 3 that drop while sleeping. This is just one of the many 
 easy to find patterns in the game that make it repetitive.
  
  The graphics are OK. There are a ton of games out there that have MUCH better graphics than this 
 game does. Although, they are much better than the original sims graphics and full control of the 
 camera is given. Nothing magical here.
  
  The sound is 80% annoying. The only good sounds come from the neighborhood view when they play 
 a catchy score of music that gets old after 20 times. Most of the time during the game there is 
 no background music and all you hear is that annoying talking of the sims that sounds like jibberish. 
 It has given me a headache.
  
  I suppose there is good value if you don't tire of the game and enjoy it. Make more families and 
 what not.
  
  7.5 a good game, but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Icon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2004 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited "The sims 2" delivers one of the most gaming enjoyable experiences anyone can 
 ever expect from a strategy game. You start with three neighbourhoods from which you can choose 
 any vacant house and create new sims from the bodyshop, which offers a massive variety of facial 
 and bodily feautures or you can build one on your own. The concept is very amusing and innovative; 
 you build a house, or choose to build one and you can create people and actually take control over 
 thier lives. The great new additions to the game like sims aging, hereditary linkage between parents 
 and baby, and the massive number of new objects makes this game one of the best follow-ups to a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nero182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 20, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Hello All This Is My Frist Review So Be Kind.
  
  Anyway Here We Go
  
  
  I thought this game was gonna be more like the frist one but with new Graphics. But Boy I am wrong 
 this is like a whole new game sure the Graphics are great but all the new things you can do is 
 amazing. A thing like haveing a baby and. There is a whole new story more than just getting a job. 
 I really think The Sims series has came alot over these years. The Asperation metter means you 
 have to things and you get more point to buy specihal items like a MONEY TREE!. Well what I have 
 played so far about 10 hours I think this game is a really good one and will out sell the oringal. 
 Well Was it Worth the Wait I say YES!
  
  Reviewed By Andrew Burwood/Nero 182
  
  Buy The Game NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaladon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Despite a couple flaws, Sims 2 stands to be a great successor to Sims 1. This game will have extended 
 life!
  
  First the flaws... this game has issues with performance! When testing my rig on the microsoft 
 site to give me a look and see how the sims with run, i got a score just under the top bracket! 
 Yet when playing the game (in default mode) proved to be lack luster in performance. After a quick 
 fix, by turning down some of the settings (which btw saw no difference) the game proved to run 
 great! *aside from when theres a house party : ( *
  
  Also on my rig, theres some issues of crashing to desktop, but after upgrading my vid card drivers, 
 these stopped. 
  
  Now for the positives! This game is a Blast! Its fun to see the quirky situations your sims get 
 into. Im a builder... so i have the most fun building and upgrading houses, this game has tools 
 to build just about every kind of house! Its also fun to see your sims grow up, and also its kinda 
 sad to see them part! You really get a sense of attachment here! In one of my families, a pregnant 
 wife died, but was saved from death when her husband pleaded with the grim reaper! Now they have 
 two twin boys, and have just started retirement! Good and bad things happen to your sims, and you 
 can't help but care for them. Sometimes the AI gets slowed down, but i just take it as my sims 
 not being the brightest. You need to have a open mind playing this game, and dont expect a first 
 person shooter (duh) ! you will have fun though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lynxup
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 20, 2004 5:34 am PT
Review:  Ahh the sequel to The Sims, an insanely popular game. Its sequel does not disappoint with more 
 features and customzation. Now you actually create your sims instead of choosing "skins". Now I 
 will give you a rundown of features and other stuff.
  
  Graphics: Very good, my old Emachines T4480 runs the game like a dream.
  Sound: Very good
  
 Control: Easy, just like The Sims1
  New Features: Now sim wil age and die like in real life.
  
  Here are the stats of the PC I 
 play the game on.
  CPU: Pentium 4, 2.4 GHZ
  Video Card: ATI Radeon 9000 64MB
  Hard Drive: Seagate???? 80GB
  RAM: 512MB DRRSDRAM
  
  My PC runs The Sims 2 with slight slow 
 down when theres more than 10 sims on the screen, but other than that my PC runs the game on full 
 blast.
  
  Well thats a basic rundown, read Gamespot's review if you want a more comprehensive review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exray
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2004 3:00 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, The Sims 2 is incredibly fun, period. Advancing through the career paths, having 
 a family, developing your sims skills and building and furnishing your house will keep you occupied 
 for hours on end. There is a lot of value packed in the box and I can easily recommend the game 
 to anyone.
  
  However, the above statement rings true for the original Sims and all it's expansion packs and 
 that's what The Sims 2 feels like to me - another expansion. One of the biggest differences between 
 the original and the sequel is that now your sims age, progressing from baby all the way to senior 
 citizen and will eventually die. I have to tip my hat to Maxis for trying to innovate here, but 
 the aging feature can easily be turned off, and I have a feeling that most gamers will become so 
 attached to their sims that they WILL turn it off: who wants to see the digital persona they invested 
 so much time in wither and die? The fact that a key change in gameplay can be so easily negated 
 is unfortunate.
  
  The Sims 2 does thankfully bring the series up-to-date graphically and does a superb job of it. 
 Everything looks fantastic, the individual items, the houses and furnishings and the sims themselves 
 all look great and are extremely fun to watch. The character customization options are truly incredible 
 and dare I say, exhaustive. The building mode has also seen a dramatic improvement. There are also 
 a few nice little gameplay additions, such as the ability to paint portraits of other sims, the 
 occasional choices to be made while at work and a wide variety of new character interactions to 
 experiment with.
  
  If you played the original game, going from the sims and its expansions to the Sims 2, you will 
 probably find the selections of items to buy and places to go limited by comparison. The Sims 2 
 feels very much like the Sims coupled with the first expansion or two, just with much better graphics.
 
  
  Maxis has done a good job of modernizing one of it's most lucrative and successful franchises, 
 but I don't doubt they left out quite a bit of content to fuel the expansion market. The tools 
 are all there to make The Sims 2 equally if not more succesful than its predicessor but you will 
 probably find yourself longing for an expansion pack before long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  When gamers look back at the history of "The Sims", one might mistake it for the Old Testament 
 - "In the beginning, there was The Sims, and The Sims was good." and then "The Sims begat Livin' 
 Large. Livin' Large begat House Party. House Party begat Hot Date. Hot Date begat Vacation" and 
 so on. And on and on and on and on and on.
  
  The five-year gap between Sims 1 and Sims 2 has been made bearable by the steady release of the 
 expansion packs. However, it became obvious as the series went on that nothing really was changing. 
 The game had the same shortcomings it had when it began, and all the community lots and recipies 
 for honeycomb sandwiches couldn't disguise the fact that the game was past its prime. What it needed 
 was a kick in the pants.
  
  The Sims 2 then, IS that kick in the pants. 
  
  Even before the game starts, you can tell that Maxis have their game caps on. Providing a little 
 memory and trivia game to play while the main game installs is a nice touch. Certainly takes your 
 mind of the mind-numbing task of sitting through the four-disk installation.
  
  As soon as the game starts, you get a sense of how much the game has grown up. It's still got those 
 quirky little Sims things going on - like the jokey "system" messages as the game loads, but you 
 soon see that the game has its own style.
  
  Here, though, I was a little bit disappointed, as I didn't get a chance to change any settings 
 before the game started. In fact, the game starts as soon as you insert the disc, which is a little 
 disconcerting. However, once you're in, the options are easy enough to manage and set, but it would 
 have been nice to not have to load the game before making changes.
  
  The all-new 3D look is amazing. Sims 1 was about as close to a two-dimentional 3D game as you can 
 get, and the new look makes it all look like a sick joke. The free camera is another masterstroke 
 - anyone who got sick to death with the four angles and the three zooms will agree. The camera 
 can get a little confused at times, and at other times be a pain in the neck to get it to do what 
 you want, but with a little time it sorts itself out.
  
  The large neighbourhoods are well realised and come preloaded with all manner of interesting characters. 
 On the downside, most of the supplied houses for the Sims to move into are on the inadequate side, 
 only leaving a little room for decorating and no room whatsoever for house expansion. The smaller 
 houses anyway.
  
  Sims 2 gets most of its gameplay from Sims 1, but this is OK because there wasn't anything technically 
 wrong with the Sims 1 system. Of course, now we have the Aspirations & Fears to contend with, which 
 adds a level of gameplay that wasn't there previously. Sadly, most of the rewards you can claim 
 with this system are functionally useless, and in some extreme cases, may even cause death - not 
 directly, but they can damage your Sim beyond repair if used incorrectly. Still, it's fun to pick 
 up the Aspirations in the morning and work through them as you get them. It makes a change from 
 wondering around aimlessly.
  
  The amount of detail, especially on the Sims themselves, is simply mind-bogling. Things aren't 
 just painted on anymore - the objects have a depth previously unknown and there's a genuine sense 
 of ownership, rather than just stuff placed randomly around. The mirrors, for example, are real 
 mirrors. You can look into them, and they reflect perfectly.
  
  I don't think showing the Sims' house in a completely empty field with only the horizon for company 
 was such a good idea - it creates the illusion that the family is actually on some deserted farm 
 somewhere in the middle of nowhere.
  
  As I said, the new Sims models are amazing. The choice of clothing offered at the start of the 
 game is a little sparse, and the body types could have been a little more varied than "thin" and 
 "fat", but what's here still looks very good. All of the detail goes into the face and hair. It 
 is so nice to see an animated, emotive face on a Sim, rather than the painted-on ones of Sims 1. 
 The hair models are fantastic and well varied too. It's something of a shame that the colour-change 
 option of the hair and of some of the objects as well didn't get carried over to the clothing as 
 well - because I wanted one of them in a yellow....
  
  For anyone who may feel a little ripped off having bought the orginal Sims and all of the expansion 
 packs - be warned - a lot of the stuff that had been introduced in the expansions hasn't made it 
 here (the pets, vacations and a few of the job paths are missing) , but a lot of the good stuff 
 has - like the community lots (for shopping or dating) and the house parties. In fact, the parties 
 now come with their own with their own scorecard and countdown - a vast improvement. I can see 
 what Maxis have done here - instead of trying to squeeze everything in, they've taken the "best" 
 bits from the various packs in order to make a tighter package. No doubt anything desperately missing 
 from the collection will be added in future expansion packs.
  
  Sonically, the game is incredible. Sims 1 had plenty of memorable tunes (even the Simlish-free 
 instrumental tracks were excellent) and Sims 2 follows suit - special mention to "Dance Hauled", 
 probably one of the best tunes developed for the series. If the music has a fault, then it's that 
 most of the cutesy instrumental stuff that gets played in neighbourhood and build modes is a tad 
 irritating. Functional, but you wouldn't want to play them on a long car trip up the coast.
  
  All the other sounds are spot on, from cheery little dings and phones ringing, to the ambiance 
 of birds singing and even the sea crashing on the shore. Simlish is back with a vengence too. I 
 look forward to the day someone gets married in Simlish, and they have Simlish conventions where 
 you can't get in unless you shout "Ah Bracken!" at someone. OK I don't, but it's a perfectly functional 
 language and conveys a lot of emotion.
  
  Emotion is what a lot of the Sims 2 is about. Just seeing the relationships work within families 
 and the rest of the neighbourhood is a joy to behold. They laugh, the cry, they comfort each other 
 .... they actually acknowledge each other's existence, rather than having to be told to all the 
 time.
  
  Perhaps nowhere moreso than when there's a death in the family. In one family I was playing (one 
 dad, two daughters) , it was late at night and Dad was midnight snacking. Unfortuately, he was snacking 
 on some rather dodgy sandwiches, and before I know it, poor old Dad's doubled over and died. The 
 teenage daughter was up during this episode and I tried to get her to plead with Death, but for 
 some reason she thought it was more important to make the bed. By the time she got back, it was 
 too late - Dad had gone. She immediately burst into tears, and continued for a few moments before 
 cleaning herself up, a set herself to become head of the household. Then the most amazing sequence 
 happened. The other daughter remained asleep in her bed the entire time . The teenage daughter 
 went to her bedside, talked to her for a while, tucked her in and kissed her goodnight. I almost 
 broke up over that.
  
  After that, there was a noticable bond between the two sisters, even stronger than the one they 
 already had. They were there for each other. They greeted each other as they passed in the house, 
 broke out in spontanious games of "punch me punch you", and met each other with hugs whenever they 
 came home from somewhere.
  
  Who writes that stuff into games anymore? No-one. 
  
  The level of detail and the emotions of these Sims really make them feel like you are part of their 
 lives. You really want to get to know these people you create, and to help them achieve their goals 
 in life, not just lock them in the toilet or force them into homosexual relationships. Not that 
 there's anything wrong with that....
  
  To be perfectly honest, this is a game that should have come out last year. I don't think Maxis 
 did themselves any favours by putting effort into Makin' Magic instead of the sequel, especially 
 when you consider that they were almost certainly being worked on at the same time. I think by 
 then everyone was tired of playing the same tired engine with the same nuiances the game had in 
 1999.
  
  Having said that, Maxis certainly haven't wasted the time they gave themselves, and have used that 
 time to listen to the fans, the critics and maybe even themselves to work out what needed to be 
 done to reinvent the series. The sheer depth of the resulting game, in particular reference to 
 the relationships, is incredible - you'll find yourself thinking "how did they think to put that 
 in?" whenever you see something amazing happen.
  
  The Sims 2 is a stunning game. Anyone who says otherwise is LYING to you. Give them one in the 
 teeth for me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2004 5:28 am PT
Review:  Yes. It's finally here. The question is, was The Sims 2 worth the wait? The answer is YES! From 
 the first seconds of gameplay (And even before) , The Sims 2 never has a dull moment (Ironic seeing 
 as boredom was a big criticism target for the original Sims) . There is a metric ton of new social 
 options to choose from so that you can pinpoint what you are trying to accomplish. Sims now grow 
 up over the course of play, which works quite well. All of the ages are well balenced.
  
  The Sims 2 is now fully in 3D. The graphics are absolutly amazingly detailed. You can zoom in quite 
 close, at just about any angle, and still see that superb detail. There is a bit of clipping, but 
 bearly noticable.
  
  The sound in The Sims 2 has been bumped up quite a bit, along with new musical tracks for the Neighbourhood, 
 Build, and Buy modes that thankfully replace the ear-splittingly annoying sountracks from the original's 
 Neigbourhood, Build, and Buy modes. The Sims' voices are distinct for each age, and are very enthusiastic. 
 And yes... they still speak simmlish. (Gibberish)
  
  Because of all of the possible lots, houses, Sims, and custom content, The Sims 2's value is through 
 the roof! That's really all there is to say about Value.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2 is an amazing experience that should not be missed by anyone. In my opinion, 
 The Sims 2 is the best PC game of the year. And it has earned that title very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzeppelin9113
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2004 2:50 am PT
Review:  This is a very high quality game, that has tonnes more to offer then the original. The Graphics 
 are tremendous, the gameplay, simply terrific, and it is definately worth your money. There are 
 a few bugs, here and there, but nothing to be worried about. After all, they did spend many months 
 fixing out the bugs. The music is quite original and good. There is plenty of new features to test 
 out, such as the Aging Process, and the DNA system. This is a ground-breaking game, and should 
 be played by anyone, even if they dislike games in the sim-genre. Overall, this is a flawless game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is outright fun. It's fairly deep compared to the first and it definatly has many improvements 
 and cool new additions. One of my favorite is the genes and aspirations, both of which add lot's 
 more to the gameplay. The graphics are another huge improvement because there 3D, the Sims have 
 never looked so good, or played so good thanks to a very good AI in comparison to the first. Way 
 more to do altogether, you can go downtown and to other peoples lots like you could in expansion 
 packs to the first. One of my only problems with the game however is that they left a bit too much 
 open for expansion packs, but it's not too bad because you'll be playing this game for months. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I clearly remember the day that the original Sims was released. I skipped both school and swim 
 practice to wait for its delivery and stayed up all hours of the night enjoying the refreshing 
 take on video gaming that it provided. Now, several years and many expansion packs later the sequel 
 has been released. Much like the original, I took great pains to await its arrival. Sure, there 
 was a hurricane heading our way, but the Sims is far more important than evacuation. So was it 
 worth the wait? Has the sequel to the best-selling game of all time lived up to the hype? To answer 
 these questions bluntly, yes, it has. It is not without its fair share of flaws, but in comparison, 
 they are quite minor.
  
  Lets being with a brief discussion of the flaws. Firstly, I had a problem with the scrolling 
 speed. Much like the original it seemed to take forever and a day to move from one edge of the 
 lot to the other. Combine that with the lack of a menu option to adjust the speed and you get a 
 frustrating, but very forgivable annoyance that can easily be remedied in one of the many upcoming 
 expansion packs (come on, it doesnt take a crystal ball to know they are coming) . Also, I had 
 a problem with the new aging system (which will be discussed in greater detail later) . All in all, 
 this is a wonderful feature, however, I wished they would have spaced the number of days required 
 to grow up a bit better. The first few times I played I had teenagers and children being raised 
 by elder parents. I also found myself using the aging cheat to enjoy playing my characters a little 
 more.
  
  There is one other issue that will bother some, but it did not have a great effect on me. After 
 playing the original Sims with all of its expansion packs, the Sims 2 might seem stripped down. 
 Many of the features of the expansion packs are missing, but once again, it doesnt take a crystal 
 ball to see that they will eventually be replaced. This is also forgivable seeing that the Sims 
 2 is much richer than the Sims plus expansions could ever hope to be.
  
  There are three obvious changes to the Sims franchise that are evident in the Sims 2. Firstly, 
 the graphics and game engine have experienced a much needed overhaul. The game is now fully three-dimensional 
 and looks spectacular, at least when compared to the original Sims. If you have any doubts about 
 this, just take a look at Gamespots many screen shots.
  
  The second obvious change is that your Sims now age over time. No longer do you play for many sim 
 days and weeks with no changes in appearance or age. You can watch your Sims progress from baby 
 to elder to grave. For those who might be afraid of seeing their hard work die of old age, there 
 is a cheat to turn off the aging feature. Overall, despite my earlier gripes, the system helps 
 build into the theme of a life simulator. 
  
  The third change builds into the aging system quite well. Sims now have lifelong aspirations that 
 come with their own fears and wants. You get to choose these when you create your Sims. Also, at 
 different ages, your Sims will have their own set of wants and fears. For example, a teenager might 
 want a first kiss and fear breaking up with his or her boy/girlfriend. Much like aging, aspirations 
 help give the game more authenticity as a life simulator. 
  For those who remember the original game as nothing more than clicking on the toilet to relieve 
 your Sims bladder, you will be happy to know that want depreciation seems to be handled better 
 the second time around. I actually found that I had a lot of time to have my Sims do things other 
 than take showers and use the toilet. Other, more subtle things, such as being able to cook different 
 meals and interact with service people enrich the atmosphere of the Sims 2 in ways that the original 
 never did.
  
  All in all, the Sims 2 out performs the original in every respect. I would recommend the game to 
 anyone looking for a truly revolutionary gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 18, 2004 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Anytime you hear the word "sequel", you immediately start to ask yourself the same question : "Will 
 it be better or worse than it's predecessors ?". In this case, The Sims 2 passes it's final exam 
 with flying colors and proves once and for all that sequels can be good for you.
  
  Saying that this game is addictive is an understatement. Over the past couple of days that I've 
 had the game, the nights have been very, very short. I almost feel bad when I turn off the computer 
 to go to bed or to work or to do other activities !
  
  Simply put, this game is a masterpiece. It's the same gameplay as in The Sims 1, but it's enhancements 
 are what makes this game so incredible. 
  
  Naturally, the graphics have been vamped and revamped to make our lovable little Sims 3 dimensionnal. 
 
  
  The sounds are basically the same sounds... Sims still speak "Sim-ese" (?) . Music is great, both 
 ingame and when you turn on the stereo.
  
  But the extreme best part of this game is how the Sims now react to their environment. When a Sim 
 passes another Sim, he or she will wave at the other and greet it. When the Sim smells something 
 bad, it reacts to it accordingly, same as when he or she smells something good, etc... That, for 
 me, is what makes The Sims come alive. Action and reaction.
  
  The whole Wants and Fears addition is great too, you now have something to shoot for or something 
 to worry about, instead of wandering mindlessly through the game.
  
  All in all, The Sims 2 is a masterpiece in simulation gameplay and, in my opinion, is one of the 
 best games this year. A must have for any fan of The Sims... and be prepared for many a sleepless 
 nights ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2, is a great game, probably will be greater if you never played the original, The Sims. 
 Say you never played either of the games, one day you go out to buy a new game, and you see this 
 game called The Sims 2, it look interesting, so you give it a try. You go home install the game, 
 and play it and WOW its fantastic, you find your self hooked on the game. Ok now say you played 
 the original The Sims, and you know how cool that game was and how you were hooked before, so maybe 
 The Sims 2 has alot to offer. So you give it a try, rush home, install, and play, what do you know 
 its nearly the same exact thing. The second example is what exactly happen to my self, the game 
 is the same other then a few new features and its graphics but that isn't enough to keep the game 
 play fresh, I found my self really trying to get into the game, but it was the same exact thing 
 I got rid of years ago. I didnt know what to expect when buying the game, it looked fun, I thought 
 maybe it differed from the original, I was wrong and I wasted my money. The score is in truth, 
 the gameplay is very good, the graphics are nice, sound is good, great value if you never played 
 the original, and I tilt to an eight because it is a great game, if you never played the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2004 4:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not gonna say much, but that if you enjoyed the Sims 2 you will find this very refreshing and 
 very fun. A great game definetly worthy of your purchase, one problem is that the door to sequels 
 is hanging open.... although that only tickles me with anticipation..... With this game you will 
 find the more you play the better, and chances are with the fun character creation (and you will 
 find that you CAN make it look like you, I made my whole family and showed them, they were shocked 
 and frightened by the realism) you will be re-making your character again and again. Till you find 
 one that's most like you, and then you're hooked.
  
  Buy this game, It would be worth it for $100, and for $50- it's a no contest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This was certainly a game worth the wait. The new additions made from the 1st game are great, as 
 they add so much into the gameplay. 
  
  Although at first I was a bit leary on these life ambitions, I've found that they've added so much 
 more depth into the game. A bit of a challange, this is something that the Sims desperately needed. 
 Although thoroughly enjoying the first game, with no real direction, I found myself growing bored 
 after awhile - this has definately changed now.
  
  Growing up can certainly be challanging for the most of us, but the joy of watching your new found 
 friends succeed (or fail) at your whim makes it a lot of fun to play.
  
  The graphics are amazing with your sim looking more realistic than before. This is truly a wonderfully 
 fun game and worth the dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2004 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of those rare things - a good sequel. It's sticks with what was good, and adds 
 to that, making your sims even more lifelike. I'll start out with a brief overview on the music/graphics, 
 etc. as well as a couple of issues, and then I'll move into discussing some of the new things that 
 make the game such an awesome successor of the original.
  
  The graphics and music are very nice. Graphics are a little fuzzy in places (mostly inside the 
 thought graphics) , but not that noticable. The sound has the same flavor as the original - a mix 
 between campy and being very close to real. This theme goes from conversations to background music, 
 TV, etc.
  
  Gameplay-wise, the only problem I've had is a tendency of objects to be hornery while you're trying 
 to rotate them for placement. Otherwise, everything is very intuitive and easy to navigate through.
 
  
  Okay - new stuff :-)
  Aging - Very cool concept. It gives you a start and a finish. Your sims aren't going to be able 
 to do EVERYTHING within their life span, so you have to pick and choose. This goes hand-in-hand 
 with aspirations. Aging is also very cool because it's sweet to see some of the interactions available 
 at the different ages.
  
  Aspirations - Sims still do what you tell them, but they tell you what they WANT to do, now. And 
 there are rewards for fulfilling those wants. It gives you short and long term goals. There are 
 also corresponding fears, which for the sadistic people out there give some rather disasterous 
 results ;-)
  
  Fun scenarios - There are little mini-games, much like the "win a vacation award" from the original 
 sims. However, they're timed, and a running score is displayed which makes it cool. The two I've 
 tried so far are "Invite the headmaster" and a "wedding party".
  
  New interactions - This goes back to aging, but it's very cool that you can watch your sims potty 
 train their toddler and teach them to walk and talk. Kinda warms your heart.
  
  Cooking - you now get to choose what entree' you want to cook for each meal. Breakfast gives you 
 a choice of cereal, toaster pastries, omelette, pancakes, etc. Lunch and dinner give you different 
 choices. Each increase in the cooking skill gives you a new entree choice.
  
  There's lots of new things, and all of the detail just makes your sims seem more real. It's very 
 easy to get sucked into the game for a few hours. Great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalQ8
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First lets talk about The Sims 1 shall we ?
  Everyone know what is The Sims ( If you dont , you live under a rock... ) . The Sims is the most 
 interesting, and most successful PC game of all time. You will spend months and months playing 
 this game, its really fun having another life :) 
  
  Now The Sims 2
  Maxis listened to its fans, and enhanced every single thing that worked in the original. 
  This 
 one quite simply, blows the original away. If you were a fan of the original, you're going to love 
 this. If you dont , you should give this one another try.
  One of the interesting gameplay enhancements is the aspirations level. These include goals like 
 success, romance, family, etc. Not meeting these goals, or failing at them, is a bad thing really 
 bad !. Also there's a "slot machine"-like thingy that presents three random desires and fears. 
 If you do what he desires your sim will be happy, if anything he fear happend , like death of his 
 wife , he will be very sad.
  Another feature is your Sims GROW UP !!. you will raise your childers then they will grow up and 
 become teens then adults, after that they will die.
  
  The Sims 2 is on 4 CDs comes with 3 neighborhoods.
  I recomend you buy this game its really worh 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2004 8:18 am PT
Review:  Coming into this game, I had very high expectations, as everybody else did. I have now been playing 
 the game for three days and I am slowly coming to use everything in the game. I automatically jumped 
 in, spending a hour or so creating my family to the perfection and then I put them in a prebuilt 
 house. I am surprised by how much the Sims 2 has to offer, but also a little spoiled by all the 
 of the expansion packs of the old one. I want to go to the store in the game and buy animals and 
 be able to do cool things, but yeah, I can't so I must just deal with it. The Game looks fantastic 
 and plays amazing, with the aging and the personalities and the urges of the sims. It all comes 
 together beautifully. 
  
  I have a couple of urks about the game. It was said that you could input your sim city 4 maps into 
 the neighborhoods, and I have yet to be able to figure out how to do this, also as your sims grow 
 old, it sucks, because all of the sims in your neighborhood, their friends stay the same age. So 
 you could be best friends as children, and then later on become grandparents, but your friend would 
 still be a child and this is just ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 17, 2004 2:43 am PT
Review:  I remember when I first bought the Sims, and the excitement of the idea of being able to play around 
 with a virtual household. The game definitely held my interest for a while, which is surprising, 
 as much as I love games, I'm always chasing the next "best game yet" coming down the release trail.
 
  
  I pre-ordered the Sims 2 back in July, I knew already that it would be the biggest PC game ever 
 created. After watching so many gameplay movies and seeing what it had to offer, I was hooked from 
 the start. I ordered 1 day air shipping, and was surprised to see that it had arrived at my house 
 this tuesday, September 14th. 
  
  Thursday has come and gone, and i have probably spent about 30 hours playing this little simulation, 
 I'm not joking. I'm exhausted, but can't seem to pull myself away.
  
  Lets start with gameplay, the feature that made the first Sims as addicting and entertaining as 
 any game ever made. The gameplay here is a perfect 10. I have not sat at my computer for this much 
 time in just two days since Diablo 1 was released. I can not pull myself away, I always feel compelled 
 to see just what crazy things my Sim family will do next. 
  
  One of the coolest gameplay aspects is genetics and aging. This was a feature that was not in the 
 first Sims, and in the end is what made me lose interest in it rather quickly. I did not like extending 
 the family with children in the first one, mainly because the child sims were annoying and the 
 fact that they never grew up did get boring after awhile. Enter Sims 2, where everyone grows up 
 and grows old, and even dies after what feels like a long time :) . Let me give you some examples 
 of my experience so far.
  
  I started my family with myself, and my girlfriend, Kirsten. The Sim creation system was unbelievable. 
 I was able to create near life-like replica's of myself and my girlfriend, and I still spent nearly 
 two hours just going through all the options. We started out in a small house, but it was definitely 
 decent looking for two young adults starting fresh. I got a job as a doctor, while Kirsten decided 
 to stay home and take care of the house. 
  Quick note, we started off as roomies, not married. So I went through the whole dating and courtship 
 with her. It was adorable, and definitely fun. 
  
  I could go on for hours, I really could. There is so much to this game that you simply have to 
 play it to believe it. The Sims are so much more aware of their surroundings now. While there is 
 still slight pathfinding problems, its not nearly as irritating as the original. For example, My 
 sim was reading a book on mechanics, while Kirsten was next to me on the sofa reading as well. 
 Occasionally we'd look up from our books and smile at each other. My sim had to go to the bathroom, 
 so he got up to do so, and Kirsten was checking him out with every step. 
  
  Its subtle things like that, that will catch you by surprise and blow you away.
  
  Another 
 brilliant move by Maxis and WIll Wright, is the genetic system. This totally threw me for a loop 
 even more than the artificial intelligence, which i think has not been matched to this day. When 
 Kirsten and I had our first child (in game ;) ) , the baby had traits of both of us. Kirsten's eyes 
 and nose, my hair color, and both of our quirks and habits. It was amazing. 
  
  The gameplay alone sets this apart from anything that has ever come before it.
  
  The graphics 
 are excellent! The revamped 3D engine brings the Sims world true to life, and gives everything 
 a look and feel that I was not prepared for. TVs play actual movies, and with a little tweaking 
 you can play your own AVI files. (My family is addicted to South Park episodes :) ) . Anyways, everything 
 is just great graphically. Characters convey visible emotions. You know by your Sims' faces whether 
 they are happy, sad, in love, in lust ;) , its all there. 
  
  The sound has gone above and beyond as well. Environmental effects are in there too! Simlish is 
 back and with a punch may I add. You'll find your imagination running so wild at points that the 
 Simlish begins to actually seem like something audible. 
  
  Music is good, nothing super extravagant, but it fits the bill, and thats what counts. The composer 
 did a great job with all this (the former frontman for Devo) . The music does what it should by 
 adding immersion to the world. 
  
  The Sims 2 is worth every penny spent. The fact that downloading custom content is as easy as clicking 
 a button while in the neighborhood screen gives Value a 10 here. After you download content, its 
 immediately available for use, no gimmicks, no extra button clicks. I give Maxis a lot of credit 
 as this must have been a pretty complicated feature to setup, but it works brilliantly. 
  
  
  I could seriously go on for hours about this game, but frankly, I need sleep. You absolutely 
 have to get this is you're even remotely interested, if you like simulation games, and if you want 
 something new. This is it, its got it all. I wish I could really write a review to do this game 
 more justice. 
  
  I can't see this game scoring less than a 9.5 if this is your thing. To really enjoy this, try 
 to get out of the mind-set that you HAVE to beat the game. The true fun comes from seeing what 
 kind of crazy situations you can concoct on these poor unsuspecting Sims. The wants and aspirations 
 system will keep you busy for hours on end. With the talent thats behind the Sims community of 
 people, I seriously see the Sims 2 destroying its predecessor's sales records. 
  
  To sum it all up... Perfect, completely perfect and worth the wait. The only thing I would advise 
 is buying it when you have at least two days for some time off, because you will have a VERY hard 
 time pulling yourself away from it... Speaking of... my daughter has homework to do... and I just 
 bought a new hot tub for me and the mrs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 17, 2004 1:30 am PT
Review:  Rather than give a regular review I'm just going to tell you a couple of events that happened to 
 me in the game that make it a great game.
  
  The first event involves the new 'wants' system. My character wanted to just wear his underwear, 
 so I dressed him accordingly and was rewarded with aspiration points. Apparently wearing only underwear 
 was important to this sims life goals. Then that want changed to 'Use the computer'. No problem 
 said I, and now my Sim was sitting at the computer in their underwear. At that point I thought 
 to myself "This is SOOOO like life", after all am I the only person who has ever sat at the computer 
 in their underwear? I think not, as how else could you have the song title "Naked in front of the 
 computer" from Faith No More's "Album of the year".
  
  More recently something incredible happened, something at the time which was so hysterical that 
 I found it hard to laugh because what was happening was too unbelievable. It was one of those moments 
 that you could not have possibly scripted (hey, just like life) . Here it comes.
  
  My sim was hungry so I told him to cook pancakes. He had progressed quite far in his cooking skill 
 you see, after all you can't just cook pancakes straight away in this game. Oh and I had better 
 mention that you can now choose what you want to eat for the people that are familiar with the 
 original game (and if you are let me tell you that you will love this game, don't read the rest 
 of this just go and buy it if you have the grunt in your machine) . So my sim is cooking his pancakes 
 and, well, they caught fire. Now in real life I'm sure it's hard to start a fire by cooking pancakes, 
 the fact that my sim was a decent cook made it even funnier.
  
  About the fear system, your sims now have fears which can change as do the wants. It just so happens 
 that at the time of the fire my sim was terrified of fires. In fact he was so petrified he was 
 literally immobilised with fear. I tried to get him to use the cordless phone on the wall to call 
 the fire service, but unfortunately he would have needed to walk near the fire to get to it. It 
 didn't matter anyway because like I said he was totally immobilised by his fear of fire, but at 
 least it showed off the brilliant animations and facial expressions they have in this version.
 
  
  Now for the finale, the maid pulls up in her car and I thought "I'M RESCUED!".... but no. You see 
 she starts flailing her arms because apparently she doesn't like fire herself. I was kind of hoping 
 that she would call the fire service for me, after all what happens if the fire had started while 
 my sim was at work? It was extremely funny, especially when both my sim and the maid were performing 
 the same fear animation in perfect synchronisation. One of the neighbours knocked on the door at 
 one point, but I guess all the screaming and smoke pouring out the windows didn't make them think 
 to call for help.
  The funniest part of all was when one of the fires went out and leaves ashes on the ground the 
 maid would begin to SWEEP UP THE ASHES DURING THE FIRE - I kid you not, this stuff all happened. 
 Of course she resumed screaming once she had swept up the pile.
  
  Eventually the fire put it self out, and I guess that's because it had destroyed everything in 
 my kitchen, and well it appears that the fires do not set fire to the house itself. There was one 
 last thing thought, my sim yelled "WOOHOO" once the fire had gone out and was able to run outside. 
 I would have thought that doing this during the fire would have made more sense. No no no, he wasn't 
 actually going out to escape the smoke. Instead he went to the letterbox to retrieve the bills 
 (wouldn't it have been nice if they had done that BEFORE the fire?) .
  
  Finally, the memory system. Your sims remember things. My sim remembered the fire and was showing 
 signs of traumatisation. The poor guy, he still feared fire. I sold my Alienware PC (downloaded 
 ingame off the internet) to pay for a new sinktop and fridge. I couldn't afford a stove so I put 
 in the cheapest barbecue I could find. Oh and I bought a new stereo just because I didn't have 
 the PC and I needed something to keep my sim happy. 
  
  In hindsight I should have bought smoke alarms. You see there was another fire about 36 hours later 
 while my sim was cooking hotdogs on the indoor bbq. Unfortunately this fire proved fatal, but thankfully 
 I caught it all on tape thanks to the new video capture built into the game.
  
  Like I said you can't make this stuff up, and it's what makes this game awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2004 1:04 am PT
Review:  The original Sims was the biggest selling game of all time, and from the looks of it, Sims 2 will 
 be as equally successful. At its heart, the sequel is a bigger, better version of its much loved 
 predecessor. The graphics have been updated, although it does require a faster PC, so the updated 
 visual look doesn't come without a cost. The control interface is almost exactly the same as the 
 old game, so Sims veterans won't have any trouble diving straight into the game. The user interface 
 is incredibly intuitive, and cleverly designed. There is a much wider variety of music available 
 in the new game, and it adds a whole new dimension to the environment that wasn't there before. 
 
  
  Due to the new graphics engine, houses look more beautiful than ever. One subtle example is lighting 
 - when installing windows into your house, it's amazing to see how rooms can be perfectly lit. 
 It's also much easier to create multiple storey houses than it was in the original game. So if 
 you love designing the perfect abode, the Sims 2 is definitely for you.
  
  The biggest improvment for the Sims 2 is how the new Sims interact with the environment around 
 them. There's no more need for the user to micromanage every single aspect of their lives. If a 
 Sim has an urgent need (eg. relieving your bladder, showering, etc...) , they will do this without 
 any user intervention. This frees up more time to focus on the fun part - seeing how Sims interact 
 with each other. These new Sims have a much wider range of facial reactions and body language, 
 so seeing them play patty-cake with one another can be quite amusing.
  
  The new aspirations system is a new innovation that is well implemented into the game. I didn't 
 find it at all annoying - it was actually an advantage for me to have goals that my Sim could aspire 
 to.
  
  All-in-all, the Sims 2 is an excellent game, that is a humongous improvement over its predecessor. 
 If you're looking for an enjoyable open-ended game that the kids can play, as well as adults, then 
 get the Sims 2 - you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TROAB
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 4:53 pm PT
Review:  If you're reading this, then you've probably already read alot of the other great things that The 
 Sims 2 holds. This game is great! Not to mention that it's highly addictive. Any complaints I have 
 are things that can and probably will be fixed in expansions.
  
  I do wish that the aspiration system was less rigid. Personally I think it should work more like 
 skills... allowing you to give your sim a mix of aspirations, possibly focusing in one area, but 
 with a secondar goal as well.
  
  I've heard complaints about the music, but I like it. It definitely adds to the personality of 
 this game. AS i flipped through the story pages for Pleasantville I felt like the soundtrack fit 
 right in, adding that touch of ironic hunor the Sims is known for.
  
  I would like it if you could see your neighbors houses next dootr and across the street instead 
 of miles of open land... but I suppose that's a hardware limitation than anything else and we'll 
 just have to wait for the technology to increase.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2 has restored that magic the original Sims had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't like the Sims, you won't like the Sims 2. But if you did, you'll find the Sims 2 
 to be everything that the Sims was and a whole lot more. The game runs a whole lot smoother, and 
 just feels great to play. Sims have goals now, so while it's still open ended how you play, there 
 is incentive to actually get your Sims to succeed in attaining their dreams. The Sims are a whole 
 lot more animated now.... and the AI is vastly improved, they don't walk around like robot zombies... they 
 remember things they did in the past which means that they are likely to continue doing them in 
 the future if they enjoyed doing it in the past. One thing that will disappoint... the Catalog is 
 back to the basics... in other words if you have all the expansions to the first game like I do... you'll 
 miss the Magic, the Pets, and other things you gained through the expansions. Ofcourse we have 
 many expansions to look forward to so it really isn't that much of an issue.
  
  You have alot more control over the neighborhood. You can import landscape from Sim City 4, you 
 can create different sized lots, in different areas as you choose... and delete them later if you 
 want. i. e. lot sizes and locations are not fixed like in the Sims. You can also create multiple 
 neighborhoods based on completely different landscapes. Sim creation is way more complex and will 
 have an effect on future generations... you can change many different features of the face... from 
 how high the forhead is to how long the nose is. Ofcourse fan content is a big thing in this game, 
 and the Sims 2 really caters to that. The read me text has instructions on altering everything 
 from movies your sims watch to the music that plays. There are alot more actions available for 
 a sims to do when interacting with other sims and objects. When they make breakfast... you choose 
 what kind of breakfast... will your sim have a bowl of ceral? a toaster pastry? or something else? 
 Skill points have more of an impact on the choices your sim can make.... i. e. improving cooking 
 skills means your sim can cook different meals. And yes the graphics change depending on the meal. 
 For instance when the sim make mac and cheese... they actually open the cupboard to get a pot out 
 to put the mac in. Most of the improvements are in the details like the opening of the cupboard... but 
 there are major changes too like the camera view.... which can be rotated, moved up or down, zoomed.... not 
 to mention that there are six cameras that can be set up as you like... which leads to the next 
 improvement... home moves. Sims 2 is designed so you can actully set up a scene... and then film 
 it. It even has the ability to add some simple film effects like changing the grain of the film 
 or adding letterbox to it. 
  
  This game is a great improvement on the original formula. A definate must for both the new and 
 veteren Sims player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 16, 2004 2:47 am PT
Review:  Back in Febuary 2000 I bought TheSims, the day it came out I sat down and for one month all I did 
 was play that game. After that I got burnt out, but I always was fond of the game, and it was a 
 great game. I never bought ANY of the expansion sets, not one. Which for that I'm glad. Because 
 now I hear some say that some of the features in Sims 2 were all ready in some expansion sets. 
 But all in all this game rocks.
  
  Graphicaly I think it was great, I mean duh it's not the Source engine, but for the type of game, 
 the graphics are perfect. Sound is just as good. 
  
  I have not spent a lot of time with it but I will say that it was worth the wait, and everyone 
 should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2004 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I was a big fan of the first 'Sims' and played it for a long time. 
 With that said, Sims 2 simply ROCKS!
  
  I will admit that it basically improves on the first occurance, but the improvement is substantial 
 in this reviewer's opinion. 
  
  The game starts with the player choosing sims from one of three neighborhoods to play/control. 
 I always create my own as I like to customize my play as much as possible. The customization level 
 of Sims 2 is incredible! The player is able to alter and or adjust just about EVERY physical aspect 
 of their sim. You can choose from a multiple of head shapes... elongate or shrink jaws, noses, eyes, 
 etc. Eye color and make up (for women OR men) can be selected as well! As in the first installment 
 you are able to pick your sims astrological sign or directly change each of their individual characteristics 
 such as laziness, shyness, etc.
  
  While I can't say that graphics are ground breaking or 'better' than the first Sims... the ability 
 to zoom in very close and adjust all camera angles as you like definitely puts them in a new class. 
 The interaction among the sims is greatly improved. It seems to this player that they had much 
 greater autonomy that in the first game. This isn't to say that you don't need to tell them what 
 to do, but the AI does appear to be much improved.
  
  The gameplay has been tweaked rather well in that now your sims have 'aspirations' and 'fears' 
 that usually change every day upon waking up or once an aspiration or fear as been realized. These 
 are excellent short term goals that allow to progress your sim (or not in the case of 'fears') 
 on a day to day basis. This really makes you feel that you're actually 'playing' the game more 
 as opposed to just 'watching' some little people on a screen. 
  
  I haven't played long enough to experience children or aging of my sims, but I'm certain that the 
 Sims 2 will keep me enthralled for months to come.
  
  One final note. When I received the game the other evening. I was going to wait until this weekend 
 to really get into it, but thought I'd get it installed and just 'test' it out so-to-speak. Well, 
 I was up late that night which hasn't happened to me with ANY game in a very long time!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 18954083253596817379963521598084-dannyrax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2004 3:55 am PT
Review:  I think they did a good job. All the new features are awesome. The camera is easy to use. The new 
 animations are great. The introduction of a real week system, with accumulation of vacation days 
 (are we paid when we take one? I can't wait to see!!!) . The fact that your character have a real 
 weekend (No job cars bugging your sims on those ones) . The aspirations system is just awesome. 
 Now you don't have to think for your sim. Just give them the aspiration you want them to have and 
 they will work for that.
  
  This game rocks. The only things missing, are the ones we use to have with the first one. I did 
 not dig "magic" and "superstar". But the rest was escential to me, like the downtown, animals. 
 Vacation I was ready to wait. But I really though we would had the opportunity to have a downtown 
 lots right away. I miss dating girls at a bar. ;) Except that... I'm happy. At least we still have 
 community lots. But they are just a "get to meet the people next door" place.
  
  Great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2004 12:19 am PT
Review:  i must say, i may not be the best game reviewer on this forum or anywherearound the world, but 
 i can tell the difference between perfect and bad. The sims 2 has everything, way better than the 
 first one or any other sims game that has been released, it is just plain fun. the graphics, like 
 always altough they are on the PC, they are still really good, i love this game, the beauty of 
 creating something your own way and all of the other abilities you have as you play the game. here's 
 my review of the sims 2, graphics 9.6 out of 10, characters or characters made 10 out of 10, places 
 to visit and things to do, 10 out of 10, and the entire game combined with the gameplay is an absolute 
 10 out of 10. buy it, it is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaphaelKorland
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2004 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The Sims was a really great game, and with all the expansions you really never ran out of stuff 
 to do. The Sims 2 takes almost everything from the first Sims and goes from there. You can create 
 your own sim like in the first, but now it has tons of new options such as what type of sim they 
 are, mixing up different hairstyles, clothes, facial features, personality ect. Once you've created 
 your sim then you can move them into there own house and make a living by getting a job, making 
 friends, studying, getting married, having children and so on. You'll now live your sim through 
 a lifetime as they age from babies to toddlers, children, teens, parents, and then grandparents. 
 Your sim will also have wants and fears. Fulfilling there wants will boost their aspiration bar 
 and they'll have a new dream or want. Make it come true and you'll unlock new things such as being 
 happier, and having more courage or self-esteem ect. If your fears are realized your sim could 
 be devastated, and will remember these moments forever which will shape their personality and how 
 they react to certain people.
  
  The sims careers basically don't change from the first Sims but when your on the job you will be 
 able to make certain choices that will have an effect on your sims next promotion.
  
  You'll also need to keep your sim happy by fulfilling there needs. Going to bed, having a comfy 
 place to watch TV, eating, having showers/baths, and taking a dump will all regenerate your sims 
 needs. However, if you do the opposite (drinking, eating, not sleeping ect.) you'll soon need to 
 do so, and if you don't your sims could get a visit from the Grim Reaper.
  
  Pros: The wants and fears add a nice spark to the game, great graphics, and lots of replay value.
 
  Cons: A bit laggy sometimes, the music isn't too good, they could have fit a lot more into this 
 game.
  
  Conclusion: The Sims 2 is a great game for all ages, if you liked the original you'll like this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradiata
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 14, 2004 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game, simply put is a lot of fun (coming from an old time player of the Original) .
  
  I've spent over ten hours with the game so far, creating a solo character to start out with, then 
 other families in the town to interact with: 95 percent of my time devoted to actually playing 
 and progressing my character.
  
  There have been many new additions added to the game which you will notice right from the get-go, 
 such as:
  
  + Bigger, more jam-packed menu: You'll notice more details popups, more buttons, more options, 
 but all still very inviting.
  
  + Asperations: These are almost like daily minigames with small rewards. Each day you will get 
 a new set of goals to persue, be it buy something expensive (if you aspire to wealth) , or make 
 new friends (if you aspire to friendship) .
  
  + Gripe-be-Gone: In the old The Sims, I personally hated how careers were dealt with. It was required 
 to maintain a absurd flurry of friends to move up in the career ladder, this has thus far seemed 
 to be fixed (in regards to the millitary path, anyhow) . Now you can actually get ahead without 
 having to go through the anoyying process of just keeping contacts.
  
  + The ability to build houses has now been expanded with things such as two-story windows, ability 
 to actually use diagonal walls (putting doors on them, etc.) , and much more.
  
  + Once the community starts building on this game, it will just get better.
  
  + It's fully 
 3D. 'Nuff Said.
  
  
  So, after dumping over ten hours into this game, I think this game is very solid, is fun, and offers 
 a lot of replay value once the community starts picking up (the amount of items out of the box 
 isn't as expansive as I would have liked it to be) . Only gripe so far, which can be fixed - Where's 
 the classical music?
  
  I used to have it on 24/7 in all of my old pads! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin30
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2004 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I really do like this game. I have been looking forward to this for quite some time because I was 
 getting really sick of the expansions for the first one. They started to get really old. Now that 
 The Sims 2 is in glorious 3D the love for this game is rekindled. The Sims 2 is really just The 
 Sims but in a 3D package. All the great things about the first one has been brought over to this 
 one with some nice improvements. You have days off now!!! They probably could have made some more 
 improvements to the sound because after hearing the stupid music they put into the build and buy 
 modes you will definately import your own MP3's.
  
  All-in-all The Sims 2 is a fun game and should keep me busy for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 14, 2004 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Objective: Create a sequel to the best-selling PC game of all time. Maxis and Electronic Arts have 
 more than proved themselves capable of accomplishing the task, and have already released no fewer 
 than seven expansions to The Sims. Now, with The Sims 2, Maxis has taken their addictive life simulation 
 and snazzed it up with a fully 3D engine, the addition of some neat new gameplay elements, and 
 a brand new story mode that lends an organic feel to the dry neighborhoods of the past. They were 
 smart enough not to tinker too much though, and we are happy to see that all of the charm remains 
 intact; from the new Simlish voice acting to the flies buzzing around old trash. The result may 
 not offer much that is really all that different from the original, but gamers that loved The Sims 
 will feel immediately at home - and those that wondered what all the fuss was about the first time 
 around will have plenty to keep themselves occupied with for quite some time. 
  
  As in the first title, the concept of The Sims 2 is rather simple: you play a simulated individual 
 or family and guide them through the ordinariness of everyday life by keeping an eye on such needs 
 as comfort and hunger, socializing with other sims, and earning simoleans with which to purchase 
 items, household upgrades, and services such as pizza delivery. Such a humdrum description is a 
 disservice to the complexity within, however: from purchasing items of increasing effectiveness 
 in true role-playing fashion to managing your sims' bladders, fans of the series can testify to 
 the wealth of content to be discovered. While there are some subtle changes, the interface remains 
 mostly the same: point-and-click your sims through their activities while keeping an eye on their 
 meters below. The Sims 2 also provides more social interactions than ever, letting you build and 
 destroy interpersonal relationships as you see fit. In fact, your sims will bring workmates or 
 schoolmates home for a visit from time to time, in addition to the usual invitation-making and 
 party-throwing, which are always just a phone call away. 
  
  The game ships with three neighborhoods with plenty of lots from which to choose, and several community 
 lots to visit. Much to the delight of our sandbox instincts, you can now create and customize your 
 own neighborhoods in a manner that reminds us of Maxis' scrapped Simsville project from a few years 
 back. Not only can you place houses and build community lots in your neighborhood, but you can 
 add decorations like trees, rocks, flocks of birds, and rainbows, and even change the layout of 
 your roads (a la Sim City) . As with the previous game's expansions, you can also call a taxi and 
 visit a community lot, where you can visit other sims, meet various needs, or shop for food (you 
 now must replenish your refrigerator) or new clothes. In build and shop modes, there are some nice 
 improvements, such as furniture fashions that come in a variety of colors, and the ability to group 
 home improvements by style, as well as room or item type. Sadly, you are still stuck arranging 
 your items on a grid, keeping aspiring interior decorators as frustrated as before. To help make 
 up for this, newly-created sims can be customized in countless ways, allowing you to tailor their 
 faces and appearance to specification, and even letting you designate sleepwear and workout clothes. 
 
  
  While the passage of time works much the same as before, how it affects your sims is new, both 
 in terms of their age and their work. Finding a profession is pretty much the same: search the 
 paper or the computer for a job, and the carpool will arrive at the predesignated time of day and 
 cart you off to your job in the slacker career, the medical career, or so forth; increasing your 
 skills in certain areas then allow you to get promotions, and with them, more simoleans. As an 
 added bonus, as you progress at the job, you can also earn work aspiration points, with which you 
 can purchase unique job-related items. Now, you get two predesignated days off, so there is less 
 need to risk missing work and getting fired. You do, however, accumulate paid vacation days as 
 the game progresses, so if you need to take an extra day off, you can simply use your vacation 
 to focus on your sim's needs without missing a day's wages. Your sims now age: infants (who inherit 
 the personality and physical traits of their parents, with impressive results) become children, 
 children become adults, and adults become elders. Your sim's lifeline is now part of the mostly 
 familiar interface, and yes, your sim can die of old age, although there are some pretty clever 
 ways of cheating the grim reaper. Elders don't go to work, but still receive pension based on their 
 job standings upon retiring. 
  
  Some of the greatest additions to the gameplay itself give the player more structure without removing 
 any of the freeform options that made The Sims so appealing. The primary enhancement is that of 
 the wants and fears system, which gives you a few major goals and fears at any given time, based 
 on your sim's personality and the basic aspirations you choose for him upon creation. For example, 
 a romantic sim might have a hankering for the girl next door, so one of his wants may be to flirt 
 with her. On the other hand, being rejected for the same flirt may be one of his greatest fears. 
 Fulfilling wants will grant your sim aspiration points, which can be used to purchase all sorts 
 of goodies, from money trees to a fountain of youth. Having a fear rejected will subtract aspiration 
 points, and in severe cases, your emotional reaction may warrant a visit from  the therapist, 
 of course! One of our sims was so traumatized by a fire, that not only did he lose aspiration points, 
 but the therapist dropped down via umbrella in Mary Poppins style to counsel our sim until he felt 
 well enough to move on. Cassandra Goth (yes, the Goths are back, although the Newbies are conspicuously 
 absent) , shattered by a rejected marriage proposal, was reduced to a blithering mess. This should 
 please the sadistic instincts of the fans who delighted while their sims died of starvation or 
 wet their drawers. How well you are fulfilling your sim's needs and avoiding his fears are measured 
 by the aspiration meter, which you will want to keep high, lest the use of your reward items cause 
 some nasty side effects. Your wants and fears are subject to change from day to day, although you 
 can right click them to hold onto them, if you wish to keep them static. 
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  Another 
 enrichment to the The Sims 2's newfound focus is the story mode, which allows players to either 
 create a story from scratch, using screenshots and movie clips to provide moments of reference, 
 or to play out one of the neighborhood stories conveniently provided. In the Veronaville area, 
 a Romeo and Juliet story is unfolding and you can choose to carefully play each role as you wish 
 and bring the story to a dramatic close or mold it to your own liking. In Pleasantview, Mortimer 
 Goth is searching for his missing wife and coping with the growing pains of his adult daughter. 
 Insert story points as you wish, or simply ignore them altogether. There is no doubt, however, 
 that players wishing The Sims had a more central purpose will find much to like about the mode, 
 although its scope is somewhat limited, as the player's actions in live mode ultimately decide 
 the outcome - and the mode itself is simply a journal mechanism that allows the player to keep 
 track of story progress. Still, between the story mode and the aspiration meter, there is very 
 little chance players will be at a loss of what to do; and with their sims' personalities so intertwined 
 with the story, wants, and fears, they will never wonder why they are doing it in the first place. 
 Still, there are always surprises in store. Your sim may get a phone call giving you a stock tip, 
 and you will be pressed with a choice: purchase it on your own, tell your boss, or do nothing? 
 When you stumble across an ancient ruin, will you explore it or leave it be? Your decision will 
 affect your simoleans or skill points, either positively or negatively. These moments seem a little 
 too random, but still liven up the gameplay by keeping you on your toes.
  
  Undoubtedly, one of the finest aspects of The Sims 2, as in the original, is that there is simply 
 so much to do, and the pleasures of the mundane are as fascinating as ever. Still, is it enough 
 for the casual gamers whose addiction to the original and its multiple expansions has kept them 
 occupied for all these years? Well, yes  and no. In some ways, it is encouraging to see that Maxis 
 fulfilled many of the wishes Sims fans had: a fully 3D camera, improved pathfinding and AI (artificial 
 intelligence) , and greater control over the neighborhood itself. On the other hand, with the gameplay 
 possibilities already explored in the best Sims expansions, like Vacation and Makin' Magic, the 
 door to future Sims 2 expansions is noticeably ajar. The new game seems so familiar, its innovations 
 now so commonplace, that we sometimes can't shake the notion that something is missing. While the 
 impending official additions and community objects and camaraderie are sure to be exciting, the 
 evolution of The Sims is a constant reminder that there is still plenty of opportunity for its 
 sequel to grow.
  
  The Sims 2s graphics look really good. The new 3D camera lets you swoop right up close to the 
 action and swing it around to any angle you choose. The real triumph, though, is the animation 
 quality that needs to be seen to be appreciated. Zooming into your sim will show some terrific 
 gestures and facial expressions, whether its the look of discomfort on his face when his bladder 
 is full, or the dance of excitement after he returns home after a long day of work. As in the first 
 game, the greatest pleasures are in the details, from the bubbles in the sink while your sim washes 
 the dishes, to the way your married couples cuddle in their sleep. More impressively, animations 
 are different based on your sim's personality. A neat sim will eat tidily, while a messy one will 
 spray potato chip crumbs; a playful sim will get down and dirty to the music, while a stodgier 
 one will dance conservatively. Once again, system requirements are not too high, but there are 
 more settings available that should keep players on a variety of systems happy. Not all is perfect 
 in Simsville, though, and you will pay the price with frustratingly long loading times and occasional 
 frame rate jitters. You will also notice clipping and other small issues from time to time. 
  
  As in the original, the audio is a real treat, and a whole new batch of Simlish phrases has 
 been added - so many sounds, in fact, that it will take quite some time before you notice them 
 being repeated. As with the graphics, the personality of your sim shines through in his gibberish, 
 and you will be constantly amazed at the tiny details that really make the audio stand out. The 
 music remains as appealing as before, although it does seem a tad more simplistic than that of 
 the original. 
  
  The Sims 2 remains outrageously addictive, and the new gameplay elements have spruced things up 
 enough that those that stopped playing The Sims a few years back would be well served to pick up 
 the sequel. Gamers that wanted more freeform control, as well as those requiring greater focus 
 to keep them interested will be happy to find augmentations in both directions. Dedicated fans 
 of the original may be pestered by the pesky notion that the sequel doesn't add enough to their 
 already bloated Sims collection, but most will be kept too busy to care, for the most part. Charming, 
 unselfconsciously mundane, and exquisitely tailored, The Sims 2 fits like a toasty mitten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2004 11:36 am PT
Review:  Fans of the original are obviously looking forward to this game. If a expansion pack can sell millions 
 of copies, it's quite apparent a full-fledged sequel is wanted even more. That's true, and The 
 Sims 2 is finally here to fill the void.
  
  The question at hand is whether or not it lives up to the predecessors lofty standards. There isn't 
 exactly an answer for that. It's so similar to the first one that you can basically start from 
 the get-go without even bothering learning the new gameplay additions at all.
  
  I've had this game for about a week and a half now, and I've been playing it a lot. It's very fun, 
 and very addicting. As the first one is, this is just 'one of those games'. You can sit down at 
 your PC and put in a hour or two here and there when you have time, just because it's so fun and 
 no other reason at all.
  
  The nicest new addition, beyond the fully 3D camera, are the wants/fears/needs system. It adds 
 some balance to the gameplay, so you know what your Sim wants. The create-a-sim is also much better 
 than the first time, there are a lot of options to customize your Sim with making it very personal 
 and fun.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend The Sims 2 to any fan of the original. It's one of the most fun games 
 to be released all year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
