-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/settlers2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  6, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blue Byte
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Settlers II is one of those brilliant little strategy games that mixes a bit of economics, a 
 bit of combat, and a whole lot of watching cute little men stroll around the screen hitting things 
 with various implements of destruction. 

 The Settlers II is one of those brilliant little strategy games that mixes a bit of economics, a 
 bit of combat, and a whole lot of watching cute little men stroll around the screen hitting things 
 with various implements of destruction. The problem is, despite very pleasing economic models and 
 visual delivery, there really isn't enough to do to make long-term world-building very satisfying. 

 From the intro screen, you can tackle individual scenarios (in which you take on the role of different 
 races) or elect the campaign mode, which puts you in the shoes of a lost Roman army. Starting on 
 a small island with a scattering of supplies and men, combatants must learn the secrets of construction 
 from ancient monuments left behind, and the secrets of war from the local inhabitants. As play 
 continues, the ragtag band will discover that their only way forward is to take possession of a 
 series of magical gateways that are protected by increasingly fearsome opponents that include Nubian, 
 Viking, and Asiatic tribes.  

 The Settlers II's strength is the complexity of its economic engine. Players must acquire raw materials 
 through the actions of laborers who operate out of the buildings that you construct. These base 
 materials are used in turn to develop more complex items that the settlers need like tools, weaponry, 
 and food. One example of how twisted this scheme can get is in the production of the gold coins 
 that are used to improve your soldiers' skill levels. In order to produce coins, you must take 
 raw gold to a worker at your mint - in order to get the raw gold, you must feed meat to the pick-swingers 
 in your gold mine - in order to get meat you must take pigs to the slaughterhouse - in order to 
 get pigs, you must deliver grain and water, produced at the farm and the well respectively, to 
 the pig farm. As you can imagine, trying to sort out which resources are being allocated to which 
 production facilities can get pretty confusing, and a well-run village will require a great deal 
 of patience and administrative skill.  

 The Settlers II has a few failings that keep it from ever achieving the level of success that it 
 seems capable of. Combat, which is a fairly large part of the game, is merely a matter of sending 
 your troops to attack the enemy's buildings, and hoping that your soldier has enough luck to take 
 the victory. Once combat begins with an opponent, there's usually very little reason to continue 
 expanding the economic development of your country, as most of your resources will be directed 
 towards creating more soldiers and weapons. The game also provides very little to aspire to technology-wise. 
 Once players have learned how to build the basic building types, there's nothing else to discover, 
 a fact that makes world building for sheer entertainment's sake very limited. Each of the levels 
 is designed to provide players with a problem (e. g. low resources, enemies on both sides, etc.) 
 that has a fairly specific solution.  

 With its crisp graphics and stunning sound effects (let's try to forget about the mind numbingly 
 repetitive soundtrack for now) , The Settlers II creates an atmosphere that's hard not to like, 
 at least for a little while. And for those who are into strategy games that require linear thinking 
 and specific problem solving, the game probably will provide multiple hours of engrossing play. 
 But those who are looking for a more open-ended game may find that Settlers II's low number of 
 construction options and snore-inducing combat keep the game well within the bounds of strategy 
 game mediocrity.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SteveQ_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It was a lot of fun to play. Although the missions are pretty much 
 all the same just a different area to conquer, and the missions get repetitive after a while.
 
  
  But it's really fun building up your own city and discovering minerals and keeping the economy 
 running smoothly. It can be quite challenging if your city gets big keeping every aspect of the 
 economy in working order.
  
  The combat isn't really that great. You basically build castles and watch your soldiers duke it 
 out with the enemy.
  
  If you are into old school strategy games then Settlers 2 is a great choice.
  
  --------------------------------------
 
  My websites: Apply for a credit card
  Paid Surveys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Simple idea and well implemented. For it's time the Settlers had quite a following. By todays standards 
 the game holds up very well.
  
  The idea behind the Settlers is, you start with a headquarters (town hall) and from there you start 
 laying down foundations for buildings, build some connecting roads that connect to base and your 
 settlers come out and get to work building. You only start with minimal recourses so you'll pretty 
 much have to become self sufficient very quickly. The most basic buildings require nothing once 
 they are built and provide the the essential materials for the more the more advanced buildings 
 which in turn require materials from each other to keep production up....
  
  and this essentially is the settlers. Build guard towers or other assorted military buildings at 
 your borderline, increase your territory and eventually your borders will overlap with your enemies. 
 Hopefully by now, you have a good economy running building swords and shields and beer!! for your 
 soldiers and you should be able to overrun your opponents without to much trouble. Soldiers get 
 upgraded to higher ranks as they fight and accordingly they are much harder to kill.
  
  Very good game which will run on just about ANY machine with ZERO lag. Even if your computer completely 
 blows, it will run this no problem.
  
  Graphics are decent, the sound is decent and as far as price goes, no doubt you'll be able to pick 
 this up cheap, i think i even saw it as a free download (full game) on file planet but i'm not 
 100% sure on that.
  
  Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosmancer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games that everybody likes although it doesn't have very good graphics 
 or sound the game play really makes up for that since the tutorial is easy to complete, in fact 
 it is so easy that you don't even need to do it, I started without doing the tutorial and completed 
 it just fine. It works great of old PC's and better for new one's. Although like I said before 
 it doesn't have very good sound, in fact that is the only real problem with this game, the graphics 
 aren't really that bad but the sound is well... bad, really bad, I advice any one to play to turn 
 of the audio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dathill
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Wicked game, I got it when I was ten, its definately the best settlers game. The building animations 
 are great as are the workers. Buildings are much cooler than those in Age of Empires and the managment 
 of resources is the piece de la resistance. The combat was fun if not a bit slow and complexity 
 and sheer amount of things to do was great. if you have an old pc or laptop you should definately 
 invest in this game. I ran it on a windows 95 and it ran fine it alos had a really good single 
 player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  You start off with loads of villagers and a HQ. From that you have to build an empire. Soliders 
 need to be payed, and enemies need to be defeated. The whole community all depends on each other. 
 Imagine Sim City, then add workers on the roads, then add it so if 1 thing fails, so does everything 
 else, until the roads clog up.
  
  Now imagine the boundaries. You go into their's and cut off a road. That's when you can attack. 
 The fun begins. ;)
  
  The game is pretty old, and the graphics aren't amazing, but gameplay makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first strategies in the world that showed that this genre is very fun to play 
 indeed. From all settlers I have played this part is the best. Its not very hard to figure out 
 how to play and what to do in it. The only problem with the game is that there is not a lot of 
 maps to play in it. There is only about 20 maps : ( thats a little disappointing but everything 
 else is good. I highly recommend to play this game and remember the OLD SCHOOL. If you wont play 
 it you'll miss a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmaster13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Settlers is actually pretty hard once you get into the higher levels. Great fun though.
  
  You start off with loads of villagers and a HQ. From that you have to build an empire. Soliders 
 need to be payed, and enemies need to be defeated. The whole community all depends on each other. 
 Imagine Sim City, then add workers on the roads, then add it so if 1 thing fails, so does everything 
 else, until the roads clog up.
  
  Now imagine the boundaries. You go into their's and cut off a road. That's when you can attack. 
 The fun begins. ;)
  
  The game is pretty old, and the graphics aren't amazing, but gameplay makes up for it. If you see 
 this on a shelf, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  Settlers II is an interesting strategy game that focuses more on the economy than on fighting. 
 You'll have to mold your resources to make them useable. For instance, you must create woodcutters 
 to get logs, then create sawmills to cut them into boards that can be used for numerous things 
 (build buildings, build boats, etc...) . A forester can then be built to replace those trees cut 
 down by the woodcutters. 
  
  Most of Settlers II will depend on how well your economy is runing, and not how well you plan your 
 attack. Combat is pretty sad since all it is is, whoever's better trained and has the most numbers 
 will win. Defensive structures can be built to stop advancing enemy troops, again, with the larger 
 structures (can hold more units) and stronger units coming out on top. 
  
  Settlers II is a great strategy game that brings the focus off of battles and instead onto economy 
 management. Games can at times be tedious, especially if you miss a step in construction which 
 will bring your economy to a halt, and is sometimes a bit to long. Settlers II still remains fun 
 nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 24, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for first time players it explains what you need to do well, also the 
 graphics are not to good but the it did come out in the mid 90's. If you can find this game it 
 will be cheap so value for money will not be a problem.
  
  There are the other settlers games and other games like settlers to take into account, at this 
 point in time i would play just for the fun of it.
  
  The sound of this game is great and i enjoy it everytime one of my men fid coal or water and stuff 
 like that.
  
  To wrap up this review i must say that if you do not own this game or have not played it i would 
 recomend that you do. You never know you might like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
