-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers: Fourth Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/settlersfourthedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 17, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 384 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Blue Byte
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 30, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The fact that the basic formula of The Settlers is fun makes it all the more frustrating that, four 
 games later, little has been done to keep the formula fresh. 

  The Settlers: Fourth Edition is very similar to The Settlers III. And The Settlers II. And The 
 Settlers. Unlike the similar city-building games from Impressions, The Settlers series hasn't evolved 
 much over its many years. In the succession of Cleopatra, Zeus, and Poseidon, Impressions managed 
 to retain the core formula of its city-building games while adding interesting new tasks and options. 
 Perhaps Blue Byte should look to these games for inspiration for future installments of The Settlers. 
 It's true that the fourth edition of the long-running series adds a few new features, but these 
 aren't nearly enough to revitalize the series and also aren't enough to recommend the game over 
 other games like it.           The primary campaign will pit you against the hordes of the Dark 
 Tribe.    

  The fundamental formula of The Settlers remains the same: You must build a functional town. This 
 is a complex process, because each building is dependent on others. The basic structures let you 
 harvest the core resources that are the building blocks of your town: wood and stone. You then 
 must build mines to gather other resources such as coal, iron, gold, and sulfur and also generate 
 food to feed the miners. With the minerals, you can make tools and weapons. The former you can 
 use to create more resource-providing buildings, and the latter you can use to strengthen your 
 military. This town building has always been at the heart of The Settlers series and will be familiar 
 to anyone who has played any of the previous editions. It's a good system, and one that has been, 
 and continues to be, emulated in many games. Unfortunately, it hasn't changed significantly over 
 the years. In The Settlers: Fourth Edition, building your town is essentially the same as it has 
 been in every previous edition.   

  Though the manual states that military might is not the focus of the game, your actual goal in 
 fact is to build a town that can support a functional military. Every campaign mission ultimately 
 requires you to destroy your opponents. Yet as in previous entries in the series, combat in The 
 Settlers: Fourth Edition is a strange affair. You build towers to control territory, and when you 
 destroy an opponent's tower, his or her territory becomes yours. You can't directly attack anything 
 except opposing forces and towers. Though the combat system has been improved slightly, there are 
 still some problems. Primarily, combat is uninteresting because the only strategy available to 
 you is making as many units as possible. It's never more complex than moving all of your units 
 slowly through enemy territory, hoping you'll have some left after your opponent doesn't.   

  The Settlers: Fourth Edition attempts to change the mission objectives slightly by adding a fourth 
 faction to the game. This evil faction is called the Dark Tribe and differs from the playable Mayas, 
 Vikings, and Romans. The Dark Tribe does not have towers, and to destroy its territory, you must 
 use gardeners to fertilize its corrupted land. Gardeners are weak, as you might imagine, so you'll 
 still need a huge force to protect them when they venture into enemy territory. This attempt at 
 adding new mission objectives is a good start, but in the end it doesn't change much. You'll still 
 need to build a good-sized force, only you'll need some gardeners in there as well.   

  There are plenty of missions in the game. The Settlers: Fourth Edition includes four campaigns -- one 
 three-mission campaign for each race, and one longer campaign in which you alternately play each 
 of the three races against the Dark Tribe. The game also includes several stand-alone scenarios 
 (including a single map for open-ended play with no enemies) and multiplayer maps for use on the 
 Blue Byte Game Channel.   

  Despite all the scenarios, what's most disheartening about The Settlers: Fourth Edition is just 
 how little has been added to liven up the game, both from previous installments but also just from 
 mission to mission. Invariably, the majority of your time will be spent building your town, and 
 this process is always exactly the same. The only variants are the availability of resources and 
 the area in which you can expand. Building your town is a lengthy process, and it gets repetitive 
 after only a few missions. In fact, it will seem exponentially repetitive depending on how many 
 previous editions of The Settlers you've played. Blue Byte has added the ability for you to skip 
 a full minute of game time by hitting the F12 key. This works to speed up the slow building process, 
 but effectively just makes it so that you're skipping through the whole game. At least the 1.10.908 
 patch improves upon this concept by giving you the ability to speed up the actual flow of the game -- an 
 option The Settlers games have needed all along.           Warships are new to the series, but 
 you won't use them very often.    

  The new features in The Settlers: Fourth Edition include the addition of warships, as well as a 
 slight retooling of the magic system from The Settlers III. Neither of these is well integrated 
 into the game, and most likely, you'll use them only when it is absolutely necessary. Ships are 
 hardly ever needed and often aren't useful because the maps are designed so that ships can't get 
 around very easily. The magic system is interesting, but generating enough manna to cast the more 
 powerful spells often isn't worth your time or resources.   

  The Settlers: Fourth Edition looks at least as good as any game of its type, as it features a great 
 amount of detail in the buildings and in the animations of your little settlers. You can zoom in 
 and look at the tiles on your roofs. You can watch your bakers make bread and your smelters work 
 the forge. The music is your typical epic game score, but it sounds great and is well suited to 
 the game. The sound effects are good as well, and audio clues will help you keep track of your 
 town's current situation. If only that much detail had been put into the mission design.   

  The fact that the basic formula of The Settlers is fun makes it all the more frustrating that, 
 four games later, little has been done to keep the formula fresh. On one hand, this means that 
 if, by chance, you're either new to the series or still can be entertained with how The Settlers 
 plays after all this time, then you'll find plenty to like in the game. On the other hand, it means 
 that most everyone else will find that The Settlers: Fourth Edition is really just the same old 
 game with the same old problems.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: djfallout
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  After playing the original settlers on my old Amiga many years ago, I really did not think that 
 it would be continued onto PC. Then one day about 10 years later to my amazement I find this game 
 on a shelf in my local PC shop. So I bought straight away. At the start it took me a while to comprehend 
 as I was only familiar with the original settlers.
  So down to the real review. This game really takes the cake as it is so hard if you play it on 
 hard. Now it took me so many times to complete most of the mission s as you don't have time to 
 muck around. Now I loved the speed up cheat and the patch to get the cheats and game working. This 
 cheat really speeds up the game and takes it from boring to on the edge of ya seat gaming. I found 
 the only problem you have as in all settlers games is running out of resources. I found this game 
 still tickling my fancy as the settlers heritage of kings, Settlers II 10 aniversary and rise of 
 rome concentrate more on graphics than gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  When I say almost-real-time-strategy i'm talking about the system and the gameplay of the Settlers. 
 If you're a master at Age of Empires or Warcraft you'll not be good in it the first time you'll 
 play. Here... you control only the building construction and military/special units. You'll not 
 click a villager and click a tree to make him chop, here you'll build a woodcutter and watch a 
 settler grab a axe (if you'll have it, of course) and become the lumberjack. It's kinda confusing 
 at first hand, but later you'll master it.
  
  It a kind of some reverse rock paper scissors in a different way. In example: As a said, you need 
 to have the tools to your settlers became workers. At the begging you start with only a scythe 
 (necessary to grain and cut crops, of course) and you're planning upgrade your crop stocks building 
 a new farm. So you'll need first, an Iron and a Coal mine to produce the raw materials for the 
 tool... then a maze is been created: The Coal Miners like bread, to produce bread you'll need floor 
 and to produce floor you'll need grain. After you'll have the coal you'll need iron ore to smelt. 
 Iron miners like meat, meat is produced by the slaughterhouse, this that need goat (or pig) and 
 these animals need grain and water to grown and be ready to turn into a delicious piece of pork. 
 Then... you have everything... built a ironworks and smelted iron ore into iron bars... then built 
 a toolsmith to create the so desired new scythe to improve your grain crops. If you're reading 
 it, you might be confused... but actually in game... this is superb and really test your economic 
 strategist skills. It's really funny when you'll master it... but later you will become tired of. 
 It's like that: Playing an almost complete settlement is really funny, forging hundred of swords 
 for hundred of soldiers with plenty of raw material rocks... start from scratch can be very boring. 
 This a game you'll need to master first before enjoying. So, if you, AoE player like challenge... 
 try it. If youre familiar with games like this (Zeus, Pharaoh, Caesar) it's kinda of expansion 
 in your skills. Nonetheless, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balistaguy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Settlers 4 is a excellent game which carries on from settlers 3, people don't like it much now 
 becuase they are into the new stuff, like the 1st reviewer of this great game. He has proberly 
 never even played it, Never judge a game by its appearences.
  
  Instead of making settlers 5 which may i say is aload of rubbish... They should have kept making 
 more stuff to Settlers 4, There was no need to enhance the graphics it was not a Rea life... i 
 used to think of it as a fantasy type game even through the features are true to life.
  
  Live on Settlers !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  I didn't find this game very good. It's speed and graphics aren't very good. And the concept is 
 confusing, I set up a colony, but no matter how far I expanded it I couldn't build buildings. The 
 temple thing is confusing, I hate to delete two of my big buildings before I could build it and 
 I had plenty of resources. All in all I would say this entire series was a failed attempt, this 
 game was the game I wasted 10 on, it is a rip-off because it's full of errors from the starty 
 and only gets worse. It's patheticaly easy aswell. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
