-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Secret Files: Tunguska
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/thesecretfilestunguska/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good, traditional adventure mechanics.
 Interesting story angle.
 Great atmospheric visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absurd puzzle solutions that defy the laws of God and man.
 Too much reliance on inventory puzzles.
 Terrible script and dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 407 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Fusionsphere Sys.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 30, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MacGyver-esque inventory puzzles make this an acceptable, if exceedingly conventional, adventure. 
 

  For UFO conspiracy buffs, the great Tunguska explosion of 1908 is the Russian Roswell. Although 
 the devastation of the Siberian blast meant that nobody got the chance to pick up any E. T. corpses 
 and store them away for later autopsy on Fox, tinfoil hatters still think it was caused by a UFO 
 crash. So it's not much of a surprise to see that somebody has finally decided to base an adventure 
 game around what has to be one of the most mysterious events of the past century. But, unfortunately, 
 Secret Files: Tunguska doesn't hit adventure gaming with anything like the impact that the big 
 ka-boom had on about 2,300 square miles of Russian countryside. Pick-everything-up mechanics dating 
 back to the Bronze Age and set-piece puzzles that were old back when Roberta Williams walked the 
 earth make this effort from Animation Arts and Fusionsphere Systems more of a museum piece than 
 a living and breathing game.  

          As is usual with conventional adventure games in the Sierra tradition, puzzle solutions 
 here are typically beyond bizarre.     

  That said, it's pretty good if you're looking for a Sierra-style mystery with a spunky female protagonist. 
 Here you play Nina Kalenkov, an attractive young woman who finds a wrecked office and a missing 
 father one night when she pops into the old man's museum for a relaxing game of chess. As usual 
 in these sorts of things, she gets railroaded by the cops and immediately heads off to find out 
 what happened to dear old dad on her lonesome. She soon gains the assistance of a newfound pal 
 named Max Gruber (whom you get to play later in the game) , and before you can say "James Bond" 
 you're on a globe-trotting expedition in a search that leads you to the Tunguska blast.  

  Yet the game itself isn't as exciting as that encapsulation would have you believe. The plot is 
 certainly interesting, even if the missing-person shtick is so old that you'll want to blow dust 
 off of it. But the structure is creaky and tedious. Your whole race to find papa and save the world 
 takes place in the form of set-piece inventory puzzles where you must get past some sort of obstacle, 
 like a locked door or a grumpy scientist or a sick guy who has to be healed in order to provide 
 you with crucial information. All of these barriers are, of course, bypassed by picking up everything 
 that isn't nailed down and slapping them together into rudimentary tools, poisons, weapons, medicines, 
 and so forth.  

  It all makes more sense and is easier than expected, thanks to a straightforward design, a hint 
 system, and a magnifying glass icon that lets you spotlight every item in a room that can be examined 
 or picked up (say goodbye to pixel hunts) . In the end, though, you're still doing amazingly goofy 
 things. Nina fixes a bike for a little girl to get a magnet to retrieve a key from a fish tank. 
 She feeds a stray cat salted pizza and then tapes her cell phone to it in a roundabout way of eavesdropping 
 on a conversation. She whips up one of many concoctions with the help of reindeer hair, a nutcracker, 
 vodka, and ketchup. And MacGyver would be proud of how she and Max slap together a blowgun. There 
 are odd bits of interest, such as a couple of puzzles later on in the game, but Tunguska is really 
 about picking up and combining objects in ever-more bizarre ways.  

  The sheer strangeness of the puzzle solutions isn't the most annoying aspect of the game, though, 
 as you expect this kind of ridiculousness in an old-time adventure. What really grates is how the 
 developers flaunt their defiance of reality by constantly forcing you to solve puzzles in absurd 
 ways when there are far more sensible methods at hand. To get the attention of a colleague of your 
 father holed up in his office with music blaring so loudly that your knocking can't be heard, you 
 have to pull the fuse powering his ungodly Euro techno. That makes some sense, but not as much 
 as just pounding really loudly on the door or even hoofing the damn thing a few times. Hey, daddy's 
 missing and you're hot; the guy inside will understand. Also, you can't just yank all the fuses; 
 you have to scrounge around the building for a map listing room numbers, as for some reason you 
 don't want to turn the lights out in the whole place. You're freaked about your dad being kidnapped, 
 but hey, no point in inconveniencing the janitors for a minute or two.  

  At least you solve these crazy conundrums in atmospheric and spooky settings. This is one of the 
 prettiest adventures released in recent memory. Nina and Max visit a gated estate in the moonlight, 
 kvetch in front of a misty museum, travel on the Trans-Siberian Railway, and visit many other locales 
 that always look either pretty or creepy. Nina herself is the usual impossibly breasted and tightly 
 jeaned game heroine, which doesn't hurt the eye appeal. Still, the game is just loaded with cinematic 
 clichs in cutscenes, like the reflection of a villain suddenly appearing in a window being closed, 
 or the camera lingering behind Nina on her motorcycle to reveal a sinister black car tailing her. 
 After a few of these you start paying close attention to every clip just to see which suspense-film 
 chestnut the developers are going to rip off next.  

          Timeless dialogue.     

  Tension is also bolstered by the audio. Music is sparse and eerie enough to make you fear for Nina's 
 safety, which is probably the sole point of having tunes in these damsel-in-distress capers. Atmospheric 
 effects are barely noticeable, though, and the dialogue is atrociously written and voiced. Nina 
 sounds like a half-witted Valley girl, not a Russian migr starring in an adventure noir. And 
 the dialogue is liberally sprinkled with howlers like "Listen, girlie. I've been in the business 
 for almost 40 years -- I know when something stinks -- and this thing really stinks!" and "Not to worry, 
 Sergej would never leave such a sweet ass hanging." Where are Tom Servo and Crow when you need 
 them?  

  As smooth and professional as it looks and plays, Secret Files: Tunguska feels a lot like a stale 
 tribute to a long-gone genre. The game does what it sets out to do pretty well, but at the same 
 time is so derivative of the past that you can't help but think that you've played it many times 
 before.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  In today's gaming landscape, adventure fans have become accustomed to being left out in the cold 
 when all the blockbuster titles are released. As a genre that has seen brighter days in terms of 
 fan and developer support, finding a good adventure game can be an involved and risky process. 
 Luckily, sometimes you can find gold when you least expect it, as I did when I came across the 
 Adventure Collection Volume 1, a game compilation from the Adventure Company. I'll admit that by 
 itself (Tunguska) , I wouldn't have been totally convinced to pick up this title, but because it 
 was included in a collection of five games that sold for a mere twenty bucks, I simply had to give 
 it a try. And I'm really glad I did. Though Secret Files: Tunguska falls short of being a classic, 
 it's a really neat adventure game that combines a unique story with a witty personality.
  
  Secret Files starts off with the right foot, as its story is based on the Tunguska event of 1908, 
 where a mysterious explosion (a blast that was 1000 times more powerful than the bomb dropped in 
 Hiroshima) occurred in Russia. It is believed it was caused by a meteor, but to this day the event 
 remains a mystery.
  
  Secret Files takes that premise and builds its own explanation for the event, setting the stage 
 for the main character, Nina Kalenkov to take part of the story. Nina's father was part of an expedition 
 that tried to get a better insight on the Tunguska incident and it's believed that he holds valuable 
 information about the explosion, as well as artifacts collected during research. Dr. Kalenkov gets 
 kidnapped by an unknown group and it's Nina's task to try to find him. However it appears Nina's 
 got other problems too since she gets mysteriously attacked at her apartment, which triggers the 
 suspicion that someone is behind her too.
  
  The weakest part of Tunguska's story is that most of the interesting details are reserved for the 
 final chapters, and very little is revealed in between. That's not to say that the story or the 
 game will get dull during the middle chapters, since Nina will constantly manage to get herself 
 into crazy situations that will require even crazier solutions.
  
  In fact, part of the appeal of the game lies in its logic defying puzzles. Pretty much all of Tunguska's 
 puzzles are inventory based, which means you'll be combining objects to see which ones can be used 
 to solve a particular problem. On many occasions the puzzles follow fairly logical path, but there 
 are times when you'll be forced to combine every single item available because none of the items 
 at your disposal would appear to be a logical combination (at first sight at least) . An while some 
 combinations really don't make much sense (the kitty - cell phone debacle for instance) , others 
 will seem a bit plausible once you solve the puzzle, even if the idea behind them seems somewhat 
 far fetched (using a butter sandwich to grease a stuck piece on a vehicle) . But as stupid as some 
 of the solutions to the puzzles might seem, there's a certain sense of joy in watching such illogical 
 solutions rescuing our main character from the pickle she's currently in.
  
  Aside from wickedly enjoyable puzzles, Tunguska's dialogue can also be some sort of guilty pleasure. 
 Some lines are truly abysmal (anything that comes out of Sergeij's mouth for example) , but Nina's 
 constant one liners to describe the objects in her surroundings can be legitimately funny, even 
 if at times they won't help you endear yourself to her. I somewhat got the impression that the 
 developers tried to mold Nina's personality based on that of April Ryan (The Longest Journey) , 
 and while the Nina character doesn't come close to reaching such heights, she still manages to 
 be a funny and likable (except for a few situations) character. The cheesy dialogue and witty humor 
 do seem to fit in with the nature of the game, which is very over the top.
  
  Secret Files other major strength lies in it's visuals. They're simply gorgeous. Granted, given 
 that this is a point and click adventure, it's not hard to deliver a strong visual fidelity since 
 the environments are static, but even so, the level of polish is truly commendable. There's also 
 a very good art direction behind it, and every location you explore will be oozing with details.
 
  
  It's too bad that the sound of the game didn't receive as much attention. The music and voice acting 
 are good enough (even if Nina's voice can resemble a chipmunk at times) , but the mixing of the 
 voice recording in particular seems to be somewhat off. Sometimes you'll hear a character deliver 
 a line in a calmed tone, while the next line will seem too energetic, even if the tone should've 
 logically remained the same. Also, the dialogue seems to have some pacing issues, since lines are 
 sometimes delivered one after the other with no pauses in between. For instance, you may hear a 
 character talking on the phone and respond to whatever the person on the other line would've said 
 as soon as he/she delivered their first line. This is somewhat undermining to the experience, and 
 it's a real shame since it's just a technical issue. Individually the lines sound ok, but thrown 
 together they feel disjointed.
  
  But most of Tunguska's faults are easily overlooked by the game's undeniable charm. The vast majority 
 of the characters (even the ones with tiny roles in the story) are very likable and will provide 
 you with plenty of funny moments. The characters seem to be very self aware of the fact that they're 
 in a video game, and the game seems to be trying to give the impression that this is actually a 
 Hollywood movie. This is all taken to a whole new level when the credits role, as you will actually 
 see a gag reel consisting of blooper scenes, which regardless of their nature, are legitimately 
 funny. There's also a really great character synopsis at the end, where you learn about what happened 
 to every single character in the game. It's this sort of stuff that truly gives Tunguska a unique 
 identity. As a side note, you need to download the latest patch to access this features.
  
  Secret Files: Tunguska is a good enough adventure game that can be easily recommended to fans of 
 the genre. It pretty much carries every single stigma and flaw of the genre, but the fact that 
 it's very aware of it and almost does this deliberately, makes it all the more applaudable that 
 it turned out as good as it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6dutch_man6
Rating: 1
Date: May 1, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The voice acting is corny & lame
  There are numerous "points" in the game where glitches force you to restart from the beginning 
 basically
  
  Give me a Friggin Cigarette!
  There's a area of the game where you need to pick up a cigarette from a soldier but even though 
 I followed the guides exactly, he wouldn't give me one. No matter how many times I reloaded the 
 damn thing, it was always the same. I had to start from the beginning.
  
  There are other areas that are just like this, total BS, why do PC games get released with mountains 
 of bugs & glitches, I'm starting to prefer Console games, at least they work!
  
  Also, like in all "clickies" there are some items or things that are REALLY small an easy to miss. 
 Took me forever to find the damn matches in the sewers!
  
  There is also a patch to give you a "better ending" an add some features like cutscene viewer, 
 so that gives you a clue that this game was FAR from ready for release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # After the flob of broken sword i was starting to cry thinking they would never make another adventure 
 actualy worth playing again but this good and allow me explan why my friends.
  
  # The first thing i realised was the grapics have gone back to 2d backgrounds which i think is 
 better for an adventure games because its easier to get around and think its nice to look at sometimes. 
 
  
  # The puzzle solving is a bit strange sometimes but i found it to be more intresting than doing 
 somthing insultingly easy and simple like puting butter on taost. But alot of the puzzles were 
 good acually. I would rather the puzzles be unrealistic than stupidly easy.
  
  # The story telling could do with more work but its alright it this is just part 1 of the story. 
 
  
  # The people you control are'nt too unlikeable. 
  
  # You do go differant places some more intersting than others i thoght. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
 I really think people should give this a chance it could have done with a bit more work but i like 
 it compared to some of the other crapo adventure games that have been released lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  
  ~Graphics: Better Than Average (Really Good in Cutscenes)
  ~Environments: Interesting, Detailed (but not cluttered)
  ~Story: Interesting, Logical
  ~Voice 
 Acting: I usually don't care about voice acting but it was obviously horrible. The regular characters 
 sounded normal, but the main character was way off. It sounded like a 12 year old when the character 
 is supposed to be much older. Also it sounds very fake and over exaggerated. However, as I got 
 more into I found it easier and easier to ignore. 
  
  ~~~~Overall: it was a fun game. Bad voice acting has never been a big reason to not play a game 
 for me. If voice acting is important to you then don't play this game. It was definitely not as 
 good as something like Dreamfall but those games only come around once in awhile. It had it's goods 
 and bads making it a very average game. Good game to kill time and have a little fun but not going 
 to be a favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The Tunguska Event of 1908 is steeped in legend, beloved by astronomers, conspiracy theorists and 
 UFO hunters alike. It's certainly ready material for an adventure game, so why Secret Files: Tunguska 
 chooses instead to fall back on the "missing loved one" plot is a mystery in itself. While there 
 is no shortage of detailed information about the Tunguska Event, it serves more as a backdrop for 
 a rather conventional tale. Overall, Secret Files: Tunguska is a fairly enjoyable, if flawed, slave 
 to convention.
  
  Few games cover the spectrum between good (sometimes even excellent) and bad the way that Tunguska 
 does. The opening cut scene is cinematically impressive, feeling much more like the opening to 
 a movie than the introduction to an adventure game. Unfortunately, like many adventure games before 
 it, and doubtless many to follow, the effort spent on the cinematics is little clue to the overall 
 quality of the game. 
  
  That's not to say the rest of the game doesn't look good  in fact, the visuals are undoubtedly 
 the best feature of the game. Every location looks excellent, and rendered in sufficient detail. 
 Characters also look great, blend well into their surroundings, and move in natural, realistic 
 ways. Cutscenes are superbly animated, though often a bit long and wordy. It's worth noting that 
 downloading the 1.02 patch is an imperative; on some systems, unpatched games will reach an unplayable 
 point due to a cinematics glitch, and the patch adds in an extra endgame movie. Because I never 
 saw the ending without the patch, I don't know what was actually added, but I do know that the 
 ending cutscene was one of the best parts of the game.
  
  A game that looks this good might be expected to sound pretty decent, too. Here, too, Tunguska 
 ranges from excellent to abysmal. The music is certainly very good, and used to great effect. Ambient 
 sound is well balanced, and brings depth to locations, from chirping birds to screaming inmates. 
 Unfortunately, the voice acting is simply absurd. Nina, the protagonist of the game, is your typical 
 hot adventure babe, and looks like she could be one tough chick if put to the test. Unfortunately, 
 she sounds like a 14 year old airhead, with a squeaky, often whiny voice, and some of the silliest 
 dialog ever. At one point, she claims to have been a honeybee in a previous life, which would be 
 fine if voiced with the expected sarcastic or playful tone, but she says it so earnestly that you 
 can't help but laugh at the statement. The same problem plagues almost all of the dialog; the best 
 dialog comes from a mysterious, ominous character in the custscenes (and during the ending cinematic 
 that provides Dragnet-esque character follow-ups in perfect Joe Friday deadpan) . The poor acting 
 might be overlooked if there wasn't so much (and I mean, a lot, a lot, a lot) of dialog. Plenty 
 of dialog is fine if it really advances the story or is integral to puzzle play, but I managed 
 to finish the game by just barely skimming the text and clicking through the spoken portions. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, the most ridiculous fare that Tunguska has to offer comes in the form of ridiculous 
 solutions to bizarre puzzles. More often than not, you'll come across solutions by accident, simply 
 by experimenting with your inventory out of sheer desperation. You'll drape a flag over a sign, 
 without any clue as to why, until you go inside and hear a truck crashing. You'll traipse around 
 a Dublin pub trying to make a fish for a customer, for the sole reason of distracting the barkeeper. 
 From figuring out how to make posters for someone just so they'll help you, to cruelly tricking 
 someone into believing he's won the lotto, most puzzles and their solutions are so farfetched and 
 senseless that you'll either end up turning to a walkthrough, or simply try every inventory combination 
 you can just to see what works. The few set piece puzzles in the game, on the other hand, are painfully 
 easy, and feel almost as if they were thrown in just to keep the puzzles from being strictly inventory-based. 
 One nice feature about the game is the "search room" function, which briefly highlights all the 
 hotspots and exits available in a room, reducing the need to pixel hunt (especially helpful considering 
 the huge amount of detail in most screens) . 
  
  That's not to say that Tunguska isn't actually fun. For all its faults, it's actually a fairly 
 enjoyable game. The story is interesting enough, if a bit drawn out, and there are just enough 
 twists to keep you guessing. The puzzle play may be bizarre, but they are at least creative. In 
 the end, my favorite part of the game turned out to be the ending cinematic; it actually made me 
 laugh (in a good way) a few times, and proved a rather satisfying end to a downright strange experience.
 
  
  All in all, The Secret Files: Tunguska is a decent game that's great to look at and fairly fun 
 to play. If you can ignore bad acting, and don't mind Sierra-style bizarre solutions, you'll probably 
 find enough to enjoy in Tunguska to make it worth playing. At the very least, it can be fun making 
 fun of the game as you play through it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caladan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  You start out pretty much in Dr Henry's office after it's been searched/ransacked/wrecked by... whomever.
 
  
  After about ten minutes, or that moment in time your right temple is throbbing at yet another shrilling 
 daddy , this voice actress pretty much single handedly made you rue the fact that you oppose the 
 carrying of firearms in public.
  
  The rest of the game though it looks alright is pretty much stitched together like an old dusty 
 plaid you were forced to sleep under at your grandmother's. I still have no idea what I was doing 
 at the Indian guy's place.
  
  The most, well no the 'only' memorable scenes from the game are not actually from this game.
 
  
  We visit an Irish pub and castle like layout, not just faintly reminiscent of Broken Sword 1.
 
  We dwell in some cave that has you looking for a figure caught in ice first as it even managed 
 to copy the exact layout of the Indy game.
  
  Furthermore, there are scenes from less well known games such as prisoner of ice, but let's save 
 a few words for the puzzles.
  
  They are the dumbest, most random pieces of filler I've ever encountered.
  Sure Monkey Island 
 has some puzzles that seem very random, but most of them had a cleverness in them and you'd go 
 of course once you found it., and if there wasn't any link it was at least funny or in some other 
 way rewarding to complete the puzzle. In this game after a few hours you just want to race through 
 the game to finish the story and be done with it. Half of the objects you find you have already 
 used or combined before you have any idea what or why you're doing it and the girl just goes with 
 some flow.
  
  At first the flashbacks to earlier games felt kinda nice, but when you realise it's all that it 
 keeping the keep up and the next best thing is the voice acting of a minor protagonist you'll be 
 seeing for half an hour tops it's sure a let down.
  
  All I can really be thankful for is seeing some scenes of the early days in today's visuals and 
 see all our suspicions confirmed, prettier pictures don't make better games.
  and they just don't make them like they used to... regrettably.
  
  And you know the really sad 
 thing is, i'll be giving it a seven, because besides Sam &amp; Max and Longest Journey it's probably 
 the best thing out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillo87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  I don&acute; t know why Gamespot say that this game fail and give it a so low rate, I think this 
 game is awesome, isn&acute; t so difficulty thats true, but man the plot make you fell like you&acute; re 
 in a X-Files episode, and the atmosphere fells like a old school adventure game, and it&acute; s 
 incredible the soundtrack, and the graphics are fine, they seems carefully detailed. I think this 
 is a great experience for all those who likes the Adventure Games. I&acute; m waiting for the second 
 part that I look that is upcoming for 2008.
  Long life to Adventure Games!
  Adventure Games Rules!
  
  And waiting for A Vampire Story wich I thinks is a cool comeback 
 of the Monkey Island&acute; s days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuriousoranj
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  I loved the way this game looked and played but I had to give up on it in frustration - this game 
 is set in Germany and everyone has an American accent! It's ridiculous! I don't think the actors 
 in this get much work outside of teen dramas.
  
  I love pointy-clicky adventures and have been playing them for years, and I've put up with voice-acting 
 that sounds like the actor has never seen ithe script before but this is something different, It 
 wears you down.
  
  I just thought it needed mentioning. :)
  
  Seriously; there are better games than this out there such as The Longest Journey series and Syberia 
 not to mention Still Life - buy those instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good introduction and the graphics are very interesting. The story is good and 
 you get hooked easily. As the game progresses, some weird puzzles with no logic appears and then 
 , you start to be a bit dissapointed. I still think it is worth the effort to play , but dont pay 
 too much for it.
  It reminded me of Syberia but not as good..... Hopefully , the sequel will be better in logic of 
 the puzzle. Some made sense , dont get me wrong .
  
  It is a game you can finish in a weekend if you play like a crazy madman (like me ) hahah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheedakakamana
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  TUNGUSKA EXPLOSION What is the truth? Was it only a meteroid, an earthquake or something else. An 
 EXCELLENT adventure.
  So it is really a nice game rather an excellent game set for the tunguska explosion. Nice Solvable 
 puzzles and really thriller in game but in end thier should be scene of DAUGHTER meeting her father.
 
  Nice Solvable puzzles and really thriller in game but in end thier should be scene of DAUGHTER 
 meeting her father.
  Actually you should try it rather read my review. O. K. TUNGUSKA EXPLOSION What is the truth? Was 
 it only a meteroid, an earthquake or something else. An EXCELLENT adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that keeps me playing this game is that I want to know what is the course of the 
 story, and (if I ever finish it) I want to see the ending scene, that's because I'm into mysticism 
 and if you are too then I recommend you play this game. The good thing about this game is that 
 mystic feeling you get playing it. I liked the graphical side of the game, it is the best thing 
 in the game. The storyline is good (could have been better) and the sounds are exceptionally good. 
 They can make some improvement in the camera system they used because sometimes it looks like there 
 should be something relevant to the mission but the camera fails to follow the character. I didn't 
 like the design of the NPC design, it's like they don't belong to the amazing graphical environment 
 design. The NPC faces look like they were taken from an 1990s game. Seriously they could have been 
 better. If you are not attracted by the mysticism this game folds, don't bother playing it. I really 
 mean it, you would be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Your father has gone missing and the cops refuse to help. It's up to you to uncover clues about 
 your fathers past that will help you find out where he is. What does the mysterious Tunguska event 
 of 1908 have to do with your fathers past? Well you are about to find out by embarking on a journey 
 that begins in present day Berlin and takes you through Moscow, Cuba, China and even the Antarctic. 
 The story for the most part was very well done and kept me entertained but the ending was a bit 
 dissapointing and not much was explained but perhaps that was done on purpose (I hope) since Tunguska 
 2 will be coming out in 2008. The graphics are clear and sharp, no boxy corners or out of place 
 pixels. The characters interact very well with their surroundings and each area is very detailed. 
 One cool feature is the clue tool that when pressed will show you what items you can pick up/interact 
 with right in the area you are in. This saves you from backtracking to pick up items that you might 
 have missed. The puzzles are not too difficult and sometimes border on the ridiculous, but this 
 does not deter from the game. A second cool feature is the hint area in your journal. Some puzzles 
 that require a bit more thought are placed in your journal and next to them is a hint if you need 
 it. It won't solve the puzzle for you but it does put you on the right path to solving it. Also 
 I have to note that you can double click on an exit and you will be quickly brought to that area. 
 No more watching a character walk painstakingly slow across the screen. Overall there was enough 
 thought put into the story to keep you interested and wanting to uncover more about the Tunguska 
 event, which is still unresolved to this day. There are also some colorful characters and strange 
 puzzles that will keep you amused. Please note that there is a patch out for this game so I recommend 
 you download it. There is a glitch where a certain item you need will not appear on screen without 
 this patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  The game is a classic point-and-click adventure, something I've been missing dearly the last couple 
 of years. So I was pretty excited about playing this. And in the pont-and-click department, this 
 game delivers.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's basically built up quite conservatively with stationary camera-angles and so forth. You point 
 where you want the main character to do something, and then they do it. Now, this is all very nice 
 and old-school... but I have to ask: Who came up with some of these puzzles? Some of these puzzles 
 are so outrageous and illogically concieved, that you sometimes wonder if there is a sadistic german 
 programmer sitting out there somewhere thinking Jaaa... Hahahaha... Now ze hole vorld vill be confused, 
 vile I sit here and tend to my cleverness! You sometimes feel as though the game is bugged because 
 the solutions to some of the puzzles are so far fetched, that even MacGuyver would sit in a corner 
 trembling after a couple of hours. Ok, I might be a bit harsh here, I know that people like a challenge, 
 but seriously, some of the puzzles in this game just disturb the flow of the game, either with 
 their out-of-this-world solution or with the time it takes to complete them. Audio: The musical 
 score? Quite good... Nothing extraordinary, but it sets the mood and gets the job done.
  The voice-acting? Awful! Simply awful! I'm curious to know who they hired to do the voices of the 
 characters on this one... because these actors manage to destroy just about every line in the game. 
 Especially the voice of the female protagonist is really dreadful... She sounds like an airhead 
 cheerleader who clearly does not understand anything about... well, anything! Apart from the really 
 lame voice-acting, one thing hit me like a ton of bricks. Where the hell are the regional accents? 
 I mean, ok to begin with I could accept that all who work in the museum have american accents... 
 whatever. As soon as I get to russia, my bad feeling turns to horror, as every last grunt of the 
 once proud russian army speaks english with a thick american accent. This is just stupid beyond 
 belief. It really ruins the mood for me as a player, that every person on the globe speaks american 
 english... especially in Ireland, whats with that? Hasn't the Broken Sword series shown us how 
 to do this properly... anyways this fault really ruined a lot of the game for me, because it tears 
 down the illusion that the game otherwise builds up fine with the graphics. Graphics:
  No much to say here. The pre-rendered backrounds look pretty good and vibrant, if perhaps a little 
 sterile. The charater-models also look ok, but nothing out of the ordinary. All in all, solid work.
 
  
  Roundoff:
  Tunguska is an okay game... It certainly has faults, but those are mostly in the sound department. 
 So if you are willing to try out some really confusing puzzles, here is your chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arathogorn
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  The Secret Files : Tunguska is one of the best puzzle games, it's not like the other games with 
 easy puzzles, It has some tough puzzles which you have to think, plain amazing.
  
  Graphics : The 2D Scenarios are plain amazing and in good quality but the 3D characters are not 
 very good, in fact they're only OK, not many options to configure , what makes the game look good 
 is the AA, I suggest you to play with AA to have fun playing it.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  Well, the gameplay is just like any other point and click game, although this one has some new 
 options such as showing all the possible areas you can click on the scenario, the diary, its a 
 simple gameplay but those new features make the game easier than having to move the mouse on all 
 the screen to finally find something
  
  Some Lame Stuff :
  
  The Characters talk too much and If you want to pee , you'd better go before playing it or you're 
 going to miss something, you can also save the game before talking to a character to avoid missing 
 clues, information.
  
  If you're not a native English speaker/reader like me, you'd better find a translation patch for 
 the game, or you're going to be confused on some parts of the game, like me.
  
  Recommendation
  
  Even with these lame stuff, I recommend this game, it's not perfect but it 
 provides some fun, specially if you are a puzzle lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo_vennom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a good one.
  Why MacGyver meets Kate Walker you ask?
  Well it's rather obvious we got the same fancy pants babe for lack of other words but at the same 
 time we have all this combining of stuff and trash snooping that is pretty characteristic to the 
 well known tv character. I mean take this for an example making a gold ring out of a gold coin 
 heated and the pressed in to shape using an iron maiden how often do you get to do that, exactly, 
 I rest my case.
  Well we have established that the game is rather nice and the story line well I was in the blue 
 yonder for most of the game till stuff started to go in to place so the story is proper. We have 
 already established that all the item combining gives you a craving for antidepressants but that's 
 the point. Graphics wise it is well done the music is quite lively and there are no bugs in site. 
 So what would bother you is such a game well .. you can't run you heard me right ok so double clicking 
 gets you fast to the next screen but what if I want to just go half way? Well apart from that nothing 
 else to say.
  and in conclusion of course I have to say that this is a proper game a proper adventure game and 
 I don't think I can wait until 2008 for the sequel (see the end game credits) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilualmighty
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  A truly mixed bag. 3D graphs are half decent, nothing spectacular, but not ugly either. Prerendered 
 backgrounds on the other hand are beautiful, colourful, very well done. Character animation could 
 have used some work. Would have also been nice if there had been alternative resolutions to pick.
 
  
  The interface works. The hint system is both good and bad. When used, it generally makes the game 
 too easy, and when not used, some of the keyspots are way too easy to miss. All the glory to oldschool 
 pixel hunters, but there is really no excuse for that anymore. Some of the puzzles are very well 
 done, but some are just ridicilously out there.
  
  The story is okayish. It starts quite good, but quickly loses its edge. It doesn't help that the 
 dialogue isn't all that great either. It's obvious that the writers were trying desperately to 
 be funny, but fail most of the time. When the joke is actually funny, the horrible voice "talents" 
 miss the punchlines 99% of the time. This is probably the weakest point of this game. The way the 
 story is told makes me want to throw my headphones out of the window.
  
  The voices, both environment and characters, are really horrible. It also doesn't help that the 
 voice recording is a patch job. It's very clear that different parts of the dialogue was recorded 
 in very different settings, location, whatever, and later patched together. It's a combined effort 
 from the voice cast and the recording crew, and it's a failure. The most hilarious part is how 
 sometimes the voice of character changes between sentences from low grunt to medium grunt, and 
 then back to low, fo example. And it also sounds like everyone is in a hurry. There are barely 
 no pauses (this is especially stupid when a character is supposedly speaking with someone on the 
 phone) , everything is delivered without missing a beat. It's just very unnatural. The backgroud 
 ambients, while generally okay, are also too generic, as well as sometimes they loop badly.
  
  So, while this is a decent effort from the German developers, it's also very clear that there 
 is a lot of work to be done to make the Secret Files 2 a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonte187
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I would like to comment the game value before i write a sceptic review. For all old-school adventure 
 players that doesn't demand too much from a game will find this game playable. I enjoyed playing 
 this game, not because the graphic or the sound, only because the good flow in the game. I wasnt 
 bored in any section of the game not even in long dialogues. That is usual a drawback for many 
 modern adventure games with long useless dialogues that doesn't really help you in your quest for 
 finishing the game. So the game value is high because it managed to do the most important thing, 
 entertain me.
  
  But the game has some wrongs that i dont really like. You can complete this game fairly easy. The 
 puzzles doesnt have any nice twist in them. All puzzles are indeed logic but too logic. Almost 
 all the puzzles was combining items you have picked up during the game, and use them on various 
 things. But the numbers of item you picked up wasn't numerous so you could easy solve a problem 
 just by testing everything and this didn't take too much time. Another thing that you missed was 
 good sounds. In an game genre were action is almost zero you have to make up for it by enhancing 
 the other attributes in the game, like sounds. But the sounds in this game was really boring.
 
  
  The graphic in the game was reasonable. The characters was fairly nice drawn and the scenery was 
 good looking. But in some cases you missed fine panorama views that you hoped would be many. This 
 doesn't really drag down my view of the graphic but would have been a nice feature in the game. 
 When i first read a review of the game i thought that the story would be really good. It isnt bad 
 but i think that they could have done it much better. I think the story had too much jumps in it, 
 it felt as you were in a hurry all the time. As i said before i think you should play it because 
 it will entertain you. But the game isn't the best, neither the worst. The thing the game manages 
 to do best for you is to make the time go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game is really relaxing, easy puzzles, easy story although at the beginning the story is promising, easy 
 characters ... so it`s a very easy game for an adventure point and click game, maybe the easiest 
 for it's kind. The graphics are great, it runs smoothly, short loading and all but the sounds are 
 dull. The soundtrack in main is great, monumental i'd say but during the play you can bearly hear 
 a song from time to time. The characters are simple, it's the kind of characters that do not inspire, 
 you can not get attached to them, not even to the main protagonist, which is sad, because if you 
 do not care about the characters in the game the less you care about the story or you probably 
 want to finish the game just for the story or you can not leave things unfinished. The dialogs 
 are trying to be funny but are not, the developers , i think, they were trying to come out with 
 ironic dialogs like in The Longest Journey/ Dreamfall or Broken Sword etc, but they totally failed. 
 Plus the voices are abstract regarding the story, they do not fit into it, and Nina sounds like 
 a teenager forced to do something she don't like. In my opinion i don't think she cares much about 
 her father more like she wants to get it from Max and the ending proves it :) .
  
  But like i said this is a relaxing game, no hard puzzles, no nothing, everything runs linear, you 
 don`t have to think much about what to do next... after finishing the game you'll simply forget 
 it the next day.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final Form
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  After having a blast with Broken Sword 4, I thought I'd go on an adventure game binge, so I decided 
 to give this one a try next. It's amazing what a difference quality writing (or lack thereof) and 
 voice-acting can make for an adventure game. The writing here is just so awful it might be funny 
 -- that is if it didn't constantly go into these long boring bits of wordy exposition, which tended 
 to just put me to sleep. They did attempt to liven things up a bit by inserting quite a few groan 
 inducing jokes (usuall puns) . The bad writing is also compounded by terrible voice-acting, which 
 at times approaches Resident Evil 1 levels of suckiness. All the characters have American accents, 
 despite the fact the game takes place in Europe and Russia. It's kind of strange to talk to a Russian 
 guard who sounds like he's from New York.
  
  The other key thing for an adventure game is puzzles. Tunguska fails at this as well. The puzzles 
 are of the super illogical type, and with only a few easily identifiable (thanks to the handy hotspot 
 locater button) hotspots per screen, the gameplay pretty much consists of constantly attempting 
 to use or combine every item in your inventory. It never forces you to think about how to use your 
 items as a good adventure game will. One thing I did like though, was the character swapping feature. 
 At one point in the game, one of the characters was locked in prison, and the other character was 
 trying to get her out. They ended up rigging this string through a drain pipe, and you'd have to 
 exchange items between the characters. I found this kind of interesting. It's a shame they couldn't 
 have done more with it.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty nice. The pre-rendered backgrounds are vibrant and detailed, and 
 everything runs very smoothly and the game seems to be quite stable. It's kind of interesting, 
 the strengths and weakness of Tunguska are kind of the exact opposite of Broken Sword 4. Whereas 
 Broken Sword 4 had quality writing, voice-acting and puzzles, it also suffered from dull, sluggish 
 graphics and quite a few technical problems. The reverse is true with Tunguska. It runs great, 
 and everything looks nice, but without challenging, well thought out puzzles and quality writing 
 it doesn't really matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  The Secret Files: Tunguska offers the player great graphics (for an adventure game) , old-school 
 point&amp; click gameplay, a nice soundtrack and a plot-line thats a bit expected but still manages 
 to surprise you at some points and draw you into the a mysterious kidnapping scenario and the search 
 for answers.
  
  The only real flaw in the game (besides some silly puzzles and repetitive gameplay) is the voice 
 dubbing... the main characters sound good enough to be funny and likable the entire game, but most 
 of the minor characters sound fake and lifeless (it often seems like the same three people are 
 dubbing the entire cast of nurses, guards, soldiers and scientists) . Russian and Irish characters 
 dont even have the proper accents and no one even cares which country you are currently in, everybody 
 sounds american.
  
  other then the poorly casted voice-overs, the game is a great adventure.
  a must for everybody 
 who enjoy good inventory-based puzzles and some twists and turns in the already complicated story-line. 
 A job well done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furryfuzzybunny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Just finished banging out this obvious Longest Journey, Syberia, Indiana Jones hybrid.
  
  I was expecting a kind of Hanger 18 type cover up, figured there would be strong russian military 
 overtones..... was pleasantly surprised with the mass marketing plan so considerately explained 
 at the end by Gartuso.
  
  As far as I am concerned, the game is technically brilliant (not one discernable glitch) , full 
 of lush scenery with good use of light and shade. I was reminded of And Then There Were None , 
 which particularily impressed me in the graphics department.
  
  Lengthwise, it fit neatly into the three day (about 25 hrs. total) game compartment that I reserve 
 for a good flat screen adventure. I sooner drag my behind around the scene trying every possible 
 combination and permutation to avoid the walkthrough crutch, so I'm a slower wrapper upper.
  
  Part II really ought to dispense with the helium voiced Nina, and bring on a huskier, more 
 sophisticated and seasoned woman consistent with a more serious story such as this. In fact, all 
 the voiced characters seemed to be speaking at kind of cross purposes with each other. Some were 
 exaggeratedly soap opera-ish, some more kid cartoony, some were almost sleep walky. I don't know, 
 call me a malcontent, but the voices really make the adventure genre come to life or not.
  
  The puzzles were of the Ok, I've got a handful of otherwise totally incongruous objects that, 
 when combined, metamorphasize into useful and utterly indispensible tools . Puzzles like that really 
 tax the imagination. On the front end you can't see the possibility, though on post-reflection, 
 the solution seems entirely obvious. There is a kind of magic in this.
  
  The back and forth hand off interplay between Nina and Max keeps you on your toes and broadens 
 the scope of the story. It gives it a Meanwhile, back at the ranch quality that boosts the drama, 
 tension and urgency.
  
  My biggest gripe is being frustrated not to get to meet and be introduced to the berobed, mystery 
 monks. They are entirely too peripheral to the story, and I sense a great potential in their appearance 
 for Part II.
  
  You could do a lot worse than to kick back for an evening or three with this game. It's a hodgepodge 
 of several other great games, but still stands on it's own to a certain degree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I heard about the Tunguska incident of 1908 a few years ago when the game itself was probably just 
 a thought in the creators mind. It intrigued me right from the start, that whatever happened that 
 night was never fully clarified. So when I first got wind that an adventure game about this event 
 was in the makings, I really looked forward to the explanation the developers would come up for 
 it.
  
  Now, after finishing it, I'm somewhat disappointed, although, don't get me wrong here, it isn't 
 a bad game.
  It focuses around a real-life event which is a good thing, because it helps make the game more 
 believable, but as the story unfolds it becomes clearer and clearer that it is not about finding 
 out what happened in Tunguska that day, which is very unfortunate, because until half way through 
 the game you seem right on track. In the end you are rather trying to prevent just another crazy 
 plan of some suit to takeover the world, which is actually rather remotely connected to the Tunguska 
 incident.
  Another problem of the game is its rather superficial and predictable characters. For example you 
 know right from the start that a romantic relationship between the two playable characters, Nina 
 and Max, is coming up, but it's all too obvious and not at all like real people would act when 
 getting to know each other. All this equivocal dialog seems to have been forced into it, just to 
 have some sort of romance in the game.
  Just as forced into are some of the coincidences that occur in the game. It's obvious that they 
 only serve the purpose of creating more puzzles. The game looses some authenticity here.
  The puzzles on their own are not really hard, although often really far fetched. At least I wasn't 
 able to figure out which items to combine to get along, so I ended up using more of a trial and 
 error- approach, especially later in the game.
  
  In spite of all these glitches I played through the game, which is something I don't do with bad 
 games.
  The graphics, although far from stunning, and voice acting really helped the game, although not 
 all lines were well written. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  I feel very controversial about this game. Story: it is badly developed, and gets more uninteresting 
 as the game proceeds. The beginning seems promising, but then the script fails to keep the rhythm 
 and tickling the player's interest. Many elements seem to have been just thrown in to enrich the 
 plot, but they really do not have any functional meaning or significance for the story itself. 
 The ending is quite unsatisfactory and leaves few questions unanswered.
  
  Graphics: this is also a controversial point. The backgrounds are beautiful, no doubt about it. 
 The characters models leave a bad impression. Certainly they were modeled accurately, but they 
 are totally unexpressive (face, gestures, etc.) and the animations look almost horrible: they seem 
 slowed down and running at constant speed, and there is no visible interaction with objects (just 
 movements) .
  
  Audio: thin musical background, but fairly adequate. Sound effects are rather nonexistent. Now 
 the bad thing: acting. Nina sounds like an overexcited teen making a lot of irritating and allegedly 
 funny (but they're not) comments, and you have to endure her for the whole game. The dialogs sound 
 trivial and sometimes badly phrased and repetitive. Fortunately you can skip them.
  
  Puzzles: generally they are inventory-based and you can proceed in big boosts, but then leaving 
 yourself suddenly blocked until you find a (most of the time) trivial, but well hidden way to unlock 
 the impasse. Beware that some of the inventory-based puzzles are really convoluted at the limit 
 of logic if not against. Typical situation: you have a single object that can perfectly solve a 
 puzzle, but instead you have to develop a MacGyver-style device with unsuspicious things to get 
 on. Another thing is that puzzles are sometimes abused, that is: used like fillers (spoiler e. g.: 
 think about Ireland) .
  One thing that must be recognized is the excellent point-and-click interface. There's also a hint 
 system.
  
  I was prone to believe that this title had potential, and I can't say this potential has been depleted: 
 simply there wasn't any potential. A mediocre adventure overall. The ending foretell there will 
 be a sequel. I hope not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  The secret files; Tunguska is a good additive game, nice puzzles, good storyline. The story is 
 based on the explosion July1908. You start as the daughter of one of the scientist, who was exploring 
 the mysterious explosion in the Tunguska region of Antarctica, until you father was silenced by 
 the KGB. Now your father has disappeared without a trace, as the story unfolds you start to unravel 
 the mystery! You find there is more to you father disappearance that you first realised. As you 
 visit several locations in the world, you find out the real reason for the Tunguska mystery will 
 you survive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  At the first sight and when I saw the Images on Game spot ..
  I thought that game should be great but when I got it... I was so disappointed... because when 
 I saw the game at the frist mission I felt that the game looks some how like other bad adventure 
 game named (The moment of silence) and hoped that I am wrong but unfortunately I was not they are 
 the same.....
  And now I will discuss the game from different point of views:
  1- Graphics:
  - characters graphics is a big weak point. the couple was not cool, handsome and 
 not even look like human.
  other characters (bad or good) was so very lame..
  And characters costumes was awful.. Only good costume was the Russian lady cop
  - environment 
 was confusing.. Background distances was so bad.. Indoors graphics was great...
  - Items was so undetectable.
  2- sounds:
  - music and soundtracks was awful just the main theme 
 was good
  - character voices was so bad and did not leave any impression on you.
  3- Game play:
  - movement was good. but the charachter can't be get killed.
  - there was alot 
 of items that confused me a lot and also the combination between them was unrealistic.
  - secrets was weird , was uncool and boring..
  - why they but hints? and there is no voice comments 
 from the charachter when she faced puzzle.
  4- story:
  - It was PG-13 story.. not funny , not good , have no point of view and boring.......... It was 
 like Austen powers and Dr. evil story.
  
  * And now i will write Advantages and Disadvantages
  adv:
  - the idea to play with two characters 
 at the same time was nice and also playing with them in different two countries.
  - Good indoor environment graphics and items..
  - Great movies between missions..
  dis:
  
 - outdoor and far distance graphics was bad
  - high graphics item was so bad because it made the items undetectable.
  - bad story.
  - bad 
 sound.
  - poor costumes.
  - Hints made me like iam cheating.
  - at the last missions ur get sick and u feel do not even want to complete it.
  - the game does 
 not leave a mark in you.
  
  At last u get a great idea that Secret files : Tanguske must be kept as secret :-)
  and i hope 
 that the second part will be good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  The good: Great story, Great pictures and graphics, variety of missions and places, great music.
 
  The bad: Some bug with antialiasing mode with older graphic cards, some illogical puzzles, voice 
 acting in some scenes is bad.
  
  As soon as you start the game you have a nice little starting movie which immediately starts the 
 big puzzle of what happened and basically takes you in the story of the game.
  Your character is a girl that goes to visit her father in the museum where she finds out he's gone 
 and all his work office is basically destroyed. She immediately set a goal to find out what happened 
 to her father. From here the adventure starts on.
  The characters in the game are interesting and more or less contribute to the unfolding of the 
 story.
  
  Story: The story is very interesting and the unfolding of the story is nicely done so it keeps 
 you interested, basically you'll need to get to the last stages in the game when you really find 
 out whats happened and who is who. Basically when you complete a mission the story unfolds as 
 much as to keep you interested. Graphics: The game features amazing realistically-high colored 
 pictures along with great 3D characters. Many scenes in the game are great and eye catching. The 
 great graphics contribute to making the game fun to play!
  
  Gameplay: Well it's a point and click adventure game, apart from controlling your main character 
 Nina you can also control Max who is the guy that will help you thought the game to find Nina's 
 father. In some missions you can control both characters one at a time, this is done by clicking 
 a screen with the characters image on it and it switches to that character. In one of missions 
 where you control both characters the characters need to interact (in this case exchange inventory 
 objects) in order to solve the given mission, in this case to free Nina! This is a great addition 
 to the game but it's a shame that there are only 2 missions where you control both characters and 
 only 1 where they need to work together to progress.
  Anyways the game features the standard inventory which is basically a part of the screen and can't 
 be minimized. As any classic adventure game you can move and view objects closer by clicking the 
 right mouse button and left button to take objects. There is a sort of a help button which shows 
 all the objects you can interact with, which is a good addition as you dont need to do 1 hour 
 pixel hunting to find some objects!
  The objects that you take in your inventory can be combined and altered so that you make the right 
 thing in order to use it!
  The puzzles in the game are very interesting and logical though there were some illogical puzzles 
 that were really frustrating. Also the puzzles vary from one another and with the variety of places 
 you visit in the game it never feels repetitive or boring!
  The movie scenes in the game are also great and they are put in the best moment there could be, 
 the movie scenes also hold some clues about the story so you better watch them!
  Overall all the characters in the game are interesting and more or less contribute to the story 
 or the progression of the mission! No character in the game feels like it's put there to just enrich 
 the environment and all have interesting dialogues and some useful information!
  
  Sound: Voice acting in the game is solid but there are some scenes where the voice acting is quite 
 bad. Music in the game is great and the scene music in some missions really livens up the atmosphere!
 
  
  Overall: Great adventure games and one of the best to come out in recent years! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
