-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/settlers3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 457 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blue Byte
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Settlers III combines city building and combat, focussing primarily on the former. 

 In the past few months, three venerable empire-building series have all become trilogies. Impressions' 
 Caesar, Bullfrog's Populous, and now Blue Byte's Settlers have seen the release of their third 
 incarnation. Each has tried something different. The designers of Caesar III stayed true to the 
 series' formula, adding a few new features and refining some areas. Populous: The Beginning shares 
 some basic similarities to its two predecessors but is a completely new game at heart. Settlers 
 III, on the other hand, tries to do a little of both. It adds many new features and expands the 
 scope of the series. But while many problems of Settlers II are addressed, many still remain.  
 

 Settlers III, like its predecessors, combines city building and combat, focussing primarily on the 
 former. It is a game of complex interdependencies. You must gather wood and stone to build structures. 
 To do so, you must have woodcutters and stonecutters. With these basic building blocks, you then 
 move on to mining minerals, such as coal, iron, and sulfur. With these minerals, you begin to build 
 weapons to arm your military and tools to supply your ever-expanding workforce. Miners require 
 food, though, and a variety of food at that. So you must build grain farms, mills, bakeries, fisheries, 
 pig farms, and slaughterhouses. And all of these require carriers to lug supplies around, so you 
 must make sure you have plenty of houses to keep the workforce plentiful. It's a good system, but 
 it is basically the same as in Settlers II, with the major exception being that you no longer have 
 to set roads for your workers. That in itself is an improvement, but some more changes would have 
 been welcome.  

 Eventually, you'll be able to expand no more, and you'll have to resort to military might to push 
 back the enemy borders. Settlers II suffered from its rudimentary combat, which simply required 
 you to send as many forces as you could spare to an enemy fort and hope for the best. Settlers 
 III doesn't improve this much. There's a slightly different interface, and the inclusion of new 
 types of units (such as archers and spearmen) , but these are surface changes and make only a moderate 
 improvement.   

 Settlers III is broken into three campaigns to reflect the inclusion of new cultures. You can play 
 as Romans, Asians, or Egyptians. Each culture features a unique building set and a few slight differences 
 in supply needs and building types. But the new cultures and campaigns don't alleviate the major 
 problem of Settlers III's mission structure: Each mission is almost exactly the same. You start 
 off with some supplies and must expand until you encounter an enemy. Building up your city takes 
 a great deal of time, and going through the rudimentary steps at the beginning of almost every 
 mission becomes very repetitive. The missions do become harder, but difficulty is almost always 
 determined by the scarcity of resources or the proximity and strength of your neighbors.   

 One area that is completely new to Settlers III is the inclusion of gods. You must build temples, 
 which give you access to priests. Priests have access to a variety of divine intervention spells, 
 such as creating resources or destroying the enemy. This area is interesting, but it isn't very 
 well developed. Priests aren't integrated into the existing system, just placed on top of it. And 
 more often than not, you won't even need them.  

 Multiplayer improves things a bit, as your opponent will likely be more aggressive and won't just 
 surrender territory once you consume it. But the pacing of the game and the length of time it takes 
 to build a decent infrastructure makes multiplayer games time-consuming affairs. On the upside, 
 though, the multitude of options (including Blue Byte's own free Internet server) makes finding 
 opponents easy.   

 Settlers III looks great and can be played in a variety of resolutions. The cartoonish graphics 
 are colorful and detailed, with the only negatives being the blocky animated cutscenes and the 
 crude interface menus. The interface itself is somewhat confusing as well, and the online-only 
 manual - which details much about the game but does a poor job of actually explaining how to accomplish 
 anything - leaves much to be desired. Luckily, the game is pretty straightforward and can be learned 
 easily through playing. Settlers III features good, if repetitive, ambient sounds, though the clinking 
 combat effects sound like silverware being tossed in a drawer.   

 The only real problem with Settlers III is that, despite all the additions, it doesn't really play 
 much differently than Settlers II. With some innovative missions and some more integral changes 
 (or at least better-integrated changes) , Settlers III would have been a much better game. Those 
 who love the Settlers formula will enjoy it, but those who are unfamiliar with it will likely find 
 it to be a moderately fun multiplayer game and an immensely repetitive single-player game.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Although S3 doesn't add mutch more then it's 2 predecessors it still is a very good improvement 
 over the other 2. It adds better balance and multiplayer options. And thanks to the random level 
 generator it has a great replayabilitie.
  
  Like it's predecessors, you have to build a settlement from scratch. And build a pretty complicated 
 economie. From wood and stone for housing to meat and bread for your miners that bring resources 
 for your smelter and then make weapons or tools with it.
  
  It's still a slow game, but with so many fast games out there this is still refreshing and mutch 
 more complicated then all those fast pased RTS games. They kept true to the colorfull fantasy design 
 of the game unlike the last part heritage of kings (wich truely sux) .
  
  The multiplayer is great to play, most of the time you will agree with your opponent on a piece 
 time from 15 up to about 90 minutes. And as weird it may sound, players keep there word up to this 
 rule. Atleast i don't think i'v ever been screwed by someone who attacks earlier then we agreed 
 on. So thats says enough about the community around the settlers series. Though it's still being 
 played online for some types of games you have to wait more then a hour sometimes. While more simple 
 maps and shorter games take significantly less time befor you can start.
  
  I have played this for 100's of hours and there are not that mutch games i played that long. So 
 this is a game that certainly does not deserve a 6.1 just becaus GS forgot to build a sawmill and 
 never came further then the first map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The same old same old always happens in this game. Every mission is the same, build your economy 
 fast, build your army fast, get gods to upgrade your army, win. The settlers line of games has 
 always been like this and new graphics and minor game mechanics don't change much. On top of it 
 all I find this game to be very difficult. The game revolves around getting your troops upgraded 
 quickly and in mass quantities. Limited resourses make this difficult in most maps.
  
  Good things about this game include a very complex economy. That is what drew me to this game in 
 the first place. Although each mission ends up basicly the same each time, the intricate web that 
 makes up resources and how they function is quite fun. Sadly the entertainment from this game mechanic 
 gets dull and slow once you have repeated it multiple times.
  
  All in all this game takes a stab in the right direction but no creativity has been added to further 
 the games value over the older settlers games. Blue Byte has made a habbit of making money off 
 flashy new graphics that cover up old play styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsonj2708
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I played, absolutely brilliant.
  Takes time to get the hang of it, but overall its an amazing game to play and very addictive.
 
  Missions are pretty hard to understand as you go along. I found that the Asians were easier than 
 any other then the romans and hardest was the eqyptians, can't really remember why :P
  Be patient with the game, during building process start off with 2-3 woodcutters, 1-2 saw mills 
 and 1-2 stone cutters. Then try and move onto the grain farm, fishers hut etc then onto mines. 
 obviously expand your borders to begin with by building towers then using pioneers after you've 
 built your large residence.
  
  Gameplay = Good
  Graphics = Good
  
  Worthwhile? Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  This is not a very good game actually. Settlers 4 is obviously much better.
  
  The game play is easy and straight forward. it is an interesting game in terms of the way you are 
 supposed to play. You have to run things in a specific order. In all it is a very slow game. 
 
  
  Pathetic, graphics. Strange looking little people. Very pixelated. The way the characters move 
 on the screen is also not very great. In fact, it's wierd. They scrurry about like little ants.
 
  
  The campaigns are quite easy to get through. The instructions are very clear and specific, so you 
 always know what exactly to do.
  
  Don't waste your time on this game. REALLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics are improved greatly; still not amazing, but all around 'nice'. Sound is much improved; 
 quite a few nice songs to keep you entertained during the many times you'll have to be waiting 
 for something in this game. 
  
  Gameplay is basically the same, in which you must make a settlement and beat opposing forces in 
 a more management / economical strategy. As would be expected, quite a bit has been changed from 
 the previous game. You no longer need to build roads for your carriers, roads will actual appear 
 when walked over eough. There are now 3 different units; the spearman which does little damage 
 but has better endurance, the archer which has low endurance but can shoot from a distance (and 
 can also shoot from towers) , and the warrior who has decent endurance and great damage. 
  
  These plus numerous other improvements add a little more depth to the game, and at the same time 
 make the game a bit easier as well. If you're looking for a unique strategy game that focuses more 
 on management and economy, Settlers 3 is a game you should consider. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
