-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Suffering
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thesuffering/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.9, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 680 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Surreal Software
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 8, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Suffering might be a little too straightforward in spots, but it does make for a solid action 
 game. 

  The modern horror game is one that sticks pretty close to the blueprint laid out by Capcom's 1996 
 release Resident Evil. Slow pacing, methodical puzzles, and scares centered around things that 
 jumped out of the darkness were the order of the day then, and since that time, games have roughly 
 based themselves on this concept. Surreal's new game, The Suffering, goes for the horror thing 
 with creepy monster design and startling visual trickery, but it also ditches most of the ammo-conservation 
 and slow pacing found in a majority of horror-themed games. The end result is a much more action-packed 
 experience that might be a little too straightforward in spots, but it does make for a solid action 
 game.  

          As Torque, you'll need to escape from a monster-infested high-security prison compound 
 in The Suffering.     

  In The Suffering, you'll play as a thick-sideburned tough guy named Torque. The game opens with 
 Torque being led to his new cell on death row at Abbott State Penitentiary, an island-based prison 
 where the baddest of the bad go to die. Torque has been convicted of murdering his wife and two 
 sons, but he doesn't actually remember anything concerning their murders. After a brief intro, 
 a bunch of creepy monsters attack the prison, slaying many of the guards and inmates alike. This 
 leaves Torque free to explore so that, hopefully, he can escape the prison island and reach safety. 

  Shortly after getting out, Torque picks up a large shiv that he can use to battle the monsters. 
 Along the way, he'll also pick up other weapons, including a pistol, a tommy gun, a shotgun, flares, 
 flashbangs, and so on. You'll also acquire bottles of pills, which act as healing items that can 
 be used at any time. Additionally, you'll get a flashlight that you can clip to the front of your 
 shirt, which comes in handy because much of The Suffering is superdark.  

  You'll also learn early on that Torque has the ability to transform himself into a big monster 
 when you fill up his "insanity meter." The monster does pretty serious damage to most foes, but 
 you'll have to watch the meter closely and change back manually before it empties. If you let it 
 drain all the way, Torque won't survive. Torque's monster form is an interesting addition, but 
 it's usually easier to just pick off enemies from a distance with one of your many firearms, thus 
 making the monster form generally feel like more of an afterthought than a necessity.  

  The game is pretty focused on combat against various creatures. Each creature has its own moves 
 and abilities. Some will hang back and try to pelt you with projectile attacks, while others will 
 attempt to get up close and personal. The hangmen will simply descend from the ceiling and attempt 
 to choke the life out of you, while the burrowers you'll encounter later on will pop up out of 
 the ground and attempt to whip you with chains. The game is pretty good at giving you a lot of 
 targets to shoot at, and as a result, you'll usually have more than enough ammo to deal with any 
 situation, though the higher difficulty settings do toughen things up a bit.  

          Shooting up monsters is the order of the day. The Suffering is more about action than about 
 snooping around in search of keys.     

  While the game is good at giving you plenty of monster-shooting action, it also really could have 
 used either some more tactics for monsters or more varied types of monsters. Without this, the 
 game's action does grow a little tedious over time, since you'll essentially face the same handful 
 of creatures from start to finish, and you'll rarely have to change tactics to deal with them. 

  Aside from shooting things, you'll also do some light puzzle-solving. Most of this is as simple 
 as finding a button or a switch to open a door, but you'll also have to push or pull boxes around, 
 put out fires that block your path, and so on. On top of this, there are multiple ways to play 
 the game, depending on your disposition. You'll run into trapped guards and inmates from time to 
 time, so you can choose to help them by getting them out of their current binds or by leading them 
 to safety.  Or  you can ignore them.  Or  you can simply blast them and take any items they may 
 have on their persons. These choices are essentially scored and tabulated behind the scenes, and 
 at the end of the game, you'll see one of three different endings based on what sort of person 
 you were.     

  The game controls like a standard action game, so you use the mouse to look around and the keyboard 
 to move. You can actually play from a first-person perspective, if you like, but enemies tend to 
 attack in groups, so not being able to see what's hitting you from behind is reason enough to stay 
 out of the first-person viewpoint. Weapon changing is handled with the mousewheel, and your various 
 items (like your flashlight) have their own keys mapped to them. All in all, the game controls 
 well.  

          This game earns its M rating, big time. Few lines of the script are delivered without a 
 healthy dose of profanity.     

  Where The Suffering really scores is in its presentation. The game's monster design is interesting -- with 
 most monsters representing a different method of execution, from beheading to lethal injection. 
 The mainliner is a creature that has a ton of glowing hypodermic needles sticking out of its body, 
 thus representing lethal injection. It'll throw needles at you, and if one hits, your vision blurs 
 for a second or so. The way the slayers move is appropriately creepy, especially when they're grinding 
 one sword along a nearby wall or floor as they run at you. In general, while you'll see all the 
 tricks the game's monsters have to offer fairly quickly, they do make a great first impression. 

  The rest of The Suffering looks pretty good, too. The models aren't the most detailed ones in the 
 world, and the environments aren't supremely detailed, but since most of the game is incredibly 
 dark, you'd have to really squint to even notice. It also moves at a smooth frame rate, which is 
 nice. The game's coolest effect, though, is how Torque gets completely covered in blood after close 
 encounters. It will wear off over time, but since you're usually getting right back into the middle 
 of a fight, Torque is usually pretty much caked with gore. The PC version of the game looks better 
 than its console counterparts, as you might expect. The textures are cleaner, the frame rate is 
 smoother, and so on.  

          Multiple endings and the chance to make some moral decisions give The Suffering some replay 
 value, for good measure.     

  Great sound is key to making a horror game. The Suffering's sound is as great as it needs to be, 
 with lots of strange ambient noise, good shrieking monsters, and other cool little touches. The 
 game's voice acting is a big standout as well. Though Torque himself stays silent, you'll hook 
 up with a variety of characters and will hear things like radio chatter and other speech throughout 
 the game. All of it is very, very well done. The sense of fear and impending insanity really comes 
 through in a lot of the dialogue. Also worth mentioning is that The Suffering has an extremely 
 dirty script. The game's extreme language doesn't feel out of place. You'd certainly expect that 
 a bunch of surly prisoners would swear a lot, so you'd have to believe that they'd do it even more 
 so when being attacked and killed by hellish creatures. Between this and the game's high volume 
 of blood, The Suffering certainly earns its "M" rating.  

  Though The Suffering tends to rely more on startling you with visual effects and sudden attacks 
 than on actually trying to scare you, it's still a pretty refreshing take on horror-themed games. 
 It's also a bit longer than you'd expect from a straightforward action game, though the increased 
 length is offset by an overall lack of variety. More monsters, more ways to do them in, and perhaps 
 some slightly more-involving puzzles would have probably made the game feel more in-depth. But 
 even taking this into consideration, The Suffering is a fun action game that fans of the genre 
 will get a kick out of.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Look this game at a first time, can give you bad feelings about it, mainly because of its dated 
 graphics, even when it been released to Pc in 2004. But if you just give a little chance to see 
 what the game propose to you, it can hold you until the end.
  
  The history tells you about Torque, that is accused of killing his family. Judged guilty, he was 
 send to the Abbott State Penitentiary, that was an German base in the 2WW, locate in a island 
 near Maryland. But, soon as he arrives, some sort of earthquake happens and make all the island 
 fall into the darkness, and together with the darkness, many creatures have come spread despair 
 and death.
  
  Later, we'll be surrounded by many obscure mysteries involving the ones that live in there and 
 who once lived there. Also, the truth about Torque will start to come and soon, you be involved 
 in many situations that will define what end you reach when finish the game. This is because you're 
 responsible about the chooses that he'll make, and, every time that you will make a choice, you 
 will hear voices of his consciousness, trying to convincing you to kill and help at the same time.
 
  
  I can even say that The Suffering brings many psychological questions. Along the game, Torque will 
 see flashes that normally show violence, blood, death, and many other macabre elements. Then, every 
 time that he come close of someone, the flashes show the crimes of that person, making all the 
 choices about them - if they will live, die or just be ignored - be involved in serious thoughts 
 about moral and personality. 
  
  Even the monsters that appears along the game have a close connection to the island's mysteries 
 and the history itself. It's like they are some sort of incarnation or manifestation of all the 
 evil of the island. And here, The Suffering had make a great work modeling and detailing all that 
 bizarre creatures, and each creature will have its own movements and attacks. Face many of them 
 mixed together will be a real challenge, because you need to use different strategies to beat each 
 type of enemy. And they have the bad habit to surround you, even in low numbers. 
  
  To be able to face so terrible enemies, you will find many weapons and equipments that will help 
 you to survive. From and axe to an machine gun, the game give to you some fun options to spread 
 the demons blood in the floors and in the walls. And, a little later from the beginning, you'll 
 discovery that Torque can transform in some sort of monster, that is like his pure expression of 
 hate and fury. It's a great addiction.
  
  Even The Suffering being a horror game, the action is the main diversion. All that history helps 
 you to stay tied to the game, because can be little repetitive. I found the game decently long, 
 and the same enemy can be repetitive, mainly in the beginning. But if you like of many sequences 
 of action with many violence, than you will not be bothered by this repetition.
  
  In other hand, the boss battles can be a little difficult at first time. I have some difficulties 
 in discovery what to do, having much of the try-and-fail (I think that is the expression...) . But 
 these are the moments when you get a lot of the history. Have to mention that the bosses have the 
 most deep (and interesting) mysteries of the game.
  
  The voices are just gorgeous and help a lot to the immersion, and all the others sounds and music 
 make their job very well. But here, I have a negative point. In many parts of the game, the voices 
 that are said by the character (Torque don't say anything in all the game) can mix with the scripted 
 ones, making you stay a little confuse in what they're saying, even with legends.
  
  Another negative point: is the engine. It can just crash without a clear reason. Only in the last 
 level, the game crashed twice and rebooted my system in both crashes... That wasn't the first time 
 and is the main reason that make me delay to end the game.
  
  *More good points:
  - Great level design;
  - Gore and violent;
  - Nice controls;
  - Good monster's AI;
  - One 
 of the best rain effects that I ever seen in a game, mainly in its time.
  
  *Some negative points:
  - Few enemies;
  - Outdated graphics;
  - Weak human's AI;
  - Few 
 scares for an horror game;
  - No multiplayer, low replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raabbii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  True horror isn't about gibbering, fanged monsters. It's about the potential brutality and depravity 
 lurking in every one of us. The Suffering thrusts you into a maximum-security prison that holds 
 society's worst monsters -- a prison situated on an island marked by tragic incidents of cruelty 
 and moral perversion, no less. While the game does feature terrible imaginary monsters and supernatural 
 shocks, they're all based on real-world crimes and forms of execution. Along with its unusual theme, 
 The Suffering offers a smooth blend of survival horror and shooter action, with chills and loads 
 of well-paced combat. 
  
  In The Suffering, you play as Torque, a silent, mysterious man convicted of murdering his wife 
 and children. Torque suffers from unexplained blackouts, and he can't remember what he does during 
 them, so it remains to be seen whether Torque is genuinely guilty. Throughout the game, he experiences 
 sudden flashbacks, as well as visions of other people's crimes, and these fill out the story and 
 keep you wondering about Torque's true nature. 
  
  
  In fact, moral ambiguity is a major theme of the game. Not long after Torque arrives in his cell, 
 an earthquake plunges the prison into darkness and frees him from his cell, while also liberating 
 nightmarish monsters. Your job is to get Torque out of the prison and off the island alive. Along 
 the way, you'll often encounter situations where you can act compassionately, neutrally, or like 
 a cold-blooded killer. When you run into a fellow convict trying to escape the horrors of the island, 
 do you help him, hurry past and leave him to the monsters, or kill him? Torque's visions let him 
 see the brutal crime that landed the man in jail in the first place, which adds to the dilemma 
 since it's not so easy to be compassionate towards such a man. These moments make you wonder who 
 the real monsters of the game are: the humans or the shambling creatures from the netherworld. 
 In a neat touch, you'll actually hear the personified voices of conscience during these decisive 
 moments, urging you one way and the other. You shape the ending of the game by your choices. 
 
  
  Either way, as a symbol of the latent violence lurking in everyone, Torque can, when he's killed 
 enough enemies, temporarily transform himself into a horrid, clawed creature that shreds apart 
 anything in his path. You'll need this ability because you'll have to fight not merely vicious 
 cons and crooked, murderous guards, but also nightmarish creatures that embody different execution 
 methods. For lethal injection, there's a scampering creature with glowing needles jammed into its 
 body. It throws these at you like darts, and if it gets close enough, it will grab you and ram 
 a needle right into you. Firing squads are personified by lumbering beasts with guns sticking out 
 of their bulbous heads. Other creatures represent the horrors of hanging, beheading, and so on. 
 
  
  You can play The Suffering from either a first- or third-person view, and you get to wield a range 
 of well-balanced weapons: an axe, shotgun, Tommy gun, Molotov cocktails, and other real-world implements 
 of death. Unlike more than a few survival-horror games, the movement controls and camera views 
 are reasonably clear, simple, and intuitive here, feeling much like any standard shooter. Every 
 once in a while, though, Torque will get caught on something, and it can be unclear why he can 
 climb in certain places but not others. 
  
  For better and for worse, combat is the heart of The Suffering. There are a few simple puzzles 
 to break up the action, but fast-paced, blood-soaked combat is what it's ultimately all about. 
 You won't find much in the way of genuinely spooky build-ups or truly disturbing atmosphere,  
 la the Silent Hill series. While you shouldn't expect many really chilling frights, the levels 
 still manage to be evocative and creepy enough. They take you through graffiti-scrawled prison 
 cellblocks to surrounding haunts on the island, like a cemetery, abandoned mine, and haunted mental 
 institution. 
  
  It's not your average sinkhole. 
  These are brought to life with decent but ultimately unexceptional graphics. The Suffering originally 
 appeared on consoles a few months ago and indeed looks like a console port, though the monster 
 designs are memorable either way. The audio, likewise, gets the job done without really wowing 
 you or creeping you out often enough -- though the disembodied voices of abused children sounding 
 from behind locked doors is pretty unnerving. 
  
  You'll find a few bugs, clipping problems, and occasional clunky moments when a character's important 
 dialogue is interrupted by that of a scripted event, creating an audio muddle. It's a shame The 
 Suffering didn't receive a bit more polishing and a major graphics upgrade for the PC (though the 
 PC version includes a few extras, like a making-of documentary movie) . Still, with its well-designed 
 levels, fluid pacing, and hyper-violent combat in eerie locales, The Suffering is a fun way to 
 safely tap into your dark side. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuck_King_Ling
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering decided to take a new approach to the horror survival game genre, thank goodness. 
 It decided a faster paced, in your face scare idea would be better. And it was.
  
  The Suffering is different from other horror games in that instead of the scares waiting for you, 
 they come charging right at you. Why have them waiting around a corner, when the creepy monster 
 with blades for legs and arms and a decapitated head held up by a metallic contraption would, no 
 doubt, come charging after you? It only makes sense.
  
  And it's about time that a horror game created an awesome new character who you want to win. The 
 main character makes one think of Ash from the Evil Dead series, in his total Bad@$$ness. For instance, 
 at one point in the game, you walk into a room, and see a giant monster covered in rifles, who 
 just shot down a man easy. He points all these guns on his back at you. And you, as Torque, glance 
 down at your measly little pistol, and then point it right back up at him. An awesome battle insues.
 
  
  The main character, Torque, is a silent protagonist. Now, normally, I HATE silent protagonists 
 in games, because they never see to have any personality. But Torque is incredible in that he has 
 tons of personality without needing to talk, and you give him his personality.
  
  That's another good element of the game. You're ability to choose a good or evil path actually 
 determines how the game goes. And Torque's appearance changes with the decisions you make.
  
  Also, Torque has a sort of monstrous side of himself. He can change into a blade armed monster 
 and tear foes to smitherins. This technique never seems particularly necesarry, but can come in 
 handy ocassionally during some tight spots.
  
  The combat of this game is typical third person shooter. That's probably the least fulfilling aspect 
 of the game, due to the fact that it just could have done a lot better. It can ocassionally feel 
 kind of glitchy, and you'll know you've played games with this kind of glitchy feeling before. 
 However, due to the atmosphere, it's easily overlooked.
  
  On another downside, though, is the graphic quality. It's disappointing that the quality of the 
 graphics isn't better, considering it could have added so much to the game. Though Torque is well 
 animated, some of the creatures you fight could have used a little more 3D make-up than they recieved, 
 and thus, it loses quite a bit of its glory.
  
  The highest point of this game, though, has to be the story telling. Though Torque may not talk, 
 the various characters you meet do, and they have some incredible voice actors that completely 
 immerse you in the story. The story itself is very well fleshed out, with plenty of twists and 
 turns. Also, with the journals and diaries you get per area, there's plenty of reading material.
 
  
  Another high point is the monsters and the ideas surrounding them. Each monster is based off a 
 way a person can be executed in a prison, and the way the execution tactics are brought to life 
 in this horrofying monsters is incredible, as well as downright scary.
  
  This game deserved a lot more attention than it recieved, and is one of those games that, if remade 
 for a next gen console, would be one of those incredible spectacles of videogaming people come 
 to love for generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Being a keen Horror survival game fan i eargerly bought this to give it a go. Having played it 
 to the end i was left bitterly dissapointed and somewhat confused as to how it has been given such 
 high ratings.
  
  The gameplay is choppy and feels unfinished, and quite frankly it shocked me how unstable it felt. 
 The textures are terrible and everything is very blocky, sometimes it feels a bit like the first 
 Doom game! You can choose to use 1st person or 3rd person views which is a nice touch but generally 
 has little impact. There also seems to be several glitches and bugs in the game. One of these, 
 a glitch with weapons not hitting thier targets, got me killed several times and became a general 
 nusiace all game.
  
  The sound effects are mostly good and help to create an eeiry and scary atmosphere. 
  
  The 
 storyline is good and helps to hold the game together, but lacks origninality somewhat. The game 
 is quite easy to get into and once you familiarise yourself with the controls its easy to play.
 
  
  However, this game is flawed and looks very behind the times for the date it was release. There 
 are several rival games of much higher calibre available on the market which offer the Horror enthusiast 
 so much more. It becomes too repetitive and the gameplay is simply not to the standard i expected, 
 and would not have bought it had i rented it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Players that have had their fill of killing zombies, aliens, Nazis and terrorists, and are looking 
 for something different will find a wickedly unique experience in The Suffering. A frightening 
 prison-island setting that oozes decay and putrescence. Evil incarnations of the cruelest forms 
 of torture and execution ever devised by man. A tortured protagonist with a troubled past, and 
 an even more disturbing future. What more can you ask for?
  
  The graphics, although nothing spectacular, are more than capable of presenting the grotesque visuals 
 in eye-pleasing fashion. Game play mechanics are smooth and easy, and work as well as any third-person 
 production on the market. Although the game is intended to be played in third-person perspective 
 (in order to fully appreciate the eerie surroundings) , the player has the option of switching to 
 a first-person view on-the-fly for more accurate aiming, thus providing the best of both worlds. 
 Sound is exceptional. The dramatic musical score during combat sequences, the muffled, almost inaudible 
 screams and moans echoing thru the halls, the intimidating scrape of a Slayers' blade on concrete, 
 all raise the anxiety level and help immerse the player in this deliciously dreadful world.
  
  And then there's the imaginative monster design, creatures that embody some of the most horrific 
 examples of man's inhumanity to man. The player will encounter manifestations of such acts as hangings, 
 decapitations, firing squads, even being buried alive. Sweet! But it is the story that sets The 
 Suffering apart from other games in this (or any) genre. Thru documents presented in the loading 
 screens and options menu, as well as in-game cut scenes and hallucinations, the player will learn 
 not only about the island's wretched history, but also what kind of man Torque has been. And by 
 presenting various "angel-on-my-shoulder" or "devil-in-my-pocket" moral dilemmas, the developers 
 have given the player the ability to choose what kind of man Torque will become.
  
  The bottom line, although this may not be a game to everyone's taste, for the player looking for 
 something a little different, The Suffering presents a breath of putridly fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Matrice_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Can be played by inexperienced players and by veterans. Nice story and cool weapons. I love the 
 stories for every place and for every monster.
  You have some simple and some challenging puzzle. I would reccomend any difficulty.
  Scary Island 
 .....
  
  Enjoy :)
  
  Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Angst is an emotion rarely articulated with any effectiveness in gaming. American McGee's Alice 
 did a good job of it but other than that it is slim pickings. Even the uprising of the oppressed 
 in Half-Life 2 (whilst a classic title) was done with a veneer of unnecessary gloss. Alyx Vance 
 should have been one bitter, twisted chick. Not so for The Suffering, as this is a game of misery, 
 darkness, alienation, angst and despair. And whilst I am certainly not recommending carrying these 
 emotions on a day-to-day basis, they do make the balanced combat gaming experience in The Suffering 
 all that more absorbing.
  
  You are Torque. You have been sentenced death for some heinous crimes. And you are placed in the 
 worst godforsaken hellhole to await this grisly fate. And in this hellhole, all hell breaks loose. 
 The opening sequence (complete with almost every profanity known to man) , details the descent into 
 turmoil at Abbott State Penitentiary and from there you are in bloody rampage across Carnate Island 
 against a denizen of doomed foes, who provide more in the way of challenge than scares. Though 
 it is ultimately quite a tense environment.
  
  Graphically, the game accomplishes what it sets out to do. The slammer and the doomed island that 
 it's located on are presented with the appropriate sense of dread  and darkness. Torque himself, 
 played from the third person perspective, cuts the swathe of a tough, uncompromising character 
 and has the moves to suit, especially when wielding the shiv located early in the campaign. The 
 foes are creative, otherworldly and freaky and they move and attack in unique and effective ways. 
 The slayers, with steak knives for limbs, move remarkably nimbly for the metal machinations they 
 appear to be, the poison throwing toad-like creatures take a bit to overcome, the mole-like, chain 
 welding freaks will borrow their way towards you before attacking and there are some seriously 
 large beasts to encounter along the way as well. It will come as no surprise that combat is quite 
 gruesome. The environment is equal parts the doomed corridors and halls of Abbott and the eerie 
 terrain of Carnate Island, and both areas have a reasonable amount of variety. The graphics are 
 clearly ported from the console, but the graphical representation is reasonable enough. 
  
  The Suffering needed quality sound and environmental effects to succeed and it does just that. 
 The environmental effects are suitably spooky and do create an environment of uncertainty. The 
 monsters shriek and snarl appropriately and the knives of the slayers dragging along the floor 
 will send a shiver up the spine. The voice acting, on the whole is pretty effective, but expect 
 plenty of foul language from the prisoners who are also under attack. Weapons do sound effective 
 and some of the skirmishes you'll undertake are an aural mix of enemy taunts and serious artillery 
 fire. 
  
  Cut down to the lowest, common denominator, The Suffering is a third person shooter with some quality 
 action. Torque squares of against a variety of beasts that bear no resemblance to humanity (a saving 
 grace for mine) through the dark and dimly lit corridors of the prison and the fields and shores 
 of the damned Carnate Island. The foes are a bit of a one-trick pony but remain quite challenging, 
 especially when they hunt in packs. Some prefer to go toe-to-toe (slayers) , whilst others will 
 attack from distance so a quick assessment of the playing field is generally required from one 
 set piece to another. 
  
  The arsenal of weapons available grows during the game, as does the capability of the opponents, 
 and credit to the game as this is not one that offers a seemingly endless supply of ammunition. 
 In a major skirmish, it is likely you'll need to cycle through two or three weapons  where again 
 the assessment of what to use against whom is important. The set pieces, when in full swing are 
 chaotic, bloody showdowns, with the aftermath all too see on Torque's ripped stature, though the 
 claret evaporates eventually. I'll leave to you to discover the beast within, but Torque is more 
 than a tough looking dude. I'm not much for on-the rails fare, but towards the end of the game 
 you'll control heavy weaponry and fend off hordes of resurrecting beasts in a set-piece of sheer 
 quality.
  
  Whilst a large portion of the game is Torque flying solo, he will find allies in his erstwhile 
 keepers throughout the game. They will competently stand at arms in combat through a period or 
 set-piece, though ultimately it is up to you to keep them alive so they can 'exit stage left'. 
 You'll also be presented with options for the prisoners, who you can help, hinder or wantonly discard. 
 However, the decisions made here determine the ending to the game, ranging from good to evil, with 
 a hung-jury (not pun intended) ending apparently in between. Being a goody-goody, I got the former, 
 though doing the right thing required solving some decent puzzles or helping some folk stay alive, 
 actions to the contrary of the game's aura of disintegration.
  
  Torque's story is developed through a series of cut-scenes, involving himself, the chilling Dr 
 Killjoy and Torque's own wife and children. These cut-scenes do set the tone of doom, with the 
 opening one detailing the paranormal activity akin the Half-Life's 'resonance cascade' that introduces 
 the morbid foes of the campaign. I must admit to finding the flashbacks involving the family a 
 little too much to bear, but it is the reason Torque is in the predicament he is. Dr Killjoy makes 
 intermittent appearances which are almost a slideshow of Abbot's brutal history, appearances that 
 enforced the ever-present sense of despair.
  
  Whilst the campaign does have some genuinely creepy moments, it wasn't the fright-fest I thought 
 it would be. Crawling through the halls of Abbott had quite an atmosphere, perhaps more for the 
 uncertainly, and without a doubt the game, played in darkness presents a dim, dark view of the 
 world. However, the action does come thick and fast, with the variety of foes, locations and decent 
 puzzles providing a solid campaign to the final boss.
  
  I purchased The Suffering for $AUD20, and it was pretty hard to find. It wouldn't surprise me if 
 most stores find it inappropriate to place this on the shelves next to the Sims and the like, with 
 its cover of a gent in an Electric Chair leaving no illusions for what's in store. This is a game 
 for mature gamers  let's make that point clear. I'm sure it easily cleared the threshold for its 
 MA rating in Australia and it's possible the odd discussion probably took place as to whether is 
 should be classified at all. The game clocks in around 10-12 hours on the default level, and whilst 
 there are three separate endings to achieve, this isn't the sort of game that I personally go back 
 for seconds. Horror fans may fill their boots, but that's up to them.
  
  The Suffering is a grisly gaming experience, which offers more in the way of dread than it does 
 in scares, but does serve up plenty of quality action as you progress through the wretched Carnate 
 Island. It's definitely not one for the younger generation and probably not for Sunday-Gamers, 
 but The Suffering does serve up a fine dose of combat in the midst of a seriously disturbing backdrop. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Third person shooter with very good gameplay. Mixed effects, horror style and very good story. You 
 begin the game as a prisoner, claimed for killing your family. The worst prison (Maryland) got such 
 terrible story, that many things are unsolved and unexplained. The graphic is pretty good, but the 
 sounds are unbelievable. The story is so deep, that you really fall in to the game. Many secret things, that 
 you can find tru the game, makes game more interesting, that already is. Really good game. . . . . 
 . . . . . . .
  
  Graphic: Solid graphic, but not quite.
  
  Sound: Creepy sounds tru the game, makes game much more better.
  
  Gameplay: Good gameplay, but 
 sometimes the control of your charter is broken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I mayve mentioned this fact before in one or two other reviews, but I really, really dig haunted 
 houses. The real-world tours of a make-believe tomb or decrepit manse that crop up every year at 
 around Halloween are always good for a laugh. Those that are done well  with good effects, gnarly 
 decorations, an effective layout, and, most importantly, a dedicated and competent staff of costumed 
 actors (no halfhearted carnies or smarmy SCA wannabes for me, thanks!)  can even evoke a very 
 real sense of dread or mortal fear in me, the rarity of which is well worth the price of admission. 
 Like Nosferatu, Undying, and the Doom series, The Suffering takes the player on a first- or third-person 
 tour of a thoroughly haunted edifice just lousy with shockingly abrupt visitations from beyond. 
 The games setting of a horrid prison built on the sour soil of a small island along the Atlantic 
 coast is effectively spooky, while its combat mechanics are entertaining and fairly varied.
  
  Although each of The Sufferings human character models share that we were designed for less-powerful 
 consoles, but spruced up for a visit to your PC blandness that I associate with many ported games, 
 they are still expressive enough to add the right amount of drama to the proceedings. The real 
 treat, however, is in Winston Studios treatment of the tortured souls that chase our hero from 
 one end of Carnate island to the other. Each critter is a manifestation of some awful event related 
 to capital punishment or mob justice  hanging, lethal injection, decapitation, live burial, execution 
 by firing squad, immolation, and even the eternal taint that trading in human slaves leaves on 
 ones soul  and many are genuinely formidable in their own way. Like Torque, the games protagonist, 
 Carnates supernatural inhabitants are monsters with strong human traits (or vice-versa, depending 
 on how well Torque plays with others) , twisted by the nature of their own demise and their time 
 spent trapped, awaiting resurrection, in their own terrible version of a Micmac burial ground. 
 I really enjoyed squaring off against such inventive and genuinely difficult foes. The character 
 of Dr. Killjoy was ingenious -- existing only as he does through the wan flicker of strategically-positioned 
 projectors  and I was always interested in the perpetually electrified presence of Horace and 
 the breathy, tranquil menace of Hermes as the rest of Torques Greek chorus.
  
  The games layout was also very well done, with the right amount of time spent creeping through 
 incredibly dark prison and cave corridors balanced against an occasional furlough to the surrounding 
 shoreline. Corpses abound, and how: wards and warders alike lay or hang wherever they were taken 
 by surprise, many in pieces. Those who remain are nearly as helpless as babies  with the exception 
 of Torques erstwhile detractor Officer Alvarez, whose skill with a Tommy gun is irreplaceable 
 against those doggone Inferna witches later in the game  which is where the players Light Side/Dark 
 Side tendencies will trigger some posthumous praise or scolding from Torques murdered wife: help 
 a brother out, and Torque will receive the happiest ending that a guy like him might expect; murder 
 anyone who asks for a leg up, and Torques inner monster comes out to play; save some and leave 
 others, and I dont know what happens because I wasnt particularly interested in the neutral 
 ending. Still, I can appreciate any game that tries to tailor its contents, however slightly, to 
 my actions and accomplishments.
  
  If I have any complaints about the The Suffering, they are a few minor quibbles related to the 
 games voice acting. Grown-ups dont often provide a convincing portrayal of a childs voice. Although 
 the voiceover work of E. G. Daily, Yeardley Smith, and Nancy Cartwright springs immediately to mind 
 as a marvelous exception to that statement, The Suffering is not a cartoon  far from it; the game 
 presents its subject matter without a smidgen of levity (although the odd but effective chicken 
 gun that I found while rummaging around the prisons solitary confinement block might count as 
 such)  so the squeaky baby babble ascribed to Torques younger son was severely misplaced. Every 
 time the little drowned rugrat opened his mouth, I couldnt stop thinking about how much more creepy 
 and heartbreaking his part of the story might be if it was presented by a talented kid instead 
 of an adult using a Betty Boop affectation.
  
  Honestly, thats all the grousing I could muster for The Suffering. I was never bored, only occasionally 
 frustrated (I love a good challenge, but the games Hard setting was downright ridiculous in spots) , 
 and found myself flinching as the overlaid glimpses into Torques insanity flashed across the screen. 
 The morosely utilitarian atmosphere of the old prison  decorated as it was with fresh streaks 
 of gore across every surface  provided an ideal setting for a haunted house tour that never once 
 promises to end well, at least for the protagonist. Although I dont recommend The Suffering for 
 anyone prone to depression  this really is a very somber trek through a thoroughly dark place 
  any explorers with a bent for boogers and haints should enjoy a few late evenings with Torque 
 and his demonic alter-ego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Brilliantly creepy game. I LOVE creepy games. I love games with mood.
  
  This game delivered for me. I loved the vibe. I loved the creepy jail. For the time playing this, 
 I happily wet myself again and again. I can't wait to play the sequel.
  
  There really isn't anything like wandering around half crazy through a hell hole jail with a giant 
 KNIFE, not really sure if you're killing real things, nice people, or just dreaming. Then ugly 
 things with sharp things poking off of them jump you, and you stab those **** repeatedly with lots 
 of blood and gore.
  
  Hells yes I say!!
  
  We needs more games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusCoven
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Surreal Softwares The Suffering mirrors Remedy Entertainments Max Payne in every way. That 
 is, if you were to remove the noir storytelling and replace all the enemies in the game with the 
 Cenobites from Clive Barkers Hellraiser films. This is pretty much what attracted me to the game 
 in the first place. Its a survival horror title but unlike Capcoms Resident Evil series, which 
 basically started the genre, the focus is heavy on the action and light of the puzzle solving.
 
  
  On the surface, The Suffering excels on many levels. It has an interesting premise involving a 
 hard ass looking tough guy named Torque (think Ash from Evil Dead on steroids) who is put on death 
 row after supposedly killing his wife and 2 sons. Only problem is he has no recollection of ever 
 doing it. The day he gets put into Abbott State Penitentiary, a maximum security correctional 
 facility on an island, he doesnt get to enjoy the comforts of his cell long before a giant cataclysm 
 unleashes an army of hellions throughout the place killing guards and inmates left and right.
 
  
  The game has you running around the prison arming yourself with whatever weapons you can find and 
 joining up with other prisoners in an attempt to get out and to safety. The action handles fairly 
 well. The controls are tight and can be played in first and third person perspectives, the latter 
 of which is what youre going to want. The main weapons are handguns, machineguns and shotguns, 
 but youll also find melee weapons like a shiv and axe for the rare occasions that you all your 
 ammo gets depleted. You also get various explosives you can heave at clusters of enemies.
  
  Theres also something called the insanity meter which fills up with each creature you lay 
 to waste. When it maxes out you can trigger it and turn into a massive monster which can plow through 
 most enemies like a hot knife through butter. If you dont turn back to your human form before 
 your insanity meter runs up you take some damage though. Overall, the creature form is cool to 
 show off to your friends but isnt very useful in the game because it leaves you open for projectile 
 attacks and if youve got a buddy on your team and they get a little too close while youre dismembering 
 things like crazy they might take some unwanted collateral damage.
  
  The enemies in the game come in a few different forms, all representing various ways of execution. 
 The Slayers will be your prime enemy and arent overly bright in their tactics. The mainliners, 
 which are the most annoying of enemies, will attempt to attach on to you and inject you with a 
 needle which requires you to tap the attack button repeatedly to shake them off. There are some 
 larger monsters later on that take more damage and serve up stronger attacks but they are slower 
 moving so it balances it out. There are a few occasions when youll have to fight a boss and usually 
 there are invulnerable to shooting or hacking. These guys usually require you to solve a puzzle 
 of sorts to vanquish them.
  
  The overall presentation is top notch. This game knows how to scare you and takes great pleasure 
 in doing so every chance it gets. There are lots of random effects that sort of jump on screen 
 every so often and the view tends to get blurry whenever a hallucination manifests. The game also 
 changes up your locale quite a bit so you never feel like youre just retreading the same spots 
 back and forth. At certain moments in the game youll have to make moral choices on whether to 
 help someone or blast them to hell. Depending on the alignment you choose youll get one of three 
 endings.
  
  Graphically the game is superb from a creative perspective. All of the monsters were designed by 
 Stan Winston Studios and are presented in illustriously grotesque detail. The environments arent 
 the most immersive but they serve their purpose. The games lighting is possibility its strongest 
 cosmetic feature reminiscent of games like Doom 3 and Silent Hill. There are quite a few dark areas 
 to this game and your only source of illumination will often be a small hand light attached to 
 your shirt. This definitely boasts the creepiness of the game.
  
  The sound production is just as good as the visuals if not better. There is a constant ambience 
 that makes sure the game never loses its unsettling tone. When the action picks up the score switches 
 to thundering tribal sounding beats and Torques heartbeat, which is heard throughout the entire 
 game, increases rapidly to heighten the tension. The enemies sound just as terrifying and disgusting 
 as they appear. The basic enemy types emit shrieking wails while the more gargantuan beasts voice 
 low guttural growls. The voice acting is also well done adding a cinematic tone to the games dialog.
 
  
  The Suffering is definitely a game with a lot of style and great high octane action. It does wear 
 a little dry in a few spots, most commonly when the enemy barrages seem to last minutes without 
 any real level progression. The story is also a bit skimped. You are given this really interesting 
 and mysterious setting at the start but its only further revealed in small increments which tend 
 to only confuse you more. Depending on the end you get you may walk away unsatisfied seeing as 
 only one of them ends happy. Still, the savage ass kicking and eerie presentation should keep 
 you well entertained and take precedence over any of the shortcomings the game may have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Very nicely calculated game. All the encounters with monsters begin at the very RIGHT time, somewhere 
 harder to defend, somewhere easier to offend. There are arcade like components in the game, for 
 example taking over the position of the machine gun and just tear the enemy into shreds in ten 
 minutes run (so is decided by the game) . There certain tactics to kill different enemies (at least 
 it will be a lot easier, if you know how to) .
  Limited amount of ammunition makes the way a little tougher, though more entertaining, so you have 
 to use your knife a lot; the knife does a moderate damage, so the time you'll take to make your 
 foes a dead meat is greatly reduces (the thing you won't notice in another games, which is good) . 
 You going to meet a lot of people and strange ghostly-like characters on the way, the ghosts will 
 provoke you to do various thoughtless things. At some point of the game (in the close beginning, 
 to be precise) you'll receive the power to change forms: to monster form and back (human form) . 
 Monster form takes a limited time, but in that time your strength and damage increases maybe by 
 tenth, though there is only a hand-to-hand combat available. Being human allows you to shoot from 
 the pistols, assault rifles, throw flash/smoke/hand grenades, climb, jump, activate things. There 
 are two paths to choose: being a bad, or a good guy. If you kill all the people on the way and 
 will not respond to the good thoughts that will try to get in your head - you'll become ravageous 
 monster, transform to monster bar will increase much faster. You will have to get all the luck 
 in being a good guy, because it is not easy to be good, believe me. This game is scary enough to 
 be my one of the best horror games, also there is more than enough action for the people, who want 
 to see blood. I noticed a couple of bad things about this game: The NPC sometimes runs away in 
 an unknown direction and get killed (at some points NPC's are crucial to the main quest, so it's 
 a little tricky) . Few areas in the game contain infinite amount of enemy spawns, doesn't matter 
 how many of them you kill, they still coming. The final boss could be a little bit more difficult 
 in my opinion. There is one interesting feature: monsters afraid of strong light. By directing 
 projector on them, they can even burn. Use this to your advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I will start with this: The Suffering isn't a horror game it is third person shooter and action 
 game beacuse in horror there must be a scary atmosphere with a scary story and witout much of bullets 
 beacuse we are all for sure panicking when we are without bullets in horror games. In Suffering 
 it can't happend. I finished the game with 700 bullets in Tommy Gun, 300 bullets in revolvers... 
 I don't want to say that this game is stupid beacuse of that, I just want to say that this game 
 is not a horror. The graphic solid, somewhere light, somewhere dark with pretty good models of 
 you enemies. Sounds are silent and very nice. You will need 10-20 hours to finish the game. The 
 story is nothing special and the main character is little stupid and nothing special too. But this 
 game has got magicly fun gameplay. I can't describe how fun was to go around and shoot everything 
 what is moving especially later when you are on the island. The Suffering is very fun game and 
 it is for sure worth of trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it's not fair to The Suffering that I played it immediately following Far Cry which is 
 the most awesome game I've ever played. There was a time when I really enjoyed horror themed shooters, 
 but I think I now prefer the wide open environments and strategy decisions of the larger scale 
 games as opposed to the cramped hallways and dark environments of the horror genre.
  
  That being said, The Suffering did manage to hold my attention throughout the game. Although I 
 didn't find the story line to be all that fascinating, and I really never cared too much for the 
 plight of the characters, the action was sufficient to keep me going.
  
  There wasn't much in The Suffering that you haven't seen before as far as weapons go. Each creature 
 presented it's own challenge and although I was able to figure out most of the puzzles, there were 
 a couple that sent me researching the walkthrough (I have a 15 - 30 minute patience limit) .
  
  The word that best describes the game is "average". The graphics and gameplay aren't anything 
 you haven't seen before. But if you like a little disturbing horror in your games and you happen 
 across this one in the bargain bin, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The suffering, is a game that has got both good qualities and bad ones. but it is a suitable package 
 for a good adventure as well. as far as the graphic aspects are concerned, I shoud assert that 
 thisgame is offering nothing special, generally fine but could've been better, though. the gameplay 
 on the other hand, is good and Surreal software have done good job in this respect; good weapons, 
 nice manipulation of the character ( i loved the FPS style) . the story-line is also good and the 
 sounds are very good indeed. I only regret some problems with the camer-angles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  My friend is the one that told me about this game. At first I don't know what the hell he was talking 
 about. Then when I bought this game and play wow I had fallen in love. This game is so brutal and 
 so damn bloody that it just can't stop. There's a lot of swearing in the game. I just love it when 
 the character's swore at each other. The surrounding's in the game is totally awesome. I love the 
 dark and gloomy surrounding. Graphic hmm it looks great to me. The story line is a bit misunderstood 
 sometimes but I finally understand it. I've played the second one. Still this is the best. The 
 best part is the creatures in the game. They look so deadly and amazing. How did they come up with 
 them. I had fun at this game from the start and to the finish. For me there is no mistake at all 
 in this game except for some glitches. Who ever likes game like DOOM, HALF-LIFE and RESIDENT EVIL. 
 Then they should give a try at this game. Its just too good to be true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menthoru
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 15, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I got "The Suffering" a week ago, and since then I got glued to it. It's quite addictive.
  Action, horror, shooting. These three words should make every gamer shiver and think: "maybe could 
 this be the one?".
  I think "The Suffering" is almost the one.
  
  It comes with a good storyline, original characters, two great shaped personalities: Torque (main 
 character) and Dr. Killjoy (I'll let you find who the guy is) , truly impressive sound and good 
 graphics.
  
  Our main character, Torque, starts out as a death-row inmate in the Abbott State Penitentiary placed 
 on the Carnate Island. The prison has a strange history in bad treatment and weird human experiments. 
 Due to this history, the game starts in your cell, with deadly monsters popping out of the dark 
 with creepy sounds in the good tradition of action-horror games. And so, Torque begins a journey 
 on the Carnate Island to get back his memory and find its true identity. Basically, you'll just 
 have to shoot and then shoot more monsters, but aside that, Torque will have to solve some light 
 puzzles and help (only if you want) a few NPCs that he'll find along the way. The interesting part 
 comes with the duality of Torque, as in he can be both human and monster. The monster shape can 
 be taken when enough killing has been done (increased 'Insanity' level) . This monster form isn't 
 of much help actually, but will be helpful sometimes when you'll find yourself surrounded by a 
 big number of monsters.
  
  Based on the choices you take to help, ignore or even kill the NPCs and the usage of your monster 
 shape (more or less) , the game will have three different endings. And speaking about the ending, 
 yes you'll have bosses to kill too. The story line is a little long considering the fact that at 
 one point you'll just have to go back all the way to the prison cells you so hardly tried to escape, 
 and that there are only a few monster types (some of then really easy kills) . A little more diversity 
 would have made it better, but still I say it's a good game, filled with action, shooting and shivers 
 on your spine. It will worth you time, at least on one difficulty level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Not based on a completely original theme and story,"The Suffering" manages to capture you in it's 
 world and you just keep on playing, just to find out what happens next, what evil monster jumps in 
 your path and what secrets you uncover about Torque and Carnate Island.
  The Story:
  The main character in the game is Torque, a man sent to death row, because he was accused and found 
 guilty of murdering his wife and children. However, the evidence is circumstantial, and you do not 
 remember anything.
  After being sent in your cell on Carnate Island Corectional Facility, and earthqake starts, and the 
 lights go out. When they come back on, monsters come from nowhere and start killing people.
  Suddenly, your cell gate openes, and you begin your venture on Carnate, trying to escape from the 
 Island.
  Trough the game, you will meet different people ,CO'S or convicts. When you do, your wife tells you 
 the right choice -to help the person. But, another voice tempts you to kill the person. The choiche 
 is yours-kill him, help him, or just ignore him altogheter. Depending on what you do, you will get 
 one of three game endings (good, bad and insane) .
  Also, from time to time, you have visions of your wife and kids, and this weird Dr. Killjoi keeps popping 
 up from 30mm film tape.
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is straightforward and easy to understand. If you played other action games like Max 
 Payn and such, you will already know the controls.
  There is an array of about 6 weapons to use, plus grenades and such that can be thrown.
  In order 
 to heal yourself, you can use Xobium canisters, found troughout the game.
  You also have a flashlight, which is very usefull in dark areas which are almost everywhere in the 
 game. Also, after you kill a number of enemies, you will be able to transform into a monster (in Torque's 
 mind actually) that has a huge power and can preform special attacks ,which get different from 
 time to time, after the "experience" bar fills up (the little blue bar on the lower-right side of 
 the screen) .
  The game's default view is 3rd person, but you can also play first person if you preffer.
  Graphics: While 
 not state of the art, the graphics are ok. The textures are nice, clean ,and there is a nice effect 
 that makes Torque all bloody after a fight with the zombies.
  Sound: Sound is also well made in the game, it fits well with the atmosphere ,and the voice acting 
 is well made.
  Overall: This game is deffinately worth buying. It will keep you occupied for some time, and will 
 probably be one of your favourites if you like horror games.
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  The Suffereing has to be one of the creepiest, disturbing & most action packed shooter.
  
  Graphically it's pretty good with some motion blur & other slick effects. Sound is spot on. Gameplay 
 is solid as you can play in both 1ST & 3RD person view although 3rd person is more preferable. The 
 game can take you around 8-12 hours more or less to beat. It also has 3 different endings depending 
 on how you choose to play. Either by being a do-gooder, a ruthless baby killer or mix of both.
  
  It's makes you think how sick & twisted the developers must be to come up with such a horror 
 game. Thumbs up to them !
  
  This is definitely worth a rental or purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  The suffering is one of the best horror games I have ever played. It has everything that a horror 
 game needs in order to be a good game. Great background story made this game even more enjoyable. 
 You will play as torque who has two forms. Beside the normal human shape he has also a monster 
 form and that is fun to use and also useful in many situations. In one word games sound is just 
 marvelous. In every second it will give you horror feelings. Games graphics are perfectly matched 
 with the environment. Developer designed the carnet island beautifully. All most all the enemies 
 are unique and deadly and will force you to think twice before entering any room. Besides being 
 a first person action horror game there are also some puzzles to solve. Boss characters are remarkable 
 and you will remember Dr. killjoy for a long time. From start to end it is action packed game, 
 there are lots of zombies to kill, each enemy has unique characteristic, from the sound they make 
 while moving to their attacking style. Overall a must have game for action-horror adventure game 
 lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun. The first cut scene was freaking sweet. It made you already really scared. 
 The graphics for this game are okay but could have been way better but its still alright. The gameplay 
 is probaly the best thing about this game because it provides a very spooky first person shooter 
 that was pretty fun in my opinon. It got kind of repeative but I still say you should check this 
 game out. The bosses are alwsome too and the endings are alright very spooky. This game will make 
 you jump from being scared especially if you play at midnight in a dark room 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering is one of those games that you probably won't let your children ever see or touch, 
 let alone play.
  
  Unless you're a sick bastard of course. 
  But that aside, this gritty and violent game will captivate you with a decent story, and some especially 
 creepy visuals.
  
  The Suffering casts you as Torque, a new inmate to a island prison, your crime? The murder of your 
 wife and two sons. This also brings up one of the coolest mechanics for deciding your ending, did 
 you really kill your gal and kids? It's up to you, are you going to be a evil sadistic monster? 
 Or a saint, helping out your buddies in need. Or are you just going to be indifferent?
  All the good and bad decisions in The Suffering will determine the ending you receive.
  That's 
 a common mechanic, but The Suffering heavily warps its own backstory with the game's ending.
  
  But as a game, it stands as a solid shooter with some excellent creature design.
  Yes, The 
 Suffering is gorgeous, with all the settings turned up, and anti-aliasing set to high, you'll probably 
 have a fantasticly smooth environment and enemy models. Lighting is perfect, and so are the various 
 textures that decorate the blood strewn surroundings.
  For a pre-bump mapping era game, it's amazing that The Suffering (on the PC, the other versions 
 don't compare graphicly) can actually hold up to the best. 
  It's certainly pretty for those with a beefy graphics card.
  But what good would this all be 
 if you didn't have a decent game underneath? The Suffering isn't a revolutionary new step in gaming, 
 but it does what it does, and it does it right. This game is simply a straightforward shooter, 
 with a few puzzles scattered about. 
  You aren't going to spend too much time on the little tricks and traps laid around, but instead, 
 you'll be spending a large percentage of your time eliminating the advesaries spawned from hell.
 
  
  Your story, as told before, involves your crimes and what they invoke on the island. The true manifestation 
 of the creatures isn't clear, are they the creations of the island's mad Dr. Killjoy? Or have they 
 spawned from the depths of hell, attracted by the pure evil of all the wrong-doings commited on 
 the island? 
  The Suffering's story has what many could perceive as "holes" but it seems to be more up to you. 
 An example might be Torque's continual transformation into a brutish monster with a massive blade 
 protruding from one of his arms. When you've killed enough enemies, you charge up a bar that momentarily 
 transforms you into this creature. The longer you stay in this form, the faster the bar drains, 
 and prolonged exposure to your monstrous form will begin to sap life from your overall amount.
 
  
  Several hints from the game actually portray that Torque doesn't in fact transform into this creature, 
 it's simply his anger, turning him into a bare hands killing machine. (He supposedly always had 
 somewhat of a bad temper :P ) But to himself, he appears to be the monster that his anger makes 
 him inside.
  
  Such twists are interesting and keep the player captivated to learn more.
  But again to the more important factors.
  
  The Suffering has a wide assortment of different 
 weapons. From a shiv, fireax, revolver, tommy-gun, and several other weapons of destruction, you 
 most likely won't be that bored. And although the weapons themselves aren't the most unique you 
 could imagine, they serve their purpose, and they somehow develop a personality of their own (the 
 dual revolvers hold a place in my heart) . 
  The creatures in The Suffering are absolutly diabolical. Each represents a different form of execution.
 
  For example...
  
  -The Slayer : Represents decapitation, when you spot these ingame, they'll make your skin crawl, 
 they look absolutly terrifying. Their arms and legs are replaced by long blades, and the tell-tale 
 scraping and clanging as they walk around will alert you to their coming.
  
  -The Marksman : Represents death by firesquad. Although they aren't the most terrifying monsters, 
 they certainly seem absolutly brutish, although you'll quickly discover that they're quite easy 
 to destroy, they never give up their brutish appearance.
  
  Those are just two of many more, but they represent the overall idea of what you're going to be 
 facing.
  To bring these creatures to life, The Suffering has some of the best atmospheric sound, voice acting, 
 and just sound in general I have ever heard in a game.
  
  On the subject of voice acting, I might want to note that this game has a very colorful repetoire 
 of vocabulary you probably don't want the youngins repeating.
  A vast variety of four letter words await you.
  
  But don't let that turn you away, the dialouge 
 is extremely well written, and the cursing and violence isn't gratitous as to just being there 
 for filthiness' sake.
  
  All in all, a deep game with fantastic content, but a very basic and meaty gameplay experience, 
 it'll probably keep you busy for awhile, but you will most likely never forget the unique experience 
 you'll find in The Suffering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonard28
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  The suffering is actually a better game then I had expected it to be. It is just a plain action 
 game and does nothing special but what is does it does well.
  The good things about this game are the sounds and voice acting, the add greatly to this game. 
 The levels are a different story, in the beginning there ok but the longer you play the suffering 
 the more fun the get. The bosses and enemies are cool and make the game worth it. You can also 
 mutate into a huge creature but this only makes the gameplay hack n' slash and I didn't like it.
 
  The graphics are allright but cerrtainly not more than that. This game is supposed to be a horror 
 game and this is where it goes wrong, this game isn't scary, it's fun but it's just not scary and 
 that's what everybody was expecting. The gameplay is so standard it needs al the other things in 
 the game to camouflage it which doesn't succeed.
  Despite some dissappointments this game is fun and more important, gets better the longer you play 
 it (although I wouldn't really play it again) . So my advice is: why don't you give this game a 
 try? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jozeph83
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The voice acting is great, mostly because of the use of the real-life actors. Willem Dafoe has 
 an indistinguishable voice, but unfortunately had to incorporate a strange accent for his character. 
 Some of the in-game voice acting will throw you off since all other sounds get muted and the dialogue 
 tends to sound forced (particularly from the "Bond babes") . 
  
  Also, the graphics are pretty good. Fire and explosions look great, as do many of the subtle reflective 
 surfaces. The character models at least look like their real-life counterparts, but James seems 
 to have a particularly stiff back when he walks upright. There are a lot of animations, and most 
 of them look good. The enemies can certainly seem repetitive at times, particularly in the co-op 
 modes. I haven't noticed any slowdown per say, which says a lot considering you'll see a lot of 
 enemies, gunfire, explosions, and detailed environments on the screen at the same time. There is 
 a lot of variety to the missions, including the driving scenes, and this really helps the game 
 feel more complete and enjoyable by distracting you from the sketchy targeting system and lack 
 of manual aim. 
  
  In short, I'd reccomend this as a rental to anyone that likes shooting action because there is 
 a lot of it, and this game does that pretty well. I'm not sure that I regret buying it yet, but 
 I do regret certain missing features and problems that hold the game back from being otherwise 
 flawless. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razipagazi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  The suffering:
  
  Lets begin with the fact that this game is only people with a very strong hart because this game 
 if very f------ scary.
  
  in one hand,
  
  -this game giving you an experience of FEAR all the creepy monsters and the amazing sound (works 
 good on my 5.1 speakers :) ) .
  
  -the weapons in the game sounds great and you get them along your "trip" in the prison and out.
 
  
  -here is a lot of very nice riddles.
  
  -You can also become a monster your self, that is very COOL!
  
  But in the other hand, (only 
 one annoying thing!! :)
  
  The game very hopeless when you out of batteries in your flashlight.
  
  In conclusion this 
 game Rocks --- most be on your computer!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vs_wolverine
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  First of all i got to say a thing i'm not a big fan of survival games most of all because of the 
 gameplay that makes me feel that i'm never in control that happened when i played the resident 
 evil or silent hill series but now i finally found the kind of game to me =) the suffering is really 
 great in all aspectes maybe the grafics could be a little better but for me that was never the 
 most importatante thing in a game... in this one u have it all a great atmosphere, a story were you 
 really wanna know whats gonna happen next and of course an gameplay of five stars, in this game 
 you really feel that you can kick some a*s lol i really enjoyed this game and i cant wait to get 
 the next one so i recomend it to evryone who likes the horror gender or that just want a really 
 good game =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many FPS action-horror games for the PC. Undying was simply a masterpiece. But it 
 seems that Resident Evil and Silent Hill are so all over the place. The Suffering stands up to 
 mark its spot, but eventually fails to take a seat in the Hall of Fame.
  
  In The Suffering, you play as Torque, who is a convicted inmate caught on a nightmarish prison 
 on an island. The story and the characters seem riveting at first sight, but the repetitive action 
 sequences will shift your focus to a more clichd experience. This is where The Suffering really 
 suffers. Considering the numerous number of levels, more variety should've been put into this title.
 
  
  The Suffering looks great. Unfortunately, it looks and plays exactly like its PS2 counterpart. 
 The developers decided to keep everything as it is. So Torque will look slim like hes suffering 
 from some kind of food deprivation syndrome, strange The monsters are really inspired and varied 
 but eventually become dull as the same models appear again and again. The bosses are very imaginative, 
 especially the gaseous monster.
  
  The score is really amazing and sound effects are fit to the overall claustrophobic mood of the 
 game. Again, not too much content to really satisfy.
  
  Overall, what starts as a promising masterpiece ends up as an slightly-above-average been-there-done-that 
 clich, which you will enjoy while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexx2002
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought this game would be another resident evil rip-off. I was already expecting all 
 the classic re-used enemies I was used to. How far from the truth I was.
  What a blast this game is!!!!!!
  The story had me gripped from the beginning. It was like a film, 
 but with the risk of decapitation. The graphics were good, the sound was also impressive (as was 
 the voice acting) and, although the game play got a little repetitive in places, the story will 
 keep you wanting more. But be warned, there is a lot of violence and bad language. Perfect game 
 for all the family! :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2004 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering makes an unforgettable first impression on you. The setting is a dismal prison island, 
 haunted by the ghosts and demons who have been generated by the island's ugly history of crimes 
 and executions. The game does a great job of playing on this theme. As you play the game, you learn 
 a lot about the island's tumultuous history -- the game suggests that each enemy has spawned from 
 an incident in the past, as if the monsters are trying to get revenge on their former incarcerators. 
 
  
  Your main character is Torque, a silent prisoner who seems to be some kind of magnet for all of 
 the prison's torment. He sees ghosts of a mad doctor from the local asylum, a former executioner, 
 and a prisoner who got the electric chair. He also has visions of his murdered family at various 
 points throughout the game. Torque never says anything throughout the game, but he ends up being 
 an excellent main character. 
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay for this game isn't very good, and the level design absolutely sucks. 
 The variety of enemies in the game is somewhat low, so the game seems to have made up for it by 
 drawing out the game with all sorts of annoying puzzles and hidden exits. Nothing takes you out 
 of the atmosphere of the game like running around in circles for an hour looking for the box that 
 you have to drag to a certain spot so that you can jump up onto the roof of a building to get past 
 the level. I got really tired of using a walkthrough to play this game, and if it hadn't ended 
 after about 8 hours, I probably would have quit anyways. 
  
  The game puts throws some really bad battles at you where you have to figure out some stupid, inane 
 trick to win. At one point, the game introduces you to infinitely respawning enemies, and you have 
 to figure out the trick to stop them. This happens frequently, and it just plain sucks. First off, 
 you have to figure out if enemies are respawning infinitely, or if there is just a huge number 
 of them. The first time I ran into this I wasted about a half hour trying to figure out what I 
 was supposed to do (thanks also to a game-stopping bug) . These battles come up repeatedly, and 
 sometimes it's clear what you are supposed to do, but other times it's not. I also needed a walkthrough 
 to get past a couple of boss battles. I played this game because I wanted to be scared and shoot 
 at stuff, not try and form a Vulcan mind meld with the developers to figure out what trick I need 
 to win boss battles.
  
  But the worst part about the game might be the escort missions. A handful of times in the game, 
 you have to escort some loser for a level or two, and your companion will always run into battle 
 and get slaughtered. Your companions are generally retarded and can't avoid combat, which means 
 constant reloading if you want to complete these missions. 
  
  Occasionally, there are some moments where the action really comes together. Specifically, when 
 the game throws about four or five enemies at you in a few varieties, and you are forced to do 
 some nifty dodging and quick thinking to defeat them all. At this point, the game stands out as 
 the action game that it should have been. It's too bad that these moments are spoiled by all of 
 the game's frustrations.
  
  The game's graphics look very good, all things considered. The enemies, especially, are inspired 
 and animated very smoothly. There is a lot of detail in the game's environments. The audio, for 
 the most part, is very good, especially the sounds of your enemies, and the voice acting. Some 
 of the battle music is great too. However, the weapons sound pretty bad. The revolver sounds extremely 
 unconvincing. 
  
  I recommend passing on this game. I found it to be more frustrating than fun. Sometimes, it plays 
 like a bad puzzle-based adventure game, and that's not what I am looking for out of a horror-themed 
 action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19boomer58
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2004 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering, by its end, proved to be a very enjoyable game, at least for me. The level of violence 
 and gore was not anything that hasn't been done before, ala Doom 3, etc..
  Where this game stood out from the others is in its use of very graphic language, exemplified by 
 the cut scene at the beginning of the game, and the one "evil" voice in your head when you would 
 occasionally stumble upon a survivor. Given the fact that the game is situated in an environment 
 where it was to be expected, i felt it was very well done and actually enhanced the reality of 
 the game. 
  One problem i had with the game was that the sense of dread and intensity of the "inside" levels, 
 the prison and the mansion, seemed to fall apart somewhat when the game took you outside. Between 
 the fog and those ANNOYING infernas, I found myself comparing this game somewhat to Undying, whose 
 intensity would be nearly unbearable when you were inside the house, the catacombs, etc, but would 
 wane quite a bit when it went outside. 
  All in all, i found The Suffering to be definately worth the coinage. I feel that "if only the 
 outside was as good as the inside", intensity wise, this game would have been rated in the 9.0-10 
 range... Finally, thanks to Surreal for including the 2nd disc that tours the prison in Maryland. 
 A very sobering relevation of times past.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2004 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering is a horror survival type action game. It has its moments but it is no Doom 3. The 
 graphics are decent as well as the sound. It is a pretty long game around 15 - 20 hours and there 
 are 3 different endings depending on how you play the game through.
  
  The graphics are good not great. They suffer do to it being ported from consoles. It does look 
 a little better than the console versions with higher rez textures and some special effects. The 
 character models are pretty good as is the animations. The cutscenes also are done fairly well. 
 Overall, the graphics are a little above average.
  
  The sound in the game is decent. The weapons sound ok the monsters make some good sounds and add 
 some atmosphere to the game. Nothing out of this world. The voice overs are done well and the ambient 
 music is pretty good and sets a nice mood to the game.
  
  Gameplay: You start the game in prison where you are being accused of killing your wife and 2 sons. 
 During the game you don't know if you actually did it or not. The ending of the game will depend 
 on the actions you take throughout, if you do good deeds you will get a happy ending, do bad and 
 you will get an evil ending and the third ending is if you play a lot of the game as your alter-ego 
 which is basically monster mode. After killing enough you have a meter and when it fills you can 
 switch into Torques alter-ego which is this giant monster that can rip enemies apart. It is kinda 
 cool but you can only switch for a short amount of time before you revert back, kill more again 
 and your meter will fill.
  
  You have your basic weapons in the game, revolvers, shotgun, tommy gun etc.. there is a flamethrower, 
 axe, shive and then grenades, molitiv cocktails and dynamite. The combat is ok, you will battle 
 around 6 - 7 different monsters throughout the game but it gets repetitive fighting them over and 
 over again. The levels are somewhat varied a lot of them are in the prison and then there are outdoor 
 levels around the prison. They are decent sized levels and the game should take you 15 - 20 hours 
 and then there is replay value if you want to play again and try the other endings.
  
  The story is decent and kind of disturbing you start getting flashbacks of your wife and kids deaths. 
 There is sort of a sanity effect in the game like Eternal Darkness had. You will get some hallucinations 
 and blurry effects throughout the game. The effects are ok but nowhere near as good as they were 
 done in Eternal Darkness.
  
  Overall the game is slightly above average. Repetive combat, decent story and a some pretty cool 
 endings to the game. This is the type of game the you get when there is nothing else out that is 
 high profile. Get the game when there is a lull in good games out and get it in the bargain bin. 
 It is worth the 20 hours of play if you have nothing better to play at the time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grundy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2004 3:37 pm PT
Review:  If you're offended by a fair amount of raw language and a large amount of blood and gore, The Suffering 
 is not for you. Language and blood aside, this game is a sleeper hit. The action takes place in 
 and around a prison. The main character, Torque, is brought to death row and that's when the killing 
 starts. Demons suddenly appear from everywhere, slaughtering prisoners and prison guards alike. 
 Torque's challenge, naturally, is to escape the creatures and the prison. There's a subplot to 
 this game in which Torque has flashbacks to his family and as the game unfolds, you'll slowly discover 
 the truth about Torque's involvement in killing his family (the reason he's on death row) . This 
 first person shooter combines some interesting puzzles that are integral to the action and story 
 with an atmosphere that will keep you on the edge of your seat if not juming out of your seat on 
 occasion. There's lots of weapons to choose from when killing a variety of evil creatures roaming 
 about, including a Gonzo gun and flamethrower. The visuals are excellent as are the voice acting 
 and sound effects. The atomosphere of the game is chilling, eerie, and suspenseful.
  There are several levels of difficulty so you can choose how many times you'll want to have your 
 body mangled or chewed on. The Suffering is a terrific game and the $30.00 price tag makes it even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 31, 2004 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The shooting action is really violent and fun but not that deep either. Some simple combos and 
 that's about it for the whole game. The creepy environment is the best part of the game and the 
 sounds are great too. 
  
  If it weren't for the great "visual style", it wouldn't be getting the fairly positive reviews 
 it is getting. Me? I got bored after several levels of shooting at things. 
  
  The PC version has better graphics in some respects but many of the bitmap textures are quite fuzzy, 
 presumably from the console version of this game. So the PC version looks good, but not as good 
 as many action shooter type games on the PC around right now. 
  
  The company that made this also made the Drakken game on PC and PS2 several years ago. They have 
 solid ideas but the "follow-through" is lacking. This game is very average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFaust
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2004 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The Suffering is, and you might already know, a third-person horror action game. You play has a 
 prisonner named Torque who have been put to deathrow. But, soon as you arrive in your cell, things 
 get worse. Not for you, but for the monsters you'll kick!
  
  The atmosphere is simply amazing. The first time you play through the game, you'll have a insecure 
 feeling, you'll never know what you're going to face and the characters you'll encounter are bizzare 
 and not always human.
  
  You can play the game in 3 different ways. Good; help the others and save them! You can ignore 
 them. If they ask for help, care about yourself. Or.. you can simply blast 'em off then loot their 
 bodies. Yes, 3 ways to act, so there'S 3 different endings!
  
  On easy there is no real challenge, you'll find too much ammo, xombium bottles (health caps) or 
 flashlight batteries. On normal, you'll need those. On Hard, you'll hunt those. On impossible, 
 you'll beg for thoses.
  
  The second time you'll play, you'll already know where the creepy sounds will occur and where the 
 strange monster will appear, so , challenge yourself and try to reach another ending while playing 
 on an harder difficulty.
  
  Guns are well done and you feel like wielding 'guns'. In some games, you feel like shooting air.
 
  
  Graphics are good. Sometimes they're not so good but most of the times, they're fine for the game's 
 genre.
  
  The Suffering is a great Third-Person horror game. It is not a resident evil like. Much more scarier, 
 much more ammo (the game focuses on action) and few simple puzzles. But, the atmosphere is really 
 creepy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus4444
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2004 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I played this for the Xbox and Ps2 versions, but basically this does that job well. 
  Gameplay is fun but does get boring at times. Ive always wanted to play a FPS that could make me 
 jump out of my chair.
  I was in the middle of the prison when i hear this sound coming from the ceiling but i seriously 
 was scared to look up... but the heck i looked up and a slayer fell right on top of me .. i have 
 never been so scared in my entire life haha i was playing while my dad was in the room with the 
 lights off watching me drinking his beer.. he spilled it all over his shirt and blamed it on me. 
 haha thats what i love about games.. you being taunted at the gameplay and being scared to move 
 on.. prisoners are also funny. Their profanity and their discussions made me laugh more than once.
 
  Graphics are definatly old but get the job done. Monsters look great, but textures could have 
 been better
  Sound was my favorite feature in this game.. the monsters, the ambient , and screams .. it all helps 
 to get that feeling of "why am i playing this at night?" out of a game.
  
  FOR ALL YOU WHO LIKE SUSPENSE AND HORROR.. THIS GAME IS FOR YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2004 10:55 am PT
Review:  let me by starting with wow. I think thats a great way to start this review. This game is one of 
 the best games I've played lately. So let me jump into the review... 
  
  Gameplay: 
  First, the gameplay follows a 3rd person perspective, but it works well, there are no camera problems, 
 and lets face it, its just cool to see your character get covered in blood. The game can get a 
 little repetitive at times, with just the plain combat, but they've spiced it up by adding in puzzles 
 and such. Its just alot of fun, and thats what a great game is, fun. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are very good, not the best in the world, but good. They get the point 
 across very well, and most of the characters and places are very detailed. Some of the effects 
 are very nice also.
  
  Sound:
  I have to say that this is the best part of this game. The sound is what makes this game scary. 
 It's scary trust me. From the eerie sounds coming from here and there, to monster growls, and everything 
 in between, the game just sucks you in to this horrific place. Theres little music, and that works 
 perfectly to the game's ideas and gameplay. 
  
  
  Tilt:
  I would say this is one of the best games if you're looking for a new type of scare. I haven't 
 been startled like this since playing the original doom way back in the day. The graphics are nice, 
 the gameplay is fun and engaging, and best of all, the sound and experience is just damn good. 
 I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
