-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: Livin' Large
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simslivinlarge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,873 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Aug 27, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Livin' Large adds more of the same to The Sims: more character skins, more career paths, more home 
 furnishings, and more of the original game's quirky, sarcastic humor. 

 The Sims: Livin' Large is the official expansion for Maxis' extremely popular strategy game, The 
 Sims. For the most part, Livin' Large adds more of the same to The Sims: more character skins, 
 more career paths, more home furnishings, and more of the original game's quirky, sarcastic humor. 
 The expansion makes very few major changes to the way The Sims is played, but these few new features 
 - and the many other minor additions the expansion contains - should be enough to recommend it 
 to any fan of the original game.   

  In Livin' Large, as in The Sims, you create a household of tiny, partially autonomous computerized 
 people, or sims, and you conduct their lives as you see fit. You'll order them to do things like 
 eat meals, watch television, use the restroom, and look for jobs. If you meet their needs for food, 
 rest, and amusement, they'll be happy and may lead productive lives. Abuse them, deny them restroom 
 privileges, or starve them, and they'll become depressed and uncooperative and may eventually die. 
 It may not sound very interesting in theory, but it's as intriguing in practice as it was in The 
 Sims. You can also order your sims to meet and speak with other sims from the neighborhood. This 
 sort of simulated social interaction was easily the most engaging part of the original game. Depending 
 on your sims' disposition and astrological sign, they may get along well with their neighbors or 
 may be completely ostracized, which can wreak havoc on your sims' self-esteem.   

  Thankfully, if your sims' household falls completely apart from neglect (accidental or otherwise) , 
 you can start a brand-new household in a brand-new neighborhood. Livin' Large contains five different 
 neighborhoods in which you can establish a sim household. The first two are partially populated 
 by pregenerated sims that inhabit pregenerated houses; the other three neighborhoods are completely 
 empty and can be filled with custom houses and sims that you design.   

  Designing custom houses in Livin' Large is just as enjoyable as it was in The Sims, if not more 
 so, since Livin' Large includes every single one of the house-building objects from the original 
 game, plus many new options. You can choose from a variety of new wallpapers, carpets, and furnishings; 
 all of these can be selected and placed in your sims' home quickly and painlessly, since Livin' 
 Large uses the same intuitive and easy-to-use building and buying interfaces as the original game. 
 And nearly all of these new items, like the Vibro-Matic bed, the robot housekeeper, and the stained-glass 
 windows, have the same sort of witty and humorous descriptions that items from the original game 
 had. As in the original game, it's worth the effort to browse through all the household items for 
 sale, just to read the amusing descriptions of the new items.   

  Some of the new household items are merely expensive improvements to existing items, but others 
 can cause exciting and often absurd random events. If you order your sims to clean the new magic 
 lamp, they'll release a genie that may bless your sims with a pot of gold, a lawn full of decorations, 
 or a new pinball machine. Then again, the genie's magic may backfire and set your sims' house alight, 
 make a mess on the floor, or destroy a relationship with a neighboring sim. If your sims use the 
 Concoctonation Station chemistry lab, they may make potions that fulfill all of a sim's bodily 
 needs. Then again, that next potion could turn whoever drinks it into a hideous rampaging monster 
 that will overflow faucets, smash televisions, and clog toilets uncontrollably until the effect 
 of the potion eventually wears off. These and other new items, like the voodoo doll and the telescope, 
 may cause drastic changes in your sims' budgets, moods, homes, and relations with other sims. Though 
 some of these changes can be beneficial, others can be harmful - so if you make regular use of 
 such items, you may find yourself saving and reloading your last game often.   

  Regardless of what happens to your sims, they'll still look and sound about as good as ever. While 
 there are a few new character animations, like the furtive glances your sims will cast about before 
 downing a potion and the cautious punches your sims will throw at a voodoo doll, nearly all of 
 Livin' Large's character movements have been recycled from the original game. Though they're recycled, 
 the character animations are still expressive, and the few new animations fit in well. In addition, 
 most of the game's sound and music are the same as in the original game. Sims still speak their 
 peculiar brand of spirited gibberish and still watch the same equally garbled television shows 
 and listen to the same equally garbled music.   

  Unfortunately, The Sims: Livin' Large has some of the same problems that The Sims did - you still 
 can't follow an employed sim to work, and that sim's line of work still has little bearing on the 
 actual gameplay. Furthermore, scrolling the isometric perspective is as sluggish in the expansion 
 as it is in the original game, and your bumbling sims will still occasionally have problems moving 
 to where you point them. Then again, Livin' Large wasn't developed to be a definitive sequel that 
 would make drastic improvements on the core game. It was intended to be a bundle of new content, 
 new furnishings, and a few new options that would make your sims' lives even more exciting, and 
 in that regard, it succeeds.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This first expansion pack of the notorious 'The Sims' game may add more objects for your Sims to 
 explore but it still has that feeling of less variety. After a few months of this, the objects 
 will become more and more repetitive.
  
  The only thing that might give you the thump here is the fact of continuing a career with one of 
 the 5 new ones included in this game.
  
  Most of the Major new objects include the Chemistry Set which allows the player to make various 
 potions according to their Logic skill which can affect their lives. Another one is called the 
 'Love Bed' in which sims can 'play' in bed. There is Workbench in whcih Sims can make Gnomes, the 
 Gnomes can be set in the garden or can be selled for a resonable amount of Simoleons. One new thing 
 is a Cooktop where Sims can be able to make preserves which can be given to a friend or sold for 
 an amount of money according the the amount of skill your Sim has for cooking.
  
  Livin' Large says it all, your Sim is, of course, Livin' Large with a mechanical robot acting as 
 a maid, cleaning up the house. To a teleporter which teleports your Sims to the upper level of 
 the house. With some Luxury furniture and decorative items, you wouldn't be upset.
  
  The Sims is purely controlling a Sim in a basic home with modest furniture.
  
  I acknoledge 
 all the people at Maxis for creating an expansion pack which delivers good stuff to the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in the sims livin it up (livin large) is great, this expansion pack adds around 
 125+ new items what includes a:
  Crystal ball, Home chemistry lab, electric guitar and more. There are also new careers for your 
 Sims what are: Slacker, Journalist, Paranormal, Hacker, and Musician. There are also 5 new neighbourhoods 
 for your Sims to live in. There is still the same problem from the original game where you cant 
 follow your sims to work and that your sims cant grow up, but other than them problems the gameplay 
 for the sims livin it up (livin large) is still as great as the gameplay from the first game.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the Sims livin it up (livin large) is a little plain but overall quite good, 
 the game models look nice and so does the houses and the furniture, the blend of 2D and 3D graphics 
 adds to the effect and make the game look nice, there is new wallpaper and floors what looks nice. 
 Overall the graphics in the Sims look good but do look a little plain.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the Sims is great, the music you get the game is good. The Sims language (simlish) 
 sounds nice. There is some music in the game what you get from the radio what sounds good, There 
 is some new stations on the radio what does sound good. Overall the sound in the sims sound great.
 
  
  Value
  The value for the sims livin it up (livin large) is ok, this add-on has got some good stuff that 
 is fun to use and some other stuff that couldnt of been in the game but overall the game is good 
 for its value.
  
  Overall Experience
  Overall if you are a fan of the Sims and want some more items for your Sims than you should pick 
 up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) When I first started playing this game I got addicted. I loved the graphics 
 and how I could control almost all aspects of my Sims life. The modding community is spectacular 
 and you can find just about everything you could imagine to add to the game. The characters actually 
 talk so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. There's a lot of stuff you can buy for 
 your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick 
 from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, 
 (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours 
 to let your imagination run wild in.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The problem with Livin' Large right from the start is that it is an add-on that costs as much as 
 the original and yet does not have enough to make it a stand alone game. That being said, LL provides 
 all of the same types of great reactions and items that the original has in its new form.
  
  The Sims is a world where you control almost everything about your character's life. You choose 
 their employment, their decorations of the house, who they fall for, and every little move from 
 dawn till dusk. The expansion pack adds some new equipment and new skins to play around with. It 
 also provides the same great interactions that you have grown to love, with a couple new emotions 
 and reactions.
  
  Where the game falls short is that it cannot stand alone and contains many of the same problems 
 that the original had, such as poor movement across the house, mediocre intelligence of the sim 
 to know where you want him or her to go, and no interaction with the working environment.
  
  That said, it is an expansion and does good for what it was meant for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  amm so the game : THE SIMS its a great game because
  its a new stuff that no one played befor . . . you are making a family
  and you can build them 
 a house and you are putting every thing there like you want and you are sending them to job and 
 school and all that stuff are very fun
  because you are like the god of them.
  you are telling them to eat when they are hungry and when to go to the bath room
  and when to 
 clean and when to fix and this is realy fun but its getting board realy quick and why?? because 
 they aren't growing up and dies when they are old . . . so you are old the time doing the same 
 stuff and nothing change . . .
  and thats somthing that gett boring very quick and then its not that fun . . .
  so its nice in 
 the begining but then its getts board and you don't wanna tuch this game any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The sims: living it up is a nice clean start off expansion for the sims. It has more objects and 
 more NPC's. Also it has better social options that the sims can use. It is a ok game but it would 
 be better if there was little more extra stuff in the game.
  THIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME 
 IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD 
 START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS 
 GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS 
 A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START OFFTHIS GAME IS A GOOD START 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Livin' Large or Livin' it Up, is the first Sims 1 EP and it has one theme which it kind 
 of fits in to and thats crazy. You can now get a visit from the grim reaper, play a rock guitar, 
 find out your sims wacky fortune and get a visit from the depressing clown. The new objects in 
 livin large ( 125 as usual ) are quite good. New objects like the gnome crafting bench which lets 
 you make gnomes which other sims can look at or smash causing all gnomes on a lot to explode. Also 
 the potion making bench lets you create potions that can clone your sim, reverse there personality 
 or create a Frankenstein that causes havoc. This is an other review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  The Sims was something of a revolutionary game when it was released in the dim and distant days 
 of the turn of the century. It spawned many expansion packs, Livin' Large (or Livin' It Up, as 
 it is known in the UK) being the first.
  
  Livin' Large does not really alter the gameplay of the original game, however simply expands on 
 it. There is now a greater range of career choices for your Sims to pursue, including musician 
 and paranormal enthusiast, plus a wider variety of items and decorations to populate your virtual 
 home with. There are some neat new additions that enable your Sims to deal with some of real life's 
 problems, including the possibility of a roach infestation, should your Sims living conditions 
 deteriorate enough, and visits from the Grim Reaper if any... accidents should occur.
  
  These new additions enhance the gameplay of an already excellent game, meaning that this expansion 
 pack is definitely worth purchasing. However, it doesn't really add anything new to the style of 
 game, and still leaves us with the frustrations that we had with the initial game. For example, 
 it is still not possible for your Sims to go out into the community, aside from going to work. 
 The new career choices are interesting, though still don't really affect the lives of your characters, 
 their interests, or their personalities. Also, we never see our Sims in their virtual jobs, meaning 
 that their careers simply serve the purpose of generating money, rather than allowing us to build 
 our Sims relationships and skills in their jobs.
  
  As the game is incredibly open ended (your Sims live forever, short of any serious accidents) , 
 a lot of the fun comes from building and decorating lavish houses for your Sims (unless you are 
 someone who likes to watch them struggle in an overcrowded shack?!) , and so the new items available 
 for building and decorating are really good additions. It is now possible to create Gothic mansions, 
 space age houses, or simply the house that you would most like to live in!
  
  Many of the new items included in Livin' Large are "community created", meaning that they were 
 designed by fans of the game, and submitted to Maxi's excellent Sims website. People are forever 
 creating further items that are available for download, many in theme with real life holidays, 
 however Livin' Large features the best user created items available at the time of release.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, there is no change from the initial game. Obviously there are 
 new animations and sounds to go with the new items available (such as an electric guitar) , however 
 the standard sound and graphics remain the same from The Sims.
  
  As with the initial game, there are no bugs in Livin' Large. On older machines, the game may slow 
 down notably when numerous Sims are in the lot that you are playing, though if your PC was new 
 within the last 4 years then you will have no trouble at all with The Sims or any of the expansion 
 packs. 
  
  If you own the Sims, then Livin' Large is definitely worth your investment. While it doesn't add 
 anything radically different to the gameplay, it does provide a host of new items and gameplay 
 features that will keep you in front of your PC controlling the lives of your virtual creations 
 for many more hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Ah, The Sims. New idea, new talent, and a fantastic pure joy of entertainment. So much fun crammed 
 into one game, you'd never think a game would require any form of downloadables or expansions, 
 right? Wrong!
  
  Livin' Large was a mild surprise, and it most definitely lived up to both the hype and excitement.
 
  
  Gameplay
  9/10
  A surprising increase. A lot of new items and choices give you the power to twist your sim's once 
 humble life to that of madness.
  
  What kind of new elements does this game offer? More neighbourhoods to build on, a lot of funky 
 new items, and more hidden tricks to enhance gameplay a tenfold.
  
  So what is the lowdown on this all new expansion pack? Same as last time, create a family, build 
 a home, make or break their lives and career. Nothing's changed from the original, and it's still 
 a little boring in the long run. Downloading new items only holds a certain level of fun for a 
 while before becoming boring once more.
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  The items look great as do most items, pity I can't say the same about the actual sprites of the 
 sims themselves. They look grainy, fuzzy, and a bit blocky. The animations and such are fine, but 
 it's just the general meshes and bodily shapes that drag down the graphical rating, and overall 
 ratings of the game.
  
  Sounds
  4/10
  
  The one thing that kills this game. The gibberish language the Sims speak is dreadfully annoying, 
 and the music to match the game is just as bad. Luckily, you can fix the music problem by loading 
 your own tunes onto the modes/radio stations, which isn't half bad, right?
  
  Final
  7/10
  
  Look, there's some honesty needed. Livin' Large was fantastic, but it lacked enough 
 new features to make the entire gameplay element of the game better. Downloadable items, like I've 
 said before, are fun, but can only last so long.
  
  Rent Or Buy
  Hard choice. I'd have to recommend buy, though with all the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Livin' large makes The Sims much more fun, But it really didn't add a great deal. it makes the 
 sims a lot better, but it cost almost as much as the first Sims, and that is a rip-off.
  
  New featurs that are great have been added, and They are all good. You can get a lab and make potions 
 that make you happy etc. You can get magic lamps and get genuis to do stuff. You can get robot 
 cleaners, and when you die, the grim reaper comes, and if someone is in the house (and part of the 
 family) , they can play sciscor paper rock with the grim reaper, and if you win, they are brought 
 back to life, if you lose, they're not. you don't choose what your sims choose it's pretty random 
 what happens.
  
  There a more cloths, and extra maps made, but thats all. You really should buy The Sims Livin' 
 Large, but try to find it for a cheap price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a very short review as there isn't really much to say about this expansion.
 
  
  Probably one of the most useless expansion in the Sims series. There are a few new objects, new 
 floors and some new walls. The dude in the bottle was a nice touch, but other than that, there 
 is not much to say about this game. 
  
  The expansion does not bring too many new stuff to the game. There is no real change in any game 
 play or any new stuff you can do. It is basically just Sims one with a few extras. 
  
  Not really an expansion worth buying, but if you are going to have all the Sims expansion, you 
 might as well have this one as well. Unfortunately you need this to complete the collection. 
 
  
  It's a Vanilla Game, You know, nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage_Of_Crow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Livin' Large is a Expansion Pack were the fun is everything. they added clothes, maps and items 
 you can purchase, that includes a laboratory (my favorite) where you can make random potion that 
 can make you invisible, or become a monster, buy a magic lamp and the genius will make a random 
 event, You can also buy a telescope and sometimes the aliens will abduct you. Or a workshop were 
 you can make Gnoms and sell them or put them as a garden decoration.
  
  This expansion has a lot of fun objects to buy for yours sims, you can buy a robot that does cleaning 
 and food for you, a new pet that will play with you, and new careers like a medium or singer.
 
  
  This Expansion has a lot of new fun elements to add to your home and make it even more fun. This 
 is a must have for all the Sims fans out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraGhost82
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Livin' large makes The Sims much more fun, But it really didn't add a great deal. it makes the 
 sims a lot better, but it cost almost as much as the first Sims, and that is a rip-off.
  
  New featurs that are great have been added, and They are all good. You can get a lab and make potions 
 that make you happy etc. You can get magic lamps and get genuis to do stuff. You can get robot 
 cleaners, and when you die, the grim reaper comes, and if someone is in the house (and part of the 
 family) , they can play sciscor paper rock with the grim reaper, and if you win, they are brought 
 back to life, if you lose, they're not. you don't choose what your sims choose it's pretty random 
 what happens.
  
  There a more cloths, and extra maps made, but thats all. You really should buy The Sims Livin' 
 Large, but try to find it for a cheap price.
  
  Note that the time spent playing to datecounts for playing The Sims all up because i play it a 
 lot with the expansion packs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
