-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: Hot Date
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simshotdateexpansionpack/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,977 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hot Date's real additions are its expanded social options and its new downtown area, both of which 
 make an already-interesting game even more fun to play. 

 You've probably already heard of The Sims -- it's the life-simulator strategy game that lets you create 
 a household of miniature people, or "sims," then conduct their virtual lives, including feeding 
 them, sending them to work, and having them meet and interact with other computer-controlled sims 
 from the neighborhood. The Sims: Hot Date is the third expansion pack for The Sims and is easily 
 the most interesting of the three. It's also the best expansion pack for The Sims yet. That's because 
 Hot Date doesn't just do what the previous expansions did -- that is, add more household items and 
 a few new ways to use them. It also features the new downtown area, which lets you finally take 
 your sims out of the house and into the exciting and turbulent world of dating.           Hot Date 
 adds even more items with funny descriptions.    

  The previous two expansion packs for The Sims, Livin' Large and House Party, both added lots of 
 new household items for you to buy for your sims' homes, which helped keep their domestic lives 
 interesting. And as you might expect, Hot Date also adds plenty of new items that you can furnish 
 your home with, and as in the previous games, you buy each of these using the game's easy-to-use 
 shopping and building interface. Also as in the previous games, each of the new additions you can 
 make to your virtual home is accompanied by an extremely funny description. What's more, Hot Date 
 actually lets you use some items -- ones that your sims either buy or make by hand -- as gifts to give 
 to other sims.   

  But Hot Date isn't just about items; it also features a number of real improvements to The Sims' 
 already-interesting social system. As in the original game, sims communicate with each other in 
 "simlish," an expressive but almost completely unintelligible gibberish language, but Hot Date 
 features new simlish phrases and new character voices. More importantly, Hot Date features an expanded 
 set of social options; instead of just greeting a new sim, you can choose to wave at it from a 
 distance or walk up to it and shake hands. Instead of just giving your neighbor a hug, you can 
 choose whether or not you want your hug to be a friendly gesture or a more romantic embrace. Making 
 this sort of decision is especially important for your sim if it's on a date, since choosing an 
 inappropriate thing to say or do can make your sim's date get up and walk out.           You can 
 become more interesting... with the right magazine.    

  To help your sims be more compatible with their dream dates, Hot Date features an entirely new 
 attribute for your sims: interests. Your sims can read magazines to increase their knowledge in 
 areas like money, the weather, technology, and the '60s; the more your sim knows about a topic 
 that its date is interested in, the better they'll get along. If your sim gets along well enough 
 with its date, the two can get married, and your sim's fianc (or fiance) will move 
 into your house and become a regular sim under your control. But getting far enough into a relationship 
 to get married takes time, and Hot Date includes a new two-part relationship meter to help indicate 
 how well your courtship is coming along: a "current" relationship meter and a long-term meter. 
 You'll need to keep your date happy in both the short and long term to get that far. If you've 
 played House Party, you'll know that it was difficult to fit a relationship with a neighbor into 
 a schedule that already included a career and a sim's own basic needs of eating, resting, and entertainment. 
 Managing all of those things together with a steady dating schedule would have been impossible 
 to do if it weren't for Hot Date's new downtown feature.    

 The new downtown area is Hot Date's most significant new addition to The Sims and is probably the 
 most significant addition that's ever been made to the game. Sims can now use their telephones 
 to call a taxi that takes them to downtown SimCity, which is composed of lots that can be shopping 
 centers, recreation areas, restaurants, or nightclubs. While your sim is on a date, you can control 
 your sim, but you can't actually give orders to its date; you've got to make your sim be as nice, 
 considerate, and charming as possible and hope that the date goes well. Fortunately, downtown features 
 lots of brand-new, downtown-only items, like food vendors, clothing stores, picnic areas, and duck 
 ponds that your couples can use to keep themselves busy, and a few new items, like the restaurant 
 booth seat, that'll let them get to know each other better. And all the time you spend downtown 
 takes place independent of time at home; in other words, your sims will get hungry, tired, and 
 bored as usual during the time they spend downtown, but once they get home, the clock will actually 
 reset to the time when they left. This makes having both a relationship and a job (which still 
 typically takes about six hours out of a sim's day) not only possible, but a lot easier than before. 
           Hot Date features expanded social options...    

  And even if you aren't interested in dating or shopping, you can actually build your own custom 
 lot downtown, in much the same way you build and design a sim's house. Hot Date already comes with 
 a mostly full downtown that's packed with different places to bring your date, but it does have 
 a single empty lot that you can turn into almost anything. You can also bulldoze any existing lot 
 and either start another new one from scratch or download a custom lot from the game's official 
 Web site. Considering that the game lets you build multiple neighborhoods, it seems a bit limiting 
 to have access to only one downtown area, but since most of the downtown lots are so big, filling 
 each one up tends to be more time-consuming than building a normal house. Between building your 
 own custom shopping malls and bars and downloading custom-built lots, you'll probably find that 
 Hot Date's single downtown area provides you with enough areas to build and customize, at least 
 for some time.   

  Despite its additions, Hot Date doesn't do much to improve on The Sims' fundamental but admittedly 
 minor flaws. Sims still have pathfinding problems and can have trouble navigating crowded areas. 
 They'll also still sometimes stop and pause between actions for no good reason and "forget" all 
 the orders you've queued up for them. In addition, Hot Date doesn't improve on The Sims' sluggish 
 camera; in fact, most fans of the game have given up on scrolling the screen up or down or to the 
 side, since the camera moves so slowly. You can still center your view on a particular sim or right-click 
 on an area to scroll quickly to it, though if you do this, you may still end up accidentally giving 
 a sim an order. And, as before, you'll find that to exercise any kind of real control over your 
 sims' activities, you'll have to play in a decidedly unrealistic manner: abruptly pausing the game 
 to queue up commands, then speeding up the game to skip through mundane activities like eating 
 and bathing.           ... And creative new ways to impress your date.    

  But if you're a fan of The Sims, you'll probably be able to overlook these problems, just as you'll 
 probably know what to expect from Hot Date in terms of its sound and graphics. Hot Date uses the 
 same sort of isometric 2D graphics for its scenery and the same 3D models to represent sims. Though 
 Hot Date features a few new animations and several new faces and outfits, sims still look more 
 or less exactly the same as they did in the original game, which was released nearly two years 
 ago. Hot Date doesn't really look any better than The Sims did -- that's not to say that it looks 
 bad, but it hasn't changed much at all, either. However, Hot Date's sound is a different story -- the 
 expansion not only features new simlish phrases, but it also features an excellent jazzy, all-new 
 musical score for the downtown area. The downtown area also has a brand-new cast of sims, like 
 cashiers and janitors, which have new simlish voices as well. All of the new voices are appropriate, 
 and some, like the voice of the ice cream store clerk (who bears a suspicious resemblance to the 
 pimple-faced teenager from  The Simpsons ) , are quite funny.   

  The Sims: Hot Date does an extremely good job of making The Sims a more interesting game. Like 
 the previous two expansion packs, Livin' Large and House Party, it adds a lot of new items and 
 furnishings for your sims' houses and actually complements each of the two other expansions well, 
 even though neither is required to play Hot Date. Hot Date's real additions are its expanded social 
 options and its new downtown area, both of which make an already-interesting game even more fun 
 to play.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  The Sims: Hot Date is the third expansion pack released for The Sims as so far (with my ratings) 
 is probably the second best expansion pack out of the seven.
  
  Now for the first time in Sims history, Sims can wonder into a new area, called Downtown. Sims 
 hire a cab ($50) to go to places for fine-dining, recreation and more fun. The Downtown area is 
 great, lots of fun. Except the tricky part is making sure that the 8 bars remain full enough for 
 your Sim to enjoy the outing.
  
  Not only that, but new furniture items as well! Clothing goes through the roof with more clothes 
 added. And the big part is social interactions, five new kisses, new conversations, new ways to 
 hug each other and many new ways to socialize.
  
  Good thing is, you can customize the lots in Downtown and there is a place where you can build 
 an attraction.
  
  The Sims purpose is controlling a Sim in a basic home with modest furniture and luxurious entertainment. 
 Even going on a date.
  
  The Sims: Hot Date is a must own for owners of The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Hot Date is one of the most important expansion packs of The Sims, because it allows Sims to leave 
 their homes and travel to a new destination called "Downtown" for the first time. All of the following 
 expansion packs for The Sims have added new destinations, including that of Vacation Island, Old 
 Town, Studio Town, and Magic Town. The Sims 2: Nightlife, the second expansion pack to the sequel, 
 has been stated to be inspired by Hot Date.
  
  New NPCs include townies, waiters and waitresses, a violin player and Mrs. Crumplebottom. The townies 
 are just like regular Sims who only appear on Downtown lots- they don't live on playable lots as 
 regular player-controlled Sims do. The waiters and waitresses appear at restaurants. The violin 
 player does not appear in fast-food restaurants, but will appear in the fancier ones. 
  
  Hot Date introduces the character of Mrs. Crumplebottom, a Sim that protects the Downtown area 
 from improper behavior. Upon spying two Sims acting indecently, she will approach them with a comment 
 and tell them to go somewhere else with phrases such as "Why don't you get a room?" while hitting 
 them with her purse. Mrs. Crumplebottom has managed to become one of the Sims most hated characters 
 after her appearance in the Sims 2: Nightlife, but most Sims players feel the game is incomplete 
 without Mrs. Crumplebottom walking around. 
  
  Many Sims enthusiasts have cited Hot Date as the inspiration for the 2005 expansion pack for The 
 Sims 2 titled Nightlife. Hot Date provided a huge leap for the game, allowing Sims to leave their 
 house, a feature included in every expansion pack since.
  
  One of the other well known parts of The Sims Hot Date was the jazz music that played when traveling 
 to the Downtown neighbourhood. The music was composed by saxophonist Marc Russo. Each expansion 
 pack later had its own theme music.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoncub
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  NB: You must have either The Sims and Livin' Large or The Sims Deluxe for this.
  (The official box says just the Sims, but upon installation it requires Sim's Livin' Large objects. 
 I suppose it's for self-promotion) .
  
  If you like watching you Sims interact, whether with good or bad intentions, this is the expansion 
 you're looking for.
  If you think your Sims can get on WAY too easily  after all, if you work at it you can get meet 
 someone and be married in three days  here's your irreversable remedy.
  
  Plus you get furniture and stuff! Mostly romance related, so I can't really picture guys having 
 much use for the extras unless they're peeping Toms who actually obey the restarining order and 
 are looking to get their questionable kicks from a different, more digitalised source.
  Let us NOT elaborate on this.
  
  Hot Date for the Sims will let you bring your Sims to the 
 new Downtown, where they can shop for romantic flowers, or dine out with the digital-Sim of their 
 dreams. Even if it's a burger bar. Here they can interact romantically and you, perv that you are, 
 can watch intently. (This is where the 'Guilty Pleasure' bit comes in.)
  
  Ahem, anyway.
  While you are downtown, you can also get some NEW  and most invited  features.
  Got a pair 
 of matching Sims that just don't match up? Why? Chances are they can't hold a conversation because 
 they're not interested in one another. You can now buy magazines to modify their interests. Note, 
 however you cannot just buy all magazines for everyone and put all their interests to the max. 
 Every time you gain ONE stat for a topic, another topic, usually chosen at random, has ONE stat 
 removed. You stick with your allocated number.
  Sick of all you fat white guy Sims in their hideous swimsuits? You can now buy new outfits  swimsuits, 
 formal and sleepwear (which includes *ahem* 'romantic' sleepwear) . If you have the Vacation expansion, 
 you can buy new Winterwear too  most welcome seeing as some winterwears do not look particularly 
 flattering. You've even got your (very) old-fashioned bathers and sweaters for the grandma types 
  it's ALWAYS weird seeing your hot, saucy grandma in a bikini, or you weedy old grandpa in a (not 
 very) flattering pair of Speedos.
  Yuk.
  
  Probably the only downside here is that the new relationship system of TWO bars (daily and lifetime 
  the old stat is now referred to as daily) not only take forever to change if you want a couple 
 to get together (you want the Lifetime bar to be high) but you can no longer click on them to see 
 how your Sim rates the relationship. Instead, you get the Bio with other new, more tutorial-suitable 
 facts around and around. No longer 'Cool' or 'Heart's Desire' to be seen.
  
  Not to beat around the bush (it's battered enough already) , this is a great expansion for those 
 that like the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in the Sims: hot date hasnt changed from the original game but now the game is now 
 focused on dating. There is a new area called downtown and some new objects as well like a fishpond, 
 ice cream counter and a cuddle couch. In the downtown neighbourhood there is stuff like shops, 
 restaurants, parks and a beach. There are new clothes for your Sims in the downtown area, like 
 new swimsuits and formal wear. There are 40 new social options and a new long-term relationship 
 meter what increases over time by taking away one point from your short-term relationship meter 
 to the long-term meter. They have added another feature to your sim called interests, interests 
 are what your sim is interested in, for example: Music, parties, and technology. Overall the 
 gameplay in the Sims: hot date is great with all the features added in this expansion pack.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the sims: hot date has not changed at all for the earlier games 
 but they do look a bit better, the new downtown area looks nice and so do the new furniture. There 
 are new clothes for your Sims what looks nice. Overall the graphics in the Sims: hot date looks 
 nice but havent changed much since the first game.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the Sims is great, the music you get the game is good. The Sims language (simlish) 
 sounds nice. There is some music in the game what you get from the radio what sounds good. There 
 is a new jazz music station that you can hear around downtown that sounds ok. The new NPCs (cashiers, 
 janitors) have there own simlish voices. Overall the sound for the Sims: hot date is superb part 
 of this game.
  
  Value
  The value for the Sims: hot date is great, it adds a lot of new items and clothes for your sims 
 and the new downtown areas adds a lot of a new experience for you and your sims. Overall the value 
 for the Sims: hot date is great.
  
  Overall experience
  Overall if you are a fan of the Sims you would of already picked up this game but if you are looking 
 for a superb expansion pack for the Sims then you should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game really really expands your social options. Now you can take another sim on a date. You 
 have many options at what you can do but if you move along on your date to fast she or he will 
 get mad. So you have to start off conversationally, flirt and take it from there. You can have 
 new kids that way besides adopting. Sadly you don't see the woman pregnant. You also get a whole 
 new place to go to which is Downtown You can meet dates here. This is where you would take them 
 out to. Also just walk around and get to see the view. To get there you call a taxi and they will 
 pick you up and drop you off you can have your date meet you at the location that you are going 
 to or have her come over than call the cab and she will come in with you. So its a whole new city 
 and expands the sims socially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) When I first started playing this game I got addicted. I loved the graphics 
 and how I could control almost all aspects of my Sims life. The modding community is spectacular 
 and you can find just about everything you could imagine to add to the game. The characters actually 
 talk so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. There's a lot of stuff you can buy for 
 your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. You can hire people and you can pick 
 from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, 
 (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours 
 to let your imagination run wild in. I have always wanted to let my Sims go out on a date! Now 
 they can!
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is the third expansion of sims so in this game you can go out too the mall or resturant 
 order food talk walk around talk too others and talk too your date fall in love during the date 
 then go home and have sex. In this game you can make your own like mall or resturant or sex party 
 or something and you can get cash by people buying your food cause you make a resturant. The objects 
 in this game are all kool there's more bars more table's you can get new beds waitresses and also 
 go too the city you can either just walk around and makeout on the bench or you can go to a nightclub 
 or a mall or a resturant the mall is not a mall all it is just a big building where you walk around 
 you cant go shopping or anything so thanks for reading and enjoy the game! p. s. it's hard too fall 
 in love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  amm so the game : THE SIMS its a great game because
  its a new stuff that no one played befor . . . you are making a family
  and you can build them 
 a house and you are putting every thing there like you want and you are sending them to job and 
 school and all that stuff are very fun
  because you are like the god of them.
  you are telling them to eat when they are hungry and when to go to the bath room
  and when to 
 clean and when to fix and this is realy fun but its getting board realy quick and why?? because 
 they aren't growing up and dies when they are old . . . so you are old the time doing the same 
 stuff and nothing change . . .
  and thats somthing that gett boring very quick and then its not that fun . . .
  so its nice in 
 the begining but then its getts board and you don't wanna tuch this game any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Finally, expansion pack number three! Whilst Livin' Large and House Party delivered some sweet 
 new items and skins, it always lacked the one big thing, the ability to go elsewhere! But, with 
 much excitement, Hot Date has managed to raise the bar for The Sims series once more, only shattering 
 the bar completely this time!
  
  Gameplay
  9.5/10
  
  Rather than be an all out fanboy and give the game a straight 10 for gameplay, there are still 
 some things unto which need fixing up in the gameplay area. But let's see what's new, shall we?
 
  
  The whole "downtown" element adds a lot of fun to the game. No longer are you restricted from entertaining 
 guests at home. Now you can take them downtown, dine in fine resteraunts, stroll through parks, 
 or even shop for new clothing (something the previous expansions lacked) .
  
  Furthermore, you have the power to build your own downtown lots, and a lot of items made only for 
 this new mode is another exciting thing for this already much-anticipated expansion pack.
  
  Sadly, the general simulation part of the game wasn't tweaked on much. Sure new items and surprises 
 are in store, but at the end of the day, underneath the fancy new items and modes, The Sims is 
 always going to be The Sims, but what makes you say that's a bad thing?
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  
  Nothing in the graphic department has changed. Still nicely shaped items, backed by 
 horribly animated sprites. But, too be honest, I noticed a change in animations.
  
  Maybe it was the technology available that sparked a new change in sim animation, or possibly the 
 developers were on a power trip. Whatever the cause, the animation scheme is much better, hence 
 easier on the eyes.
  
  Sound
  6/10
  
  It's a big improvement over the past expansions. More radio stations (with a lot of emphasis on 
 jazz ( has been implemented. The beats are good at first, but after the fifth time, it starts to 
 get very annoying.
  
  The general langauge the Sims speak hasn't been changed, unsurprisingly. It'd be great to know 
 what these guys talk about. Either way, the gibberish langauge the Sims speak isn't that enjoyable, 
 but it could be a hell of a lot worse, to say the least.
  
  Final
  9/10
  
  Hot Date was like a life ring for the Sims. House Party was a minor disappointment, and a top-of-the-line 
 expansion was really needed to spare the series from becoming a flop. The downtown mode is very 
 exciting and entertaining, but the game can become very boring after a while.
  
  RENT OR BUY?
  Buy. You won't ever regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_govi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  The Sims: Hot Date is very good!!! Its for romantice people. Well I aint romantice I get these 
 games to get more cool stuff. You can visit downtown with the boyfriend or girlfriend, buy presents, 
 kiss and get your sims to be more in love than ever. You have 125 new items in The Sims: Hot Date. 
 And remember that you need the first sim game first. You should see how many stuff I have know 
 with 5 games of the sims, having alot of the sims makes your pc slow too O_O but not that slow... 
 hehe. The graphics are awasome and the background music too. The gameplay is allways great!!! Have 
 a nice nice nice day...
  AWSOME GRAPHICS, GREAT GAMEPLAY, GRRRRR BACKGROUND MUSIC, GO DOWNTOWN, LOVE, KISS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritchiegrc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I like the sims, and anyone that likes the original one will like this one. Its like a simulation 
 oflife and to me while it so fun, its educational as well. Not only is it a game it teaches you 
 the responsiblities of life. Like trying to balence your friends and your job. Making sure the 
 house is clean, getting to work. Taking care yourself, or a child, and keeping up with the bills, 
 are all part of life. It is addictive, so once you play, you dont want to stop really, if you want 
 to kill time play this, and time will fly by without you noticing it. Its a fun/ educational game, 
 and i think everyone enjoys it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Now you can buy and shop for clothes, gifts and magazines for your sims. It's a huge improvement 
 from Livin Large and House party where your sims are prisoners of their houses. In Hot date they 
 can go to many places and meet people. There are restaurants where your sims can go out on a date.
 
  There are so many different and interesting possibilities
  Very fun to play, I bet I can play for hours and hours... This game is not recommended for slow 
 computers because it takes alot of memory.
  As beautiful as any sims games and very realistic
  Still can't understand what they are saying 
 but nice and decent music
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaBlElOvA4LiFe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  PLZZ GO ON A DATE WITH ME.
  THTS THE LANGUGE OF DIS GAME. ITS A LIL BIT SXY HAHAHA!! IT WOULD HAV MORE FUN IF IT WAS RATED 
 M. ON M THEN DA REAL FUN WOULD STRT.
  ON DIS GAME U CAN KINDA B A MAC DADDY LIKE A PLAYA PIMP. DIS GAME IS SO SEDUCTIVE. HEY AND DA WOMAN 
 R BEAUTIFUL  =) .
  BUT AT DA SAME TIME U CAN ROLE UP INNA CAR DEN GET ALL DA HOT LADIES WHILE THEY GIGGLE AND ALL 
 DAT. U GET SO ADDICTED 2 IT.
  KINDA LIKE TICKLE ME ELMO. JUSS REMEMBA BUY DA GAME OR ELSE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  What? You can leave your sims lot? That's GREAT!!!
  
  At last the Sims are allowed to leave the safety of their lots and go and see the world. The new 
 Downtown is an awesome place to go buy new stuff and to go out on a date.
  
  Loads of new Floors, Walls and objects give you loads of new ideas for construction. Always wanted 
 that romantic little spot in your garden where your sims can just relax and make out? Now you can 
 make it. 
  
  Call up the Sim of your dreams and ask him or her out on a date and see where it could go. Take 
 him/her out to dinner or just a walk on the beach or a stroll in the park. Doen't matter. You will 
 enjoy all the new interactions and all the new things you will see and do. 
  
  This is a great break from the usual house bound Sims we all know. Get it! It's Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virgo89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I like the sims, and anyone that likes the original one will like this one. Its like a simulation 
 oflife and to me while it so fun, its educational as well. Not only is it a game it teaches you 
 the responsiblities of life. Like trying to balence your friends and your job. Making sure the 
 house is clean, getting to work. Taking care yourself, or a child, and keeping up with the bills, 
 are all part of life. It is addictive, so once you play, you dont want to stop really, if you want 
 to kill time play this, and time will fly by without you noticing it. Its a fun/ educational game, 
 and i think everyone enjoys it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
