-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers: Rise of an Empire Gold Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/thesettlersriseofanempiregoldedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New Eastern Realm campaign.
 Eastern maps that feature new desert and jungle terrain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Expansion missions are very similar to those in the original Rise of an Empire.
 Runs too much on autopilot and feels formulaic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.0, 5.7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 18 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Compilation
Date:     Sep 22, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Eastern Realm expansion is the lone highlight of this Gold Edition of last year's The Settlers: 
 Rise of an Empire. 

  Even though the only draw of The Settlers: Rise of an Empire Gold Edition is the Eastern Realm 
 expansion pack (previously released on its own in Europe) , the inclusion of this new add-on is 
 noted only in the fine print near the bottom of the front of the game box. Obscuring this fact 
 actually makes a lot of sense, however, because the new campaign missions are so similar to those 
 in the original game that it's not worth making a fuss over them. More combat and more involved 
 objectives have been added to spice up mostly lackadaisical mission design, although the whole 
 affair is still awfully formulaic.  

           Additional emphasis on the military makes Eastern Realm a bit more explosive.      

 
  You can move from the original Rise of an Empire into the Eastern Realm campaign without breaking 
 stride. The interface has been tweaked in a few minor ways: A new knight is now on the roster of 
 selectable heroes, trading posts can now be built to schlep goods to allies, a new well can be 
 built to take advantage of monsoons, and geologists have been given the ability to refill mines. 
 A handful of embellishments have also been added to the list of town decor so you can now deck 
 out settlements with triumphal arches and sundials. The story is an immediate follow-up to the 
 events of the first game, and you'll send settlers of the medieval Darion Empire to its India-resembling 
 eastern neighbors to investigate the disruption of a trade route. Bad guys with ties to the defeated 
 Red Prince are stirring up trouble, so you're called on to establish new settlements in these foreign 
 lands and quiet everything down.  

  Mission themes remain divided between sedate city building and real-time warfare, which follows 
 in the footsteps of Age of Empires. More time is spent exploring the glories of serfdom than smiting 
 enemies, though. As with the campaign in the original game, the scenarios in Eastern Realm deal 
 primarily with building medieval towns over and over again. Missions start with the hero knight 
 of your choice out in the wilderness, as well as a couple of start-up buildings, such as a castle 
 and a storehouse. From these humble beginnings, you move on to establish an entire town by gathering 
 resources, feeding peasants, and providing a few luxuries to make life in the sticks worthwhile. 
 Structure is still deeply derivative of traditional real-time strategy gaming, not to mention entirely 
 automated, so you don't have to worry about any micromanagement. If you just erect the right buildings, 
 happy little serfs robotically go about milking cows, forging swords, turning deer carcasses into 
 sausages, shearing sheep, staging plays, and getting hammered in the tavern. There are neither 
 supply-and-demand economics nor a need to even direct goods from one place to another because products 
 are shipped automatically to town warehouses by horse-drawn cart. Expanding your colony is also 
 a snap because all you have to do to claim a new territory is send over a knight and build an outpost. 

  Everything is so easygoing, in fact, that both the original Rise of an Empire and the new Eastern 
 Realm almost play themselves. You can pretty much set the autopilot in most missions and follow 
 a town-building formula that will get you on the road to success in short order. This laid-back 
 RTS vibe actually felt kind of refreshing a year ago in Rise of an Empire because it was a nice 
 change to focus on simply building towns rather than constantly fending off hordes of macemen coming 
 over the rise. Here, though, everything seems overly familiar and kind of dull. Maps are still 
 laid out like puzzles, and mission objectives are always a little too perfectly interwoven with 
 the landscape. Enemies, for instance, always seem to rear their ugly heads right after you've discovered 
 a new iron mine that you need to crank out some swords. Military matters are more of a pressing 
 concern than they used to be, but they aren't enough of a bother to really change the nature of 
 the gameplay. Huge climactic battles that destroy enemy strongholds are often necessary now, and 
 more involved multiple-choice objectives allow you to make big decisions, such as paying off baddies 
 or raising an army to slaughter them. You can't choose to tackle missions like Attila the Hun, 
 but at least, you can ditch the wimpy stuff at times and settle affairs on the battlefield.  

 
           New jungle terrain and extra decorations for towns, such as the arch of triumph and victory 
 column, spice up the look of Eastern Realm missions.      

  The look and feel of the Eastern Realm maps make their missions stand out from their predecessors. 
 New music has a decidedly Asian feel, like the sort of tunes you would hear during an adventure 
 movie while the hero is visiting an exotic bazaar. All of the new Far East terrain is a blend of 
 the Middle East and India. Desert plains and the odd scrub brush coexist with lush grassland and 
 jungle. Everything is very detailed to the point that the game gets a bit choppy when scrolling 
 through the densest jungles, although this isn't a bad price to pay for a game this attractive. 
 The tropical settings culminate in atmospheric storms that build up to regular monsoon seasons 
 where the rains are so heavy that you can't fish. Both European-styled buildings and the settlers 
 themselves appear to be exactly the same as in Rise of an Empire, however, so the overall appearance 
 of the game isn't strikingly different this time around. It's a bit jarring, too, to have the eastern 
 flavor of the maps here mixed in with European buildings and characters. At times, it looks like 
 somebody plopped a medieval Bavarian village down beside the Bay of Bengal. These new maps are 
 also available in three new custom solo games and in online play, both of which are otherwise carried 
 over unchanged from Rise of an Empire.  

  If you felt like The Settlers: Rise of an Empire ended about a dozen hours too soon or really needed 
 some jungle maps, then by all means pick up this Gold Edition for the Eastern Realm expansion. 
 Otherwise, you can probably satisfy a Settlers craving more cheaply with a replay of the original. 

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
