-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Shield
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/theshield/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Interrogations and other supposed moments of gritty violence are woefully underplayed.
 Storyline is exceedingly lame.
 Shooting isn't satisfying, and stealth missions border on inept.
 Ugly graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 3.8, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Point of View
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Jan 22, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Neither quality fan service nor a good action game on its own merits, The Shield fails miserably 
 to live up to its license's pedigree. 

  The Shield should probably have never been released. That might sound like an overly harsh statement 
 for a game that isn't abysmally broken, but take this fact into account: Six months ago, The Shield 
 was sitting comfortably on the shelf of game development purgatory, seemingly canned after original 
 publisher Sammy decided to stop publishing games. For some reason, Aspyr then swooped in and rescued 
 this beleaguered licensed action game and put it out for all to buy. Unless Aspyr picked up the 
 rights to this game for less than a dollar and a dream, then the investment was for naught. The 
 Shield is a completely uninteresting brawler/shooter that tries desperately to grasp at the kinds 
 of brutal straws that just about every other mean-spirited action game of the last five years has 
 already used up and spit out. Of course, the main draw here is that the game is based on the popular 
 FX cops-with-bad-attitudes show  The Shield , but apart from some competent voice talent and a 
 script full of swears, this game has barely an inkling of what makes the show so much fun to watch. 

          Did the Commish seriously just beat that guy's face in with the butt of his gun?     

 
  Much the way that games like 24: The Game and Alias tried to squeeze themselves into the lexicon 
 of the shows they were based on by providing a storyline that took place in between certain episodes 
 or seasons of the show, The Shield plants itself firmly post-third season, but pre-Glenn Close 
 and Forrest Whittaker. The fallout from the money train robbery has already taken place, and Detective 
 Vic Mackey (played by Michael "Commish" Chiklis) and his strike team of dirty cops are on the verge 
 of disbanding. The brass wants them reassigned, members of the team are unhappy with the way things 
 are going, and the captain tells them it's going to take a major bust to salvage any hope of keeping 
 the team alive. The big bust in question turns out to be an arms race between the Byz-Lat and One-Niner 
 gangs. Mackey is tasked with breaking up the battle, finding the guns, and arresting as many of 
 the thugs in charge as possible.  

  To the game's credit, certain aspects do play a bit like an episode of the show, but they play 
 too much like an episode that has been hopelessly stretched well beyond reason. The case involving 
 the gangbangers and their caches of weaponry is pretty dull after a short while -- so dull, in fact, 
 that the scriptwriters went out of their way to have the strike-team guys constantly remind the 
 audience of why what they're doing matters. Variations of the line "We crack this case, and the 
 team is saved!" appear so often that you have to wonder if the writers started forgetting what 
 they'd written previously and were too lazy to go back and read through the script. While you get 
 a few nice bits of foul-mouthed banter between the strike-team members and some of the criminal 
 elements throughout the script, too much of the story is geared toward forcing the characters into 
 situations that border on parody of the types of gritty scenarios you'd see on the show. It's as 
 though someone at the developer felt the need to take every single possible opportunity to have 
 Vic and crew do something dirty, even if it was completely inconsequential to the main story arc. 
 And the dirty stuff hardly seems all that dirty.  

   The Shield  is known for its brazen violence and unheroic characters, yet somehow the video game 
 version of The Shield is oddly tame. It's not as though the game doesn't go out of its way to give 
 you opportunities to rough up suspects, inflicting severe pain on them as you grill them for info. 
 The trouble is that these interrogation bits seem like also-ran knockoffs of things you've already 
 seen in games like The Punisher. Dragging a suspect over to a toilet to submerge his head or over 
 to a hot stove to burn his face  sounds  like an amusing prospect, but these interrogation sequences 
 are handled so dryly and joylessly that you quickly become bored with them. All you do to interrogate 
 a suspect is press a series of buttons on the controller as quickly as possible, and all the action 
 is handled onscreen for you. There's no sense that you're affecting the interrogation at all. On 
 top of that, you often have to engage in some exceedingly clunky hand-to-hand combat before you 
 can start interrogating a suspect. The fistfights in this game are asinine to the point of uselessness, 
 due to some really unresponsive controls.  

  Another area where the game tries to ape the show is with your ability to acquire contraband. Anytime 
 you're inside a house or a hideout, you can search various places for drugs, money, or weapons 
 lying about. This is played out through a minigame where you have to move a circle around a badge 
 icon to try to hit the sweet spot before time runs out. It's an arcane system, but at least on 
 the PC, the circle icon moves fast enough to let you succeed in most situations (not the case on 
 the PS2) . Once you do find contraband, you can either use it to feed Vic's "retirement fund" or 
 turn it in at the station's evidence locker to reduce your heat rating. Heat comes from shooting 
 unarmed suspects, wantonly beating people, and generally being a proper villain. You can also take 
 a bit of that heat off by planting the guns you pick up on the unarmed folk you gun down, though 
 you rarely have to do this.  

  Outside of the illicit deeds and savage beatings, all you're left with is a series of short shooter 
 and sneaking levels. The stealth missions are some of the most annoying stealth sequences you'll 
 ever play (guards with X-ray vision, nothing for you to do while sneaking around except... sneak 
 around) , so it's perhaps a godsend that you can opt to shirk stealth in most cases and start gunning 
 down gangbangers instead -- though even that strategy comes with a caveat, in that the game seems 
 to not quite know what to do when you choose this strategy. Several times we ran into bugs where 
 missions would fail halfway through a level, even though we weren't dead. Sometimes we'd get all 
 the way through, guns blazing, and sometimes we'd get messages that the target character we were 
 after escaped before the level timer even ran out. Other times we'd find out he was dead, for some 
 inexplicable reason.  

  Being able to shoot like an action hero doesn't make the game good, since the shooting happens 
 to be pretty lousy. There's no weapon variety to speak of (there are only three guns you can use) , 
 and until you get to the heavy machinery, you'll find yourself having to pump way too many rounds 
 into enemies than is realistic. Seriously, should it really take six bullets to the chest and head 
 to kill a Kevlar-less gangster? Vic can use a couple of basic cover mechanics, which are great 
 because they're placed so you'll never have to get out from a cover position to kill bad guys. 
 Your enemies always stay just within your sight range, so all you have to do is peer out real quick, 
 unload a couple of rounds, and repeat until they're dead. There are also some sequences that involve 
 working with an artificially intelligent partner. These guys evidently weren't programmed with 
 cover mechanics in mind, so they like to go running out into the field of gunfire and get shot 
 to death very quickly, which ends the mission. Your best bet is to keep running ahead of them, 
 shooting all the while and hoping you don't die.  

  One of the weirdest things about The Shield is its presentation. You can tell that developer Point 
 of View desperately wanted to ape the show's sense of style, but its imitations of the show's scattered 
 camera angles, brutal violence, and gritty environments aren't very impressive. If anything, the 
 camera makes the cutscenes feel kind of vomit-inducing, and as mentioned earlier, most of the violence 
 is off-kilter and not all that extreme. One particularly weird sequence is the opening level, which 
 intersperses title cards with the actors' names at oddly-timed intervals that break up the pacing 
 of the stage badly. The environments and levels do feel appropriately dingy, but dingy levels can 
 take you only so far. The technical graphics aren't very impressive by themselves, either. Vic 
 and the principal character models look kind of grody and misshapen, and some of the skin and facial 
 textures are laughably bad. Animation is stiff, world textures are blurry, and there are some occasional 
 glitches and ugly spots. The PC version is arguably a bit crisper than the PS2 version, but not 
 by a particularly wide margin.  

          The Shield tries to provide vague opportunities for moral decision making, but most times 
 it's just easier and less frustrating to play it shady.     

  The lone bright spot is the voice acting. Nearly all the actors from the show reprise their roles 
 (though CCH Pounder appears to have turned down the opportunity to be in this game -- smart lady) , 
 and though you can definitely grasp a lack of enthusiasm by the actors, they don't totally dead-read 
 everything. Chiklis chews the scenery as per usual, and other actors, such as Benito Martinez, 
 Walton Goggins, and Jay Karnes, turn in decent performances, despite the shoddy dialogue. The rest 
 of the audio is less enjoyable, however. The main theme song is in full effect in the game, and, 
 in fact, the developer decided to cut the opening riff from it into every search sequence that 
 you fail. So every time you fail to pick up contraband from a search, this same three-second-long, 
 very loud guitar riff pops in to drive you bonkers. Speaking of repetitive audio work, the background 
 dialogue is mind-numbingly repetitious. Characters repeat the same lines with insane frequency. 
 This same problem plagued one of Point of View's last games, Narc. The problem here is that the 
 lines that are being repeated aren't even unintentionally funny, so the repetition becomes obnoxious 
 very quickly.  

  It is perhaps understandable that a publisher might pick up a game like The Shield dirt cheap from 
 the cancellation pile simply on the strength of its license, but it ultimately would have been 
 better for all of us if The Shield had stayed away from retail shelves. It's a conceptually flawed 
 and poorly executed action game that has only the most base-level details in common with the license 
 it's based on. The action isn't fun, the extreme violence isn't all that extreme, and the storyline 
 is a dull, hacked-together snoozefest. The Shield is perfunctory in every imaginable way, and everyone, 
 fan of the show or not, should avoid it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Andre9977
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Game-play:
  
  The story may be worth more, but good storyline with horrible sound and graphics is abysmal. I 
 know, that lots of people waited for this game. Oh, and it was pulled to next - next date. I am 
 so disappointed, I even waited for this game. That thing - you look with your lenser at the badge 
 and then you get evidence - it is so old and it s*c*s.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Even sound was better than graphics. At maximum performance, it was still horrible (my video card 
 supports the maximum double) .
  
  Sound: Sound was first good thing with this game, but at the end of game, it turned to horrible. 
 I would give this game score: 0.5. I didn't like it at all. Worth of playing, but NOT buying. You 
 know, what I mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  If you read most critics reviews of The Shield than you would probably expect one of the worst 
 games of recent memory, that is far from the truth. I had a great time playing the game and don't 
 see where the critism comes from.
  
  Presentation:
  
  The manual is very nice. If the person playing hasn't seen the show yet the manual will get you 
 up to speed with the characters and story. It does a good job of explaining how to perform anything 
 that will need to be done. The cut scenes are very well done and look very good. The story is great 
 for the most part but it has it's problems. Without spoiling anything I can tell you it is evry 
 unsatisfactory. Also there are at least one continuity error I can think of. Overall though it 
 really retains the feel of the show. There is a video at the start of the story mode that recaps 
 what has happened from seasons one to three (this game takes place in between season 3 and 4) . 
 I would of liked more video options as you only get to tinker with AA and detail, totaling maybe 
 3 things. There is a decent number of game options outside of graphics though.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The best part of the Shield is the character models of the cast members. Any regular 
 character on The Shield is done beautifaly and looks almost exactly as they do when watching it 
 on TV. That is about where my praise of the graphics end. Weapon models are pretty bad, especially 
 the pistol which is hideous. There are some clipping errors in which bullet holes and blood are 
 going off of an object and hanging in mid air. When you are exiting the Barn the view of the outside 
 world looks like some guy took a picture of a car in a parking lot and they used that. The animiation 
 of Vic searching anything, whether it be a person or couch, look fake and bad. I didn't notice 
 any real glitches aside form the clipping and the game only crashed on me once. The framerate is 
 solid and I had no lag at all.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Shield sound sucked to say the least. The voice acting was good, with the exception of Margos 
 and Claudette, who were both voiced by people who sounded nothing like CCH Pounder or Kurt Sutter. 
 Furthurmore the dialogue was usually really bad, expesially the soundbytes. Everyone overuses their 
 few soundbytes earlier and just keep doing it. Shane yells Quit screwing around Vic or Cover me 
 so often I want to shoot him myself. The only good parts is the few parts where Vic and Shane are 
 making fun of Dutch because they captured the spirit of the show there perfectly. The background 
 music is nice, the first few minutes and quickly gets annoying after that. Hearing the same guitar 
 riff every time Vic gets in a fight is not fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Who doesn't like to beat people up in games, here theres lots of fun ways to do so. You can burn 
 peoples faces off of stoves, dunk their heads in toilets, ram their heads into walls, punch, beat 
 a guy with a phonebook, and much more. This is the meat and potatoes of the game, if you don't 
 like that, you truly won't like the game at all. The AI could of been smarter, Shane just runs 
 into harms way a lot, most AI can't shoot for s***, but it isn't so bad I threw the game down and 
 stopped. One thing I hated was that enemies could shoot through doors but I couldn't. They are 
 using the same type of gun as me (there is only one pistol in the game) but I guess they are using 
 armor piercing or something. The mini game in which you search things is not hard like some have 
 said, I mastered it in 2 minutes. Same goes for the mini game to handcuff a suspect. The shooting 
 in this game is done nicely and feels good. So is the cover function. This can be a fun game if 
 you give it a chance.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  This is a downside, there isn't much lasting appeal. The game can be beaten in about 8-10 hours 
 and thats with completing all optional missions and unlocking everything. Now about those unlockables, 
 they're worthless. They are just weird pictures that really have no purpose or meaning. Some die 
 hard fans will want to play through all difficulty settings, I know I might, but there's no real 
 reason to. The gameplay is fun, but it will be the same levels over again, no surprises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  With so much to work with Aspyr has shown yet again to the PC gaming community that you can sell 
 and produce anything no matter how bad it is.
  How can anyone at Aspyr expect anything but a giant loss on this piece of crap. DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME IT IS A RIP-OFF ! ! The only thing worse than the awkward camera views and stupid fart jokes 
 is the incredible number of cut scenes. If you are foolish enough to play this game expect to see 
 a cut scene every 90-120 seconds with a save point every 5 minutes.. BORING.
  Without a doubt this game has more stupid cut scenes than any other game i have played .They must 
 have paid large amounts of money to Michael Chiklis and the other cast members to voice this terrible 
 effort.
  How can such a decent show lend its credibility to a giant turd of a game like this I do not understand. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
