-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers: Rise of an Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesettlersvi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Retains that old Settlers feel while dumping a lot of micromanagement.
 Simplified resource-gathering.
 Lengthy, detailed missions.
 Cheery, colorful visuals.
 Script and voice acting takes things seriously while retaining a sense of humor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Formulaic mission objectives.
 Something of a system hog.
 A few unfinished components and bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,407 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Blue Byte
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 25, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest addition to the Settlers series is a blend of the fresh and the familiar. 

  When you think of city-building game franchises, chances are pretty good that The Settlers isn't 
 the first name that springs to mind. Although German developer Blue Byte may have been topping 
 the charts in Europe with these sedate simulations of medieval life for nearly 15 years now, the 
 series has never gained the stateside prestige of something like Sim City or even Caesar. But this 
 second-rate status might be coming to an end with the latest addition to the line. The Settlers: 
 Rise of an Empire is the most fulfilling game in the series, adding easy-to-play charisma to the 
 usual Middle Ages economics and trimming much of the micromanagement that made playing past releases 
 in the series as much fun as doing your homework.  

  Despite the aggressive subtitle, gameplay here compares more closely to building an ant farm than 
 it does to building a real-time strategy empire. As with previous Settlers games, the focus of 
 the solo campaign is a mix of stereotypical city building with traditional Age of Empires-like 
 resource gathering and soldier recruitment. Most of your efforts continue to be centered on developing 
 a medieval city, which means you spend virtually all of your time constructing resource-gathering 
 huts, erecting castle walls or gates, and trading with neighboring villages.  

           Hooking up with chicks, medieval style.      

  This kinder, gentler vibe is furthered 
 by a barely-there storyline about pacifying the wilderness to restore the once-great Darion Empire, 
 presumably built in the last Settlers game, Heritage of Kings. Quests are almost all about building 
 and restoring -- not fighting. However, they are so tightly developed and filled with busywork that 
 you don't have time to miss battles. You deliver clothing/food to towns in need, fight off Vikings 
 marauding through coastal villages, light signal fires to open up trade routes, stage festivals 
 to get your settlers hitched to comely wenches, and so on. It's all pretty linear and predictable, 
 although at least Blue Byte put enough thought into things to avoid the old "collect 20 food" or 
 "collect 50 stone" objectives that make you want to put your head in an oven. All of this easygoing 
 stuff is bolstered with a somewhat precious appearance. The landscape is cartoonlike and brightly 
 colored, while characters boast watermelon-sized heads, as well as massive doll's eyes. Yet the 
 art design showcases impressive medieval architecture, while the voice-acting is by turns serious 
 and cheesy, which lets the game sit on the fence dividing gritty from cutesy.  

  Sound familiar? It should sound familiar because Blue Byte's been mining this vein since Bill Clinton 
 was in the White House. The one big difference between the new and old formula is across-the-board 
 simplification. Chopping wood, catching fish, mining stone or iron, gathering herbs, collecting 
 honey from beehives, and the like is accomplished in Rise of an Empire by simply building the necessary 
 huts in the immediate vicinity of the resources in question. These resources are denoted on the 
 maps with icons, such as metal bars, rocks, and deer. The goods produced are then automatically 
 collected by settlers and shipped off to your settlement's storehouse. From there, they are in 
 turn dished out to the butcher shops, tanneries, weavers, dairies, candle makers, and so forth 
 that keep your serfs happy, healthy, as well as fully clothed. Even trade dealings with friendly 
 neighbors are a snap because loads are shipped out automatically by cart the moment that orders 
 are given. So there is never any need to fuss around with trade routes, no need to load and unload 
 carts, or any of the other hip-deep busywork that frequently wrecks economic-style sims.  

  Of course, not everything runs on rails. Blue Byte has tossed enough trees onto the tracks to keep 
 missions from becoming too much of a grind (although you do pretty much rebuild the same city in 
 every mission, so don't expect to completely dodge repetition) . The biggest addition is the knight, 
 a hero unit of sorts that acts as the leader of your faction in missions. There are a total of 
 six knights in the game, each with unique names and abilities. You earn them as you progress through 
 campaign missions and then get the chance to choose one of them as your main representative in 
 upcoming assignments. It's an interesting system that lends a fair bit of personality to how campaigns 
 play out. Still, too many knights are burdened with nearly useless powers, such as entertaining 
 settlers with singing and boosting the amount of cash that winds up on the collection plate after 
 sermons in the cathedral. With such options as Lord Marcus, who can recruit swordsmen and bowmen 
 on the cheap, or Lord Hakim, who can turn enemy battalions into friends, you'll rarely bother with 
 the others. For example, Lady Alandra and her healing powers or Lord Elias with his skill at feeding 
 the hungry seem weak in comparison.  

  Dividing the map into separate territories is another new wrinkle. Knights can claim neutral lands 
 by simply building an outpost there, while enemy-held regions can be seized by destroying or occupying 
 the rival outpost. However, this whole concept doesn't add much of a strategic layer to battles 
 because destroying an opponent's outpost causes all the buildings in the territory to self-destruct. 
 So you never get the chance to wage back-and-forth battles for key castles or get the opportunity 
 to make hard decisions, such as razing settlements or attempting to conquer them to win over the 
 citizenry. You just duke it out over resources, but most maps are so well stocked with wildlife, 
 sheep, and the like that there is rarely any need to go to war to provide your peasants with sausages 
 or woolen undies.  

           Come on, baby. Light my (signal) fire.      

  It isn't all bad where territories are concerned, however. Climatic conditions vary dramatically 
 across maps, which can really affect how you manage resources. For example, Northern territories 
 have shorter growing seasons that force you to build up food stocks when the weather is pleasant, 
 as well as rely on wild game and fish, while southern regions are so warm that it's hard to keep 
 crops from burning up. None of these climate zones is overly extreme, although they do establish 
 a sense of place so that you're not just working with the same generic terrain over and over again. 

  Just a few quality-control concerns keep Rise of an Empire from being one of the most polished 
 Settlers game in the history of the franchise. Mainly, it doesn't quite feel finished, even with 
 the installation of the massive patch that you are forced to download the first time you fire up 
 the game. Crashes are an ongoing concern in campaign play. Windows occasionally pop up with error 
 messages saying something like, "text not found." Performance problems can cause lots of stuttering 
 when scrolling the map and serious frame-rate jitters in busy towns, even with details at midrange 
 settings. Every now and again, you'll run into an artificial intelligence hiccup where settlers 
 can't find a resource even though you've placed a hut pretty much right on top of them. Multiplayer 
 also seems somewhat unstable because of frequent crashes, both when navigating the matchmaking 
 lobby and actually playing online. It's a shame that it works so poorly because the multiplayer 
 maps feature wildly diverse terrain and place more of an emphasis on traditional RTS play (meaning 
 that you actually get to fight here) than the resource-heavy, often pacifistic campaign.  

  Thanks to its appreciation of old and new, The Settlers: Rise of an Empire has a lot to offer both 
 longtime franchise followers and newcomers who wouldn't know a serf from a surfboard. It could 
 sure use another patch or two or three to address some bugs, but this effort still does an impressive 
 job of moving the Settlers series closer to the big leagues.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: camilosta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  All that I Imagine was complete satisfied in Settlers Rise of an Empire. I made the tutorial and 
 I was surprised even more when I was learning how to play. I make a Wood Hut at the forest (like 
 in every game) but then I have to make a butch maker at town so the forest guy will go to collect 
 it and work better. Also the butch maker need to collect his merchancies from the Market and the 
 market have those merchancies only because there's a guy who collects from the animals the resource. 
 You see all the process. The Animal is killed, then he goes to his hut, then goes to the market, 
 then somebody goes to the market, then he make it and then you can see it finished outside the 
 building. You see everything ! even when the guy is making it ! and that's the same for all the 
 buildings.
  Things like that make me just amazed with the game.
  You have to know that when you play at campaign mode, first you have only few warriors and they 
 have their own opinions about the mission (every mission) . You can choose for the most you trust 
 and you'll have their special abilities. 
  Isn't that amazing? 
  I really do like this game !! I hope there'll be a new edition for this sequel.
  
  Sorry about 
 the English but I'm making an effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sannnnnndy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  After reading a lot of comment online, I firmly believe this game is not beeing given its proper 
 credit. It's a very interessting and lenghty game that is as much fun to play as it is to look 
 at. Because the game has no shortage on great animations. And playing and watching a small town 
 that can -quite literally- grow into a huge prosperous city is just plain satisfying.
  
  I agree to the "been there done that" quote. Surely it's nothing we haven't seen before. But settlers 
 6: rise of an empire is a great new approach on simplifying the game play compared to its other 
 titles. Or so atleast I personally find this to be the case.
  Unlike some RTS games -whom can be very unforgiving to unexperienced RTS gamers- I find this game 
 to be highly recommended to people whom are unfamiliar or unexperienced with the genre. Because 
 the gameplay in rise of an empire is just plain easy to pick up and you'll master, at least the 
 basiscs, within just a half hour of gameplay.
  
  Unit recruitment, building placement, resource gathering. Its all there. But very easy to manage 
 it all.
  
  Another one of the plusses in this game is the trick to find a good balance in your city building. 
 Too much of the same building type... and your settlers become bored, or will find your city "unimpressive".
 
  To much variety and you'll find yourself all over the place gathering those very needy -and sometimes 
 difficult to aquire- resources.
  So imagine the satisfaction when you get it right.
  And although this might all sound very complicated, in practice, the game plays surprisingly easy. 
 By following the campaign, each mission will take you through the city-development process one 
 step at a time. So you'll always know exactly what to do, and you always know exactly what everything 
 does.
  
  The campaign mode itself is "quite" lenghty I must add. Sit down and play this game quite frequently 
 and you might find yourself still not being able to finish it in just 1 weekend.
  Another great thing is that, along the way, you gain experience and eventually you'll get the hang 
 of how to do things. Wich gives the game quite a bit of replay value. You won't be able to resists 
 to skip back a few missions and perfect your game play with what you have learned in the missions 
 there-after.
  
  But as a critic, I have to be fair. It cant be all good news.
  So one down side that I am forced to add is that the game struggles with some performance issues. 
 A small crash here and there... or a game freeze.
  I find them not common enough to be annoying. But it can be quite frustrating when you spend the 
 last 1,5 hour building up a city only to find yourself back where you started because you game 
 decided to freeze up on the last 15 min before you finish the mission.
  But again, the flaws are dwarfed when compared to the great fun this game offers.
  
  To sum 
 it all up; Quite surprised to find this game so entertaining. I never expected I would gain as 
 many hours of fun as I did -and still have- from this game wich I bought for a bargain.
  Definitly worth a try that you wont regret. Enjoy.
  
  -Sandy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vince0018
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The first Settlers game I'd ever played was The Settlers II: 10th Anniversary. It was ok but hard 
 to pick up on and it seemed like it trapped me too much, I had no freedom to go out and explore 
 the world.
  I thought I'd give The Settlers: Rise of an Empire a chance next, since it's newer. Man, was i 
 ever surprised. The gameplay is massively improved from Settlers II. The UI and interface was much 
 easier to read so I knew what was required of me. The economic aspect was nice, seeing how you 
 had to protect your carts when they travelled out-of-territory and how trade involved delivering 
 carts to eachother. It just seems that whenever you do something it doesn't just magically happen 
 like on games like Age of Empires, here it's more realistic, in a sense. And funner to watch.
 
  Knight's promotions to gain access to newer buildings and upgrades is brilliant. It's almost like 
 'aging up' through the game, and it's a little bit of a challenge too, making it even funner.
 
  It's easy to figure out what's going wrong somewhere and how to fix problems in the economy too, 
 do to the wonderful interface. Checking the building management you can find any building you're 
 looking for and check how it's doing. And if you have too much of a certain resource and your storehouse 
 is getting full you can stop production with the click of you mouse.
  Nearly everything in this game is very fun and enjoyable, I say nearly for a few minor reasons.
 
  There are some minor graphical or animation problems at certain times, like when you're marching 
 groups of soldiers across land they kind of spin around a fair bit as if trying to stay in their 
 formation in a weird way. But this is easy to ignore, it doesn't really bother me anymore. And 
 combat could have been a little more polished, armies fighting eachother is pretty much a big mess 
 of guys slashing at eachother. A nice combat mechanic would have been cool.
  The biggest problem I've found that bothers me the most would have to be the camera controls, but 
 once again this isn't a very big problem. To rotate the screen you have to hold down control then 
 roll your mouse wheel, when I would have prefered being able to click down the mouse wheel and 
 drag the mouse. Also when scrolling around with your arrow keys the camera can get stuck when you 
 change camera directions without letting go of all the arrow keys first. I'm starting to get use 
 to this problem now, though.
  Overall this game is very fun and addictive and I look forward to playing countless hours more.
 
  
  This review was written after being patched to 1.6, this was the only version I've played the game 
 at.
  I haven't experienced a single crash to date.
  
  If you like city builders or games similar to The Guild II, and just wanna play a game focused 
 more on fun than on combat, get this game. I enjoy it and I hope you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinreallybad
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I loved settlers 3 and the reason I loved that game was because of the 
 complexity of the economic management of your city and the difficulties that created for building 
 up your city. I've not played any more recent setters so I don't know how much this game deviates 
 from them but I know that it has dumbed down massively compared to settlers 3. In settlers 3 it 
 was really difficult to build up a successful economy for your city and it was really satisfying 
 when you did because you could see everything being created and being shipped around and then stored. 
 In settlers 6 its incredibly easy to build up your economy, everything is incredibly cheap to build 
 and upgrade and within no time you have all the economic buildings available, providing that you 
 get promoted. Your economy basically runs itself as well, you just build the buildings and everything 
 works like clockwork, you don't have to bother about carriers or getting more workers all that 
 is now done for you. All you have to do is more or less build more buildings, its incredibly simplistic 
 and mind numbingly un-challenging. 
  As I was trying to reach the Archduke title the first time and couldn't figure out why my population 
 had stopped growing I realised it was because there wasn't enough economic buildings for them to 
 work in and so I had to actually go around building loads of completely unneeded resource gathering 
 buildings just to attract people to my city, so in effect in this game it pays to have a totally 
 inefficient economy. For me there is no pleasure in building up a city just to have nice looking 
 buildings because a successful city in this game does not require a well run economy, in fact it 
 requires a totally inefficient economy. In settlers 3 you could only have a good and successful 
 city if you had a strong, efficient, well run economy so I could take pleasure in seeing that I 
 had a good city whereas in settlers 6 a nice city (and you will always get a nice looking city) 
 has nothing to do with how well run your economy is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSARY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I use to be a huge Settlers fan when I was a kid. I played The Settlers: Fourth Edition till my 
 eyes hurt every night. I was excited to hear about a new Settlers coming out but I wasn't in any 
 hurry to go and get it. I picked it up yesterday at Game Stop for $29.99 which wasn't much for 
 me. I took it home, installed it, then downloaded the patches for it all the way to 1.7. I figured 
 that they had fixed most bugs but I was wrong. From time to time, I'll be playing the campaign 
 then the game will freeze. I can't Alt-Tab out or Ctrl-Alt-Delete either. Then my video card stops 
 displaying followed my skipping music then a blue screen showing my windows dumping memory back 
 onto the hard disk. MY computer restarts and I come back to my desktop. Now after 7 patches, I 
 would expect then to have fix this serious problem. I have to save every 5 min. just so I don't 
 loose a lot of progress.
  
  As far as game play goes its really good. This are highly detailed and look wonderful. It is easy 
 to learn and control the game. I'd just wish that they would fix the problems.
  
  My PC is:
  M2N ASUS MOBO
  AMD 64 X2 5600+ 2.8 Ghz Dual Core
  2 Gigs RAM
  nVidia 7600 GT 
 256 MB DDR3
  Running Windows Vista 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most frustrating games that I've ever played. The graphics are good 
 and the speeches by the characters are pretty entertaining. However, there's a ton of problems 
 that ruins the game.
  
  First of all, the game is way too easy and repetitive. Every mission is just a repeat of the same 
 tedious formula over and over. Why even bother having a campaign if you can't mix it up. There's 
 almost no chance of losing.
  
  Second, the UI is terrible and distracts from the enjoyment of the game. There's no speed changing 
 so I wasted a few hours just staring at the screen and waiting for my buildings to finish producing 
 what's needed. There's no way to customize the keys to the format that I prefer. And the text is 
 too difficult to read on top of some of the buildings.
  
  Lastly the game mechanics need lots of work. It's just frustrating to have enough supplies but 
 have your settlers strike because they're too stupid to get the supplies from your warehouse. The 
 food producers will strike because they don't have enough food even though there's food (that they 
 produced) waiting in the same building! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The Settlers 6 is a brillient game that makes building a town/city extremely fun. If you are a 
 fan of games such as Sim City, City Life and Pharoh then this game is for you.
  
  You start out with just a tiny town center area and a beaten up looking castle, as you grow your 
 town you will need to tend to the Settlers needs, needs such as food, water and clothing, all of 
 which are gathered, processed and preduced by you. Building the right amout of production buildings 
 and gathering buildings is key to this game. It's never a bad thing when you are over stocked but 
 it isnt always a good thing.
  
  The graphics are very well done and show off some rich and highly detailed buildings and surroundings, 
 I was quite impressed with the water effects myself but the buildings that you will create are 
 outstandingly detailed and very pleasing to the eye. The Settlers themselfs are well detailed, 
 there are some parts to there models however that look a little flat when zoomed right in however 
 this is hardly noticable. 
  
  The gameplay is smooth and quick, there feels like there is no time at all to just sit around and 
 do nothing, there is always somthing that needs to be tended to by you as your settlement is growing 
 all the time. People will be constintly working, walking and trading all over, giving you many 
 things to watch wile you are waiting for your next objective's.
  
  With all of this you might be thinking that The Settlers 6 is an awesome game. This is true however 
 there are a handful of miner issues that really let this game down. First of all the Zoom level 
 is not very good, you feel to close to the map even when the zoom is out to the max, the scrolling 
 of the game is laggy and does not move about smoothly, the scroll speed at it's max seems a little 
 slow, not somthing that you would expect from max scroll speed settings, the audio somtimes doesnt 
 hold up quite well, by this I mean the speach, when your knight is talking to you I have noticed 
 that somtimes, when you are micro-managing, the audio will cut out and mess up.
  
  Looking past the minor but quite annoying bugs in this title, this game is still, at least, a must 
 play. Weather building huge cities is your style or just taking it nice and slow, The Settlers 
 6 will have somthing everyone will enjoy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninn1000
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game being an rpg fan and a light rts/tbs/city builders fan. 50 bucks from EB 
 Games. It is fun when I first put it in and just start making my own city but by the time I reached 
 the third mission I really noticed its flaws.
  
  First off you are either at war with a city or at peace with it. You can't deside that this one 
 city has good recorces and yet a weak defence I'm going to take it over. You are either at war 
 or at peace. The cities your at war at hardly ever attack you and if you deside to attack them, 
 they're easy to beat plus you aren't very far into making your city, so you beat all the enemies 
 and then right after you can make siege weapons, but alas there isn't anything to attack! Those 
 peaceful cities will just give you recorces if you give them some and sometimes maybe a few troops 
 but they never are attacked or attack anyone else.
  
  Secondly, each mission, although it has a different objective, feels quite the same. You don't 
 get to keep the buildings you've built or remember how to make them (like in Black and White) so 
 you are never really improving your city besides having a better strategy (maybe) .
  
  Now for the ups...
  
  Good graphics, voices are ok, every different envirment has different 
 looks for the buildings, controls aren't difficult, the game isn't difficult (which is bad for 
 me but may be good for people who are looking for a city builder rather than an rts) , it is child 
 friendly (so is Kingdom Hearts the best game ever... yes there is a little violence but no blood, 
 busty chicks, or bad words) , and thats all I can think off...
  
  Downs:
  
  Horrible AI, easy difficulty if you know your way around it, repeditive gameplay, overpriced ($50 
 bucks when I bought it, wasted!!!) , not the most original game (much like Age of series and Black 
 and White series) , contained gameplay (you feel sorta trapped to building something over and over 
 without change) , and I know there is more but that is all I can think of.
  
  Overall: Not worth the money!!! Buy something like Warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpicciani
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Like so many other recent games that have put a title on a game without following in the footsteps 
 of the former, Settlers disappoints by straying far from the premise of the original. Games like 
 Pirates, Railroads, and Might and Magic Dark Messiah, it looks like Bluebyte/ubisoft have made 
 a cross between Warcraft 3 and Heroes of Might and Magic. That might have been a good thing but 
 the game is so confusing that I just can't seem to get a feel for what I need to do. At least in 
 Settlers 1-4 (Yes, I am old enough to remember Settlers 1 on the Amiga!) no matter how complicated 
 the mission goals were clear. 
  
  Also, it's got some serious copy protection issues that have caused many problems and compibilities 
 with many brands of dvd and cd players. Many have said they can't run the game from their cd. I"ve 
 seen the Ubi boards and even saw ubi recommend a user replace their dvd burner on a laptop!
  
  I recommend poeple pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3ch82
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Sandbox 101..
  
  Let me start by saying im a Settlers 2 fan. Best in the series. These newest version of settlers 
 is a let down.
  
  Everything has been dumbed down, every game is a sandbox.
  
  There is no point to military, NO one attacks you. Check the games main forum, there is no aggressive 
 AI, you can just build and build and build. I was so completely bummed about not having to build 
 walls, catapults anything.
  
  you get to choice from 6 heroes, some cool, other repetitive.
  
  1 makes troops cost less..
 
  1 makes you bring in more money
  IE = a complete wash
  
  The game has a quests, but everything in this game is based on time IE
  *get 180 settlers, reach 
 this level with your hero"
  
  F'ing pointless BECAUSE by playing the game.. your going to gain more settlers, your hero's level 
 is based on your town so the quests are built into the pointless sandbox as well..
  
  The game graphics are great. full everything it looks amazing.
  
  
  sum up:
  
  BUY this 
 game if you are looking for VERY simple gameplay with no real challenge, and just want to build 
 up.
  
  DONT buy this game if you are an old settlers fan who likes challenges and has to multi task as 
 well as attack defend and hates sandbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beyonce15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I was quite unsure weather to buy this game or not when i saw it so as always i had a look see 
 on here to get the score for it and had a peek at the vids and i dunno but for this game it didnt 
 do it for me.
  Soooo... i took it upon my self to get it a shot and buy the game and i tell you i wasnt disappointed 
 its so fun to play online gameplay as always for certain strategy games is brilliant, visually 
 this game is stunning its defenitly i step up from age of empires 3 in terms of much more depth 
 on resourses and very good role play with the characters in this game its absolutly brilliant. 
 The concept of being able to be the king and have 6 characters before you with their own strengths 
 and weaknesses and speeches on how they as individuals are better for the job is fantastic tripple 
 thumbs up for me.
  i love the way weather effects the production of food, pne thing that really rocked my boat was 
 the fact that upon gathering food in some places there can be glitches where the deer will get 
 stuck on hills that are hard to reach maybe its just me but i've experianced it, also the time 
 in which it takes for these things to resporn is scarey because it can sometimes put you in deep 
 mooo ^.^ the game can go on for a while depending on if your the type of person who likes to wizz 
 through so i'm saying 40-100 hours :-P because i'm not one of them and its probably best to take 
 your time and play it.
  I defenitely made a good decision choosing this game and i got to go back to my friends and persuade 
 them to purchase it but my friends got and DS and one things for sure its not very good on there 
 at all and she found out the hard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J2TheB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  The Settlers Rise of an empire, is one of the most relaxing games I've played in a long time, It's 
 great to watch the little settlers going by their daily biz, and this is shown in great detail. 
 Although there is alot of familiar aspects, for eg. having to build outpost to get access to new 
 borders and the usual build and upgrade, build and upgrade etc.. 
  
  A cool new feature is the knights, before each mission you have to choose between 6 different knights, 
 each with their own unique abilities. Other than that building is much easier now.
  
  The disappointing things in this game is tthe graphical flaws and bugs, for eg. settings in the 
 video menu might change without you knowing, buildings might disappear when your in "follow settlers 
 mode" and things like this that kinda ruins some of the in-depth detail.
  
  Other than that this is a great settlers game, and I can't wait for an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavpaisley
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  This game was very easy to catch on to. I enjoyed the build up of the cities and the battle model 
 was easy to follow and control. A forgiving game that isn't likely to stump you or make you run 
 looking for a walk through. If you are looking for a real in depth challenging game with a long 
 learning curve then this is not for you. I was looking for something lite and easy to play and 
 this filled that spot nicely. I have a mediocre system and this game ran very well. well worth 
 the 40 bucks i payed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't call it a AAA title though in the same vein as other similar games. It's fun and can 
 become a bit addictive, but not to the point of keeping you up until all hours of the morning. 
 It's a very simple game with little depth, but really, you'd play the game just to relax and chill 
 out when you want a break from blowing alien and Korean soldiers away in Crysis. A word of warning 
 though: install the patches before you play the game.
  
  The sound isn't to bad, and the graphics are decent, especially at a microscopic level. It's sometimes 
 fun to just follow one of the NPCs around and watch them go about their daily duties. Warfare is 
 a simplistic exercise in clicking and letting animations work themselves out, and that's about 
 as complex as it gets when you have to bury your opponent. 
  
  Anno 1701 is a similat game, but at least their is a lot more depth to the management of resources.
 
  
  If you just want to relax a catch a couple of minutes of gaming, get yourself a copy of the game. 
 If you want some gaming that will stretch the gray matter, avoid The Settlers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olufsenus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Developers brought nice innovations to this release of The Settlers series. The presence of heroes, 
 rising in ranks as you build up the city and collect resources and expanding on the map by claiming 
 new territories sets you easily addicted to the game. Battles are far from the RTS games style, 
 but still fun to play. What was extremely bothering me is the save bug, that was crashing the game 
 after saving too many times due to some memory leaks causing bad allocation errors. Missions were 
 sometimes too hard to finish because of the unwise time limit quests, especially when saving system 
 is crippled and lack any kind of auto save feature. Story is also quite poor except for one surprising 
 event quite near the end of the game. All over a nice looking city management game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lighto0
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Good game to play on the first day you get it. But as you play more and more it gets boring because 
 at the start of every mission you NEED to rebuild your city. In campaign each mission is at least 
 an hour. Time consuming and at the end of the mission your city disappears. Takes too long to play 
 but it has a good storyline to it, the campaign. If you spend or devote time to play it, it is 
 a very good game, for the people who cannot handle the same gameplay that goes for an hour this 
 is not a game for you. Also this game is similar to Age of empires, and medieval 2 get those than 
 this. Settlers Rise Of An Empire is not as good as it is rated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I just want to point out that all those that say you can't speed up time are 
 talking utter rubbish. Bottom right corner of the screen theres a button that lets you speed the 
 game up by 2x or 3x. The game itself is pretty interesting. Lets make somethng clear, this is NOT 
 a combat RTS game. There is combat in it, but its very limited and not very fun to do. The game 
 revolves mainly around resource and people management and ill be honest I found the majority of 
 it pretty easy to keep on top of. As long as theres food and wood you can take care of pretty much 
 everything else without too much trouble. The missions are all pretty much the same. Overall theres 
 enough in it to keep a modest gamer interested but hardcore RTS players won't find enough substance 
 to keep them happy for long.
  
  Graphics are stunning but it sucks some serious system power to do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hectron
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  This could be difficult seeing as I haven't played a Settlers since number 3.....
  
  The Settlers: Rise of and Empire is one of those game genres you either love or hate - a city building 
 sim. ROAE takes place during the middle ages and you a king (or queen) are planning to expand your 
 empire and with that the first mission of the story mode kicks in as you choose a knight to carry 
 out each quest . The tutorial level is very helpful and makes you remember everything but as the 
 game progresses and you gain more knights naturally the missions become harder, and some more infuriating.
 
  
  Unfortunately, depending on how you look at it bits of the game are repetitive such as at the start 
 of each mission you get a briefing from your knights, then they argue it out as to who you should 
 choose and then you have to build the same buildings at the start of each mission but after that 
 things can change.
  
  Buying this game really depends on whether you like the city sim genre or are a fan of the series, 
 but buy it and play it.... it can become quite addictive.
  
  Hectron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimpratt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  The Setllers has been a part of my pc collection all the way and i have to say it is a classic 
 series till the last one came out. What a load of rubbish that went onto e bay within a month.
 
  So i was a little worried about this game but i watched trailer and then got the demo, i was suprised 
 to find i really enjoyed it.
  It was bright , funny and had a lot of charm to it.
  You can either play campaign where you play through various levels helping other villages from 
 bandits and rebels. You pick which captain you want to play as before each level which adds something 
 different on each level and choose wisely believe me it helps.
  This can become a bit stale though as you try to meet the demands of the mission and collect a 
 certain amount of sheep or cheese.
  The best is sandbox where you pick your map with various sizes and some are free to build with 
 only a few bandits to worry about or quests where you are given a task and there are full blooded 
 bad guys on these levels and can be challenging.
  Now the bad points, towards the middle/end of building your city the people go on strike a hell 
 of a lot and it will be for something like NO ENTERTAINMENT well excuse me mate there is a tavern 
 with beer right next to your shop?????? and baths across the road???? stop moaning and get on with 
 work.
  The battles are not good but i guess do have a certain charm. When your men run out of ammo and 
 you have to run all the way across the map back to reload and by time you return they have rebuilt 
 what you destroyed bugar.
  
  But its not a real time strategy in the usual sense just build sit back and watch your people live 
 out their lives. i have a good pc and when its run on full settings its beautiful and funny.
  It makes you laugh and cry and feel for your people what more can you ask for its my fav in the 
 series and hope maybe more is added in an expansion pack
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natria
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The Settlers II was a guilty pleasure for me. Yes it was repetitive and yes the combat was clumsy, 
 but it had a certain charm, humor and magic to it. The 6'th version does not. The Settlers: Rise 
 of an empire is a tedious run of the mill city builder with some pooly implemented RTS elements 
 added, in what looks like a misguided attempt to create a broader appeal.
  
  But both the builders and the warlords in the audience will find this title dreadful and dull. 
 Most of the ressource gathering have been automated, and you need no longer worry about getting 
 product X from A to be anymore. Building a wheatfarm and a bakery for one is now all that's needed 
 to create a steady foodsupply. You get a slight bonus for providing a more varied diet for your 
 settlers, but it's really not necessary.
  
  The simplification of the ressource gathering design frees up time for the player to do.. well 
 it's not really clear what you're supposed to do. TS: RoAE has added heroes kind of like the ones 
 in warcraft, but their primary purpose is not combat but rather exploring the map and running errands. 
 Mostly you'll be dispatching them to friendly neutral cities for trade. In order to buy supplies 
 from a neighbour, your hero has to be in the vicinity of their storehouse, and you can only buy 
 small ammounts of goods at a time. This means for instance if you don't have a steady supply of 
 the ressource, you'll be running your hero back and forth constantly which just feels like pointless 
 busywork.
  
  The combat while never the focal point of the series is worse than ever and inexcusable for a game 
 released in 2007. Unit AI is dreadful, the interface clumsy and combat boils down to left clicking 
 on whatever you want dead, and pray your soldiers won't stop attacking midfight.
  
  The campaign that comes with the TS: RoAE is decent, although it feels bland and the voice acting 
 is terrible. The worst flaw however is the fact that the game holds very little replay value. Because 
 of the misguided new static ressource node system, and neutral camps; there is no option for a 
 random map. This might be forgivable if the game at least came with a big pile of maps, but it's 
 barely a dozen.
  
  Bluebyte needs to either get back to their roots and rekindle the magic that was Settlers II, or 
 just abandon the series all together. Just like X-COM - this series get worse with every sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This RTS is about as generic and straight forward as you can get, but still managed to be fun.... while 
 it lasted.
  
  Graphics - Very nice for the genre, and the cutscenes were done well. Very detailed and well thought 
 out maps as well.... while it lasted.
  
  Gameplay - S-L-O-W in a big way... without a way to speed up time, this game dragged to the point 
 that watching tv took more effort than watching my city develop. The storyline was good, but I 
 never found a reason to try any of the other characters, and never found myself challenged. Overall 
 - As I said before... while it lasted... this game crashed my beefy system so many times that after 
 an entire night of playing a level, going in for the final battle and having it crash again, just 
 wasnt worth it. Going back and repeating an entire nights work just wasnt going to happen. Safe 
 to say I only made it about 80% of the way through the game and that was enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  With so many rts games it broke my heart when settlers heritage of kings changed the economy building 
 strategy game into just another rts. So I was pleased to hear that Rise of an Empire was returning 
 the game back to its roots. The game is different to the first four settlers and the city building 
 in my opinion is far more complex than first meets the eye. Unfortunately once you do manage to 
 suss out the most appropriate way to build your cities then the game looses its replay value. But 
 it was a pleasure to see that the game was not so rts orientated as its predecessor and the ability 
 to follow each of he settlers going about its daily life was added fun for a while. I completed 
 the game in 40 hours and felt satisfied with the overall experience. I wont replay the game but 
 will probably hold onto it awaiting any further expansions. Did not play multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  I cannot stop playing this thing, and yet it's one of those games where you just feel as if you're 
 the only person who's played it. And that's what it comes down to. When a Settlers game works, 
 it's because it is working on a personal level. You care about your little guys, you want them 
 to be happy, you want their town to look nice. There is some combat but, if you want that there 
 are plenty of other games out there for you!
  
  Now, strategy gamers will talk about how the point of the game was balancing an economy, but if 
 that sounds as boring to you as it does to me then it's the Settlers themselves who kept you coming 
 back. You didn't control the Settlers themselves, you just chose what buildings to put down and 
 where, but the Settlers were quick to swarm in and take care of the place. The joy of it all was 
 watching them go about their work. For instance: you put down a woodcutter's hut and join it up 
 to the castle with paths, and out will come a builder, little carriers to get the wood and such 
 to him, and eventually a little woodcutter. He then lives in his house, and you can watch him go 
 out and cut down wood, then he deposits the wood at the flag outside his house and carriers will 
 whisk it away for use on other buildings. Later you'll have a stone mason who you can watch cutting 
 stone with his little pick-axe, a forester who plants tiny trees, little knights with different 
 kinds of helmet who clash pixel-wide swords with enemies, and lots and lots of other Settlers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnozgonul
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  what i liked :
  i liked the festivals and trade system , more realistic
  been able to fallow a settler gives a unique way of perspective
  watching wild animals scareing 
 my settlers and threating my food sources was a improvement that i was hopeing for.
  the texture is better , its totaly worth playing
  
  what i didnt like:
  there isnt must different 
 units , as usual
  not all settlers jon the festival , hunters , miners , i gess it depends on the distance
  the 
 game gets slower when moveing around the map , but can be stoped with better hardware or lowering 
 the settings
  even if you kill all the enimals around a reigion they come back same speed , i tink
  wolfs do 
 not attack farm animals , as far as i notice
  cant use multiple heroes as the same time on the maps
  
  the things i didnt like are small 
 things , compared the game all other things , the game is still bets of a kind :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  The settlers for me has always been a game that has been existing in concept. The idea of managing 
 a city with a hint of fighting has always captivated my interest.
  
  But Alas This game falls short of filling the expectations i had about it. For starters The game 
 company that created settlers seem not to learn much about the problems they had in the previous 
 settler games. For example in almost every mission you have to build your city from scratch and 
 this means wasting several hours of game play just getting your city up and running. The combat 
 is as lame as it has ever been. Although a few new concepts and units have been added the game 
 still lacks the intercity of combat that you would like it to have. The focus of the game should 
 have been resource management but again the game falls short of providing a challenging enough 
 environment for gamers to really engage into. The graphics, animations and sound are all better 
 than the previous settlers. But its the game play that really puts this game down. What is most 
 surprising is that these errors were clearly visible in the previous settler games and have not 
 been corrected.
  
  All other aspects of the game are pretty much average leading to a score of 6.5. All in all if 
 you have been a fan of the settlers series then you should definitely try it out. Else its better 
 off trying out the demo first before launching your self into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagos76
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Although I have not quite finished the game I can safely write the following:
  The game is good and fun to play. Game play and shortcuts could use a little work and the scrolling 
 is almost terrible. Videos are nice and graphics are quite good. Voice acting is decent and leans 
 towards good, and the sounds and music add to the games overall experience.
  BUGS BUGS BUGS ......
  I am running the game on quite a powerful system (2 SLI linked 758Mb Nvidia 
 gc's Dual core Proc's etc) The game at ultra quality was very choppy and crashed quite a few times. 
 The patch did seem to adress some issues but Did NOTHING for the worst. FLASHING TERRAIN MAKES 
 the game almost completely unplayable. I managed to reduce the effect considerably by lowering 
 the resolution disabling Antialliasing, and tweaking with the rest of the advanced settings. It 
 reached a point where the flashing was not so bothersome, either cause I fixed it a bit or because 
 I got used to it. Unless they manage to fix this issue and improve the overall performance of the 
 game, it will have no replayability whatsoever. Multiplayer I have not managed to play at all since 
 living in Greece means that internet connections are not the best and the game beeing as buggy 
 as it is managed to drop my connection all 15 times I tried to enter a game.
  Finally I would like to say that the game is good and geard towards the right direction but companies 
 have to start realizing that they need some quality control before releash . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffcenate
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  this game doesnt seem too know what its about. is it a city builder? is it a war game? are we supposed 
 to spend all our playing time gawping at the animations of our little people? are we supposed too 
 be on a serious mission to accomplish something? playing for 30 ish hrs or so im still not sure.
 
  
  there is any number of ways this game could have gone and been , if not great, then atleast not 
 bad. but my feeling is that in trying to be so many different things to get as big a market as 
 possable, that it just fails at all of them.
  
  as a RTS 'war game' its horrible. you have swords-men and archers, with a few generic seige engines 
 tossed in for good measure. there is no possable way to use tactics of any kind in combat. its 
 just 'get there the fastest with the mostest ' to win. the idea of controlling segments of the 
 map was a nice idea, implimentation was horrible. if you do manage to capture an outpost all the 
 buildings in the segment are destroyed. not that that is a real problem since it takes about 8 
 seconds to build your OWN buildings in their place but ive yet to hear of any midevil warlord that 
 would totaly raze a chunk of land they intended to take over for their own use. most of the combat 
 in the game just makes no sense.
  
  as a city builder, well the best thing i can say is that the city kinda looks cool. the FIRST thing 
 that jumps into my mind is that your starting out with preset buildings that you cant move. so 
 instead of scouting a map and deciding for yourself the best place to start your city your stuck 
 with what ever location the game plunks you down at. the second thing that jumps out at me is the 
 total lack of information about basic city stats like how much of a given thing is to be consumed 
 by your present population so your left by trial and error to guess what you need to build more 
 (or less) of, is your two hunters huts enough for a population of 40? are they going to starve 
 this winter? or are you going to have a glut of meat instead? do you need more wheat farms to keep 
 your bakers working all winter? or are you just filling up valuable store house space with more 
 wheat that you can use in 5 years? just how many fields does 1 level 3 wheat farm need to be efficent? 
 do you build 2 fields? 3? 4? same goes for other food related buildings, how many fishing huts 
 do you need to keep a smoke house going without either a shortage or a back log? its all trial 
 and error. horrible.
  
  add to this the seeming random way that raw resources are either limited or unlimited and its gets 
 worse. trees seem to grow like weeds so you never run out of wood, on the other hand, stone. STONE 
 is limited. it can take a hunderd years to grow a good sized tree to replace the one you just choped 
 down , but rocks that are litteraly every place you look everywhere in the entire world are limited. 
 i could go on losts more but this is a good start on the basic flaws that make this game a waste 
 of money in the $50 range. the whole game just seemed to me to be a collection of 'wouldnt it be 
 cool if we did this' ideas all smashed together put in the microwave for 45 minuts and served on 
 a fresh bed of pickled cow toung. on paper it all sounds great , in practice its just trying to 
 be to many things at once and failing in ALL of them because of it. in the campaign your basicaly 
 driven into a combat situation in every mission, but the combat stinks. the city building is horrible 
 because your NOT building a city it more like your building a base just to churn out the millitary 
 units you need to get the green check mark on the random list of 'do this' crap you need to move 
 on to the next mission.
  
  i rated this a 5 simply because ive played some truly craptastic games in my life and this one 
 isnt QUITE that bad. but id certiany wate untill it drops to the $20 range max before id pick it 
 up. perhaps the worst thing in this games case is that no ammount of patching or expantions will 
 make it any better. the whole game is flawed from its basic foundation and there is no way to fix 
 it short of starting over from scratch. a typical patch might get rid of some of the bugs, but 
 it wont fix the basic nature of the game that is the true heart of the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickr3
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Its basically a rehash of every RTS game out there but with some improved graphics. The game play 
 is simplistic and the AI seems way too easy. With all the over games that have come out in this 
 same format (RTS) such as World in Conflict, I find it hard to play this game and really get into 
 the game play. I had much higher expecations and hopes than what the game delivered. Not sure if 
 the game or the scenarios could be improved to make it a more interesting game but it is not a 
 game I will be looking to get Settlers II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xerx
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics and sound, but very bad game play. Too simple for a Settlers game. The AI is dumb 
 as a brick and all scripted. The Storehouse, Castle and Church are all pre-placed and only have 
 one of them. All production (what little there is) passes through here making for each city you 
 make the same. Stalin would be ecstatic at this centralized planning. Military units are stupid. 
 Wolves will attack your citizens while they sit there and watch. Outpost is captured and all building 
 are destroyed. I am sorry to trash this game, but it is just dumbed down too much and completely 
 scripted AI is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The Settlers: Rise of an Empire is a mediocre yet pretty real time strategy game with solid city 
 building elements but it never quite reaches greatness due to its slim-downed features which results 
 in a game that does not decide what it wants to be exactly.-An RTS with combat elements or a city 
 building game? I've enjoyed myself so far but this game is limited by its lack of features as seen 
 in previous Settlers games liks say for instance leaving supplies at a spot from the store house 
 so that other settlers can pick them up and make the buildings much faster. Also, the combat elements 
 of the game are limited to a small few types of soldiers and simply clicking on the enemies to 
 attack. 
  
  We all know The Settlers series has been floundering but this game is a testament that Blue Byte 
 may finally have the pulse of gamers on its mind and will in the future only improve and bring 
 the game to greatness. Or, it could continue to perform at a mediocre rate and pump out lackluster 
 efforts only hardcore loyal fans will enjoy. Sorry, I kind of feel jipped out of my hard-earned 
 $50 since the game is so repetitous that 3-4 skrimish games will make you feel like you have played 
 all there is too play in the game. What does a developer need to make a good series continue?-Not 
 radically changing it, just articulating everything in terms of detail and making it deeper yet 
 sometimes developers will try completely different things which will alienate the core audience 
 altogether. The older style actually gave the Settlers series an identity and it would have worked 
 had it been done in a more detailed and deeper fashion.
  
  Blue Byte has turned out another average game which entertains one for a few hours but ultimately 
 falls way too short of the competition in terms of features list and replayability. This PC game 
 is a stinker if you realize you cannot take it back or trade it in. Its sitting on my shelf and 
 I have uninstalled it and sometimes I sit staring at the box thinking how cool it could have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  As a long standing Settlers fan, I was excited to get my hands on this latest sequel to the series.
 
  
  At first glance it looked like a very nice graphically appealing city builder and economic strategy 
 game; much like its predecessors.
  
  The characters in the first couple Settlers irritated me because of their giant heads and disproportionate 
 bodies but beyond that they were awesome games clear down to the micromanagement level. So the 
 latest Settlers having more realistic characters and NPCs was a nice touch. The economic system 
 is still strong, but has some major let downs (see below) .
  
  The combat system seems revamped which was nice, but gets repetitious after a while.
  
  The 
 main let down is the removal of the best parts of previous Settlers which is the massive amount 
 of micromanagement and building you had to do to play the game.
  
  ROAE seems like it was an attempt to draw a wider player base by totally dumbing down the economic 
 system and focusing more on mediocre questing and less on what vets of the series loved the most. 
 Building, managing, and conquering through skill.
  
  The second thing that bothered me was the totally linear way in which you upgrade common buildings. 
 Three upgrade levels; almost ALL cost just wood; and ALL upgrades do the exact same things. Productivity, 
 speed and more speed.
  
  The graphics are descent but the audio is repetitive. The game also has a way of bringing even 
 high end gaming rigs (like my own) to a low frame rate especially when having multiple territories 
 out of the fog of war.
  
  Maybe they will get it right in the next edition and hopefully bring back the Settlers roots with 
 micromanagement and less babysitting of the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iorya
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The latest Settlers - Rise of an Empire, was a pleasant surprised to me. I missed a good city builder 
 with great graphics, and nice, easy to get in game play. Managing your cities and watching how 
 they grow is a pretty addictive and achievement moment for any player that like this type of game. 
 On this installment of the settlers, things got easier on some parts and are more clearer, also 
 the graphics are great, and with the concept of the original settler. On my e6750 dual core, and 
 8800 gts 320 mega, 2 GB Ram, didn't crashed or lagged on full details, as usable gamespot editors, 
 have no idea on hardware, at least some of them: P
  
  It a good game, but needs a better combat, even if is an improvement to the old one, and some more 
 choices on diplomacy, and a few changes on territory control, the rest is pretty darn nice.
  
  Enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphalegion
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I wasted 9 hours of my life on this game trying to burn down the enemy. Assaulting the enemy castle 
 itself took me 3 hours, in the end the game freeze and I had to restart the computer. THIS happened 
 in just one skirmish and I don't want to try out anymore. I had been a fan since the 3rd settlers 
 installment spending only 20min-3hours to finish one mission. The soldiers back then was more flexible, 
 now you need to GET TORCHES TO DESTROY BUILDINGS. The buildings in the enemy castle is a pain to 
 destroy, as soon as you damage it two-three guys comes over and repair it faster than you can destroy. 
 VERY UNREALISTIC AND TIME CONSUMING. I WILL NEVER PLAY THIS AGAIN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nnrona
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I have only completed most of the Single Player campaign in the game's retail version thus I cannot 
 partake in commenting on the Skirmish / Online part of the game. This simulation packs endless 
 hours of pure fun for those who love watching their virtual settlement grow and prosper.
  
  Both the video animations, music and sound effects will please the medieval enthusiasts in anyone. 
 The map changes in climates as well, indicating the different seasons and giving additional challenges 
 to the player (eg. Would you trade excess meat, fish, honey, etc for gold or would you save those 
 for your city when the long harsh winter or when the long summer drought sets in?) . The biggest 
 drawbacks so far in the game are not being able to reinforce or upgrade or even supply your armies 
 (even the battles may seem to be too simplistic for an RTS player) and not having enough time in 
 the day to play the game, HAHAHAH. Bottomline: I personally think that this game is arguably the 
 best in the Settlers Series ... One will likely get disappointed with the simple battle mechanism 
 but this game is not really an RTS and should not be criticized as one ... If you like Tactical 
 RTS type of game, then pick World in Conflict / Company of Heroes / Total War / C&amp; C / Rise 
 of Nations ... Although necessary, the game focuses more on buiding a thriving settlement than 
 going the militaristic approach. And this game does just that. And it does it VERY WELL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  ... I have no idea... It has almost nothing in common with what defines The Settlers
  
  The game itself has lots of potential, unfortunately it doesn't use it. Here's a breakdown on why 
 I don't like it:
  
  
  
  If this game had a more advanced economy system (more like in the earlier Settlers game) it would 
 be great. I really miss buildings like the workwork, gold and iron mint, mines (that you build 
 yourself... I miss sending out geologies to find out what's hidden in the mountain) , etc. If the 
 game had this I would have upped the score by 2
  
  
  The game has no AI, everything is 100% scripted. Being a SP person myself, this destroys the game. 
 If the game had a decent AI (hell any AI would do) the score would be 1,5 - 2 higher The SP campaign 
 is extremely stupid. The Tournament mission is the worst mission I've ever played in any RTS game 
 to date (the story is a joke, the difficulty is non-existent and it doesn't make sense for the 
 greater campaign story) . I normally don't care about story, but since there's no AI the story is 
 the only thing this game has got. Because of this the game gets - 0,5 in score
  
  
  I have now played about 12 missions in the campaign and so far the game has been extremely easy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newyorkskier18
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  What a game, just picked up my copy and Im fairly impressed so far. The demo got quite boring after 
 a few days, so we will see if the replay value holds true for the actual game. Detail is a huge 
 part of this game, there is so many things going on at one time, and its fun just to sit back and 
 watch. The changing of the season's is also quite interesting, the interface comes with an option 
 to check what month your in what you can grow, and when the water will be freezing (cant fish) . 
 I know the game was just released, but I do think there should be more building options. I will 
 add a more in-depth review after I play the game for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoavA
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  What I especially liked about The Settlers: Rise of an Empire (S: RoE from now on) is the detail. 
 Evey settler, sheep, house and grain of wheat is drawn to the tiniest details, so it's fun just 
 zooming in and watching the settlers dance.
  The idea of the game is pretty revolutionary (for those who didn't play the rest of the series, 
 take me for example) . It includes an interesting base building mechanism, which requires you to 
 build a couple of structures to gather every single resource (of which there are many, such as 
 wheat, deer, gold, lumber and some 20 more) . To gain access to better structures, such as soup 
 merchants, you will need to upgrade your hero.
  heroes are the main characters who will guide you through the storyline. As your city gets bigger, 
 they will be able to gain level and turn from knight, to sheriff, to baron and so forth.
  
  The UI is pretty innovative, yet the learning carve is steep; I'd estimate a 4-5 good hours for 
 learning all the aspects of this game, Including the technology trees.
  
  One problem with this game though is that it's repetitive: after a few hours of play I found myself 
 using the very same strategies in awkwardly very similar missions. The second problem is the Specs: 
 you will need a pretty strong pc to get the most out of this game.
  
  All-in-all, S: RoE is a fun game, yet it's complexity and repetitity will only appeal to more novice 
 gamers.
  
  
  Sorry for my poor english :) it's not my native language 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elven82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  When Settlers V has been made I was disappointed: Ubisoft had realized a game that had more to 
 do with Age of Empires that with the purely economic-managerial spirit of the preceding Settlers. 
 Everything was focused on the production of troops and also the buildings as the Meteorological 
 Machine served for helping or to hinder the troops, while there were not effects on the economy.
 
  
  With this new chapter we do a step back, and the origins of the game are revalued.
  
  It is not, obviously, a game photocopy: the Blue Byte changed a lot of things, from the resources 
 produced to the needs, from the buildings to the introduction of the heroes, but the base is 
 always the same. A kingdom must have a solid economy. The battles, however present, are only a 
 contour, and it is correct and realistic that it be this way.
  
  The graphic is well made and we can find a lot of those things that characterize the precedents 
 games as the small furry creatures, as the bunnies, that wander for the map, and at the same time 
 enjoy of new elements that actively participate at the game as wild animals that interact with 
 the settlers, for example wolves and bears.
  
  The interface is clear and is not difficult to take familiarity with the keys or the mouse, even 
 if in effects to have certain results you needs to remember some non immediate combinations of 
 keys, and sounds and music succeed in involving the player.
  
  About the gameplay, there are various changes, that if on one side they make some things most realistic, 
 from the other they simplify the game: if, in fact, on one side he focus a lot on the marketplace 
 and on the economy of primary goods for the citizens, from the other some interesting dynamics 
 of the preceding games are ignored.
  
  I speak, for example, of the forester from previous games, that planted the trees for the woodcutter 
 and that has disappeared the trees rise spontaneously, and at unnatural speed.
  
  Equally they are had some resources that are centralized in some defined points and they don't 
 cover vast areas, as it was for the stone, or for the iron. The mountains in fact are inaccessible 
 now, while in the precedents games were devoted to the construction of the mines and so also the 
 dear geologists disappear. Or still the game, that lives and reproduces only in some parts of the 
 map and it seems endless, while before the player was often forced to move his own hunter to look 
 for new preys in the map, and it was only a poor substitute of resources renewable to build as 
 soon as possible, as the farms and the breedings.
  
  Its obvious that keep everything would have made the game extremely complex, almost unplayable 
 (for most players) , but the nostalgic ones will drop a little tear (fortunately we still have 
 The Settlers II: 10th Anniversary)
  
  Despite everything there are however new challenges and, if the untrained settlers and the tools 
 have disappeared, there are the new sanitary goods and the religion as the entertainment with 
 theaters and tavern.
  
  What it misses a bit, is the humor that had characterized the III and IV. A shame, because it had 
 brought some diversion in a game that, for its own nature, its potentially inclined to the too 
 much serious if not to the boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  One word guys, scrolling.
  
  Move the mouse pointer to the edge of the screen, and get lucky:
  If you managed to hit the edge 
 at some pixel already populated by one of the numerous pop-up windows, the game won't scroll at 
 all.
  
  Even if it did, you will most likely encounter the first choppy frames since starting this game 
 up.
  
  And even if this does not bother you, there is still the problem of stopping the scolling already. 
 Chances are your mouse pointer wandered off inside a pop-up. Guess what? Yeah, infinite scrolling!
 
  
  Of course things are not THAT bad since noone is stopping you from scrolling by using the middle 
 mouse button and fooling around.
  
  Erm... wrong. That middle mouse button should be renamed after some god of Lag for once, and it 
 should be noted that it does not stop moving while scrolling, so you end up hitting menue pixels 
 as described above more often than not.
  
  Cursor keys do work however. Yes, really. Much too slow to keep up with the action, but this is 
 one rare opportunity the developers of this game did not mess up with totally.
  
  So, how to review Settlers VI? I ended up with that easy little aspect of scrolling, but be assured 
 there are more aspects hindering you from immersing into a beautiful coloured and animated virtual 
 life than allowing it.
  
  As for me, i deinstalled it after about 5 hours of boredom, thinking about replaying through the 
 old Anno games instead. Back in the times where we had great great games just hindered by the internet 
 which was non-existant then for patching.
  
  Not that i think about a wonder patch bringing this failed abonimation to live duty of course as 
 it does not bite in contrast to what developer Blue Bytes wants you to suspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Yet another good RTS in this year! this game brings to us some old and new functions of Settlers 
 series with improved graphics and good game play this game earns its right to
  be in the collectors edition. I mean for people who loves fun, slow pace games. This games don; t 
 have a bit explosions or nukes or blood or gore
  so you can easily pick it you for your kids ( if you have any lol ) or play it with your parents 
 now and then... ( if they still stand you lol )
  ofcores this game suffers from minor bogs... but what new game don't hopefully a patches will come 
 a long soon..
  
  so my finale word if you looking for just fun game to play in a family environment next to the 
 chrisms tree lol then you should get this game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is fairly solid from what I have seen so far. I experienced no bugs throughout the entire 
 campaign, though as of yet I have been unable to connect online. The levels are fairly fun and 
 it does a good job of keeping to the Settlers archetype of building a city, satisfying needs, and 
 beating up your enemies. However, there were a few things I disliked about the game. First off, 
 the campaign scenarios do not really mesh very well together. It mostly seems like they made a 
 bunch of separate scenarios and tried to fit a storyline to them. Secondly, the game is a little 
 too serious. When I think of the first 4 Settlers games I think of the goofy graphics of the characters, 
 and there being humorous parts. This game goes a little back to the slightly more goofy looking 
 characters (as opposed to the hardcore look in Settlers 5) , however, it never gave you anything 
 to laugh at, and they had tons of opportunities. One aspect that is kind of cool is the fact that 
 you can choose a different Knight for each scenario and your pool of knights grow as the game progresses. 
 Overall, I found it fun, however, not quite up to par with the first 4 games, though an improvement 
 over the 5th. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wep
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  This is the first settlers game I've ever played, and I'm enjoying it very much.
  The medieval setting is very well ambiented using excellent voice acting and music, the graphics 
 are very very colorful and full of tiny details.
  Is not very flexible in gameplay terms, a more creative free sand-box mode could be much better.
 
  So ...
  
  Graphics: as I said very detailed gameworld and good animation. Good resolution support and rock 
 solid frame rate.
  
  Sound: Well made and fun sound effects, terrific medieval music.
  
  Gameplay: Very good UI with clear icons and easy to use
  
  Online / Network: both LAN and 
 Ubisoft server are very lag free and fun, online modes not sooo good but they are ok.
  
  That game worth a try indeed!! Very deep economical system and cool and detailed graphics (again) . 
 I want to see a expansion coming 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
