-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simsunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,714 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Sep 23, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've ever enjoyed The Sims at least a little, you'll probably find Unleashed to be a worthwhile 
 add-on. 

 The Sims has experienced incredible success and popularity and has also given rise to no fewer than 
 five expansion packs. The latest of these is The Sims: Unleashed, which adds several major features 
 to the original Sims game, including household pets, gardening, and new outdoor lots to explore, 
 build, and furnish, plus new career paths and plenty of new objects with which to decorate your 
 sims' homes and the various lots they can visit. The core game -- and its various problems -- is definitely 
 starting to show its age, but if you've ever enjoyed The Sims at least a little, you'll probably 
 find Unleashed to be a worthwhile add-on.           Sims can adopt pets at the new pet store.  
   

  The most obvious addition Unleashed makes to the core game of The Sims is household pets. The new 
 game lets you adopt cats, dogs, parrots, turtles, or lizards and train them, feed them, and even 
 enter them into pet shows to win prizes based on how well you've trained them. While pets don't 
 radically change the way you play The Sims, they're implemented extremely well. You don't have 
 as much control over your pets as you have over your sims, so you can't micromanage every aspect 
 of their behavior (you can't tell your pet cat to go to sleep, even if it's tired, for instance) , 
 but contrary to what you might expect, you don't have to worry about them too much, either. If 
 your pet puppy is bored, it will chase its tail to amuse itself; if it's hungry, it will sit up 
 and beg at your sims, at which point you can order your sims to fill up their pet's food dish. 
 Pets also add a few new options to social interaction. For instance, if your sims and their neighbors 
 are cat lovers, they can discuss cats and become better friends -- but if you don't like your sims' 
 neighbors, you can order your dog to attack them.   

  Unleashed also adds new gardening features to The Sims. You can buy and place farmland plots in 
 your backyard, buy a scarecrow, and plant crops, and, if you're tired of using the game's standard 
 career paths, you can make your sims farmers by having them buy seeds in the new Old Town gardening 
 shops, then plant the seeds and carefully tend the farmland to grow crops. If your sims get especially 
 good at being farmers, they can not only support themselves, but also bring their crops to market 
 in Old Town and make a modest living for themselves. Or, if you prefer, you can choose a traditional 
 career path, or one of the game's five new paths, though these all generally play out the same 
 way that other careers do -- you find an ad for the job, go to work each day, and, based on your 
 sims' abilities, you eventually get promoted up through 10 levels with increased pay and modified 
 hours.   

  Unleashed adds several new houses and lots to visit in the adjacent Old Town neighborhood, including 
 pet stores, a farmer's market, and shopping centers. As with Hot Date, your sims can visit these 
 areas at any time by calling for transportation out of their houses -- where Hot Date had taxi cabs, 
 The Sims: Unleashed has neighborhood trolleys. And just like in the Hot Date and Vacation expansions, 
 you can build, rebuild, and modify each of these new lots to your heart's content with a host of 
 new objects and shops. If you've got all the previous expansions, you'll have eight identical neighborhoods 
 to explore, modify, and tweak, which should give fans of custom-built areas lots more material 
 to play with. The expansion also adds a number of new furnishings for your sims' homes, including 
 play areas, food dishes, and bedding for your pets and a new pantry item for sims who wish to be 
 farmers.   

  The Sims: Unleashed looks and sounds about as good as you might expect it to. The Sims' graphical 
 engine is definitely showing its age, and your sims themselves look as blocky as ever, though Unleashed's 
 new character animations are just as amusing and expressive as those in the original game, especially 
 when your sims play with their pets. Fortunately, The Sims sounds just as good as ever in Unleashed: 
 The game has new music tracks that are uniformly good; the sims themselves still speak the same 
 sort of expressive gibberish, or "simlish"; and the expansion's lyrics, which are also in simlish, 
 and the new sound effects (for pets and for cooing, doting sims) all sound great.           You'll 
 still have trouble getting everyone to do the same thing at the same time.    

  Unfortunately, like all of the previous expansion packs, Unleashed doesn't so much as bother to 
 try to fix the core game's problems. As has been the case for the past two years, the in-game camera 
 scrolls extremely sluggishly. And as usual, the game's pacing is still erratic. Unless you're content 
 to leave your sims alone and watch them, you'll find yourself constantly pausing, speeding up, 
 and slowing down the game to make sure that you can get your sims to do everything that you want 
 them to and that all their needs are met. That's because just as before, an unhappy sim is generally 
 a useless sim -- if you want your sims (and your pets) to do anything interesting other than being 
 miserable or dying outright, you need to constantly baby-sit them to make sure they've been fed, 
 that they're entertained and well rested, and that they have easy access to a nearby bathroom. 
 Constantly baby-sitting your sims in Unleashed can be even more frustrating because the expansion 
 makes no attempt to fix The Sims' poor pathfinding, either. Unless they have wide-open spaces, 
 your sims will still have an inordinate amount of trouble getting from point A to point B; they'll 
 still occasionally stop and turn around in place repeatedly to talk to someone standing right next 
 to them; and they'll still "forget" any orders you've queued up for them if they can't get past 
 the chair that's in front of them. It's true that the Unleashed expansion pack never set out to 
 fix The Sims' core problems -- none of the other expansions did either -- but after all this time, 
 these minor problems seem at least as annoying as ever.   

  The worst thing about these problems is that they keep you from doing all the interesting new things 
 you want to be doing in The Sims: Unleashed -- playing with or training your pets, building up a 
 garden, or taking your family out for a trip to town. You could say that expansion packs for The 
 Sims have become formulaic -- that they all add a great deal of new content without really fixing 
 any of the original game's flaws -- but if you're a fan of The Sims, you'll probably end up enjoying 
 Unleashed as much as the previous expansions.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in the Sims: unleashed is really great, it has new gameplay features that increase 
 the replay value for the game. The main new feature for the game is pets that you can get in the 
 new old town. Old town increases the size of the neighbourhood from the old games. Old town includes: 
 pet stores, a farmer's market, and shopping centres. Unleashed adds new gardening features to The 
 Sims. You can buy and place farmland plots in your backyard, buy a scarecrow, and plant crops, 
 if you're tired of using the game's standard career paths, you can make your sims farmers by having 
 them buy seeds in the new Old Town gardening shops, then plant the seeds and tend the farmland 
 to grow crops. If your Sims gets good at being farmers, they can support themselves, but also bring 
 their crops to market in Old Town and sell them and make a living. The Sims: unleashed adds 5 new 
 careers which is now 50 new jobs for your Sims. The new job includes: Animal Care, Culinary, Circus, 
 Fashion and education. Overall the gameplay in the Sims: unleashed is a really good and new features 
 add great gameplay features to the game.
  
  Graphics
  The Sims' graphics engine is definitely showing its age, and your sims themselves look no different 
 for the first game, Unleashed new character animations are just as amusing and expressive as those 
 in the original game, especially when your sims play with their pets.
  
  Sound
  The Sims sounds good in Unleashed: The game has new music tracks that are nice to listen to; the 
 sims themselves still speak the same sort of expressive gibberish, or "simlish"; the new sound 
 effects (for pets and for your sims) all sound great.
  
  Value
  The Sims unleashed value is good, the new features adds some value to the game and so do the pets. 
 Overall the value for the Sims: unleashed is good and adds great new features to keep you playing.
 
  
  Overall experience
  Overall the Sims: unleashed is ok but some of the problems that have been in the last few games. 
 The problems do get in the way sometimes but don't spoil the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoncub
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Of course, you really need to be a fan of the series to enjoy this (you also need the original 
 Sims game, or Sims Deluxe) , but if you are, it is most enjoyable.
  
  You now can look after pets! Real ones too, not just some fish or guinea pig (if you have Livin' 
 Large) . However, the excitement of having a pet quickly diminishes as you are faced with having 
 to look after it.
  
  When you adopt a cat or dog, you may choose their gender and breed. In real life you'd choose them 
 because they are friendly and gentle, on the Sims that just doesn't happen. Instead, bars are awarded 
 at random  if you're unlucky, you'll get something with hardly any points. If you are, well, good 
 on you. I kept quiting to the neighborhood and reloading until I got a pet with at LEAST average 
 points.
  After you get a pet, there's a rush of having to look after them. Loud pets wake you up when you 
 nap, while quiet ones tend to slink away. Grouchy pets snap and guests and deny contact, while 
 friendly ones will always want more and get steadily upset as you can't provide it. Lazy and playful, 
 slow and smart, independent and loyal. I found the ideal pet was high in all stats but friendly 
  then the were perfect without demanding attention, and more likely to successfully drive away 
 a raccoon or skunk (find out for yourself) although the later still... well, kicked up a stink.
 
  
  Unfortunately, even if you don't adopt a pet, your yard will be littered with strays who think 
 your lawn is a public restroom. As soon as you move in, get a Hydrant for dogs (Decorations, Other) 
 and a Litter box (Other, Pets) so they won't mess your lawn. Alternatively, you can download the 
 free (and, in-game, much cheaper) Stray Away pet deter. Works wonders. However, if you use the 
 former method, then you can go out to pat the strays if you're lonely (it's often good to include 
 a full Pet PlaCater too) .
  
  Although it may sound like I'm listing all the BAD things of Sims Unleashed, I'm really just drawing 
 your attention to things you need to consider  in reality, this game is great. New objects, interactions, 
 and a center for shopping! You can even plant your own garden to put in a pantry and, if you don't 
 have the skills for a job, have a farm and earn you living that way by going to Old Town back to 
 sell the grown vegetables! Note though, you can't collect seeds from your produce, you have to 
 buy more.
  
  All in all, this is a great addition, if only it didn't lose that New Feel so quickly.
  
  A 
 last recommendation, www. thesimsresource. com provides excellent skins for your new pets and old 
 Sims. Even Sims 2 stuff if you're looking to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxR0gu3Go0sexX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  They added some new stuff into this game (Like dogs and cats and a bunch of other pets to pick 
 up at the pet store) , but its still nothing that we have not already played.
  
  The pets are a nice add on, but theres nothing to really do with them... they don't really look 
 like dogs and they could have added a lot into them (Like what type of dog they were)
  
  This game still plays just like all other Sim games and there is no story nor any real goal.
 
  
  It gets old fast, just like all other Sims games...
  
  If you already have some sim games I don't know why you would want this one, but if you really 
 (REALLY) love animals then this game could be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) Now I can add my pets to my Sim family! When I first started playing this 
 game I got addicted. I loved the graphics and how I could control almost all aspects of my Sims 
 life. The modding community is spectacular and you can find just about everything you could imagine 
 to add to the game. The characters actually talk so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. 
 There's a lot of stuff you can buy for your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. 
 You can hire people and you can pick from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination 
 with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Unleashed is spectacular. Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly 
 fun. If you have a PC, (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great 
 series with many hours to let your imagination run wild in.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  This is another good addon to the Sims game because if you love pets like I do (I also own a dog) 
 you will get your fill. This game also adds several new carrears to pick from and several new neighborhoods 
 so you can have more neighbors and more places to live in. The graphics are ok, the sounds are 
 good, and the gameplay is good. I would reccomend buying this game if you are a fan of the Sims, 
 if you like or a pet, or if you want something new added on to your Sims game. This is something 
 I used to dream about when I first got the Sims is what it would be like to own pets and now that 
 dream has come true with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Your Sims can now have pets. Dogs or Cats can be adopted and are added as family members. Budggies 
 can be bought and placed in new bird cage objects. And Fish can be bought and put in Fish Bowls 
 or Fish Tanks. You can also buy a talking parrot in the cattalogue. You can feed it a cracker and 
 talk to it to gain charisma. 
  
  But back to cats and Dogs. You can addopt Cats, Dogs and all the rest by going down to, well, going 
 up to Uptown or Community lots that are featured in the new massive neighbourhood. 
  
  You can also get Gothic Style Candle and mask shops. Or jazzy new york style cafes with the guy 
 on the sax who tries to get on your nerves by following you arround and getting you stuck in the 
 public bathroom. (yeah thats right, stuck, it happened to me twice!) . 
  
  This is another review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The Sims : Unleashed was when The Sims entered the world of pets. This was a fantastic thing to 
 do and The Sims has benefited a lot by doing this. This expansion includes a lot. This expansion 
 gives you loads of neighbourhood options. The whole area becomes a lot bigger and you can there 
 are still the same amount of neighbourhoods. The community lot was come into effect in this expansion 
 and that is where you can go to meet up with people and just sit down for a coffee if that is all 
 you want. You can go shopping and this includes buying pets. The graphics and sound are basically 
 the same but the original was good so that is good also. The Sims : Unleashed I can remember so 
 well because I usually bring across this game into my life more times than so many other games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  It's a nice little add on and you could do with it, or without it, either way if you want this 
 then nab it. It's cheap, but it's an add on, if you want pets and 20 odd more items, bigger neighbourhoods 
 and a town square thing then fork out some money, if not then don't bother.
  
  Gameplay: With the little animals settle in your pad to live with you it makes the gameplay a bit 
 more exciting and with more houses, The Sims is sure to become that bit more addictive.
  
  Graphics: Same as The Sims, usually, although the animals look nice, which for a start is very 
 good.
  
  Sound: A few more tracks to add to an already unbearable soundtrack and but the little animal noises 
 gives this an extra mark.
  
  Value: Get it if you want bigger neighbourhoods, items, towns and of course those animals but you 
 could live without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  The Sims Unleashed is one of the many expansion packs for the best selling PC game of all time 
  The Sims, and needless to say, this has been the most awaited expansion so far. Coming in a set 
 of 2 CDs, Unleashed gives you the opportunity to add a furry friend to your life.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Sims legacy (have you been living under a rock all this time!) , The 
 Sims is a game based on an innovative and interesting concept. It lets you control people. You 
 choose a family, take on their daily lives, right from getting up in the morning, going to work, 
 attending parties till the end of the day. The cycle continues and the game keeps track of your 
 Sims happiness in several broad categories. The Sims has already had 5 expansion packs, which 
 added new objects, careers, events, faces, families and a new Downtown area and a beautiful Vacation 
 Island to your existing neighbourhood. Unleashed builds on the tradition and adds an Old Town 
 to your neighbourhood, which consists of new houses, families, shopping malls and community centres. 
 Unleashed also gives you the opportunity to adopt a pet. It adds a nice selection of pets including 
 cats, dogs, canaries and more. The old town has a Pet adoption centre which enables you to. 
 duh  adopt a pet!! These pets have a mind of their own and cant really be controlled by you, 
 but you can give them orders using your sim. You can teach your pet amazing tricks and take it 
 to the pet show, where it might even land up as the winner! All depends on how well you train it, 
 and there are experts at the adoption centre that will instruct you on this. Taking constant care 
 of your pets, however, is not as easy as it seems. There are times when you get annoyed with your 
 pet for littering up the house, and that doesnt augur well for you and your pet. Like other family 
 members, pets also need their share of social attention, and that is not easy, I can assure you! 
 
  
  Thats not all in Unleashed. There are also plenty of new objects and new families to interact 
 with. You can invite your friend down to the Old Town in the Town Shuttle Service. There are plenty 
 of areas awaiting exploration, and the game guarantees several fun filled hours with your sim.
 
  
  If you think this is the perfect game, think again. There are a few niggling problems which have 
 been there since the original. The path finding in this game has never been too great, and it sometimes 
 leaves you absolutely frustrated. Theres no Active calendar management system in the game, i. e., 
 theres no record of the date and day in the game. Its all about ending of one day and beginning 
 of another. No weekends, no holidays and no novelty. This is one of the reasons why the game tends 
 to become a bit repetitive after some time. 
  
  All in all, if you played the original and liked it, well, what are you waiting for? If you dont 
 have the original but are keen on experimenting, I suggest you first get the Deluxe edition (The 
 Sims + Livin Large expansion) , and if you like it, go all out for this one. Mind it, though, this 
 game is terribly addictive!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  You could go downtown and find love, you could go on holiday, you could throw massive parties, 
 and now, you can get pets, what more ould anyone ask for. This truely makes the sims complete, 
 i cant think of anything else they could add to make it better without going over the top. The 
 fact in this game you can buy a pet ranging from a turtle to a dog is awesome. There isnt just 
 one breed of cat or dog either, thers lots. To make this game even better it adds new furniture, 
 although most of it is animal associated its still a bonus. If you were a fan of the original sims 
 you should deffinitely get this game. If you have any questions about this game or any others i 
 have reviewed please feel free to send me a message and ill get back to you ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguboo97
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Thought this was definately the best of the Sims games, as there was quite a lot to do compared 
 to other Sims games which i got bored of after a few days. The best part of this was being able 
 to make your own shops which wasn't available in the original Sims, I could spend hours just doing 
 that but I'm easily amused lol. The pets also look very cute and breeding them is fun, however 
 when you have lots of animals that look exactly the same it gets slightly confusing and playing 
 it gets a bit annoying beyond that point. 
  I've played for hours and i love it, I don't see myself getting bored of it anytime soon and its 
 much better value for money than the games you get which are 30-50 and you can't play for anywhere 
 near as long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Okay, so now the Sims have Pets. Great. Add to that a few more objects for your pe as well as the 
 owner to enjoy, and you got a nice little expansion.
  
  First you have to go out and buy yourself a pet. That means, MORE NEW LOTS TO EXPLORE! Yup that's 
 right. There is a new lot where you can buy you animals as well as some toys for them. From pet 
 treats, collars and toy bones. It's great. Your pet gets to hang out with some other pets as well.
 
  
  You can choose from a rage of cats and dogs. You can get a parrot or a Lizard or a Turtle. It gives 
 your lonely Sim a lot of social point having them around.
  
  The only problem is the pets have a tendency to be extremely messy. They pee all over the place 
 and neighbouring pets come over and pee all over everything. It is also frustrating getting stray 
 animals coming into your lot ever so often. 
  
  But putting all that aside, I am really impressed by the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The sims unleashed is a cute little add-on that makes the original sims even better. Now, after 
 a long time, your sims can finally spend some of those hard urned cash and buy their very own faithful 
 companions. 
  The sims unleashed features the dog, cat, bird, fish, turtle, reptile, parat, and it has a all 
 new petshop to buy your pets their favorite treats. You get to train your pets, groom them, pet 
 them, and even enter them in contests.
  So, even if you slightly liked the original sims, the sims unleashed will be a nice expansion for 
 you and your sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  If you are looknig for a good PC game, here it is. Any sims games are great but this one especially. 
 You can create your own player with more detail then before which i really enjoyed. You can build 
 your house better, wtih much more to put in your house. And of course hte best thing ever in a 
 sims game is that this time you can own a pet! Yep you heard me right a PET!. You can pick from 
 a  and a couple others. And in this perticular Sims game you can 
 also go different places besides your house. Like cafes, parks, stores and other places too. You 
 can do a bunch more in this Sims game then you could in most of the others. Its got ok graphics, 
 good sound, and pretty good overall. And you can keep on going in your family which is awesome. 
 So come on and get Sims UNleashed for your PC and have a BLAST!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Unleashed is one of the many expansion packs for the best selling PC game of all time 
  The Sims, and needless to say, this has been the most awaited expansion so far. Coming in a set 
 of 2 CDs, Unleashed gives you the opportunity to add a furry friend to your life.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Sims legacy (have you been living under a rock all this time!) , The 
 Sims is a game based on an innovative and interesting concept. It lets you control people. You 
 choose a family, take on their daily lives, right from getting up in the morning, going to work, 
 attending parties till the end of the day. The cycle continues and the game keeps track of your 
 Sims happiness in several broad categories. The Sims has already had 5 expansion packs, which 
 added new objects, careers, events, faces, families and a new Downtown area and a beautiful Vacation 
 Island to your existing neighbourhood. Unleashed builds on the tradition and adds an Old Town 
 to your neighbourhood, which consists of new houses, families, shopping malls and community centres. 
 Unleashed also gives you the opportunity to adopt a pet. It adds a nice selection of pets including 
 cats, dogs, canaries and more. The old town has a Pet adoption centre which enables you to. 
 duh  adopt a pet!! These pets have a mind of their own and cant really be controlled by you, 
 but you can give them orders using your sim. You can teach your pet amazing tricks and take it 
 to the pet show, where it might even land up as the winner! All depends on how well you train it, 
 and there are experts at the adoption centre that will instruct you on this. Taking constant care 
 of your pets, however, is not as easy as it seems. There are times when you get annoyed with your 
 pet for littering up the house, and that doesnt augur well for you and your pet. Like other family 
 members, pets also need their share of social attention, and that is not easy, I can assure you! 
 
  
  Thats not all in Unleashed. There are also plenty of new objects and new families to interact 
 with. You can invite your friend down to the Old Town in the Town Shuttle Service. There are plenty 
 of areas awaiting exploration, and the game guarantees several fun filled hours with your sim.
 
  
  
  If you think this is the perfect game, think again. There are a few niggling problems which have 
 been there since the original. The path finding in this game has never been too great, and it sometimes 
 leaves you absolutely frustrated. Theres no Active calendar management system in the game, i. e., 
 theres no record of the date and day in the game. Its all about ending of one day and beginning 
 of another. No weekends, no holidays and no novelty. This is one of the reasons why the game tends 
 to become a bit repetitive after some time. 
  
  All in all, if you played the original and liked it, well, what are you waiting for? If you dont 
 have the original but are keen on experimenting, I suggest you first get the Deluxe edition (The 
 Sims + Livin Large expansion) , and if you like it, go all out for this one. Mind it, though, this 
 game is terribly addictive!
  
  
  
  Highs
  
  Addictive gameplay, refreshing idea, plenty of features for an expansion
  
  
  
  Lows
 
  
  Path finding not too great, tends to get a bit repetitive.
  
  
  
  Final Verdict
  
  If you liked the original, go all out for this one. Its well worth its price.
  
  
  Review
 
  
  8.5/10
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
