-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Suffering: Ties That Bind
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thesuffering2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great visuals and good sound.
 Controls well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weapons really lack punch.
 Increased reliance on creature form doesn't make the game any more interesting.
 Functionally identical to the original game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.5, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 649 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Surreal Software
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 2, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're a fan of the previous game and you're looking for more of the same, Ties That Bind fits 
 the bill, but more expansion on the themes of the first game would have made for a much more interesting 
 final product. 

  Last year's Midway horror game, The Suffering, took the genre in a slightly different direction 
 by focusing more on straight-up action, sticking closer to the third-person shooter blueprint rather 
 than adhering to any sort of standard survival horror tactics. The follow-up, Ties That Bind, makes 
 few changes to the formula, stretches a thin story to somewhere near the breaking point, and delivers 
 a bloody, curse-filled action game that might still please fans of the first game, though it's 
 more likely that you'll feel like you played the same game last year.  

          Torque has escaped the prison island, but you'll still revisit a prison in the sequel, 
 just for kicks.     

  The story takes a quick detour, flashing back to five years ago, right around the time when Torque 
 was first incarcerated. Serving as a brief setup for the story and a bit of a tutorial, it's over 
 fast, and you're flashed back to immediately after the conclusion of the first game. You're in 
 a boat, speeding away from the monster-filled Carnate Island and heading right towards Baltimore. 
 To safety? Hardly. Baltimore has been overrun by the same sorts of evil malefactors that you just 
 finished blasting away in the prison. And you're given a few plot-related questions to chew on. 
 Who makes up the Foundation, and why do they want to capture you so badly? Who is Blackmoore, and 
 why does he seem responsible for every little bad thing that's ever happened to you and your family? 
 You'll spend the next 15 or 20 hours attempting to figure that out, but the plot barely ever comes 
 into play. Torque will occasionally have flashbacks that fill you in on some of his past, but for 
 the most part, the game's a little too convoluted for its own good.  

  At least the action's still just as straightforward as it was last time around, right? Unfortunately, 
 the combat, which was one of the strengths of last year's game, isn't as satisfying in the sequel. 
 You can carry two weapons at any given time, and you'll encounter a variety of pistols, shotguns, 
 automatic weapons, blunt objects, and rocket or grenade launchers as you go. But, generally speaking, 
 most of the weapons really lack punch. The game's lowly Colt pistol feels especially weak, but 
 most of the automatic weapons are lame, too. You'll empty an entire magazine into an enemy, and 
 it'll still come at you. Most of the game's corridors and other areas are too tight to make a rocket 
 launcher or grenade launcher very useful, leaving only the shotgun, which is really only useful 
 up close, and the M-60, which doesn't turn up all that often and comes with a pretty limited supply 
 of ammo.  

  All of this seems to tie into the game wanting you to use your creature form more frequently. You 
 have an onscreen sanity meter, and when it's full, you can press a button and turn into a large 
 beast with a few attacks that tend to really tear through most normal enemies. The game also throws 
 in a few variants of its existing creatures that can only be taken out when you're transformed. 
 Some walls also show up here and there, demanding the full-on Kool-Aid Man treatment. So the creature 
 form is more useful, but it isn't terribly exciting. For starters, you still get gunned down pretty 
 quickly in this form. So using the form when you go up against the crazy spider guys with guns 
 for arms isn't the automatic win that it can be when you go up against other, melee-based bad guys. 
 Additionally, you can only remain in your transformed state for maybe 10 seconds or so. Killing 
 enemies refills your meter a bit, letting you remain a beast for a few extra seconds, but you still 
 have to change back manually; if you let the meter drain all the way, you'll lose a chunk off of 
 your life meter when you turn back into a human.  

  The creature's attacks are damaging, but not terribly exciting. Over time, the moral decisions 
 you make throughout the game have an impact on your creature form, giving you additional attacks 
 and changing its look a bit. Being good is tougher than being bad, but really only because the 
 game's artificial intelligence is so awful. In one case, you have to lead a junkie around for awhile, 
 and while you're doing so, you get attacked. Rather than run off and cower in a corner as a good 
 junkie should, he decides to stand right next to your enemies. The creature form's attacks take 
 nice, wide swipes, making it nearly impossible to do your job without also smoking the junkie. 
 This sort of thing happens fairly regularly. Considering how quickly the monsters can chew through 
 your health if you hesitate, waiting around for a safe time to attack isn't always an option on 
 the game's default or harder difficulty settings.  

  With the game's weak weapons and unfulfilling creature attacks, the gameplay quickly boils down 
 to you running from room to room, killing anything that pops up along the way. While you'll see 
 lots of doors as you move about, there's really only one correct path to take to proceed -- most 
 of those doors are locked. The game also likes to lock you in rooms and send multiple waves of 
 enemies at you for a few minutes, unlocking a door when you succeed. These portions of the game 
 can occasionally get frustrating, because Torque tends to die pretty easily. You can recover health 
 by picking up pill bottles along the way, though unlike the last game, you can't carry pills with 
 you for later use. While some of the game's sequences can get tougher than others, the game lets 
 you save anywhere. So stomping through each battle and immediately saving your progress quickly 
 becomes the order of the day.  

  Controlwise, the game plays like your standard third-person shooter. With a gamepad, that means 
 that one stick moves you around and the other looks. On the PC, the mouse and keyboard setup works 
 just fine, and even manages to give you slightly finer control over your aim in some cases, making 
 taking out enemies on the PC a little easier. Graphically, the PC version edges out the other two 
 versions by a little bit, but the Xbox version isn't far behind at all, especially if you're running 
 the game on an HDTV.  

  The visuals in The Suffering are effective at conveying the game's bloody, gory theme. As in last 
 year's game, Torque and his weapons get absolutely splattered with blood during the game's heavier 
 fights. It wears off over time, but it's definitely a cool-looking effect. The game's monster design 
 is largely recycled from last year's game, which is disappointing. The way the monsters in the 
 last game were based on various methods of execution was interesting, but retrofitting them to 
 fit Baltimore street crime seems cheap. For example, the crawling creep that represented lethal 
 injection last time around is still in the game -- only now he represents heroin addiction. Blasting 
 the monsters apart with a shotgun causes many of them to chunk apart, making for ludicrous gibs. 
 Finally, some of the scenery you'll catch as you move around is pretty detailed. In one room, you 
 stumble in on a suicide, moments after it's happened. So you'll get to see a corpse, shotgun in 
 hand, large chunk of head missing, blood still squirting out of the hole. It's kind of gross, but, 
 obviously, fits with the theme just fine.  

          Many of the monster designs have been recycled from last year's game.     

  The game's 
 sound is where most of the game's attempts to be creepy come from. You'll almost constantly be 
 catching bits of conversation from people who lived long ago, often turning into a full-on hallucination-style 
 cutscene. The dialogue is reasonably believable, but Blackmoore, who is constantly talking about 
 "being a player" and "the game" just sort of doesn't fit with the game's darker theme. The creeper, 
 a manifestation that pops up from time to time and tells you how much he hates women and loves 
 to kill them, is far more effective. Just like last year's game, the script is teeming with curse 
 words, including a couple that you've probably never heard in games before. Given the whole "city 
 overrun by hellish creatures" motif, mixed with a return to a prison setting for part of the game, 
 the script's foul mouth also works.  

  The Suffering: Ties That Bind has its moments, but most of these moments are the same sorts of 
 moments that you saw in last year's game. If you're a fan of the previous game and you're looking 
 for more of the same, Ties That Bind fits the bill, but more expansion on the themes of the first 
 game would have made for a much more interesting final product.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Raabbii
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  The Suffering may not have been the most polished or flashy game released last year, but it was 
 still pretty darn cool. It cast you in the role of a convicted felon named Torque, a man with a 
 mysterious and tragic past. Sentenced to serve time in a prison on a creepy island, Torque had 
 to face the monsters of his own psyche as well as horrible creatures that overran the island. Featuring 
 an interesting story, The Suffering deftly blended the chills and gore of the survival-horror genre 
 with fast-paced combat and familiar shooter controls. 
  
  Now The Suffering: Ties That Bind continues Torque's saga, giving us more insight into his troubled 
 life. While the engaging story moves the series forward, the gameplay usually feels stuck in the 
 past, like a rerun of the first game. The main difference is just that there are fewer scares this 
 time and more pure action. 
  
  Back Behind Bars 
  
  Ties That Bind opens with a flashback. Torque is in prison, where he's confronted by Blackmore, 
 the man who played a pivotal role in putting him in the slammer. It seems Blackmore helped tear 
 Torque's family apart, turning his wife and kids against him and making sure Torque would suffer 
 for their deaths. Instead of spelling things out up front, The Ties That Bind wisely chooses to 
 drop hints about Blackmore and Torque. Visions and journal entries keep you guessing at the details 
 while slowly building intrigue, though at times the story can be a bit too cryptic for its own 
 good. 
  
  
  After the short intro sequence, we move to the present. Torque is seen escaping the prison island 
 of the first game and fleeing by boat to his hometown of Baltimore. Freedom isn't so easy, of course: 
 awaiting him at the docks is The Foundation, a shadowy group of researchers, replete with private 
 security force, intent on capturing and studying the creatures of island. It was there that Torque 
 himself learned to become a ferocious monster when the demons in his head grew too strong to restrain. 
 Now he's going to be a specimen for The Foundation's studies. Just as in the first game, things 
 suddenly and mysteriously go to hell, letting Torque escape, this time out into the streets of 
 Baltimore now overrun with living nightmares. 
  
  Once again you'll face creatures that are the embodiments of humanity's perversity, madness, and 
 malice. When you first encounter these monsters, hallucinatory flashbacks illustrate the incidents 
 that gave rise to them. So, when you run up against a hulking behemoth with a gaping maw, for example, 
 you see the ghostly image of a preacher feeding the downtrodden of his impoverished neighborhood 
 with human flesh. Other creatures bear limbs of blades, wreaths of flame, or backs impaled with 
 junkies' needles. Unfortunately, some of these creatures are too similar (or identical) to those 
 of the first game, and most of them seem uninspired. Overall, Ties That Bind feels less atmospheric 
 and creepy than the first game, with a greater focus on blasting baddies instead of building atmosphere. 
 
  While they're not frightening or compelling, the monsters at least move and attack in different 
 ways. To fight them, you get a typical assortment of shooter weapons: a lead pipe, dual pistols, 
 shotgun, Tommy gun, Molotov cocktails, and so forth. You can only carry a few weapons at a time, 
 so you have to make some decisions about what to wield. Then again, weapons are scattered around 
 pretty liberally, so it's usually easy enough to swap out your current arsenal for something more 
 to your liking. 
  
  Like the monsters, the weapons are nothing special: they get the job done but lack any flair that 
 would make them particularly fun to use. On the bright side, the combat is visceral and bloody; 
 Ties That Bind certainly doesn't suffer from any dearth of action. The shooter-style controls are 
 comfortable and effective, and you can watch the action from first- or third-person viewpoints. 
 
  
  While the combat can pack a punch, it's also predictable and suffers from balancing issues. Too 
 often the game traps you in a small area and throws wave after wave of monsters at you or pits 
 you against overly tough bosses. Fortunately, you can save as often as you want to help you past 
 the particularly brutal spots. 
  
  
  While the monsters can be overwhelming at times, the levels are strictly linear, keeping you on 
 track and contributing to the game's swift pacing. You rarely have to worry about tedious backtracking 
 as you search for some obscure exit. As in the original game, Ties That Bind throws in a few puzzles 
 to spice the levels up a bit, but these are mostly simple matters of turning a crank or moving 
 a crate. 
  
  The game also tries to spice things up with Insanity mode. As you kill creatures, a meter fills 
 up. When it's topped off, you can temporarily transform into a fierce monster with strength far 
 exceeding that of a normal man. This way you can rip enemies to shreds and bust through certain 
 walls. Your moral choices in the game at certain junctions help shape your Insanity mode attacks. 
 
  
  Interesting People, Boring Places 
  
  Visually, Ties That Bind is pretty ho-hum. The gutted slums and prison cell blocks you travel through 
 quickly start to blur together, as do the creature designs. When Torque turns into a monster in 
 Insanity mode, it's a letdown; he looks pretty generic. At least the animations are solid, and 
 the decapitations, dismemberments, and wild sprays of blood should satisfy fans of splatter flicks. 
 
  
  While the graphics are merely so-so, Ties That Bind still manages to draw you in with a colorful 
 script that's more than ably acted. Blackmore is brought to life with the deep, resounding voice 
 of Michael Clarke Duncan (Armageddon, The Green Mile) . Oscar-nominated Rachel Griffiths (Six Feet 
 Under) gives the chief Foundation scientist an air of authority. Most of the other actors also 
 do fine jobs bringing characters to life, contributing to the story's emotional punch. Whether 
 it's the ghost of Torque's distressed wife or a junkie desperate for a fix, most of the characters 
 make a memorable impression. The sound effects, by contrast, are adequate at best: most weapons 
 sound pitifully underpowered -- a .45 shouldn't sound like a .22 -- and the monsters' clanks and groans 
 usually don't create the requisite sense of dread. 
  
  Grinding to a Halt 
  
  The PC version of Ties That Bind, just like its predecessor, lacks technical polish. We encountered 
 graphics glitches and had problems loading saved games. Sometimes events failed to trigger properly, 
 leaving us stuck. The game also shipped with a debilitating bug that can cause your computer to 
 lock up totally whenever you try to save your progress or make changes on the options pages. According 
 to the developer, this is apparently caused by the game's StarForce copy protection interfering 
 with the popular ZoneAlarm firewall software. If you encounter the bug, you'll need to completely 
 uninstall ZoneAlarm or update your StarForce drivers. (Or you can simply avoid games with invasive 
 copy protection schemes.) 
  
  
  It's a shame that The Suffering: Ties That Bind suffers from these serious problems. The gameplay 
 and locales aren't particularly exciting, yet the pacing is taut, and the story and acting are 
 above par for a game. Fans of the first game should enjoy learning more about Torque's clouded 
 life, but if you're new to the series, you'll probably better off picking up the original. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The second part continues from the firs part. In the ties that bind you find out the truth about 
 your families death. The graphic hasn&acute; t changed much, but the gameplay is stell so good as 
 in the firs part. But other things aren&acute; t so good, because the game doesn&acute; t contain such 
 secrets as in the first part. Even the gameplay isn&acute; t the same, but ok. Sounds are still perfect, so 
 the game stays steel good. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. Graphic: Allmos the 
 same graphic as in the first part. (Some things looks better) .
  
  Sound: Masterpiece (perfect sound and music) .
  
  Gameplay: Changed, but steel good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderKage
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  The game is seriously underscored. Really. There'a little not to like in it. Sure, the action get 
 a bit repetitive, but in what shooter it doesn't? Besides, the action is kept very intense, so 
 the repetitiveness isn't that obvious. Add to that a heavier reliance on the monster, and it's 
 gold.
  Positive things:
  The concept of three different morality starts in addition to 3 morality endings mean you can play 
 the game 9 times! Well not nine, but 3 at least, since each start has a different impact on the 
 story and the gameplay.
  Monster technique got developed. Each morality - good or bad - has it's impact on the monster's 
 looks and attacks. The arsenal got enlarged - more weapons means more fun! Over all story is great.
 
  Negative things:
  One might claim the story being ripped off Fight Club . The game really encourages you to play 
 good morality, since neutral an evil aren't as rewarding. The game feels like more of the first 
 game, just with extra stuff bolted on. (personally, I'm not complaining) . The good morality monster 
 is really ugly.
  Overall the game is really good, just with a few minor misses here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPITANMORGAN
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Hey gamers............ You know what time it is?. Time for a review. I just got this game last 
 week. I didnt have time to install it seeing i was being lazy an all.. BUT just last night I loaded 
 it up an was sent to PRISON!. The CHAOS!. THE MADNESS!. THE HUMANITY OF IT ALL... SOMEBODY help 
 me!. I was like .. what the heck'... MAN i tell you this game ROXX!. Have you gotten the time to 
 even see any reviews on this game? I DIDNT!. I just bought it. I think i saw the preview on XPLAY 
 im not sure. But if i did then i guess you can say that i did see a REVIEW on it.. so i guess i 
 was wrong.. MY BAD.! Anywhot, MAN i got as far as the room with 3 guys an then theres this one 
 guy sitting on a chair i think there about to give em a COLUMBIAN NECK TIE!. Well i tried to stop 
 them but it didnt do no good. Then these WIERD things came from the walls the cielings the floors. 
 They were all over the place. I kinda let them take care of the BAD GUYS, then they came for me!. 
 ARGH im running an jumping all over the place. SOMEBODY help me!. I think i took one of the dead 
 mens KNIFES?. an tried to use it on the CREATURE. INSTANT DEATH for me!. it was over before it 
 started. I then RESTARTED the game, this time i know whats going on but im only to the outside 
 of the room with the BAD MEN an the one they have hostage!. If i dont make it back ... tell me family 
 i love them all an to be good to oneself. This is AREA 51 NIGHTSCAPE .. signing off.... SOMEBODY 
 HELP ME!
  
  
  AREA 51 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The first part of The Suffering released back in 2004 really surprised me. In Poland it was released 
 as a game bundled with PC games magazine CD Action . It was in the regular magazine's price so 
 I bought it thinking that if it's not a good game then I don't loose much money. It soon appeared 
 that not only I spent my money right but also that The Suffering was one of the best horror games 
 that I played at the time. Therefore, I was very anxious to play the sequel.
  
  Ties That Bind is very much like the original game. Frankly, it's so similar to it's predecessor 
 that it could as well be released as a stand-alone expansion pack instead of a sequel. Graphics 
 is enhanced but it's not a huge improvement. Characters and monsters models are more complex and 
 there are some new visual effects but that's it. Pity there are no things like normal mapping or 
 other advanced technologies used in modern games but fortunately all the art is designed really, 
 really good which creates great atmosphere of terror and wickedness. So it actually doesn't matter 
 whether or not the game is technically a flawless achievement in comparison to other 2005 products. 
 There are of course some new monsters and some good old enemies :) Either of them are designed 
 with great creativity.
  
  As far as the story is concerned Ties That Bind is a direct sequel to The Suffering . It's opening 
 moments take place just after previous' game finale. Once again we plunge into the depths of Torque's 
 consciousness and what's worse his twisted subconsciousness. If you played the first part, you 
 know what I mean. The story is quite well written especially that this is an action-oriented game, 
 and it fully lives up to the one from first game. There are also multiple endings and moreover 
 multiple beginnings if only one have saved game states from The Suffering . Moral choices and all 
 that stuff is still here.
  
  Like the rest part of the game gameplay doesn't differ from Torque's first adventure. We have variety 
 of weapons but can carry only two at the same time plus grenades or molotov cocktails. The biggest 
 change is with the beast that lurks within us. Now it's attacks are upgradeable which makes the 
 game more interesting. Also one difference I noticed about gameplay is that it's a little bit more 
 difficult this time, making the game quite challenging at some points. But I can count that as 
 a positive.
  
  The Suffering: Ties That Bind is a good successor to an excellent game and should meet the expectations 
 of the fans of the original Suffering . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Ties That Bind appeared on store shelves so soon after I played Torques adventures through the 
 Carnate Correctional Abattoir that I mistook it for a mere expansion. Perhaps my perception is 
 a bit skewed by the six-years-plus required for the development of more prestigious full-blown 
 sequels [insert obligatory reference to those chuckleheads at 3D Realms and their perennially rejiggered 
 Duke 4 project here] , but TTB isnt a hastily-crafted revisit to the same haunted island in the 
 original.
  
  Like any good sequel, the game builds on the story of Torques internal prison just as he escapes 
 from the literal lockup that he and his tormentors left so thoroughly soaked in gristle and gore. 
 Even if the player dons his tin halo and guides Torque through the most wholesome and helpful night 
 on the town possible  stopping to guide junkies home, fighting alongside street preachers and 
 desperate mercenaries, and so on  hell end up thoroughly soaked in viscera sooner than later. 
 Anyone who played The Suffering knows by now that Torque is his own worst enemy; even the good 
 version of Torque was responsible for the death of his wife and child through his criminal past 
 and subsequent association with an unseen ringleader named Blackmore. Those who finish any of TTBs 
 multiple storylines will learn a lot more about Torques relationship with the omnipresent supervillain. 
 Minor spoiler: whether or not a player cares for a particular ending depends on just how much they 
 enjoyed The Sixth Sense, but its significant to note just how few first-person shooters contain 
 a plot worth following at all, much less one that throws a nice Shyamalan-style twist into the 
 mix.
  
  So, the original games Am I Evil? undercurrent returns to find Torque receiving praise from 
 his dead wife for good deeds or props from his gangster mentor for bad behavior. This time, however, 
 those actions add up to much more than shuffled cutscenes as the story draws to a close. TTBs 
 designers admitted in interviews that most players ignored the TORQUE SMASH &uuml; bercritter 
 into which they could transform, so Surreal wisely added a disposition-specific set of tricks to 
 the creatures arsenal and rendered a few areas impassible without a little help from the beast 
 within. The changes work well, although I was already very familiar with Torques temporary tantrums 
 since ammo was at such a premium under the Hard setting in the first game. And, boy, if you think 
 that experience was tough, TTBs degree of difficulty ramps up to a shade shy of impossible between 
 Normal and Hard. I was constantly on the run, barrels emptied and Insane-o-meter drained, during 
 several sections of my midnight tour of historic Baltimore. I think that I had to play the street 
 scene outside of the old theatre more than two dozen times  more than any other level in an FPS, 
 in my memory, since Medal of Honors hellishly one-sided Snipertown slog  after repeatedly finding 
 myself sliced, gobbled, or burned to death with naught but an empty pea-shooter in hand.
  
  Speaking of spent shells, I really enjoy the resource management aspects of most shooters, when 
 I find myself facing down a slavering horde with only two clips, an RPG round, a ratty voodoo doll, 
 and heaps of practice at circle-strafing. However, I much prefer a limit on the amount of ammo 
 available while keeping the magic pockets convention of unlimited cargo capacity intact. Two 
 rifles and a melee weapon are well-and-good for more realistic fare, but I like to keep every toy 
 I scrounge up for fantasy/horror titles. Im much more forgiving of the designers decision to 
 cut out the portable Xombium supply for part two, but backtracking for a taste of pharmaceutical 
 relief was never as difficult as abandoning a beloved sidearm just because a fresh clip wasnt 
 immediately available.
  
  I really enjoyed The Sufferings awesomely awful menagerie of restless and resurrected souls, and 
 TTBs monster manual is just as packed with the stuff of nightmares. The original games theme 
 of corporal punishment given earthly form is deftly overwritten by the ills of city living (overdoses, 
 gunplay, muggings gone wrong, victims of arson, and so on) with only two retreads, but the Slayers 
 and Mainliners were iconic enough that their return made perfect sense. The new Gorger was big, 
 loud, and downright gross in both its eating habits and its tendency to explode when poked, while 
 the reimagined Marksman and brand-new Suppressor and Isolationist were creepy and powerful enough 
 to evoke real dread.
  
  Never mind all the cussing and disembowelment; grownups and survival horror fans alike should be 
 used to such aspects of games that dont skimp on their M rating. However, I still recommend 
 taking a break from this game every few hours. Not to seem overweening, but TTB leads the player 
 through one dark, depressing, despairing scenario after another. I understand that I just described 
 a number of video games (the aptly-named Doom series comes to mind, of course, as well as a few 
 others) , but The Suffering really sports a seriously heavy vibe in its storyline and level design. 
 I would play for an hour or two, then head out into the sun for a bit, then return for another 
 round. Technically, the first title isnt required for TTB to work, but, come on, quit dithering 
 and buy them both, if only for the sake of narrative continuity. Given both games genuinely creepy 
 atmosphere, army of creative assailants, and Torques unique good/evil characteristics, Ties That 
 Bind is worth every penny and minute spent playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijaynine
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Any how not superb but still worthy to give try and kill sometime. anyhow the previous version is 
 good compared to this successor . Torque has escaped the prison island, but you'll still revisit 
 a prison in the sequel.
  
  At least the action's still just as straightforward as it was last time around, right? Unfortunately, 
 the combat, which was one of the strengths of last year's game, isn't as satisfying in the sequel. 
 You can carry two weapons at any given time, and you'll encounter a variety of pistols, shotguns, 
 automatic weapons, blunt objects, and rocket or grenade launchers as you go. But, generally speaking, 
 most of the weapons really lack punch. The game's lowly Colt pistol feels especially weak, but 
 most of the automatic weapons are lame, too. You'll empty an entire magazine into an enemy, and 
 it'll still come at you. Most of the game's corridors and other areas are too tight to make a rocket 
 launcher or grenade launcher very useful, leaving only the shotgun, which is really only useful 
 up close, and the M-60, which doesn't turn up all that often and comes with a pretty limited supply 
 of ammo.
  
  Controlwise, the game plays like your standard third-person shooter. With a gamepad, that means 
 that one stick moves you around and the other looks. On the PC, the mouse and keyboard setup works 
 just fine, and even manages to give you slightly finer control over your aim in some cases, making 
 taking out enemies on the PC a little easier. Graphically, the PC version edges out the other two 
 versions by a little bit, but the Xbox version isn't far behind at all, especially if you're running 
 the game on an HDTV.
  
  The visuals in The Suffering are effective at conveying the game's bloody, gory theme. As in last 
 year's game, Torque and his weapons get absolutely splattered with blood during the game's heavier 
 fights. It wears off over time, but it's definitely a cool-looking effect. The game's monster design 
 is largely recycled from last year's game, which is disappointing. The way the monsters in the 
 last game were based on various methods of execution was interesting, but retrofitting them to 
 fit Baltimore street crime seems cheap. For example, the crawling creep that represented lethal 
 injection last time around is still in the game -- only now he represents heroin addiction. Blasting 
 the monsters apart with a shotgun causes many of them to chunk apart, making for ludicrous gibs. 
 Finally, some of the scenery you'll catch as you move around is pretty detailed. In one room, you 
 stumble in on a suicide, moments after it's happened. So you'll get to see a corpse, shotgun in 
 hand, large chunk of head missing, blood still squirting out of the hole. It's kind of gross, but, 
 obviously, fits with the theme just fine.
  
  Many of the monster designs have been recycled from last year's game.
  
  The game's sound is 
 where most of the game's attempts to be creepy come from. You'll almost constantly be catching 
 bits of conversation from people who lived long ago, often turning into a full-on hallucination-style 
 cutscene. The dialogue is reasonably believable, but Blackmoore, who is constantly talking about 
 being a player and the game just sort of doesn't fit with the game's darker theme. The creeper, 
 a manifestation that pops up from time to time and tells you how much he hates women and loves 
 to kill them, is far more effective. Just like last year's game, the script is teeming with curse 
 words, including a couple that you've probably never heard in games before. Given the whole city 
 overrun by hellish creatures motif, mixed with a return to a prison setting for part of the game, 
 the script's foul mouth also works.
  
  The Suffering: Ties That Bind has its moments, but most of these moments are the same sorts of 
 moments that you saw in last year's game. If you're a fan of the previous game and you're looking 
 for more of the same, Ties That Bind fits the bill, but more expansion on the themes of the first 
 game would have made for a much more interesting final product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Torque escapes Carnate Island, the site of his imprisonment, and attempts to
  return to his home city of Baltimore, only to be captured by a mysterious
  paramilitary organization 
 known as the Foundation. The apparent leader of the
  Foundation is a woman named Jordan, who wants to study Torque and his connection
  to the malefactors. 
 Torque manages to escape from his captors and is prompted by
  the ghost of his dead wife Carmen to return to his apartment and investigate the
  death of his 
 family, where he learns that a powerful crime lord by the name of
  Blackmore (for whom Torque worked) is ultimately responsible for their deaths.
  Much to his shock, 
 however, it seems that the horrible Malefactors that had
  brought Carnate to ruin followed him to the mainland to continue their spree of
  murder and chaos, 
 feeding upon the dark and ancient history of the city to grow
  strong. Torque makes his way through the city under the questionable guidance of
  Dr. Killjoy, 
 who wants to help Torque understand his mental state and his past.
  
  At the very end of the game it is discovered that Blackmore is actually one of
  Torque's alternate 
 personalities, which surfaced when he was a child living in
  an orphanage. There are three possible endings depending on the morality of the
  player at the 
 end of the game: Torque is completely overcome by Blackmore, who
  takes total control of Torque's personality (Evil) ; Torque and Blackmore are
  unable to overpower 
 each other and remain in their current state of opposition
  (Neutral) ; Torque eliminates Blackmore's presence from his mind.
  
  An interesting point in 
 all of this is the depth of Blackmore's affection for
  Torque. Almost viewing his 'better half' as a best friend more than anything, he
  acts willing 
 to do almost anything to bring Torque over to his side; force him
  to understand and embrace the reasoning that so violently drives the crime lord.
  
  The player's 
 morality also affects certain sequences during gameplay and a level
  near the end of the game, where Dr. Killjoy, the slavehunter Copperfield, and
  the vile Creeper 
 look back on Torque's actions. The player's morality also
  affects whether the player will fight Copperfield or The Creeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that the original game caught me by surprise and turned out to be a very original 
 and well done game.
  
  As for Ties that bind this isn't the case.
  
  Unfortunately the creepy feeling of the first game seems very forced here.
  It feels like Torque 
 is only back to do a sequel not because he has some unfinished business or that the story would 
 demand it.
  And to make it even more dull the gameplay isn't as fun as it was anymore.
  The animatons of Torque seem a little awkward and the weapons aren't really fun. Thats mainly because 
 they sound wrong and muffled for the most part. Only the shotguns have a little boom to them but 
 the revolver and 1911 colt just sound like toy guns.
  
  The level design lacks some interesting enviroments and making a city whith very narrow space to 
 act the main show, doesn't help either.
  
  Technicaly there are some sound problems with the 3D buffer option and Creative Audigy (and below) 
 cards. Which means you have to turn this feature off and flatten the sound even more by doing so.
 
  
  At the end The Suffering Ties that bind couln't recreate the great atmosphere and uniqueness from 
 the first part.
  It seems that the developers weren't as ambitious as with original The Suffering game.
  
  Even 
 if you're a die hard fan of the first game you would be better of playing the first part again 
 than ruining the experience with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing my share of horror games lately. This second Suffering is a very interesting 
 game. I enjoy the variety in the story, although it is deadly if you even try to understand it 
 all. But the action is good. It gets friggin scarry sometimes. Random disturbing images will flash 
 on your screen from time to time, and believe me, I jump clear out of my seat!! In fact it's so 
 freaky sometimes that the only thing that keeps me playing the game is that fact that I can turn 
 into a big scarry thing myself!! lol.
  
  The graphics are nice and smoothe, as well as the death animations. Chunks of flesh will fly away 
 and reveal the enemy's rib cage... pretty sick!
  
  However, it is a little glitchy, for me at least. Sometimes events won't trigger on time, and everything 
 gets totally messed up. And the first-person mode isn't as smoothe as it could be. But that's respectable 
 seeing how this game is designed around a third-person view.
  
  I know it aint the best horror action game out there, but that doesn't mean that it's not fun. 
 So get it... if you dare.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch_Demonz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  the suffering was a pretty good game, creepy, some pretty original stuff to it, pretty fun
  
  the suffering: ties that bind is nothing different than the suffering, just more of the same.. 
 and i felt it was kinda boring, nothing at all really new, just all the same stuff just with more 
 levels, and becomes very repetitive after a short time
  
  the weapons are 1 problem that really irritates me, the ammo always runs out, and some weapons 
 are incredibly useless so you gotta sit there forever emptying all your rounds just to kill 1 enemy, 
 so many times i needed to use a pipe to kill an enemy that was 10x my size. your also only allowed 
 to carry 2 weapons, which may be more realistic, but the rounds always seem to run out which became 
 very annoying after a while, if weapon carrying is realistic then they should have made the enemies 
 toughness more realistic too
  
  fairly bland story.. nothing spectacular or jaw dropping really, but does got some pretty scary 
 parts
  
  as of current it is 20$ or so, which is a good price for this game, not sure what price it started 
 out as though, but 20$ is really a proper price for this average and slightly frustrating game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Die-hard fans of the The Suffering will have fun with Ties That Bind, simply because it contains 
 elements of the original and reminds us how truly great that game was, but its' mediocrity ultimately 
 results in disappointment. It's not that there's anything terribly wrong with TTB, as many of the 
 familiar aspects are still here: a creepy story that unfolds through flashbacks, hallucinations, 
 cut scenes and in-game documents; gruesome creatures steeped in man's most evil deeds; a tortured 
 protagonist with uncertain morals and a proclivity to quite literally turn into a beast. There 
 are even a number of new features... some new monsters as well as human enemies, several new weapons 
 including a rocket launcher, and an 'Insanity creature' that is distinctly different depending 
 on the moral choices Torque makes.
  
  All this SHOULD make Ties That Bind a much more satisfying experience, but unfortunately, it is 
 plagued with some critical weaknesses. The story just seems sort of 'tacked together', and doesn't 
 end up making a lot of sense. You'd need a pretty compelling reason to endure all the punishment 
 Torque takes through out this game, and the plot simply doesn't provide one. Sound is still excellent, 
 but there has been no real improvement in the graphics, and while that's ok because the gritty 
 visuals are part of the fun, the lack of upgrades doesn't help to provide higher marks for TTB. 
 In addition, I found some of the new game mechanics somewhat irritating. For example, why would 
 the developers give me several new, cool weapons, then proceed to limit me to just two? I realize 
 this type of inventory system is intended to make the game more realistic, but c'mon... TWO? If 
 I had an M60 HMG, a rocket launcher, a shotgun, and dual magnums, I wouldn't leave ANY of them 
 behind... trust me, I'd figure out a way to lug those suckers around with me. Finally, several key 
 battles, particularly the ending, can be frustratingly difficult, and I for one completed the game 
 feeling slightly cheated, as none of the different endings provided any sense of resolution or 
 closure to the story.
  
  The Bottom Line... as I said earlier, if you're a die-hard fan of The Suffering (as I am) , then 
 you'll probably still have a lot of fun with Ties That Bind, despite it's short comings. But first 
 timers would be well advised to go back and experience the original first, because as a stand-alone 
 game, TTB is only mediocre at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_night1990
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  I liked the first game but Ties that Bind wasn`t such great. Well I din`t had problems with the 
 game, no bug occured.
  The sound was normal, the graphic normal, the guns not to many, the beast (you) has developted, 
 monsters in game are new (some) new levels, some thrils in some parts, but that`s all. I reccomend 
 you to get the demo first. I liked the game but it wasn`t EXTRAORDINARY! So this is all I can say......
 
  PS: the storry can have many endings 3 as I know of it... but who knows. :D lol Ok...
  Ok I clicked submit but said I need to write more so:  
 ---------- i clicked ctrl + c I wasn`t mad to write that 100000 times lol ------- or AM I!!???? 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironlung000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The first part of Suffering really kicked my ass. When I realised that the second one is coming 
 I did everything to get that stuff. I hoped that it will be better than the first one and some 
 of its drawbacks would be eliminated. What did I get??
  
  Well the game looks twice as good as the first part. What really destroyed me is the the sequence 
 of Torque turning into a monster which really takes place in his imagination. Another advantage 
 of the game are two sub-heroes who appear during Torque's crusade - Copperfield and the The Creeper, 
 certainly more interesting personas than those who appeared in Prison Is Hell. The levels are well 
 designed and the plot is very engaging. The climax of the game destroys everything.
  
  Now for the bad things - there is only one. The game can be completed in about 20 hours which is 
 the main drawback of this production. I hoped that it would be a little longer. Well, you can always 
 complete it again taking the other way - either the 'good' one or 'bad' one. Overally it is a very 
 good game and every horror fan should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few things I cant tolerate in games: bad game design, utterly absurd design decisions 
 (see Hitman Blood Moneys save game feature) , and game-halting bugs. Sadly, the bugs in this game 
 are so bad that I couldnt even finish it. I got permanently stuck twice during the first half 
 hour of play due to bugs and/or bad game design! 
  
  The first is in the prison yard, where the inmate is supposed to break the electrical panel. It 
 never happened  I just stood there for 30 minutes waiting. Some internet searching turns up that 
 this is a bug if you play on a resolution higher than 800x600. So I reset the resolution, restart 
 and make it as far as the apartment. Apparently some cut scene is supposed to trip after you read 
 the notes you find in the closet. It never happened. I reloaded multiple times, tried everything 
 I could think of, then quit. After another internet search, I find that others have had the same 
 problem. No solution exists, only a recommendation to start the game from scratch and hope it doesnt 
 happen again.
  
  No patches. No workarounds from the developer. Utter, complete crap  heck if Ill buy another 
 Surreal/Midway game again!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  just when you reach to ten you realize that theres nothing you can do to stop the beast... 
  i was waiting for long to see anything as little dissturbing as "manhunt" (game that makes a point 
 in the "movie called" games line) and i cross path to THE SUFFERING TIES THAT BIND...
  This game fills me up whit delight, and old school 3rd person shooter, whit a great argument, and 
 a light treatement that will make you sleep whit your lights on. 
  "MOM, CAN I HAVE AN OTHER DIPPER NOW??"
  just wen you think that nothing can go wrong, you turn 
 left on a corner and find out that the last monster you`ve seen was a baby compare whit the "thing" 
 you are about to face now, and this monsters now how to make an appereance, so if you are as little 
 masochist as i am, turn your bedroom lighst off, lift the volume, and get ready to wet your pants...
 
  "THIS IS A NICE SUIT!!!!!"
  plig!! plig!!, ... how happy was i when a see that my character, goes around whit the left overs 
 of the last monster, all over his body.. call that a prize.
  is really original the idea of a literally blood soaped charater, thats get more and more soaped 
 as long as you keep killing.
  "YOU WONT LIKE TO SEE ME ANGRY...."
  the slow motion killing of our character transformed, its great, you really want to yell, I TOLD 
 YOU, this sequenses are the more, power felling of the game... nothing whould stop you..
  as a conclusion, the suffering 2 its a game that all gore loving players shouldn`t miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: extreamist
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  If you want a true action-horror game to play specially if you're a gamer of night time, PLAY THIS 
 GAME turn your speakers volume to medium or plugin headphones and click on the icon of this game.
 
  
  the game starts with a cutscene in baltimore jail and the whole story line of the game reconnects 
 with that jail.
  
  the game story is very intresting as well as captivating.
  
  TORQUE is the main character of this game and his abilities to kill creatures and a special insanity 
 to turn into a beast is totally awesome.
  
  i love when there are 6 different creature come at a time and you're trapped in a room (as this 
 game tends to lock you in a room and send multiple creature to destroy your restless soul) and 
 your insanity level is full and you turn in to a beast by pressing a button and with a blasting 
 sound of torque as he turns into a insane beast and the kinetic cinamatic camera effects proves 
 that time game is a product of a state of a art development.
  
  Now, SOUNDS of this game are orignal as well as full of mayhem which will help jump your ass from 
 the chair for once in a while if you have a good sound card and even if yo u dont have a good sound 
 card just turn up your speakers volume to high and then see what sound effects this game can provide 
 for your whorible ears.
  
  GRAPHICS, are almost brilliant blood, pure american enviroment and good set of puzzules will keep 
 you entertain with a horror feel. enough said.
  
  Truck mission are kool too, in truck mission you have to jump on a truck where a machine gun is 
 placed just like a army truck and a girl drives the truck i dont know her name but she drives faster 
 and you have to shoot those filthy creatures comming from upside from the frontside from the sides 
 and what not? the truck crashes at a building's side and suddenly you see a big whole 20 foot creatures 
 from the behind with the machine guns embedded in the backs. WOW
  
  gameplay as well as the controls are well organized, you will have no problem playing this game 
 with a keyboard and mouse, sadly this game doesnt support a GAMEPAD.
  
  Believe me!!! if you have already played Resident evil 4 then this game will be on your top list 
 of action horror game.
  
  silent hill 4, cold fear and games life them have no comparision with suffering ttb or resident 
 evil 4.
  
  just last thing to tell you that suffering has a very good quality of gameplay.
  buy this game, 
 play this game, you will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: survival101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun i loved it but it seemed to not be as long as the other one was. And there were 
 not many bosses there was Doctor killjoy, The Creeper and the dog guy that was it. I give it a 
 9.6 because i love the series and if there is a The Suffering 3 i will get it and play it. And 
 the other thing was i liked all the guns i got to hold in the frist game. But i liked the the way 
 they started the game if you were good in the frist game then you start good. and if you were bad 
 then you start bad. or netrual lol. And the differnt rages was cool to. And the old creatures the 
 slayers, mainliner, marksman, burrower. And the new arsonist, gorger, triggerman, mauler, Suppressor, 
 Isolationist, the horde. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedroevil
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  im trying to play suffering 2 but... its allvery nice when you got to the apartment , you cant 
 get out.... que game freezes there. the door is locked you go around and around and around and you 
 cant get out of there... thats a major glitch from the makers of the game .... its to bad, because 
 i was enjoyng the game, but because of the problem i said i cant play more... the game wont go... 
 in the first one the scene of the bus almost in the end , have the same glitch if you passed 2 
 inches from the spot to trigger the runing bus youll be stuck.... give the programers , a book... 
 how to making a game for dummies.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scootman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this for 2 weeks, a hour or two a day. I started the game on normal. Wish I woulda 
 started it on easy to get used to the game play and where to go, etc. I have been killed many many 
 times. It takes a few tries in many areas to get the right combo of weapons and or when to use 
 insanity. The story is good, and the graphics are good also. weapons are the usual fair, and pretty 
 realistic as far as distance, sound, and acuracy. I like the choice to be good, nuetral, or evil. 
 I'm playing good the first round, and think I'll kill em all in the next play. To be honest, I 
 would have used a god mode by now in a few areas just to punch through to the next checkpoint. 
 Saves are great and can be done anywhere. Very handy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I was really impressed with the original Suffering and really looked forward to this sequel. Then 
 I bought it and started playing it. You usually hope for sequels to be an improvement on the original 
 but I would call Ties That Bind more of an add-on pack than a sequel.
  
  I did enjoy playing it though, because the dark and disturbing core of the series is maintained 
 very well but I was hoping for a bit more. The only improvement I can comment on is that the graphics 
 are a lot better. I do not like the weapon system as you can only carry 2 weapons at a time and 
 you have to keep dropping and picking up guns as the ammo runs out. Would have been better if there 
 had been more thought gone into the enemies as well - I'm really fed up of killing those Slayers!
 
  
  To sum up, I would only recommend this game to true hardcore fans of horror games (like myself) . 
 Do not get your hopes up too much but you should enjoy playing it though, but thats all. A GOOD 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousin_eddy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  I am probably one of the biggest suffering fans around. When I played through the first game, I 
 wanted a sequal more then any other game. The first delivered perfectly with a great story, outlandish 
 looking creatures, and excellant action/survival horror gameplay. When I heard about Ties that 
 bind, I was excited like a little school girl.. I wanted to play it so bad. And when the months 
 finally melted away, I bought it the day it came out and let me tell you something. This game is 
 marvelous! The gameplay has actually improved, a s did the graphics and even the story is somewhat 
 better. I can truly say that I love Ties that bind, despite it may have some problems.
  First let me get into the storyline a little. Ties that bind takes place right where Torques adventure 
 left off (the cool thing is, if you played through 1, and you still got a save file, you can choose 
 between good evil or neutral. It changfes the story differantly for each game, but if you have 
 no save file it of course starts with neutral) . Torque is on his way back to Baltimore (where he 
 is obviously from) when a unknown group ambushes him and tkaes him onto a boat. They obviously 
 know of his adventures in carnate, for they don; t underestiamte him whatsoever. He is taken to 
 the team's leader Jordan, a studier of the malefactors (the monsters that infest carnate, and now 
 Baltimore) and now studies Torque. Then an attack happens on the ship.. the whole group goes nuts. 
 Torque eventually does escape, but finds that his nightmares are far from over. The team searches 
 for him all throughout Baltimore, not to mention a breed of new mosnters infests Baltimore, and 
 he still ust cope with what happened to Carman Cory and Malcolm... his beloved family. Torque's 
 true mission however, is to hunt down Blackmore, a mysterious figure who has somethign to do with 
 the disposal of his family. Will Torque find blackmore? Thats really up to you now isn't it.
  The really cool thing about Ties that bind, is that it is a game that shwos you Torque's history 
 throughout gameplay, and not just cutscenes. For exampole, tere is a point in the game where you 
 are playing through Torque's times in eastern state pennitentery. You are with your friend Miles 
 (your buddy throughout eastern, an old time friend) playing chess, when you meet the infamous blackmore 
 (voiced by oen of my favorite actors, Michael clarke duncan) . Blackmore offers Torque a deal which 
 he denies, and reults in violent methods. Then, a prison riot breaks loose, and thats where you 
 begin playing. Ties that bind is grteat, because it tells the story through gameplay and not cutscenes 
 all the time. By the time you're done with the game, you should know almost ALL of Torques dark 
 and brutal history.
  The graphics for Ties that bind are thankfully improved. Torque doesn; t look as primordial this 
 itme around, and the body models are more improved on the other characters. The backgrounds look 
 better this time around, and the sound quality has improved as well. The guns sound a bit more 
 realistic this time around, though they don't sound 100% authentic. The blood patterns still exist 
 (when torque gets hit, or gets too close, a heavy mass of blood will splatter his clothes and face) . 
 The mosnters I think look better this time aroudn as well. What's the best graphic improvement? 
 That carman (his wife) doesn't look like a lifeless doll!! Thats what I hated in the first game. 
 Carman looked lifeless and very.. bad. But they improved on that this itme around thankfully. The 
 graphics do however, still need some work (some enviroment items look terrible, and the characters 
 could STILL look better) but they are much improved fromt he last game.
  The gameplay for TTB is much improved as well. Instead of having an inventory, everythign has a 
 limit. Example, you can carry up to 2 weapons at a time, and ONLY 2! Except you can mix them up. 
 You have melee weapons, and hten firearms. So you can have a handgun and a bat, or one sawn off 
 and a lead pipe. You can also dual weild weapons in TTB, which helps greatly agaisnt the mosnters 
 of baltimore. TTB has a lot of weapons, such as lead pipes, abseball bats, grease guns and asawn 
 offs, as well as fmaous returns like handguns, tommy guns and so on. TTB luckily has a wide arsenal 
 to take on the ghoulish beasts of the city. Torque also moves a bit more smoothly this time around. 
 The jumping is improved a bit. No logner can you horde Xombium. They use a beat em' up typ emethod, 
 and you can only take Xombium when you need it. If your health is full and you apprach it, it won't 
 heal you.. bummer huh? But i suppose it makes the game harder. Also, the flashlight batteries run 
 otu a lot faster. I actually came to a pint where they die don me.. and had to hurry and find new 
 ones. But I liked how they did that. Makes the player have to rely more on getting them, isntead 
 of passing them up all the time.
  A cool thing that Midway and surreal did, is have the player rely on the insanity meter more. Ties 
 that binds challenges ar emuch ahrder this time around, and the insanity meter helpes a lot. Now 
 most of us knwo what happens when its full, you can change into a alrge beast and cut all your 
 enemies to smitherines. This time around, it is almost required that you use it a lot mroe, for 
 enemies come at ytou in huge hordes and you won; t always have the ammo to stop them (ammo has a 
 shortage at itmes as well) . So, why not transform into that ferocious beast!?!! The cool thing 
 baout the beast this time around, is that it changes with your actions. If you help people out 
 more, the beast will slowly morph into a blueish lightning firing hulk looking creature. Do bas 
 things and it will transform intoa twisted black evil looking creature. Do nothing at all, and 
 the beast will stay the regular greenish looking beast formt he first game. Each form ahs differant 
 attacks, and the more deeds you do of a certain nature, the more stornger and differant these attacks 
 become.
  The monsters of ties that bind are something out of the ordinary. The first dealt with prison death 
 related mosnters, this itme aroudn its deaths connected to city living. Some monsters make a surprising 
 return, but differant themed. For example, the slayer comes back, but this itme its theme is being 
 knifed to death int he mean streets of baltimore... gang related maybe? Then the mainliner comes 
 back, but this time its themed as a drug dealer. Others make their return such as the marksman, 
 and the burrower along with new ones like arsonist (being burned to death in a building) the triggerman 
 (a large spider like creature affiliated with constant gunfire) the isolationist (solitary confinement 
 related) among many others. TTB also has a return to the ghosts (like how the first one had hermes 
 and horace) but this itme they ar emuch... darker then ever before. First comes copperfield, a southern 
 slave master, w ith a horde of demon dogs... a very sick individual who hates all races but hsi own. 
 Then comes th ecreeper (my favorite of the two) a sadistic pimp, who has four of his "employees" 
 hanging by tentacles out of his coat when he opens it. A pimp who has killed nothign but women, 
 with his numebrs stretching into the hudnreds... a man who's never been caught and hates nothing 
 mroe then women. Then comes Dr. Killjoy, a returning ghost formt he first game, tryign to study 
 the tru meaning of torques otulandish psyche.
  Some monsters in TTB require special methods to rid of them. Some you must transform itno the creatute 
 to elimiante, otherwise you can't touch them. It's a great way to make the player transform, and 
 not just use firearms at all times. Also, you need the creature to break down certain walls to 
 progress furthe rint he game.
  The charatcers of TTB are all very unique andd interesting. TTB is one of th eonly games, where 
 you can fight with a muslim side by side, and he/she is not accused of being a terrorist. There 
 is also a heavy drug user, a police warden, your old friend Miles, a mong many others. It is of 
 course.. up to you if they should live or not. Liek the first game, the story changes with all the 
 hcocies you make. 
  The areas in TTB are very interestign this time around. there is of coruse the streets of baltimore, 
 among many other areas such as eastern state (you msut return there) Torque's apartment, the sewers 
 among many other palces. Ties that bidn sets the atmosphere properly for all these places.
  In conclusion, ties that bidn is a promising game, and a great sequal to the first. Though it has 
 a few problems, you can oversee these by the excelant gamepla, y and excellant story. TRhere were 
 two major problems I hated though. 1. The game seemed abit... too short, and 2. I hate how the dialogue 
 gets cut off, or a bunch of it is goign at one time (like 5 charatcers talking at once) . I htink 
 surreal and midway need to work on this a lot more tfor the next game (hopefully htere is one) . 
 Also, i think Blackmore could've been done a lot better, though he looked decent int he final product. 
 But all that aside, I say you should pick up TTB if you enjoy excellant action gamepaly, combined 
 with a rgeat story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spamchild1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game fails to deliver on so many levels. The first game was great, plain and simple. The lighting 
 was great and the game was just plain creepy. The enemies were cool and original and each one had 
 a cool story. In ties that bind, the enemies have lame stories and they all freaking shoot. Its 
 so stupid. Not to mention comparing it to games of this time, the graphics are genuinely poor. 
 This game is far from creepy and very close to my garbage can. To put it simply.... the game sucks. 
 It's mediocre at best. The sound also gets stuck in loops and tends to get very annoying. Do not 
 get this game unless you like games that suck. I am an honest reviewer and liked the first one 
 very much, I gave this game a chance and it blew it fair and square. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unopu2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  i was waiting for long to see anything as little disturbing as "manhunt" (game that makes a point 
 in the "movie called" games line) and i cross path to THE SUFFERING TIES THAT BIND...
  This game fills me up whit delight, and old school 3rd person shooter, whit a great argument, and 
 a light treatement that will make you sleep whit your lights on. 
  "MOM, CAN I HAVE AN OTHER DIPPER NOW??"
  just wen you think that nothing can go wrong, you turn 
 left on a corner and find out that the last monster you`ve seen was a baby compare whit the "thing" 
 you are about to face now, and this monsters know how to make an appereance, so if you are as little 
 masochist as i am, turn your bedroom lighst off, lift the volume, and get ready to wet your pants...
 
  "THIS IS A NICE SUIT!!!!!"
  plig!! plig!!, ... how happy was i when a see that my character, goes around whit the left overs 
 of the last monster, all over his body.. call that a prize.
  is really original the idea of a literally blood soaped charater, thats get more and more soaped 
 as long as you keep killing.
  "YOU WONT LIKE TO SEE ME ANGRY...."
  the slow motion killing of our character transformed, its great, you really want to yell, I TOLD 
 YOU, this sequenses are the most, power filling of the game... nothing would stop you..
  as a conclusion, the suffering 2 its a game that all gore loving players shouldn`t miss
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  I don't think from start to finish there was anything truly unique about this game. I've had more 
 fun with the "Silent Room" and "Resident Evil" series. I didn; t care for the graphics. The concept 
 was kind of lame and control was choppy at best. 
  
  The highlights for me would have to be the voice work of Michael Clark Duncan as the lead bad guy... and 
 well thats about the only thing that stuck with me. This game came and went for me, nothing really 
 stuck out or was all that memorable. Had higher hopes for this game.
  
  Really too bad. The suffereing lived up to its name for this player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrkenji
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game gives me the spooks. And its great! Every corner is a different suprise. I haven't been 
 playing the Suffering for Series for long, but heres my verdict.
  
  Torque is in jail. Blackmailed by the evil Baltimore and his gang. He has a haunted past and has 
 a dead family. In jail, his horrors come back in a prison outbreak...
  
  Torque is in prison, he is a violent man that needs to make choices. You will make these for him. 
 He can either make good choices, like helping the police against a rising evil, or by killing and 
 murdering. Either way, the game continues in a haunted world. You will see stalkers, gorgers and 
 many other monsters. This time round though, you have your own demons. You can transform into a 
 monster. You can rampage and kill, destroy and banish.
  
  The game is set in a very claustrophobic, condensed setting, and you normally dont know what to 
 expect next. Even in his apartment, the scene is spooky and distressing. In this game, your survival 
 skills will depend on your shooting and path- finding skills, as one can get lost quickly. 
  
  You are only allowed to carry two weapons, not including molotovs etc. These weapons also lack 
 in ammo, so use them wisely. I've found that keeping a dagger or bat is also handy when I run out 
 of ammo.
  
  The monsters are creative and original. They represent the way they died, so if you see a monster 
 on fire... well, that means he died by fire. You will encounter many of these monsters and many 
 others later on. Some monsters have blades, thus indicating they were knife weilding gangsters.
 
  
  I still remember a line on the loading screen: "The Reverend was out of food... but instead of 
 watching his people die, he fed them with the only meat he had. He wa s sure he could live with 
 the desicion." : later on you see a flashback of what really happened.... its spooky but very intresting, 
 and for once i actually bothered to read the manuals and notes you can collect in the game.
  
  You will get flashbacks, headaches and illusions while you kill monsters and fight evil/good. 
 Health is sometimes a issue, but luckily there are many health bottles around to keep you sustained.
 
  
  You will use your torch often, but remember to find batteries, as sometimes the lights go out unexpectadly. 
 It is also a very interactive game and you can do just about anything, like rattle bars or tune 
 into security cameras.
  
  The Suffering Ties that Bind is a good game, but lacks substance. The graphics aren't great, and 
 the gameplay can be very annoying at times, it is not addictive but the game grows on you in a 
 way.
  
  Overall, this game is fun for people who are into a spooky, but fun action game. The spook only 
 lasts for a few minutes as later you are taking your revenge on demons and monsters :)
  
  Verdict: This game is fun, spooky and exciting. I love how its presented and i love how it keeps 
 me on the edge of my seat, but not too much that i would want to put my controller down and just 
 run away. If you like shooters and are into horror. GET this game :) It is creative and original, 
 i love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  After recently finishing Surreal's latest addition to last year's wonderful The Suffering, a few 
 things come to mind.
  
  I think GS's initial review of TTB was pretty much spot-on. If you enjoyed the last game, you will 
 PROBABLY like the sequel. There are however, some substanial differences in gameplay approach between 
 the two. The biggest differance , which becomes noticeable after playing the first several levels, 
 is the uneveness of the difficulty in dealing with enemies. Whereas the first game did a good job 
 of spacing the challenges and giving the player breathing room between battles, TTB takes aMore 
 is Better" approach to the combat scenarios. 
  
  I found myself advancing pretty rapidly through the initial stages of the game... and then POW !, 
 the onslaught began . Waves of various Malefactors attack Torque, in sometimes what almost appear 
 to be endlessly spawning numbers. This whole-scale attack mode becomes more prevalent the further 
 into TTB the player goes. At some points, it becomes almost cartoonish in effect, much like the 
 hordes of enemies seen in Painkiller, except unlike that game, your character takes damage quicker 
 and dies more readily.
  
  
  
  This leads me to point out two other glaring changes from the first game. Namely, Torque cannot 
 carry health bottles with him to use in those tight spots where a lot of damage is inflicted quickly 
 by enemies. He must rely on finding & using the health bottles which are randomly scattered throughout 
 the levels. A lot of the time this presents little problem, until the later fighting scenes where 
 large numbers of tough foes are encountered. The other big change is the ability to carry multiple 
 weapons. In TTB Torque can only possess 2 weapons at a time, along with thrown weapons such as 
 grenades or Molotov gas bombs. Here again the difficulty is ratcheted up by the restricted weapons 
 inventory, making the game that much more challenging, as ammo seems to be somewhat scarcer than 
 in The Suffering 1.
  
  
  
  All in all, a different playing experience from the original game. Graphics seem to have been tweaked 
 upwards, especially in the character models, and the camera angle is slightly closer to Torque 
 now than before. I found some of the Boss battles to be more frustrating than enjoyable, with constant 
 Save/Reload keys being hit... but maybe that's just me. If you are a fan of the first game, I would 
 recommend checking out the second. Just be prepared for a different, & sometimes trying, gaming 
 experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 19, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  After recently finishing Surreal's latest addition to last year's wonderful The Suffering, a few 
 things come to mind.
  I think GS's initial review of TTB was pretty much spot-on. If you enjoyed the last game, you will 
 PROBABLY like the sequel. There are however, some substanial differences in gameplay approach between 
 the two. The biggest differance , which becomes noticeable after playing the first several levels, 
 is the uneveness of the difficulty in dealing with enemies. Whereas the first game did a good job 
 of spacing the challenges and giving the player breathing room between battles, TTB takes aMore 
 is Better" approach to the combat scenarios. 
  I found myself advancing pretty rapidly through the initial stages of the game... and then POW !, 
 the onslaught began . Waves of various Malefactors attack Torque, in sometimes what almost appear 
 to be endlessly spawning numbers. This whole-scale attack mode becomes more prevalent the further 
 into TTB the player goes. At some points, it becomes almost cartoonish in effect, much like the 
 hordes of enemies seen in Painkiller, except unlike that game, your character takes damage quicker 
 and dies more readily.
  
  This leads me to point out two other glaring changes from the first game. Namely, Torque cannot 
 carry health bottles with him to use in those tight spots where a lot of damage is inflicted quickly 
 by enemies. He must rely on finding & using the health bottles which are randomly scattered throughout 
 the levels. A lot of the time this presents little problem, until the later fighting scenes where 
 large numbers of tough foes are encountered. The other big change is the ability to carry multiple 
 weapons. In TTB Torque can only possess 2 weapons at a time, along with thrown weapons such as 
 grenades or Molotov gas bombs. Here again the difficulty is ratcheted up by the restricted weapons 
 inventory, making the game that much more challenging, as ammo seems to be somewhat scarcer than 
 in The Suffering 1.
  
  All in all, a different playing experience from the original game. Graphics seem to have been tweaked 
 upwards, especially in the character models, and the camera angle is slightly closer to Torque 
 now than before. I found some of the Boss battles to be more frustrating than enjoyable, with constant 
 Save/Reload keys being hit... but maybe that's just me. If you are a fan of the first game, I would 
 recommend checking out the second. Just be prepared for a different, & sometimes trying, gaming 
 experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
