-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2 Nightlife
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesims2nightlife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New group outings and date gameplay add more-focused goals.
 Drivable cars are a useful, if minor, addition.
 Vampires are an amusing gimmick, if hard to find.
 As much personality as ever in expressive animations and sounds.
 Plenty of content for fans of building with the new downtown lot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sims still.
 Does not fix sluggish performance issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,511 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Sep 13, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nightlife offers plenty of new areas to build outdoor lots and some interesting new features that 
 give The Sims 2 a fresh coat of paint for its many fans. 

  Watching little computer people act out their daily lives for your amusement is at the heart of 
 Maxis' Sims games, most recently the sequel, The Sims 2. And with the second expansion pack for 
 The Sims 2, Nightlife, you can now watch those same little people go out for lively nighttime family 
 outings and dates that involve bowling, fast cars, art galleries, and vampires, among other things. 
 The expansion adds a few things that help make the game seem more goal-oriented and a few things 
 that are just plain weird -- but it does have some neat new tricks to keep fans of The Sims interested. 

          Nightlife offers fast cars, the undead, better dating, and something for those of us who've 
 got to boogie.     

  The premise of The Sims 2 originally revolved around keeping households of "sims" (the aforementioned 
 computer people) happy by fulfilling basic needs (also known as "motives") and by pursuing careers, 
 friendships, and important personal life goals. Nightlife takes the action downtown, literally. 
 The new expansion adds a downtown area that your sims can visit to go on dates or group outings 
 or just to hang out. Downtown offers plenty of romantic and lighthearted recreation, from shopping 
 centers to upscale restaurants to karaoke clubs. Your sims can use these activities to bond with 
 their families and loved ones, as well as to fulfill the new "pleasure aspiration" -- a new life 
 goal for sims who just want to have fun.  

  None of the new features seem to fundamentally change The Sims 2, but relatively speaking, outings 
 and dates are probably the most important additions to Nightlife. This is because they add more 
 focus and goals to a game that some have criticized for being too open-ended. Both outings and 
 dates can be initiated by having your sims ask other sims to go out. When the other sims agree, 
 the game brings up a meter on the right-hand side of the screen that measures how enjoyable the 
 event is. For groups, this meter measures how much fun everyone is having, while for dates, this 
 measures how close sims are to a dream date. Also, dates have the added bonus of showing your companion's 
 exact desires and fears so that you have a much better chance of pulling off the best, or worst, 
 date of his or her life. Nightlife even adds an all-new trait to your sims: turn-ons and turn-offs 
 (which can include formal wear, athletic bodies, perfume, and different hair colors) -- these new 
 features can help you zero in on a dream date that much more quickly.  

          You can use group outings, and bowling-alley lobster platters, to make friends fast, but 
 it isn't easy.     

  Dating fundamentally makes the act of courting much easier, since you can quickly and easily see 
 what your date wants. And your companions will follow up the dates with little gifts on your doorstep. 
 For dream dates, you'll get a bunch of roses; for horrible dates, you'll get a burning bag of something 
 else. On the other hand, group outings are pretty challenging to coordinate successfully, especially 
 since sims can still "forget" their train of thought and wander off before you can finish pulling 
 off the greatest picnic ever. But group outings can increase your sims' needs for social contact 
 in a hurry, and they can also jump-start your social networking if you play it right. Having a 
 lot of friends is not only good for advancing in certain careers; it's also useful for the influence 
 system introduced by the previous expansion pack, University. With this system (which is also available 
 in Nightlife, even if you don't have University) , the more good friends you have, the more you're 
 able to get other people to do what you want, such as making you some pancakes or humiliating your 
 rivals. Aside from this addition, Nightlife seems to have subtly tweaked the aspiration system 
 to make it easier to get what your sims want, since they're presented with easily attainable goals 
 more often.  

  Nightlife adds some other features that don't have quite as much of an impact, though they're at 
 least worth a look -- such as cars and vampires. For instance, the game adds garages and drivable 
 cars to your sims' homes, provided you can pay the sizable bill. For your sims, cars can be restful 
 to sit in, can provide yet another hidey-hole for your sims to sneak in some "woohoo" (the Sims' 
 euphemism for intercourse of the nonverbal kind) , and can be "fun" to drive (that is, going for 
 a spin can satisfy the "fun" motive) . But their main purpose is for making travel out of the house 
 (to go downtown or to an outdoor lot) faster, which they do, by a matter of in-game minutes. It's 
 a useful addition for highly demanding fans who need to get the most out of every last minute in 
 the game (since Nightlife runs on a slightly sped-up clock, just like all other Sims games) , but 
 it's not much of a plus for more-casual players on their way downtown who don't mind getting there 
 when they get there. Cars aren't a strong addition to the game overall, and you can definitely 
 live without them, especially considering that there are only five different cars and none of them 
 can be directly controlled or customized beyond choosing a basic paint job.  

  For those who prefer flying to driving, Nightlife also adds vampires, though you'll be lucky to 
 encounter them. A vampire count wanders randomly, and rarely, through downtown lots late at night 
 and can convert his victims into bloodsucking, sunlight-fearing, coffin-dwelling vampires. Vampires 
 are an interesting novelty, since they can convert sims into other vampires and can turn themselves 
 into bats, and other sims can annoy sleeping vampires by tampering with their coffins with humorous 
 results. But being a vampire ultimately gets in the way of the traditional Sims goals of climbing 
 the career ladder and making lasting friends. Considering how hard the count is to find in the 
 first place, it doesn't really seem worth the effort if you're in it for the long run.  

          You can expect expressive animations and sounds -- and the same old technical issues, too. 
     

  All other things aside, this is an expansion pack for The Sims, and since the developer has become 
 very good at creating lots of high-quality stuff, you can expect to find great graphics, great 
 sound, and loads of new items. Both The Sims and The Sims 2 are famous for their expressively animated 
 3D characters who speak the equally expressive (but nonsensical) "simlish" language, while spot-on 
 parodies of modern genres of music (hip-hop, rock, pop, and so on) play in the background. This 
 is also very much the case with Nightlife, which adds lots of clever new animations for activities 
 like singing karaoke, flirting with dates, and dancing the "smustle," a brand-new group dance that 
 helps a lot of sims have a lot of fun, quickly. Likewise, you can expect to hear all-new simlish 
 music tracks (including several themed songs for downtown areas, like techno music for dance clubs 
 and goofy oldies tunes for the 1950s retro diner) and some appropriate-sounding simlish for sims 
 going out on the town. And downtown offers an all-new open lot for those who like to build and 
 customize their own dance clubs, bowling alleys, perfume boutiques, day spas, and more. If nothing 
 else, fans of building should find plenty to do in Nightlife.  

  Unfortunately, this wouldn't be a Sims expansion pack if it actually fixed certain key problems, 
 like occasionally forgetful artificial intelligence for sims and the sluggish scrolling camera, 
 which has been around since the original game in 1999. But like every single Sims expansion pack 
 in history, Nightlife didn't set out to fix The Sims' basic issues or to reinvent the wheel. What 
 it does do is offer plenty of new areas to build outdoor lots and some interesting new features 
 and tweaks that give The Sims 2 a fresh coat of paint for its many fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (124 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  After the sucess of University, The Sims 2 universe becomes bigger with Nightlife, a very good, 
 accurate expansion you will enjoy for long.
  
  New additions in the gameplay are the Downtown, the use of your own car and the vampires. In the 
 Downtown, you can go on date, party with your friends till the early morning and have plenty of 
 fun.
  And of course you can create and customize your own Downtowns.
  Thanfully, the developers added cars which are driven by your Sims, even though they are not so 
 affordable.
  
  Another good feature are the Vampires. Bitten by one, you should get used to sleeping all morning. 
 But you can turn back into human if you want to. This is probably the funniest addition of Nightlife. 
 Unfortunately, the game still faces some problems. The hours of loading are still here, and the 
 graphics seem to be the same simplistic when The Sims 2 was first released.
  
  Overally, you owe to yourself and to your Sims a little nightlife, a good expansion for an even 
 greater game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  this was my first expansion to the sims 2, university just didn't seem worth the money with the 
 reviews and i couldn't locate open for business since i bought this a couple years after its release.
 
  
  so nightlife to the sims 2 is basically just like hot date is to the sims with you getting the 
 chance to ask another sim out on a blind date with a little help from the matchmaker.
  
  the dating system is simple yet at the same time very satisfying since the aspiration points awarded 
 for this is rather high and it helps to build up romantic relationships effectively, which good 
 for the romance sims who were less than fun to manage after a dozen woohoos.
  
  the contacts that are randomly obtained is another plus, allowing you to further your career for 
 a period of time.
  
  the outings system which also comes along with this, isn't quite as fun as going out on dates considering 
 how hard it is to get the score high enough but it's still good for a little socializing.
  
  cars are also a feature of this and are rather useful whether you're late for work or school.
 
  
  vampires make for an entirely different gameplay with you needing to shun the sun and sleep during 
 the day, coming out in the middle of the night to stalk the downtown areas with others of your 
 kind.
  
  overall, this is definitely worth the cost and is a very well made expansion to the core game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  You're Sims now have Cars. Your Sims now have party's. Your Sims now have ten times the community 
 lots. Your Sims now have dates! Yes, this is the Sims 2 Nightlife. If your aspiration meter runs 
 low, no problem! Ask that special someone out on a date and if he/she accepts, both your wants 
 are extremely easy to achieve and you can grab some aspiration points easily!
  
  That's just a method of mine using this expansion. Car's are pretty cool, but pointless as they're 
 so expensive while they just provide previously free services.
  
  Another cool think introduced in Nightlife is the ability to become a vampire, which makes a Sims 
 life a whole lot different. They have to sleep in coffins, their skin becomes chalk-white, they 
 usually resort to wearing evening gowns 24/7, they can turn into bats and they can bite others 
 to make them vampires also! Every ones happy.
  
  All in all, Nightlife is one of the better expansion packs if you're looking for bang for your 
 buck. Nightlife get's an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygirl184
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ok three main reasons why I got this game:
  1) I wanted my sims to have a car, waiting for taxis and waiting for the carpool every morning 
 was becomming a drag, and at least this way I can choose and download new and more modern cars 
 for my sims. 
  2) VAMPIRES! I loved this idea and its fun to go downtown in the middle of the night to bowl and 
 have dinner with vampires. The only downside is finding vampires. I personally prefer my sims to 
 get bitten by vampires than becoming one via a cheat.
  3) The outfits. It can be really annoying when your sims dress in the same plain outfits, but with 
 nightlife I got a wider taste in outfits that my sims can wear when going out. There is even a 
 person vampireish one that is relatively interesting, but remind me more of something that a queen 
 would wear. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I've got most of the sims 2 expansion packs but decided to review this one... wel because it was 
 the last one I went on. Nightlife it a lot of fun, more so when you go down town to clubs and restaurants 
 because you sims can get groovy and meet other sims.
  The choice of houses on this game are good, but could be better with a wider variety to choose 
 from. You can barely buy a house at the beginning with the starting money your given, which is 
 $20 000. But you can equip the house with the cheapest of everything until you get more money. 
 
  As far as I know there is a limit on how many people you can have in your family, because I tried 
 to get people pregnant but it didn't happen until I killed the two oldest people in the house, 
 with fire. 
  There are cheats for this game that I know but I can only remember one of them, and that is: hold 
 down Ctrl + C and when the box at the top appears type in Motherload and you should get $50 000. 
 There is no limit on how many times you can use this cheat.
  This game can be pretty funny because one time, the shower started leaking. So as you do you get 
 your sim to fix it, but once he fixed it, he was the one with water coming out from his body :S. 
 So I put him on the workout machine and somehow, it set on fire. So then he dies but my other sim 
 pleads with the reaper and he comes back to life. Now my sim is working around all burnt with water 
 coming out of him back from the dead. How this happend I don't know.
  Any way, there are many new things in nightlife, than the ordinary sims 2, new cars, new places 
 to go, new houses, new furniture etc. Some advice, don't move in with a vampire and a day job, 
 simply because, you will become a vampire and when you go to work you will die pretty much because 
 it is daylight. 
  And half the time when you start flirting with someone they get angry and leave the house. Overall 
 this is a great sims game and worth buying as an expansion pack. Ill give it 9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is what life was ment to be like easy and very simple. The Sims Night life is just that!!!! 
 Going out is easier, you get to have the perfect date at home or on the town. I prefer at home. 
 You also now have a great idea of what they their wants and fears are so progressing in the date 
 itself is better. No more guessing at what make your date happy!!!! With the right graphics card 
 the game really does run smoothly, and you can get greater details of the simworld. On the tail 
 of the coin, if you have a bad date your date will walk out and give you a rude compliment, and 
 probably not want to talk to you again. The Great thing about this game is even if that sim were 
 to steal from you and you become enraged at them a relationship of about -100/-100 believe it or 
 not you can still repair that relationship and marry that sim if you so choose too!!!! If your 
 looking for a perfect world you can find it in the Sims 2 Nightlife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I did not review The Sims 2 originally; it dawned on me that I could do more of a public service 
 for people by waiting for some of the expansions to come out and then addressing the game as a 
 whole. 
  
  I'm a big fan of The Sims, and as someone normally inclined to play an untra violent FPS or hack 
 and slash fantasy game y initial thoughts on seeing The Sims was:
  
  "That is the dumbest idea in the world for a game. I hate it just thinking about it."
  
  Well 
 after several gaming friends insisted up and down I'd love this game I gave it a try and by God 
 they were right! I can't explain it fully but there's something intoxicating about playing God 
 with virtual people; you find yourself doing things and succumbing to impulses that many would 
 consider repugnant were it not simply a game. 
  
  The ability to literally create virtual people with unique desires and ambitions, guide them through 
 their lives and control them as though you are Master of the Universe is irresistible to me and 
 every time I think I have grown tired of this game I think of new ways to indulge my most nefarious 
 impulses. 
  
  That said there are aspects of The Sims gameplay that become repetitive and even tedious once you've 
 mastered the ins and outs of the system. For example despite the fact that each Sim has a choice 
 of career paths, they all feel much the same and the minor differences in aspiration rewards and 
 promotion requirements feels superficial. All of the Sims pretty much look the same and act the 
 same way, and respond to the same stimuli. 
  
  Married, single, male or female any Sim can be seduced, pulled away form their partner, coerced 
 and controlled with very little effort, making the universe seem rather cookie cutter in nature. 
 To this end (and no doubt for financial considerations as well) there are numerous expansions available 
 for the game and The Sims franchise has made better use of marketing expansion packs than perhaps 
 any game in history. 
  
  University allows you to send your SIms to college - an entertaining diversion that adds several 
 new career paths and opportunities for your characters to pursue but also becomes rather repetitive 
 over time. 
  
  Nightlife allows your Sims to go on dates - which sounds like fun but really isn't. When on an 
 outing the other Sims' desires are apparent to you so pleasing them becomes sort of a boring, connect 
 the dots experience that I only wish I could replicate in real life. What I would give to be able 
 to take a girl out to dinner and know EXACTLY what she wanted me to do at all times. 
  
  It's the little things that Nightlife adds to the experience that make this expansion worthwhile. 
 Your Sims now have chemistry - both positive and negative - and individual turn ons and turn offs 
 can now be changed and are more crucial to your Sims' development than before. Adding a small degree 
 of color to your Sims' relationships does breathe a little life into the game and make it a little 
 more interesting. 
  
  Your Sims may now purchase and drive automobiles, which up to now was something you needed a hack 
 for. This may seem like a small thing but it does seem silly that the only way any Sim could get 
 around was to call a Taxi or wait for a carpool to work. 
  
  Other lots are now visible when you are engaged in playing your Sims' lot and you can click and 
 transfer to other lots without going back to the neighborhood screen. Again a small thing but it 
 does make the game a bit easier to play. 
  
  Oh, and there are also Vampires, for some... strange... reason. So if you missed out on the Buffy/X-Files/Anne 
 Rice/Vampire Conspiracy craze of the 1990's or simply want more of it then, well there you go. 
 
  
  The issue for me here is that while University and Nightlife both offer intriguing additions to 
 the Sims universe - and they DO improve gameplay the question is whether it improves gameplay by 
 a factor of thirty dollars. 
  
  Considering the fact that many features offered by The Sims expansions probably should have been 
 present in the original game you get the feeling you are being nickel and dimed into spending more 
 and more money to get what should have been a more complete offering to begin with. 
  
  In the end, looking at the array of Sims 2 expansions available I would say that unless you're 
 a die hard fan, an obsessive compulsive or just have money to burn you may want to stop at University 
 and Nightlife - after buying the original game and then spending $60 on two expansions you have 
 a fairly complete game that is satisfying to play, but is still going to get old fast. 
  
  But until it does you'll fine The Sims 2 - and whichever expansions you choose to add - immersive, 
 imaginative and rewarding game play, if only for a while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  While developers are quick to point out that Nightlife is much more than "Hot Date 2," fans of 
 the series will find that the second Sims 2 expansion brings many objects, interactions, and other 
 features that are similar to those introduced by the original game's downtown dating add-on.
  
  With Nightlife, Sims 2 characters can go on dates in a new downtown area, full of restaurants 
 and nightclubs that players can edit or rebuild as they desire. The success of a date is tracked, 
 from moment to moment, and two Sims who hit it off will soon find new social interactions available 
 to them, to help them develop their romantic relationships even further. Many of the expansion's 
 new objects, such as the dining booth and the bowling alley, can be used to help Sims improve their 
 relationships with one another while they have fun and quell other needs at the same time.
  
  Nightlife is designed to enhance the gameplay of the Sims 2 in other ways, as well, by adding 
 new options and features never before available in any Sims game or add-on. In addition to dates, 
 Sims can band together to go on "Group Outings," which allow them to enjoy the downtown scene together, 
 without all that heady romantic pressure. The expansion also adds a new life aspiration -- "Pleasure" 
 -- which allows for characters who are truly devoted to the pursuit of happiness, and receive wants 
 and fears based on their epicurean ideals.
  
  Another major addition introduced by Nightlife is automobiles. If they can afford one, Sims can 
 now own and operate their own cars -- no more need to wait for the carpool or taxi cab to get them 
 where they need to be. Other new objects include a poker table, a DJ stand, and many more lighting 
 choices. As usual, most of these objects can be used in Sims' private homes (or dorm rooms) , as 
 well as in the new public downtown areas. Like most expansion packages, a full installation of 
 the Sims 2 (or the Sims 2: Special DVD Edition) is required for play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: german84
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  What would the world be without Night-life ? Let me answer it: It would be a very boring place, 
 where people can only worry for work, bills and what to eat. The creators of this game thought 
 as well for sims, the result being a new EP.
  
  But it is not only about dating, dining, dancing and... erm... woohooing: This EP is also packed 
 with brand new cars, vampires and some impressive new build-mode tools. Face it, a car is also 
 a very important thing in human life: At least I would become crazy without one, since Public transportation 
 is good but not always that efficient.)
  
  Fancy restaurants, wild nightclubs, Gypsy witches, blood-suckers... moralist old-women... it is 
 all there. The only one thing missing is that you take your sims for a night out. Good luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  There has always been this crazy bond with the sims to real life. You see, you control a computer 
 mouse to makes your sims do what you want them to do. But its stuff you can do in real life. Like 
 meditate or go to the toilet, but it appears that you can keep adding on to your sims lifes with 
 a disc in a machine, and get a more up to date toilet or skill. This disc allows you to add a new 
 city to your imaginery life giver, and a new skill to improve on. A oppurnity to find love in a 
 someones eyes, or to die on the dancefloor. Take a meal out, get married community, transfer lots 
 with a click of a button and get dizzy in a electric wheel. And yet while all this amazment and 
 fun is taking place on a screen for hours on end, why not you? Why don't you go out and do all 
 the above. But you can't, because Maxis have given you and me a rather different angle to look 
 at of life. A second life of a few cartoon figures dancing. Yet Maxis have no new ideas for the 
 sims, because it can always happen to us. So the development and the games brings nothing new to 
 life, yet to us it does. It brings a new life with new choices and new towns, all of which could 
 exist if we put our minds and heads to it. So what i am trying to say in a few words is that life 
 is a computer simulation, which requires a disc to play. GOOD POINTS ON THIS AMAZING EXPANSION 
 - Dancing, New Businesses, New Towns, New Socials, New Objects, and a new meaning of life
  BAD POINTS - The long long load times for the taxi trip etc
  
  Get it for a reasonable price, 
 and experience your life with a click of the mouse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-San
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 has been a great game, following the entire life of your little 'Sims' from raising 
 kids to dating the 'townies.' And now, making a relationship with sims hasn't been easier. You 
 may not get Seasons, or your own new job, or Hyper-Active puppies, but you do get dates, and new 
 items.
  
  Some of the new items include a karaoke machine, a DJ Station, and a Dance Sphere. With the Karaoke 
 Machine you can sing a Solo, or Duet with that Special Someone. The DJ Station allows you to act 
 as a DJ, and best of all, you get paid! With the Dance Sphere you can show off to your date how 
 you can stay on this crazy machine and the whole time you can raise your fitness.
  
  To most of you who don't yet have this game, a 'date' is inviting someone over to your house and 
 attempting at a nice dinner. But with Nightlife you can skip over many of that. For one, you do 
 kind of invite them over to your house at first, but the date is now graded, depending on if you 
 give the lucky person what they want, no you can't go to the movies, but you can do nearly everything 
 else. From taking them to a nightclub where you dance the night away, to taking them to a fancy 
 restaurant with candlelight, that's not including the bowling alleys. No doubt there's much to 
 do in this expansion.
  
  I haven't yet mentioned the new 'species' of sim. Vampires are the new type of sims. Just like 
 with pets we have Werewolves, Seasons we get Plant Sims, and University gets Zombies. Grand Vampires 
 are the only way to make a Vampire w/o cheats. Grand Vampires can be found in the new Downtown 
 area at night. To become a Vampire all you gotta do is raise your relationship with a Grand Vampire 
 until they bite you. Once you become a Vampire your sim may want to get a cure to Vampirism that 
 you can get from the lovely Matchmakers.
  
  Matchmakers do exactly what you think they'd do. Depending on how much you pay them, they can get 
 you someone you'll love, or someone you'll hate. They also sell Vampirocilin (A cure to Vampirism) 
 and some cure to Werewolf-ism. They also give you a One-Time-Only potion that allows you to change 
 your Turn-ons and Turn-offs.
  
  Turn-ons and Turn-offs change who you'll be attracted to. Your turn-ons can be the craziest from 
 Stink and Fatness to the smartest like Cologne and Fitness. Not un-like your Turn Offs.
  
  Cologne is a new item the geniuses of Maxis invented and brought to the Sims 2. Cologne is bought 
 at any store you can find that has a Cologne stand and you can be anywhere from one to ten. They 
 each only have one use, and you can find them in your inventory. Your inventory is pretty handy, 
 as well. You can take any item in a lot that you can go into buy mode with and you just click and 
 drag into your nice little inventory, carrying it around with you until you need it.
  
  I hope this has helped
  
  -Jlybelly :-)
  
  P. S. I didn't even mention the ownership of 
 Cars and Taking a Group out on an Outing (which is graded like a date) or just for fun, both raising 
 your relationship with everyone in the group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Very good expansion to The Sims 2.
  
  Adds a lot more fun to your sim's life, principally with the dating tool. DJ's, Discos, Restaurants, 
 Cars, everything is amazing.
  
  Expecially the cars! Oh, I have been wating so longer for this. When I knew that Nightlife would 
 be a perfect expansion that would include cars, I had to find a way to obtain the game.
  
  Your sims now can live with much more happiness and joy. New clothes, items and different types 
 of community lots make that you never lose the will to play.
  
  Actually, the only thing that bothers me is that the game becomes too slow to load, but it's something 
 that you have to accustom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Jeez, oh the fun in this game! There is infinit possibilities in that box. Yes, that box the box 
 that says The Sims 2: Nightlife . It is isn't the best EXP ever, (Seasons) but it really adds quite 
 a bit. Let's go over the new items, and things. Cars, yup finnally the #1 want of sim lovers is 
 here!! Cars! Next is the new mini-game the date game! Mini games are always fun (Especially in 
 the sims) Next, are VAMPIRES!! Awsome! Then the two new aspiration. The 'pleasure' and the EXTREMELY 
 secret 'grilled cheese' aspiration! All this fun all this- POSSIBILITIES! Recomended to ANYONE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_moron_man
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  its an awesome games becuase of several key aspects.
  1. your sims can FINALLY own cars even though there are only 7 well 8 if you download the ford 
 GT off the maxis website
  2. now you can see you're neighbours from you're house. Whitch makes it look better than before 
 (it was kinda dull with a big flat plain around you're house)
  3. Of course what every EP needs. TONS of new objects for you're sims homes.
  4. amazing new community 
 lot feature and items.
  5. VAMPIRES WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT!!!!!!!!!!! who dosnt like vampires?
  6. Dating And even better than in the first one. Becuase it has a date meeter and you can fufill 
 are you're dates wants.
  
  And thats my review on the sims 2 Nightlife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kachenbrod
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I have a lousy computer, it has tons of memory, but doesn't even do well with the Sims 2, but Nightlife 
 did NOT make it slower! In fact, it gave me much, much better ways to keep my computer alive! When 
 you choose the option to go to a community lot, a pie menu will come up and it will list all the 
 community lots, on the left, you have to choose, Pleasantview or Downtown, after you choose one, 
 a list of the community lots will come up on the right. Now, personally, I don't care much for 
 dating, but there are some awesome clothes that made it unneccessary for me to download CC! Like, 
 who doesn't like the new sporty yet sexy clothes they made for female sims? And it even added tons 
 of nice clothes for males! I finally have fun creatng a male sim! And it adds a lot of awesome 
 wallpapers! I use all of the new ones, I really don't like the base Sims 2 wallpapers anymore compared 
 to the new ones! And, who doesn't love vampires? It IS a lot of fun being a vampire, but I rarely 
 try to be a vampire. You can bite peole, which makes if challenging and yet fun! And if you're 
 thinking about buying this one for the hairdos. Seriously, don't. It added only TWO hair styles. 
 For each gender. That wacky asian hairdo, and a medevial style hairstyle with a crown. For males, 
 it added an emo hairstyle and a nice, but not completely awesome hairstyle. So, what are you doing 
 without this EP? GO AND BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is much much much much better than the sims 2 university. You can do anything in this 
 game dance, date people, go shopping, go to a restaurant basicaly anything you want in real life.
 
  Don't think in the shop if this is a good game. .Don't stand in the shop and think is this game 
 worth for the money. It is worth for the money. Once you start playing this game it's like your 
 stuck to the computer. So really think if you are a game addict buy this game. So really think 
 if you are a game addict buy this game right now. It is really the best in the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 nightlife is the greatest I mean cars you get cars!! And you get so much new asportion rewards, objects, clothes, moves 
 you can do, new bussiness and Downtown!! You should toatly get this game I mean if you don't have 
 it buy it right now!!!! That is how great this game is!
  Out all the extion packs this is the best! Go and get nightlife just do it! This is the best greatest 
 sims 2 extin pack ever new stuff new lots new downloads I mean it's freakin asome but not as good 
 as kingdom hearts! All in all you should get this game for the sake of the sims 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  A great add-on to The Sims 2, You can go out with your friends and dance all night, maybe play 
 bowling, visit a nice restaurant, or just go to a museum or a park. If your outing was great your 
 friends would want to go out with you again in a couple of days.
  Romantic Sims can also go out in dates and visit the same places but in a different mood, this 
 time you have to make your date feel comfortable so can score points and have a dream date, you 
 may end up receiving flowers in your house, or a bag of poo, so try to make sure your date has 
 a great time.
  The bad aspect of going to downtown is that you'll have to wait for downtown to load then the lot 
 your visiting, and when you go home you'll stay watching your neighborhoods loading screen followed 
 by your house's loading screen.
  Also your Sims can now buy cars so they can get to work when they miss the carpool, take children 
 to school, or just going out on their own car without having to wait for a taxi cab 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I like the night clubs and the cars that you get in the Nightlife expansion. I love the Sims what 
 better than to have a sequel. I like all the things that you can do on sims2. com and upload in 
 to your game. There are tons of cheats for the game i use the 'motherlode' one all the time so 
 i cam build my mansions with $50,000 at a time. I spend more time building houses, than actually 
 playing the game, the game is fun too. i like the abbility to have cell phones, mp3 players, and 
 video games. i also like going to commercial places. most of the time they are built by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 nightlife is so cool beacuse you can have ur own garage, you can have your own car, you 
 can ask a person to go on a date pretty fantastic huh.
  Some of my friends really like this game alot beacuse there is a disco to dance, poker, bowling ball 
 and the best wht my friends really like this game alot is when u can install an alarm for the car 
 but i don't understand y they all go insted one?
  But some people hate this game alot because they think that there is no buying clothes.
  If you 
 say that this game suck this means you suck at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 Nightlife, the second expansion of the Sims 2, offers many features such as cars, nightclubs, 
 and fancy restaurants.
  
  This Ep is the best out of the current four. Nightlife offers more vital features than any other. 
 I personally enjoy my sims driving to school, work, and community lots. Nightclubs can also be 
 nice at specific times.
  
  If you are even thinking about purchasing Sims 2 plus an Ep, Nightlife should be your pick. Like 
 I said before, this game offers excellent gameplay and keeps you doing various things through the 
 day of your sims. You will never be bored with your sims now, never. Cars, Nightclubs, it's all 
 so fun to play with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  I personally think its great cuz the sims get to have loads more stuff and u get to build more 
 things. Give your sims a great time by building amazing places for them to crash or go on dates. 
 Also, you get to have really cool cars which you could drive to work and do other stuff with it 
 ( best not to metion here lol)
  
  Graphics
  Basically the same as the Sims 2 and the expansion packs. The graphics didnt change, its still 
 the same as always. So nothing to say about it really.
  
  Sound
  The sound is also the same aswell, except a few added music for the collection. They sound kinda 
 of strange though, yet kind of funny. One of the new music was ( it goes like this:) Bob bob bob... and 
 gets louder and louder and then i cant remember what happened next but it funny.
  
  My opinion would be that you go get this game if you like Sims and go play the damn thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  The sims 2 was a revoloutinary game ,fully 3D and hundreds of furniture sims and houses. But it 
 lacked the most improtant thing any game should have-creativity. The sims 2: nightlife takes care 
 of that by problem by adding clubs, restaraunts, Bowling alleys and hordes of hungary vampires! It's 
 most interesting new feature was the fact that your sims could now have cars! Which was great as 
 I hated having to continuously wait for the yellow taxi. Like in the old sims the expansion packs 
 brung variety and new charcters and features for example Heather, thewomanthat sells love potions 
 and dresses like a gypsy and Countess Dallas one of the many vampires strolling around Downtown. 
 Also the new mini games are fabulous as you take dating and 'outings' to a whole new level. There 
 are not many flaws in this game but if i had to point it out it would be that %95 of the new costumes 
 are extremely homoerotic which makes me seriously glad i have the first one! In the end this is 
 a great expansion pack and has earned its place in the huge sim world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -____________-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  I I I I I I I I A A A A A A A A A A A A A SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE 
 LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE THE THE THE THE THE A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A II I IIII II I I I I I I IiI I IIII III I I I I I I I 
 I I II II I I I I I I I II II I YO Y OY OY OY OY OY OY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reyveign
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife adds all the things I was missing from the original (owning vehicles, for 
 instance) and the whole dating engine is a perfect addition. Personally, I love taking Sims on 
 dates. Dating (and attending Nightclubs) is pretty much the main theme of Nightlife, and if it 
 doesn't really sound appealing to you, I'm sure you could pass it up without missing out on a whole 
 lot.
  
  True, the expansion doesn't JUST add dating, vehicles, some new interactions and Vampires, but 
 apart from a little new thing here and there, Nightlife doesn't have much to offer for people who 
 would just rather have a family, raise kids or be a scientist searching for Martians. I would still 
 recommend this game though. If you like The Sims 2 and have some spare cash. Why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is so much better than the last one! SO much better. This reminds me a lot of Hot 
 Date, an expansion in the first The Sims series. It's interesting, offers new types of gameplay. 
 I love having my own car in the game and being able to do what I want when I want and not having 
 to wait for a cab to show up out front. It's much more convenient. I like the new content offered 
 in this game, and the new things to do. The clubs can be a lot of fun. And I like that the dates 
 have a meter to show how well they're going. This game makes it a lot easier to create chemistry 
 with someone that it was in the first game where people were smacking each other left and right. 
 I like that the gameplay has changed some too with this expansion, like the family video look that 
 the game gets when special events happen. It's cute and funny. I'm really happy with this expansion, 
 especially compared to the last crappy attempt at making the game more interesting with a university. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pink2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  i admit, not my favorite expansion pack, but it's still worth it. there are tons of places where 
 you can take your sim and have fun. going on dates is even better since you can boost your relationship 
 w/ the other sim very fast! and, not only that, but if the date goes well, then the datee will 
 bring you an awesome gift! and sometimes flowers, or a love letter.
  
  the new pleasure aspiration is no that bad. i rarely use it on my sims (i'm more of a career builder) , 
 but it's still fun. it's a lot like the romance aspiration, all fun and games :P . the new items 
 are totally worth it: awesome and rockin wallpapers, the same with the floors and furniture.
  
  oh, and let's not forget vampires!! lol they are awesome!! i once had a family of 10, all vampires! 
 "i'm here to suck your blood! muahaha!!" lol :P oh, and in case you're wondering, teenagers can 
 be vampires too :D . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hladyb4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  The Nightlife EP added a new downtown area with new places for the sims to meet other sims and 
 take a date. The best part of the game is that it introduced drivable cars. No longer will your 
 working sims have to depend on carpools to get to work and sims can leave home without having to 
 wait on a taxi. It also introduced the option "ask Sim on a date". Now I would have liked that 
 except your dates are timed and rated. By the time you've asked out the sim, hopped in the car 
 and reached your destination, your date is half over. There isn't enough time to really do much 
 to improve your date except slow dance with the other sim. This is probably my least favorite EP, 
 except for the cars. Still I know a lot of people who think this is the best EP. I suppose it's 
 really a matter of how you play the game. I do a lot more making families than actually dating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Instead of keep on calling a taxi ever time you go out you can just ride in your new pimping new 
 sports car. To go to all your shopping needs all over the new downtown feature. Go pick up dates 
 in all new night clubs. New items like a DJ and dance floors this game has it all. With a new pleasure 
 aspiration gives a lot more choices in your Sims live. With new vampire NPC's can bite you and 
 you could also be a vampire. You can also go out with them which I think is freak-in weird going 
 out with a vampire. This is superb game there is just nothing else to it. But there is still some 
 down sides to this game. The loading screens are a little slow. After you play it for a while you 
 get so bored. It gets really boring, most parts of the game you say Jim do that, Jim do this, Jim 
 go here, Jim go there. Overall this is a pretty good game. I rate this game a 7.7 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallonebrownme
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  i enjoy playing the nightlife expansion pack because now your sims have places togo in the game, including 
 driving their own car to get there. you can go bowling, out on dates even have an outing with your 
 friends. while downtown you can also eat at restaurants and then dance the night away, so there 
 is alot to do in nightlife that will keep your sims busy for years to come. the nightlife pack 
 also bring about a new pleasure aspiration where your sims will simply aspire to do all pleasure 
 thing and dosent want to experience nothing stressful and there are also more items in buy mode 
 like club seats and sofas to purchase for your crib. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Nightlife added a huge volume of stuff likes hair styles, shirts, formals, PJs and blah blah blah. Some 
 of them are well, and also some are bad. See whether you loves it or not. Nightlife-themed town, 
 Downtown doesn't change your Sim entire life. Downtown can be a destination, or you can just live 
 there. Downtown includes some interesting place that u can visit. You can have a night party or 
 see something you can't see at other place. I prefer the University expansion set, it can change 
 the way you play the Sim. at least it have a larger changes for the sims 2 than Nightlife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  In my oppinion i like the sims 2 nightlife very much! i find it better then all the other expansions 
 packs that have been released for the sims 2. It has alot of extra's, objects, cars and that gives 
 the game another reason to make it worth playing... i have all the expansion packs including university 
 and open for businnes... but i can't enjoy myself so much with those expansions packs except for 
 this one "nightlife" all i can say about this game is that it's worth buying! if you know the controls 
 of the sims 2 then it's just thesame! And if you are a big fan of the sims then make sure that you 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon1001001
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  It's not much to say about this one, its just some new items, new clothes and thats it. Nothing 
 special like created meshes and game mods. The thing is, I think (And probably everyone else thinks) 
 that they thought this would be a 10, a perfect game in every way... But it wasn't a perfect game 
 in every way. The creators and developers and stuff of this game thought "Hey, last time the cars 
 in The Sims weren't useful enough like in this one, so this game will be the best if we add a new 
 neighborhood, a couple more items, and some cars". Basically, thats an opinion of mine I thought 
 I should share because The Sims 2 EP2 wasn't all I thought it would be and you thought it would 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herrird
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Hey dudes have been played a lot now a days or have you been studying for your exams!!!!
  
  The sims nightlife like the name says the games is based on the 17 to 29 year persons that go to 
 bars and disco's and spend their night outside their house.
  This game is surely the best sims game to be realised till now a days.
  I spend hours and hours 
 playing this game I spent almost two hundred hours of my precious time playing this game.
  
  The graphics are just amazing of all games that existed till today the graphics of this game 
 are so good that when I bought the game and played it for the first time I almost cryed.
  The sound is great that it is really great it is thrilling.
  The gameplay is very good and is 
 one of the best ones that I've seen till today.
  hugzzz
  
  dudez 
  
  keep in touch . 
  Keep it real !!!!!!!!!!! Respect !!!! Selecta Wicket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loathan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 nightlife is te best sim game yet. In this game you are able to take you sim out on dates 
 and out to social events like parties and get to gethers. I really enjoy the asperations in this 
 game, for example your sims aperations in this game will rotate around the certian sim that you 
 like, also it will follow your friends asperations to go to woo hoo and such. Another thing thats 
 pretty cool about this game is that if you have a really good date or aDream Date" then your 
 date will reward you will a gift of some sort ( Hot tub, T. V, Drums) . Over all this game really 
 applys to real life like if you dont eat you get sick or if you eat old food you get sick, things 
 like that make this game the best sims ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 Night Life is a jam packed expansion. filled with stuff for a great out going, new dating 
 features and CARS! thats right! big, gas guzzling CARS! You can now go downtown or to any comunity 
 lot with a group of people not in your family as an outing, or go in a car for two, on a date. 
 A new attraction system based on the sims 1 astrology idea and your sims turn ons and turn offs. 
 
  
  You can make your sim a vampire if they get bitten by an other vampire. you can call the match 
 maker and get some love potion or get a blind date (you might have some problem with blind date 
 because it could be an npc) . You can have a fun time with the dance shpere which spins sims around, 
 get a strike playing bowling or do a crazy grove on the dance floor. 
  
  The dance floor, DJ Booths and disco lights funtions are highly customisable. You can make Sims 
 Request a Style on the DJ booth. you can choose the speed of the dance floor colour changes, And 
 you can choose particular paterns of the Disco Light. 
  
  The new neigbourhood type downtown can have comunity or residential lots. so this means that you 
 can have loads more places to go and people to meet. so that the sims tiny world of one neigbourhood 
 can become a bit bigger! also come with some tall building neighbourhood decorations, and street 
 stuff like street lamps and traffic cones.
  
  Value for money: new 16 ($25.50) , old 10 ($15.50) . 
  This is another review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 Nightlife review
  
  The Sims 2: Nightlife adds yet another chapter to the already extensive Sims story. Possibly the 
 largest selling PC franchise ever (Tetris and Myst are the other contenders) , the tradition in 
 the Sims is to add more and more content with many expansions. The tradition continues with Nightlife, 
 the second expansion for the series.
  
  Nightlife adds pretty much exactly what the name suggests... a nightlife. A new downtown neighborhood 
 is opened up, with residential and commercial lots in abundance. This neighborhood is associated 
 with your main community, and your Sims can live in it just like the original. In truth, you could 
 ignore the main community altogether and play only in downtown if you'd like. 
  
  Like in the original Sims 2, you can leave your home to visit any of these community lots to shop 
 or whatever. Now, though, you can do so on a date or with a group of friends. Dates are scored 
 according to how well they are going, and group outings can either be casual (unscored) or scored 
 as you choose. Dating is the main focus of the expansion, and everything else added more or less 
 supports that. Good dates and group outings, as determined by the score, can result in rewards 
 and benefits. Bad dates can get you the scorn of the one you were seeking to romance.
  
  Of course, with the addition of a new neighborhood and more activities, the Sims need more objects 
 to satisfy their consumer urges. Nightlife contains numerous items designed to be used in the new 
 downtown social lots. Items like bowling alleys, a DJ booth (a money making opportunity also) , 
 new lighting options and new furniture are included, as are some new party clothes. These objects 
 support the group nature of the expansion, allowing people to bowl, dance, kareoke and otherwise 
 party. With the new items, the Sims now have many new opportunities for socializing with their 
 friends.
  
  Some of the more important additions are new traits for your Sims. Now, in addition to their personality 
 traits and aspirations, they also have turn ons and turn offs. That is to say, things that attract 
 or repel them on other Sims. Based on the turn ons, personality traits, zodiac signs, etc, Sims 
 can now feel attraction or repulsion to one another. Attraction allows higher level interactions 
 earlier and more easily. After all, you are attracted to each other. There are even new interactions 
 that allow Sims to scope rooms for new flames, check people out for attraction and even ask other 
 Sims if they feel any attraction. A new aspiration focused around pleasure and partying is another 
 significant addition. Plus, there is a cool new medical condition... vampirism. Your Sim can be 
 bitten by one of the master vampires in the game if they get a high enough relation with one of 
 them. The condition can be spread to others by interactions. In fact, one of the complaints that 
 has been going around is that it is very easy to have your entire neighborhood become vampires 
 after being changed yourself.
  
  The graphics and the sound are up to the standards set by the original game, being that they are 
 just extensions and additions to it. As usual, the voices of the Sims are in Simlish, the artificial, 
 nonsense language that was developed for this series of games. While it is impossible to accurately 
 translate the words, the mood of the conversation is still easy to determine by listening to the 
 tone of voice and the body language of the speaker. The graphics on the new items are good as usual, 
 but there is still the problem of the visuals being very demanding on the computer processor. There 
 can be noticable slowing and hesitation at times even with up to date, modern systems. There is 
 no sign that any real optimization has taken place with the new expansions.
  
  Nightlife adds significantly to the Sims 2 experience, much as Hot Date did for the original Sims 
 game. The greater social opportunities add more challenge and different goals to the world. With 
 the new aspiration to support a clubbing lifestyle and cool properties and items, your Sims can 
 have a truly wild time on the town. Nightlife is a worthwhile addition to the game that will add 
 a lot to the gameplay, and should be part of any Sims fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackmoonskye
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Ok, so i wasnt that excited about this expantion... not wanting to waste my money on it, like most 
 of the expantion packs to the sims have been (a waste of money) .. 
  
  so, this time round, they FINALLY have cars... good... after years of waiting.. its finally here. 
 thats probably the best part of this expantion i think.. 
  
  i must admit, i havnt spent that much time playing with this expantion, it gets tired very quickly... 
 Ive given it a difficulty rating of hard cause its hard to keep everything together, trying to 
 keep all their needs up to scratch, and kepping the family, and then going out and hacing perfect 
 dates every time... (well that bits a bit easy) ... but the outings are difficult. 
  
  i created one sim, started building up a family, i had about 13 friends on the go.. its so difficult 
 to keep them from falling in love, funny to hear, but staying friends with them all is annoying.. 
 the phone doesnt stop ringing... 
  
  anyway, again, the sound hasnt much improved, the graphics these days are a bit mediocre i guess, 
 with all the new games out.. but they cant help that... but the gameplay is good now, with more 
 options, and more things to choose from, its good from that angle 
  
  good: More gameplay options, they have CARS damit! its easy to get the sims hooked up
  
  bad: 
 Vampires are really random.. where and what the hell? the sounds is repetative... and its difficult 
 to have and keep a family without sims and you going clinicly insane.. 
  
  not a waste of money i guess, but if you dont play the sims that much anyway, there is not much 
 point.. but if your addicted, its a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This sims 2 pakket is better than the normal sims. No in this sims you got your own cars. A family 
 car, a pick-up, A sport car (looks like a Spyker) , One person car (Nissan Micra) . Got new object's 
 in the house and new wallpaint for the house. And in the first sims 2 you where in the middel of 
 nowhere. now you olso see the othere houses near by your house. Got new closes. Not the best clothes 
 but somethings are nice. New hairstyle's to, freeky one's but ok. New in the game are the opptions 
 for disco or house party. Now you can have your own stage with microfoon in the house. And you 
 can olso got your own dj set. And olso that disco floor that gives licht. And much and much more 
 disco special effects. A nice game with more than 125 new object's. But there is a problem. You 
 must got the first sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  Finally, you get the ability to buy and ride your own car! Now this is one of the best and most 
 useful this expansion pack has to offer. No more taxi drives. And you can build your own garage. 
 You can now buy your own DJ Sets, disco light, and make your own disco. There are few more new 
 times, like Magneto-sphere, and "many" more. Going downtown might be fun, some value.
  And also, there are vampires now in the downtown. I tired once inviting an vampire to my house, 
 and it really did bite my character's neck, turning my character into a vampire also! This is also 
 one of the best additions, but not that useful.
  Nightlife is a good boost expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife is one of the expansion packs made as add-on for The Sims 2. Graphics are 
 exactly are just as good as the original game, but with added lighting and pryotechnic effects, 
 both of which are BEA-utiful. The gameplay is the same, with the addition of 150+ items, making 
 your house's interior that much more cool. There is a new Pleasure aspiration for those all night 
 partiers. The Sims finally get cars. There are various models that even come with thier own garages. 
 The most important additions are the nightclubs, shops, bowling alleys, restaraunts etc. that your 
 Sims can visit at any time. Vampire NPC's have also been added. If your not careful and let you 
 sims socialize with them, they might also end up a member of the blood suckers. Music wise, the 
 original music is all there with the addition of lots more rock, heavy-metal, rap and many more 
 styles of songs, all sung in simmish to get you into thier world. This is a great expansion pack 
 to the series, and will get all the hardcore party sims downtown to party all night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife adds some other features that don't have quite as much of an impact, though they're at 
 least worth a look -- such as cars and vampires. For instance, the game adds garages and drivable 
 cars to your sims' homes, provided you can pay the sizable bill. For your sims, cars can be restful 
 to sit in, can provide yet another hidey-hole for your sims to sneak in some "woohoo" (the Sims' 
 euphemism for intercourse of the nonverbal kind) , and can be "fun" to drive (that is, going for 
 a spin can satisfy the "fun" motive) . But their main purpose is for making travel out of the house 
 (to go downtown or to an outdoor lot) faster, which they do, by a matter of in-game minutes. It's 
 a useful addition for highly demanding fans who need to get the most out of every last minute in 
 the game (since Nightlife runs on a slightly sped-up clock, just like all other Sims games) , but 
 it's not much of a plus for more-casual players on their way downtown who don't mind getting there 
 when they get there. Cars aren't a strong addition to the game overall, and you can definitely 
 live without them, especially considering that there are only five different cars and none of them 
 can be directly controlled or customized beyond choosing a basic paint job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife is the equivelent of hot date which was for sims 1. You get a true downtown neighbourhood 
 which your sims can live in aswell. You can date sims and dine at fancy restaurants eating things 
 you could never cook yourself. Bowling, nightclubs, resturants and what else is missing? Ah yes, 
 what would downtown be without everyones favourite old bag! Mrs crumplebottom is back! She'll slap 
 you silly evrytime your sim smooches their sexy date. 
  
  Basically for those of you wishing their sims to be party animals this is the closet thing your 
 gonna get to it unless they release an expansion called partyu animal... Anyway this expansion offers 
 a new aspiration - Pleasure seeker, these people which to kiss sims, go bowling and eat grilled 
 cheese! Also a new reward lets you change your aspiration if you want. but be careful! if your 
 sim has low aspiration they will turn into................. CHEESE LOVING MANIACS!! dun dun duuuuuuuun. 
 with a lifetime goal of eating 200 grilled cheese meals.
  
  Now nightlife could mean two things. Partying all night or lurking in the night stalking. Now that 
 doesnt mean some creep who stalks you but if means VAMPIRES ARE IN YOUR NEIGHBOURHOOD! - you have 
 been warned. Dont get to close to one or they'll bite you'll and then you'll become a knight of 
 the night.
  
  Basically this game is the best of them all since the original and i definatly recomend it to sim 
 likers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife is a new type of game. It includes things every simmer has wanted, cars! these ate nice, 
 but not the best thing in the game. my favorite is the nightclubs. I love picking up a hott lady, 
 than dancing all night, getting some drinks, then vringing her home for some action...:) . the next 
 day, find someone else. this is really fun, and it adds great depth. it also mushes with university 
 very well, making it a perfect expansion. if your a sim fan, this game will be a great addition 
 to your sims collection. i have never missed a sims 1 or sims 2 expansion. (im hardcore haha) ya 
 pick this one up, and make sure you have universtity cause they work well together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Another sims add-on. How long Maxis will release only Sims ???? It is starting to be boring. At 
 first look Night life is great "freshmaker" for Sims. New thigs added to standard game, new costumes. 
 Now your sims can go for a party. But i saw this before. I could said it's sort of Sims: Hot Date 
 and Sims: House Party with some, quite good, new features. Game isn't bad. It gives you fun for 
 some hours but later it can be tiring. I hing another add-on for Sims (after Open For Business) 
 should be titeled "Oh-no more Sims!". But if you are a Sims fan, it will be a great game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 was almost perfect. New modes, new dressing, new items, new system. It defently followed 
 the first Sims game showed. What has Nightlife got to do with this then? Well, it simply isn't 
 '40 new items' with 'Sims have there own cars'. There are new succulent places for them to go in. 
 The graphics are stylin', and it shows a lot of gameplay.
  But you need to add something to your 3.5GB as this needs either the DVD or normal edition of The 
 Sims 2. The value is a bit pointless too. But Nightlife dazzles all the nice ideas The Sims 2 had, 
 and it's transformed into this. Worth playing in the night with decent, mixed reactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rouge_Hunter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife adds the the Sims something that players have been begging for since day one: cars! For 
 me, it was just a must. I mean, they had roads, but they couldn't drive? What's up with that?
 
  
  I believe this aspect gives our Sims a little bit more freedom. Another part of Nightlife that 
 gives them a bigger sense of being, is the new ability to see whats around their lot. Before, it 
 was just your house, and the road. Not much of a view. Now, you can see the cozy forest behind 
 your home, the nice shopping complex across the street, and even your neighbor's house. It makes 
 travel much easier, because to travel somewhere in sight you simply need to click on the lot. I 
 love this feature and use it frequently.
  
  The other new feature this game brings which I love is the whole group and date outing system. 
 You get rated based on how well you keep the other members in your party entertained, just like 
 when you throw a party. However, the ability to manage the groups you wish to take out each time 
 makes it much easier to keep friendships up. I always have a group with college friends and neighbors 
 for my sims, and it makes managing their relationships ten times easier.
  
  Definately a better expansion than University. All that's left to see is how it holds up against 
 Open for Business... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  In sims 2 nightlife you can't say its better than sims 2 even tho it is because sims 2 is the best 
 selling game ever for pc.
  But theres one little secret or should i say big secret that i want to tell theres sticking out 
 engine car at one of the clubs at the back try and find it if you don't try looking harder than 
 you did this car is the best car on the game it sure does show the girls/boys you have your fashion 
 bigger than anyone else the difference between 
 
  
  That it has 120 new objects but you also have your own car that you buy in stead of getting it 
 from being promoted this game is fantastic game if you have little money to spend because its a 
 cheaper price the normal sims 2 and do not know why that is but your getting a better game than 
 another thats at a cheaper than the other one.
  
  Ever thought about making your own dream pub or even night club or just club well this is the game 
 for it its got all the objects you need just have you got the money for it thats hole thing about 
 the sims 2 you'll allways get stuck somewhere like real life thats how realstic sims and sims 2 
 are they make it so you can really think about how your lifes been so you can put it into the game. 
 So by the time you get this game you'll playing for over 15 days its the best sims 2 game out for 
 the moment. you'll be getting your moneys worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Most people would like this game. If you buy this game you have to buy the expansion packs or else 
 it would get boring quick. There is lots to do in this game. Although some of it is boring, it 
 is pretty fun over all. This game opens up unlimited possiblities. Creating people is even fun. 
 I enjoy this game and I think any of you big gamers would too. I suggest buying this game and the 
 expansion packs. It is really fun. I hope this review helped you. If it did please Suggest this 
 review. Thanks alot for reading!
  
  -John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AshlieHottie-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I really love this game, the second expansion pack to The Sims 2. There are many new funky and 
 brightly coloured items along with the ability to be turned to a vampire! Obviously, the graphics 
 are fantastic as always! Anyway, back to the vampires, the ability to be turned into a vampire 
 is by far my favourite part of the game. If you visit downtown late at night, sometimes you will 
 see one of the great vampires. But, unless you actually WANT to be turned to a vampire, don't get 
 to friendly with them because they will bite you and you will turn into a vampire! If you have 
 a vampire, you still have the ability to have children but they will NOT be vampires, even if you 
 get two vampires to have a child! My advice to any creepy vampires out there is build a garage 
 attached to your house and put your car in it so you will never have the need to go outside again! 
 Because if you do.............. Your needs will plummet and eventually.............. you'll 
 
  
  SOMEDAY, YOUR VAMPIRE WILL COME BACK TO HAUNT YOU!
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: uzi805
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  When you frist look at the Sims 2 Nightlife you can probalby make a quick connection to the Sims 
 Hot Date. But its quite differnt if you want to know why keep on reading.
  
  Gameplay: Maxis decided to redo the dating game for the sims, But by the time you finish your 3rd 
 date you probably be a master at dating and thus lose its challange. But with plently of new objects 
 such as a karaoke stage, new club items (Yes, there is a DJ booth) You be kept busy for a while. 
 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics have been updated and you can now click on your neighbors to instantly to 
 start playing another family.
  
  Sound: It added new tracks to the game like a classical station and oldies. New animations means 
 new simlish. And you be laughing your butt off at sims who try to sing karaoke.
  
  Final Word: If your looking for a new experience for your sims, like to travel downtown, want to 
 own cars, then the Nightlife is just for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greendrg654
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Well my title says it all. This game was too cool to be true. The new forms of conversation and 
 chemistry concepts was a really good idea. Also if you have played the original Sims games then 
 you feel like your getting the expansion pack of The Sims: Hot Date. Because the creators brought 
 back the concept of dating, the down-town area, and all that other good stuff. And the new idea 
 of your Sims' having their own car was pretty cool also. Now the next thing i think the creators 
 will bring back from the original series is the concept of having a pet or pets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife is a great addition to The Sims 2. It adds some much needed game play elements 
 and adds a heap of new items. The thing that most stands out is the fact that your sims can now 
 own cars. While the selection is limited it is still better than having to call a taxi or wait 
 for a car pool. The new dating system is spot on. You can take your sims downtown and find yourself 
 a date with the new chemistry system this is also easier. Your sims will now have turn- ons and 
 turn-offs, they have chemistry with other sims based upon how well they match each others turn 
 ons and turn offs. Sims with higher chemistry build their relationships faster, it works perfectly. 
 You also get a new aspiration called pleasure, if add that to all of the new items and you an expansion 
 pack that is well worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheffidr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but its has some glitches, poor performance, and long loading. What do I need 
 to have great performance?!?! Someone please tell me!!! I usually don't play this game as much 
 as I do the sims 1 on pc. I love the sims but this game is like not as good as the sims 1. I have 
 a AMD Duron computer which I heard is better than all the dell computers. Do I need to buy a new 
 video card? I have a ATI 5000 or something like that. Do I need more ram? Somebody tell me please!!! 
 Tell me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but they added more stuff which is good. Like cars, car garages, downtown and 
 so on. Theres a cool downtown which you can make or not and if you stay out too long in the dark 
 at downtown a vampire can bite you. They haven't added that much stuff but I would've rated this 
 game better if they added more stuff. They added new clothes and new hair but I think they shud've 
 added more hair types. They have added a lot of clothes which is good but they don't really look 
 good. To wrap it up I would say this game is just good not excellent or very good just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinhmaole
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  This is a great game .You should play it for killing time (when u dont have any other games to 
 play )  .  
  Graphics : not good enough
  Gameplay : more action , more places to go. so ...... about gameplay : good
  Sound : hehhe ok 
 , i like music in game. 
  Value : Cheap , you would buy it.
  Tilt : ok
  I have not buy this game yet. i stole it  . 
  Total scores : 799 (max : 1000 )
  Good game
 
  Nothing change from Sim UNI and Sim2 
  Just plain fun
  OK , i am waiting for new version of this game now , humm....... I think it will be better from 
 that version . WTF , OMG , i killing time (I must go to school and i wasn't do my homw work ,ARG 
 AA ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  If you played Sims hot date then nightlife wont be that new to you the game feels like a more advanced 
 version of hot date dont get me wrong there are some amazing new features like having cars which 
 is something the Sims has always needed and the downtown adds several hours to the fun but i believe 
 this expansion was to only fill the void before the new Sims exp is out which look a lot more fresh 
 and exciting still this expansion is still worth a pick up as if your like me and loved hot date 
 then this will also be a nice addition the attraction system is also a great idea (unless like 
 me you have already married your main character : ( ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: say_red_no
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 nightlife is different from the regular Sims 2. It has more features as u can guess 
 because it is the expansion pack. I don't know what im saying and im trying to sound smart. So 
 ill stop now. klfh h vb vgb vcgvc vkjb njvb nnjcbhn cjhbc jhbcb jhbcjhbc jhc vxjhfd vjhxy nhxyvcgn 
 ydcgv njvxyd cjv jdbv hcb hbn ng nbgn bnhgvjh hgj hgb hvgjm khgkfjtn xfcgj hvkm mjhk vmhjucjh mjhkm 
 m gbkm mbk nbhkjh mkjhgk jhk jh hvj ,, m fcjtfcjn mjgcjng jm b. j j hijf vvjb jvb jhcv jhbcvjhxv 
 hjc hjcjh chjv cjhxv jchbv bhvxb hncbhb h bc hnc bcjhm c bxjhb cxhv vhgvhvb v c cvb bv bbv vbcbgvch 
 vgf gf ikn kmjikj jmkuh jku ub jhn mn h jhjg jh hf hg nghn hgc ghc gfndf cgfdc vgcfv vbcf vvbc 
 ghf hgv ngvcnb gbvg hgf cnghc nbvgc nnbgc nbvhn bngvhn vhm vmnvnbmn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife takes Sims into the night to explore all of their favorite after-dark activities. This 
 game adds lots of items on the previous versions. Generally they are all nightlife items. The Sims 
 2 was good, The Sims 2 University was Great, The Sims 2 Nightlife is fantastic. Its fnally added 
 all sorts of nifty things like, half-height walls and lights in the floor. This is the best one 
 yet. The graphics are good, the sound is good, even the game play is good. Many people thought the 
 "dating" in NL would be like that in Hot Date. Not so. Dating has now become a timed mini-game, 
 similar to getting your children into private school or throwing a party. Dates can run the range 
 between being a total flop or a "Dream Date". There are a couple of considerations that will help 
 when going for the dream date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddlagarry
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I have been a faithful Sims 2 player since it originally was released, and I have the university 
 add-on as well. "Nightlife" adds just enough to make the game that much more interesting, plus 
 it adds a few little extras that make the whole game more enjoyable.
  
  The most significant improvements include a very large downtown area with many unique destinations 
 including restaurants, gambling joints, bars, parks, museums, and bowling alleys. The "chemistry" 
 feature adds many new interactions and allows you to jumpstart the single sim relationship significantly. 
 The goal oriented date feature is a lot of fun to play, and once you start dating the phone just 
 starts ringing off the wall. It is definitely easier for the single Sim to begin making lots of 
 friends meeting his or her eventual mate.
  
  But, what I enjoy most is the ability to enable "neighborhood view", which displays neighboring 
 houses, streets, and landscape features around your sims lot. This one feature makes your Sim feel 
 like he/she is actually part of a community. You can even go to another lot just by clicking on 
 it. This same feature works in downtown and community lots as well.
  
  If you are a Sims 2 fan, you HAVE to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Not much can be said about this expansion pack. It does pretty much what you would expect. It gives 
 you new items in which building or visiting a semi-real (in effect) club possible. 
  
  Pros: Adds new items, some are actually useful. Adds cars and the ability to build a garage. Adds 
 new clothing, though not much. And it has better downtown areas, with.... you guessed it, clubs.
 
  
  Cons: Standard Sims control issues. Windows and curtains are always a 50-50 if your going to be 
 able to place them where you want, or not. Not enough new clothing for Sims, I actually can't tell 
 if they added any or not.
  
  All and all, this is the same Sims 2 experience you've grown to love, with just that much more. 
 Though, it seems that there are never enough items or clothing added to the expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  One of the challenges the team at Maxis is being asked to make good on is EA's schedule of delivering 
 a new expansion pack for The Sims 2 every six months or so. There's obviously a lot of ideas coming 
 from the team as they consistently delivered with mostly decent to good new content in The Sims. 
 It's pretty obvious they hope to continue the streak with this sequel. The first expansion pack, 
 University, brought a huge addition to the experience by adding an extra "young adult" life segment 
 for the sims you choose to send to college. Not only did it open up some new gameplay ideas, but 
 also gave players more time with their sims. Their latest expansion, Nightlife, adds more items, 
 gameplay, and animations to the core game. It's a nice addition, especially for those that want 
 to be able to get out on the town and experience more of the sim social life instead of the sim 
 home life. It doesn't seem as huge as University did, but those Sims addicts out there will have 
 some new additions to look forward to that could warrant a purchase.
  
  
  Every Sims expansion that's ever been released has had a theme. In the case of Nightlife, it's 
 all about Sims getting out of the house and experiencing the fun of city social activities. In 
 this way, Nightlife definitely succeeds. Along with the new dating mini-game (which I'll get into 
 more in a second) Maxis has included a large number of new destinations in the new downtown area 
 including dance clubs, shops, restaurants, lounges, bowling alleys, and parks. While a lot of the 
 areas overlap in purpose, they all make use of different themes and sometimes clever architecture 
 and design to keep the similarities to a minimum.
  
  Getting sims into the swing of the social scene has become easy thanks to new features like the 
 ability to ask other sims questions about themselves, the ability to "scope" out a room, go out 
 on outings in groups, and date. All of these things provide a much more active feel to the game 
 than the core product, which focused more on building and interacting within a house. Dates and 
 outings in particular are more active for the player and are very comparable to the Greek Rush 
 mini-game from the University expansion. Each date or group outing starts out by inviting someone 
 or a group of people into the experience. From there, it's a matter of keeping those people entertained 
 and excited to be out.
  
  Dating is probably the most important addition to many players. It allows sims to really spend 
 time with each other in a more private setting while opening up new actions like asking "What do 
 you want?" which will allow the other sim to let you know what will make them happier. The answer 
 could be anything from wanting to eat out with your sim or woohoo it up back at your place. This 
 isn't just an normal date though, it's under the baleful gaze of the clock. When the date starts, 
 you'll have a certain amount of time to raise the date rating to the next level which will add 
 on more time. The goal, of course, is to end up with the highest rating possible. If that happens, 
 there's a pretty good chance your sim will be a happy camper by the end of the night. Like I said, 
 it makes the experience much more pro-active on the player's part, which for some will be awesome. 
 For others, it'll be less awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlkLBL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best expansion to the Sims Games I have ever played.
  I was not Satisfyed at all with University expansion edition Which I felt that 
  Nightlife would 
 suck as well I was Wrong. Not only you get to go to town with
  your new automobile but you get way better furniture then the stuff in the University edition. This 
 game is alot like the old Sims "Hot date version"
  because you get to go on dates which is way more easier to itnteract with
  another Sim than at 
 your own Sims house on the phone. What threw me off big time though was I wish DownTown consisted 
 of only one Big area
  to visit a place with a bowling alley, resturant Shopping, and of course a huge Nightclub (like a 
 City) which EA did not do. They Did the same thing like all the other versions Your sim visiting 
 different locations in a downtown map places such as visiting a bowling alley Only a night club.
 
  they also added a new "Pleasure" Life asperation which really sucks because You Sim usually will 
 only want to clubbing If you don't take him downtown they will start to whine like a little kid. The 
 Best part of this game in my opinion would be the new furniture and Garage added to the game.
 
  Overall I would give this game a B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy787970
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 nightlife is one of the best games I have played. If you have sims 2 and sims 2 university 
 you need this game. You have a whole new downtown area to explore. You can go on dates that will 
 ethier be rememberd as a dream date or horrible (theres in between levels) . Your sims will get 
 turn ons and turn offs. They will also have chemistry levels that are based on your sims compalibility 
 by their intresrts, personality, turn ons, and signs. Nightlife also brings Vamporisim ( the ability 
 to be a vampire) to the sims 2. You can do fun activites such as: bowling alleys, picture booths, 
 getting a car, Kareoke, DJ boothing, poker, and riding in a electrosphere. You will also get some 
 really cool outfits and hairstyles. You will also get a new plesure seeking aspiration. You will 
 also get a new aspiartion reward that allows you to cange your asperation, turn ons, and stats. 
 And if you cant get a certain sim to like you, no prob, just call on the Gypsy. In conclusion, 
 I say If you have original Sims 2 and can afford this game, buy it. Overall i think this game is 
 *Drumrole* PERFECT!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Another great little expansion to the Sims Series. 
  
  Adding another 125 objects walls and tiles really changes the wa you design your sim house. I do 
 think they can add a bit more, but seing that all the expansions always add 125 object, why not?
 
  
  Although they say that this is not Hot Date 2, it does still have the same feeling. There are loads 
 of new features that make t great. Like Group outings where you have to impress your Friends to 
 get score for the outing. If the outing was great you get presents. And the same for dates.
  
  All and all it is a great expansion with loads to do. Get it, play it, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  It may not be much but still, its just an add on, abit of this and abit of that. No add on should 
 contain a new full game, just enchancements, few additions there and extra options. Nightlife matches 
 that criteria.
  
  You have Sims 2 already, you could not really ask for more at this stage. The game is great and 
 its lastability is incredible but an add on adds abit of juice, brings it more to life because 
 life has so many stories and endings.
  
  Nightlife has the options of going out, which adds to what you had originally, going out to buy 
 things, this time you can go out and have fun. Although options are limited, I couldnt wait but 
 anticipate more actions becoming available. This was not the case, but again, add ons are not suppose 
 to filled with major overhalls of the Sims 2, its simply adds.
  
  This was my chance to have fun, so I tried the add on and thought to see how my life in the Sims 
 "could get more better or interesting". It improved socially, made so many more friends, have dates, 
 have the "woohoo", but in the end, I would go back to a wife, who found me cheating on her and 
 is getting the divorce papers ready. That is just one of lifes you could have. On the other hand, 
 I could take out my partner on dates, have romantic meals, take her back to my house and watch 
 television.
  
  These were just some of the things missing from the first Sims, but this time, they have put it 
 just right. Although it may be limited, with the lax attitude towards improving the game itself 
 but what could you possible improve? Bugs and errors come and go, I shall await for the next add 
 on whilst continuing my quest in life on the SIms 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife offers fast cars, the undead, better dating, and something for those of us who have to 
 boogie. You can use group outings, and bowling-alley lobster platters, to make friends fast, but 
 it is not easy. You can expect expressive animations and sounds -- and the same old technical issues, 
 too. I'm gonna give this a Great 8.0 out of 10.0.
  
  On the Positive side: New group outings and date gameplay add more-focused goals; drivable cars 
 are a useful, if minor, addition; vampires are an amusing gimmick, if hard to find; as much personality 
 as ever in expressive animations and sounds; plenty of content for fans of building with the new 
 downtown lot. 
  
  On the Negative side: Sims still; does not fix sluggish performance issues? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLaser2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  OKay i am a big sims fan, i have filled out a whole neighborhood, complete custom everything. So 
 i heard nightlife was coming out. OOOOOOOOO cars. Turns out cars are great, dont let ne one tell 
 you otherwise, but so is a bunch of new clothes, wallpaper, paintings, connectable couches and 
 seats, DJ Booth, and poker table as well as many i am definitely forgetting, This game rocks. (If 
 you suck at sims its got new cheats that up ur mood!)
  the new nightlife destination is kind of like adding a new neighborhood to your own neighborhood, 
 but dont make a custom one, the nightlife setination comes with like a hundred shops so u can't 
 make ne thing that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enchanter_G
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  Its not every day that gaming history steps to the front and delivers a knock-out sequel.
  But thats precisely what EA Games did when they released The Sims 2. Then, they pushed the limits 
 further, by releasing University and now Nightlife.
  
  The Sims 2: Nightlife opens up a whole world of new experiences for The Sims 2.
  
  Of special 
 note in this new release is the Chemistry System. This system now determines your attraction to 
 other Sims. Based on a system of Turn-Ons and Turn-Offs the Chemistry system is fundamental in 
 the new mini-games the game incorporates.
  
  Now Sims are able to go out partying with friends at various night clubs, or spend an evening having 
 dinner. If you (or your Sim) prefers, you can even have a group of friends over to your pad for 
 some chillin time!
  If your Sims has met someone who makes his heart go pitter-patter, then you can pluck up the courage 
 and ask her\him out on a date.
  Thankfully this game simulates life, not mirrors it, otherwise my Sim would never have gotten a 
 date!
  
  The new interactions available are impressive. You can now get to know the Sim you are dating very 
 well. Find out what she\he does for a living, what their skills are and even how much money they 
 have (no questions about age though, a gentlesim never asks!) .
  Thus your Sim no longer has to marry a relatively unknown Sim, using these new interactions; you 
 can find the perfect partner!
  
  The new objects that came with the game are also worth mention.
  Poker tables, bowling alleys, 
 crazy new lights and much more add a new level of fun to the game. Build the ultimate bachelor 
 pad with some awesome new stuff, or go downtown and build a new club!
  
  In addition to this, it is now possible to buy your own car! From jalopy to sports car!
  
  
 All in all, The Sims 2 Nightlife Expansion is a worthy addition to a great game. If you have The 
 Sims 2, then this is just the next logical step and will add to your enjoyment of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Well... Well... Well... I bought this game for 25 bucks, which is a bargain but i wouldnt pay much 
 more for it. Cool new downtown area and some new items, which is good because there weren't many 
 new items with the previous expansion pack, The Sims 2 University. Make up your own mind about 
 it, cuz i feel that the some other reviewers are way too harsh or way too lenient, giving the game 
 ratings of 1.0 and 10.0. If you see the game for cheap then thats great, i would take it faster 
 than you can say "Bella Goth". Get it now if you love the sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnight_moon_x
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I have seen aliens. With the family in strangetown. Also my friend said you can fly in hotair balloons 
 - how? What other cool things is there. Ive been on the school bus before looked inside. I dont 
 have sims uni or nightlife just xmas special and sims 2 original. Err - dunno what to write. Oh 
 yer... With the cheats there are the cheat codes and then on some (true/fals) or (on/off) what 
 do I do to make cheat work! woohoo Ive got 500k simoleans thnks to the cheat codes. Is it CIA or 
 FBI? rrrr... I need 100 text reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killajaps
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  Man i love this expansion! I mean we can finally date people! I had the idea eversince i got my 
 first sims game. Now i can have more fun for all my romance loving sims, they can now go pimping 
 downtown and romance some studs and babes with some new romantic moves. The car is a great idea, 
 i never like carpool so much, they also come in handy most of the time, i am so glad i can drive 
 my own car to work or going downtown to Rock on the dance floor. The downtown in this game is just 
 such a great place to go for the sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife is the best expansion for the Sims 2 yet. First of all you get to own your 
 very own CARS. Yes, that's right... cars! Secondly, you get to take a night on the town. Dance 
 stupidly, be a DJ, date, have fun a the karaoke machine, best of all... take a spin in the all 
 new electro dance sphere. Just remember not to get thrown off. ^^ There is over 125 new objects, 
 and the all new Pleasure Life Aspiration. With this new Aspiration your sims can be all care free 
 and dance the night away. Oh, and don't forget to check out the all new bowling alley. Oh, and 
 just one more thing. 
  There are VAMPIRES. Yes, that's right. There is the head dragula and the queen vamp. And if you 
 get high enough likeability points, that vamp will bite you and you will be a vampire as well. 
 The only problem is that like all vampires, you can't go out in the sun, or you will burn to death. 
 So, that is why EA Games has provided a coffin for your vamped sim to spend the day in, until night 
 fall. Once night sets in, all your vamp's stats and needs freeze and you won't need to eat or sleep 
 all night long. 
  So I highly recommend you all to buy this game and enjoy. It's a instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  I'm still a big fan of the sims. If you have read all my other reveiws, you should know why. And 
 still, Boberson, which is still one of the people that i'm tracking, still douse not aggree with 
 me. Berfore a get to the ending of this peice of work, i want to say that I misspell things alot, 
 caouse I want to and it's fun. If you have and comments on this than contaced me via e-mail. And 
 oen more time, I want to say bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye, to all all all all all all 
 of of of o fo fo f my homies in the hood hood hood hood hood hood hood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jucyrox_544
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  When I first downloaded Nightlife on to my computer, I was thinking, "this is going to be the best 
 of the best!" But, when I started playing, I noticed it was a lot like The Sims Hot Date. You can 
 do pretty much the same things, and it has the same idea-dating. I almost wanted to return it; 
 it was that much of a disappointment. But still, it is entertaining, and I don't think I could 
 live without it. Nightlife is lots of fun, but it really reminds me of playing Hot Date a few years 
 ago. But thats not a bad thing at all. I enjoyed Hot Date, so I enjoy Nightlife too. But I must 
 say, Nightlife has many fun features, like The Matchmaker, and going bowling, and the fact that 
 you can live downtown is great. But hey- could they have been a bit more creative on getting more 
 of those really cool things? Lets hope Open For Business is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwissy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Chlorofil, more like borofil but seriously try to sneak a couple of them. Eating pigs is alot like 
 flying, you gots to add the salt. 
  
  Honour, Courage, Fertility, fertile soil is the best quality gruffington in the WEST!!!! Woo Wooo 
 Woo Cowboys!!! You got the Zing Zing Ringabajng Hot stuff right there chickabees. Feet, you gotta 
 clean them but you bend thewm over backwards doing the cleaning. Pokeomon, not Pokemon... OOOOkAYYE!!!! 
 $$$10% of the Company plus intersting Equity$$$$.
  You got the cash Magillvray. Coz if you don't got the cash I will fill your socks but not on the 
 brim of the grime. Grimey frum bum Teh Humming bee sizzles like the pink groby peanuts. 
  
   something smell like fish....????
  ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
  ? ? ? 
 
  
  Dear Lord, {Godly Goodness]
  Tank bombs are great, but you can't eat the frustrated acid. But the Flabby grunt vrober shints 
 the stint. Ass down but don't lose confidance fred.
  
  One taking a bullet hands down flint is essential. If you don't start the fire then in the future 
 you will spur an outbreak of billy joels- WE DIDNT START THE FIRE!! thats what they say but is 
 chilli the new fire? not true, red is the new fire? well thats what we came to extinguish, or anguish? 
 does a french man with a red beret resemble all that burns in this world? the answer is not yes, 
 not no, not maybe, but stint.
  
  If the anwer to that is stint then why was goby's valley open to only the fiend of banjo and kazooie.
 
  
  this games gameplay is stint
  
  this games graphics are stint
  
  this games sound sounds stintishly stint
  
  this games value is $stint
  
  but it is tilt 
 which really stints me off, in such a such a such a **** stintish fashion that all who cry : "whats 
 a union?" will be ashamed to find that in twenty years time cars will no longer fly, but rather, 
 they will ask, "invisible?"
  
  much is availed but all is stint, if that is the meaning of life? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  This game adds lots of items on the previous versions. Generally they are all nightlife items (kind 
 of stylish, and have-fun sort of thigs) .
  
  -Disco packs (lights, DJ, dance floor, karaoke)
  -New aspiration ---Pleasure
  -New styles of 
 clothes and hair
  -Vampires
  -Dating, outing, groups
  -Turning on, turning off
  -Bowling
  -Cars, garage
  -Getting attracted be looking at a person for a first time
  -Person 
 who can sell you love potions, cure potion against vampirism, and she can find you a date if you 
 can't find one
  -New musics for build mode, buy mode, neighborhood mode.
  -New expressions (asking, slow dancing)
  -Sims now have tempers (even though sim loves a person, 
 he or she can attack that person when angry)
  
  Well, guess that is all, or maybe i am missing some things here. These things above, make this 
 version of Sims, GREAT to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnonymousThing
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 was good, The Sims 2 University was Great, The Sims 2 Nightlife is fantastic. Its fnally 
 added all sorts of nifty things like, half-height walls and lights in the floor. This is the best 
 one yet. The graphics are good, the sound is good, even the game play is good. You can get cars, 
 and garages finally. This is diffinetly in my oppinion a go out and buy game. There is no major 
 let down with the game, apart from the fact that we never see many new clothes for the sims. How 
 ever that is not a major defficiancy and this game stills comes out on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  As Im sure you all know The Sims 2 is the sequel to Maxis smash hit The Sims. The original garnered 
 a reputation of milking the cash cow, by releasing almost a dozen expansion packs, some of which 
 merely added objects and new careers while others added more to the gameplay by allowing you to 
 go on dates or vacation. 
  
  The first expansion pack for The Sims 2, The Sims 2  University, feel into the latter category 
 added a whole school life for your Sim where you had to worry about grades and graduating, you 
 could live in a dorm and pull pranks on your fellow students. Question is, which category does 
 Nightlife fall into?
  
  Good news, the latter. It has been compare to the Hot Date expansion for the original Sims, but 
 it takes that idea and runs with it a good deal further. Now each Sim has two turn ons, and you 
 can use these to manipulate a pixelated lovely into woo hooing you all over the shop. The dates 
 themselves are fun you get a meter come up showing how well he or she is enjoying the date and 
 a time limit until the date is over, your goal is to get up to dream date and enjoy the resultant 
 relationship boost. Of course if you have all the romance and enthusiasm of a bottle of Tango thats 
 past its best before date, your relationship will take a hit.
  
  There is a whole new Downtown area for you to take your dates too as well, which comes loaded 
 with restaurants, karaoke bars, and bowling alleys. You can of course build your own locales as 
 well.
  
  There is more to the expansion than simply dating. When at the aforementioned bars and restaurants, 
 you can take over the DJ booth or the bar and earn money filling in for the employees. There is 
 a host of new objects including my favourite the poker table. Oh and cars.
  
  Yep thats right cars.
  
  Cars have been available in downloaded content form for ages now 
 but they were purely there to look good, now they work. No more ordering mini cabs or getting the 
 car pool to work you just hop in your motor. There are four types on offer and Im sure the download 
 community will do us proud and give us some real world super cars to buy as well. You can also 
 sit in them and listen to the radio and of course you can make out in them too. The cars dont 
 add that much to the game play but it was always something that needed to be in there.
  
  For those Ann Rice fans out there, boy, does this expansion treat you! There are four vampires 
 that frequent the downtown area and if youre friendly enough with them, theyll induct you into 
 the ranks of the undead! Of course this means all your stats start dropping like a stone when in 
 direct sunlight, and at an accelerated rate during the day, but there are advantages as well. You 
 can vamp your friends, heck you can try to convert the entire town, make it your very own Salems 
 Lot. You can also fly in bat form which is a sight quicker than walking! Every so often your Sim 
 will strike a classic vamp pose and hiss which being as mature as mild cheddar I found hysterical.
 
  
  In conclusion, an extremely worthy addition. Sure some of the stuff should have been in from the 
 beginning, but it wasnt, so go buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KuSSai
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 nightlife is the best of the two expansion pack that's for sure!! the cars, it was so 
 modern....... i like it very much......!!! the graphics was good and the gameplay also!! if you didn't 
 play sims 2 nightlife you'll regret.... i have all sims2 expansions but i prefer the nightlife..!!... know 
 why??!! cause.... it is very easy, it show us how we live in our community... lol and the one who 
 didn't like sims 2 nightlife...... he did not how a great game was!!! the sims 2 nightlife was a 
 great game, we can say that it is perfect...... when we play sims 2 nightlife we must play it about 
 20 to 40 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  What a game if you aint going to school, work come play this game.
  
  Graphics: 
  Depending onn your graphic card this game is IMMENSE when it comes to graphics, when your controlling 
 your sims you can really see a realism to it 
  
  GamePlay: 
  Theres too much to right about this game all i will say is check it out.
  (it includes woohoo 
 ;) , going to the clubs, driving hot cars, building cool places)
  
  Sound: 
  AMAZING it doesnt use an EA playlist but woah the sound is very good as your sims can tune into 
 radio stations and play cd's also go to the clubs for some hype beats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. It fixes the hundreds of glitches University gave your game, and I 
 haven't seen it introduce any new ones. If you want a fun expansion pack for The Sims 2, this is 
 the one to buy. I've been playing it a ton, and still haven't found all the hidden things it offers. 
 It is fun finding them out, not boring or a "task", like University. I did notice that it slowed 
 my game down slightly, but that is about it. My only other problem is that I don't really care 
 for the soundtrack, but I don't think it takes away from the game at all, unless you listen to 
 the music while you load your game and "rate" it. I would buy this game again if I lost my copy. 
 Cars, downtown, vampires, dating, new interactions, it's great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting so impatiently for this expansion, that I couldn't believe my eyes when it 
 arrived. Hot Date was by far my favorite add-on for The Sims, and Nightlife was supposed to be 
 the Sims 2 version of it, so I was eager to try it out with dreams of lively community lots and 
 amusing dates.
  
  It didn't take long for me to install and start playing. I grabbed my SimGrrl, built her a brand 
 new house with a garage to accommodate her spiffy new sports car, and off she went for a stroll, 
 checking out the new hot spots in town.
  
  There are several different lots to visit belonging to the Downtown area, which is great, since 
 we are no longer bound to the Community lots in the regular neighborhoods. These lots are composed 
 of parks, stores, boutiques, bowling alleys, restaurants, and of course, clubs and bars.
  
  You can also have your Sims move in to a new home right where the action is: downtown neighborhoods 
 have residential lots waiting to receive new families.
  
  If the ready-made Downtown doesn't appeal to you, you can always remodel the existing lots or create 
 a brand new downtown neighborhood from scratch. You can even add some scenery items such as tall 
 buildings, dumpsters and spotlights to make it all the more realistic.
  
  The building options offer more exciting and creative possibilities than ever: half walls with 
 glass or balustrades which you can use to separate areas of a restaurant; diagonal pool tiles to 
 create artistic swimming pools; latticed windows; tons of different styles of walls and floors; 
 many low fences to define garden areas; and of course, driveways and garage doors.
  
  Furnishing also has a lot more to it, especially if you care for the retro look, since it seems 
 to be the predominant theme in things like jukeboxes, bar stools, chairs, tables and neon lights. 
 The new decorative items are making my delights, especially the new plants, flower arrangements, 
 rugs and paintings.
  
  As for the skins, I'm sure you will be as pleased with the new ones as I am. Short casual dresses, 
 mini-kimonos, sexy clubbing outfits, gorgeous long formals and medieval-gothic gowns for the vampire 
 ladies will keep your closet full. Toddlers have cute winter coats with gloves, funny little animal 
 hats and even tuxedos. Teen girls can wear 50's-inspired poodle skirts or cute dresses with tie-tops, 
 and even grandma can enjoy her own oriental dresses now. Men can wear the cool tuxedo with cape 
 suited for vampires, some Hugh Hefner-style suits, colorful rave clothes, and many ensembles ranging 
 from casual to stylish, and some bare-chested tattooed looks. There are also bowling outfits and 
 new sloppy sleepwear complete with stains.
  
  Nightlife adds several new features that help make your Sims' lives more exciting and rewarding. 
 With the new dating system, you can send your Sims on a date and get them to know each other. Dates 
 are the best and fastest way to build up a relationship, but the tricky part is finding someone 
 they are interested in. 
  
  A Sim may enjoy another Sim's company without being attracted to him/her. You will notice new interactions 
 in the pie menu, some of them having little lightning bolt icons. These are "Chemistry" actions, 
 which help build up a romantic relationship a lot quicker. The bad side of these Chemistry interactions 
 is that they can do as good as bad to a relationship, depending if you get a positive or negative 
 response from the other Sim.
  
  Looking in your relationships tab, you will notice that certain Sim portraits will have little 
 lightning bolts on them. This means that your Sim is very attracted to that other Sim and that 
 they have good compatibility.
  
  If you're really desperate though, you can always buy a Love Potion from the Gypsy or pay her to 
 find you a date.
  
  Keep an eye on that date meter, you don't have much time to make it worthwhile! If things are going 
 smoothly, you can go up a level and gain some precious extra time. My suggestion is to start with 
 a nice lobster dinner with a toast during the meal and any other activities you can do while sitting, 
 followed by some chatting and a little dancing. Don't try moving your hands down during a slow 
 dance unless you already get along really well with your date. A little head on shoulder and some 
 smooching should do just fine.
  
  My most exciting and hilarious moments in Nightlife come from interacting with the vampires. Aside 
 from them stalking around, saying "Bluh!" for no apparent reason in the middle of a conversation 
 or randomly hissing at people passing by, vampires are pretty social creatures. I managed to get 
 along so well with them that I got SimGrrl to influence the Count to bite someone's neck. It's 
 quite the sight, you really should try it!
  
  If you decide to get your Sim bitten, make sure you get a coffin to sleep in, and re-arrange your 
 entire schedule for after the sun goes down.
  
  A poker night with some friends, a karaoke duet or a session of music-mixing at the DJ table are 
 certain entertainment for any Sim looking for a bit of fun. Take someone on a date, and they will 
 dance the night away... or until their motives go red!
  
  Oh, and if you happen to go out and find that your Sim is a bit low on funds, here's a useful cheat. 
 While in the neighborhood view, open the cheat prompt (Ctrl+Alt+C) . Type in familyfunds and the 
 specified amount of Simoleons is added to the family's total. 
  
  I am very happy to report that Nightlife didn't let me down one bit. It is everything that I expected 
 and much more. I no longer get bored getting the teenagers to do homework or changing diapers, 
 The Sims 2 is now a game for the pleasure-aspiring Sims. 
  
  It definitely put the fun back in playing the game, taking me away from my usual building and decorating 
 sprees to take my Sims out to meet new people or on a date, and just sit back have a blast watching 
 them making the night memorable.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=ts2nightlife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaphander89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife does add good features, especially cars. But i find problems with how many sims can go 
 into a community lot. I kno that if you lower the graphics more people can go, but still only about 
 8 sims at a time including the staff (for restaraunts) . New interactions are good too like slow 
 dance, but i think more should have been added. New clothes are acceptional but somewhat tacky. 
 Going at to a club in the Sims isn't all that great since few sims are there. Without that many 
 new items and features, Nightlife is somewhat a disappointment, but if you love the Sims get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  In 'The Sims 2 Nightlife', there's a lot of fun to be had, and it may not come as a surprise to 
 many of you that this second expansion to the high selling series is a massive improvement over 
 its little brother, Univerisity.
  
  As usual, Maxis delivers over 125 new objects for your Sims to play with, and although there are 
 no drastic changes to the core gameplay, the dating "mini game" is actually quite fun, and explores 
 a greater depth than that of its TS1 equivalent, Hot Date.
  
  Whether your Sims are caressing each other before Miss Crumplebottom, bowling, shopping or making 
 a getaway from the dreaded restaurant bill, there's plenty of fun to be had here, and there's tons 
 of things for your Sims to see and do.
  
  Gameplay - No drastic gameplay changes here, however this expansion will make your game more interesting 
 and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics - The graphics haven't changed a bit since TS2 was released over a year ago, but so what? 
 I think the graphics are fantastic and do the game proud.
  
  Sound - Nice sound effects and music, however they can't compare to the brilliant audio of TS1.
 
  
  Value - Way better value than University, and a highly recommendable expansion pack for TS2 owners.
 
  
  Tilt - The open ended gameplay makes it highly replayable, and for those of us who make movies 
 will enjoy the expansion even more; what with all the fancy new objects and the karaoke booth! 
 (Which frankly, I was disappointed with its design. I was hoping it would look more like the karaoke 
 booth in The Sims Superstar) .
  
  In summary, TS2 Nightlife is a highly recommendable expansion with heaps of interesting new objects, 
 characters, locations and scenarios for your Sims to dwell within, and will keep you busy for a 
 while yet. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Did someone say nightlife or hotdate oh nightlife!!!!
  Welcome to the next generation of expansions what is it too good well perfect so throw that hotdate 
 away and play nightlife the most and best expansion now!!!! if you want more in your game get this 
 GET THIS!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Well like i was saying 'The sims 2 nightlife had the game going so far well here are what are in 
 the game...
  
  Cars- got to be joking 5 years at last!!!!
  Inventories- wow now sims can pick up things 
  Date-cool, my sim can date!!!
  downtown- 10 
 times better than old downtown in hotdate
  Chemistry- wow something new!!!
  turn ons turn offs- weird but good
  more objects- cool, more objects
  and more
  
  My conslusion 
 is that nightlife made the game so much better but it caused so many glitches and also you may 
 find that you need to upgrade your if it is slow cause new features in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sims2NLfanatic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  There is certainly lots of new stuff, but the constant need of new models of cars destroys the 
 other parts.
  eg. like muscle-cars, and economy cars that dosen't act that its always in a bad condition. (Smoogo 
 Minima) and more colors. Vampires and love dates keep the game interesting enough for me to play 
 it for a looong time.
  
  Graphics-
  It depends on your computer, whether it has good or bad graphics.
  
  Sound-
  The usual. Vroom 
 sounds are satisfying.
  
  Value-
  Reasonbly priced. It makes up for the fun your going to get with it.
  
  Opinion-
  I think 
 that unless you really must have this game, you buy it. If you just followed reviews saying: "this 
 is a classic." and when you actually play it, you find out its not your "type." But luckily, it 
 is mine, so buy it at your own risk. It depends on what kind of person you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  this game lags badly, less glitches and not as long lived I found as uni, it was ok though, but my 
 PC couldn't run much of the extras but woow the cars really increase the value of an already brliant 
 game all I can say is Will I salute you man! One of the best sim games to date, I hope Open For 
 Busnies gives us as much bang for the buck! Also being able to buy diner at lots now is great and 
 so is all the new buildings and things and vampiers are glitchy but cool, beucase at night they 
 don't lose any energie for me and also do not sleep in the day so unless your PC is great and can 
 handle lots of crap exspect countless hours of curseing though I was able to make sims like my 
 actors better in this one so that's a plus, but like I said uni had a longer life then this one. 
 And hopefuly we get some better expantions as this game progresses cuz he now have 2 things we 
 couldn't do in TS1 cars and uni also the genetics and asperation also aging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthreven85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  this expasion of the sims2 is a must for sims2 owners i know as a player of the game that it surly 
 a great game i loved the game i couldent imgane owning the sims2 with out this expasion pack i 
 am deffently going to buy the next expasion pack that comes out the leraning cureve is unlimted 
 for it is an open ended game and you have so much more things in the sims2 then you had in the 
 sims 1 i say it is rock so i give this game an 8.8 i will defnetly play it again and again and 
 you can wirte stroys for your sims this is a great game for any one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo715482
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  In sims 2 nightlife you can't say its better than sims 2 even tho it is because sims 2 is the best 
 selling game ever for pc.
  But theres one little secret or should i say big secret that i want to tell theres sticking out 
 engine car at one of the clubs at the back try and find it if you don't try looking harder than 
 you did this car is the best car on the game it sure does show the girls/boys you have your fashion 
 bigger than anyone else the difference between 
 
  
  That it has 120 new objects but you also have your own car that you buy in stead of getting it 
 from being promoted this game is fantastic game if you have little money to spend because its a 
 cheaper price the normal sims 2 and do not know why that is but your getting a better game than 
 another thats at a cheaper than the other one.
  
  Ever thought about making your own dream pub or even night club or just club well this is the game 
 for it its got all the objects you need just have you got the money for it thats hole thing about 
 the sims 2 you'll allways get stuck somewhere like real life thats how realstic sims and sims 2 
 are they make it so you can really think about how your lifes been so you can put it into the game. 
 So by the time you get this game you'll playing for over 15 days its the best sims 2 game out for 
 the moment. you'll be getting your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  I had to rush out and get this game soon as it came out my girl was dying to play it since I got 
 her Sims2 University... I tried it out and ended up buying a copy for myself too... it adds alot 
 of my viriety to interactions with others sims... gives you oppotunities to go out on dates and 
 its up to you to either make it a date to remember or the worst date you submit the sim you took 
 out for the night. :- 
  
  I didn't see much else new with it... the cars are a nice touch but not very useful as you still 
 have a car pic you up for work even after you purchase a vehicle...
  
  I even played around a bit with vampirism... I had my sim out for the night and then this pale 
 but very attractive sim came into the store where my sim was he was instantly attracted to her 
 after a few hours we ended up back at my place before I knew what was going she took a hold of 
 my sim and bit him... now I was kind of upset about it for moment... oh great now I cant go to 
 work and can't go out during the day... then night fall came my sim was full of life wanting to 
 go have some fun he didn't age... didn't get tired or grumpy or needed to go potty it was awesome.... 
 
  
  anyways i believe its worth buying 30$ its not bad for 30+ hours I have completly lost trying to 
 see what more things I could do to with my sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bindifer1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the Original Sims, the Sims 2, and it's expansion packs, University, and NightLife 
 have far surpassed what many may have thought possible. The Sims themselves now move in more realistic 
 manners, not to mention Your adult female Sims pregnancy as it progresses!! The interaction between 
 sims has become much stronger, and there is such a wide variety of objectives for them... WOW!! 
 Customized content for these games have exploded to an awesome array of Skins, clothes, genetics 
 (hair colours/styles, eyes (colours) , eyelashes, makeup) , jewelry, purses, glasses, piercings, 
 as well as objects of the norm such as couches and chairs, to fanastic selections of beds, (with 
 differernt coverings!!) , counters, rugs, plants, items for counter tops like papertowels, knife 
 sets . It seems that content is only restricted by imagination, talent, time (for some) , and pc 
 power. It's exciting to see what possibilitys these games have to offer, as well as wonder what 
 exciting things the future of THE SIMS may bring. How about a sexy little dance for a husband before 
 they woo-hoo?? How about a Sim actually opening a gift on their birthday, or anniverary? How about 
 Christmas gifts being opened at Christmas ( only possible of course if you have a tree with gifts 
 available!) , and paper thrown all over for clean up?? And wouldn't it be cool if the kids could 
 actually play with their toys? A wife kiss her husband for that lovely diamond tennis braclet she 
 recieved?, or a husband building something special with the tools Santa brought him?!
  
  The personality option make for more interesting play between Sims, and so does the great idea 
 of giving them the turn on's, and turn offs. This is especailly great for when you "make" a set 
 of twins or triplets!! They may all be the same Zodiac sign, but they can all have different likes 
 and dislikes!
  
  I believe this game could be limitless as to what it can bring to the gaming world. With such a 
 difference between Sims 1 and Sims 2, I can ONLY imagine what Sims 3 will have to offer!! Maybe 
 a sims child will be able to climb a tree, fall and have a broken arm. Dad might have a car accident 
 and be bed ridden while a home nurse can come and nurse him back to health.... I certainly see 
 the potential of this game as being long standing and fast growing.
  
  I find the build option a facinating look at building/modeling a home, or other building, and quite 
 enjoy seeing whether my Sims like or dislike the outcome of the project.
  
  What more could Simmers want for there games? Well, from all the custom content out there, I would 
 say MORE, MORE, MORE!!! of everything. The more realistic, the better. It makes the game much more 
 interesting, and definately more of a challange.
  
  I myself play my Sims almost every night. I Love "shopping" for them, and finding new "Housing". 
 But I really get excited with what possibiltys can come with the Sims 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadattack91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  well as i started to play this game evrything was great in it, exept for the car selection and 
 drive ways and all that goodstuff (which is the only reason why i spent $50 on this game.) they 
 need more cars and better phisics for this game and they need some basic drag racing for earning 
 money. other than that i love this game. this thing requ ahda dsf akds asd lakjsdf lakjsdhf alkjdshf 
 alkjsdf kjdsa kajsdkdjf a dsf asdf asdf asdf adsf asdf sadf asfd adsf asdf adsf ahkjds s kja kfja 
 lks lsak alsa sadklf akdshf akjds kjals sak fasdf asdf sdf d fsdfasdf sdfsadf asdfasdf asdf adsfdf 
 ds df sdfsdfasdf ads fasdfkasdjf aksldj sdfks akdf lkas lkjd a; lksfj aadkfj alkdsfj ldsajfjfjjf 
 sadf sdfdsfsdf sdf d fdf df dfd fdfd fd fdf dfdfdf df dfdfd fefhdgfhp si gp dr gpisdtyiposueiog 
 lkjfdlg lksjfd l; kjs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladered
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Sims lover since they first hit the market. 
  But the Sims2 has exceeded my expectations of what Maxis can do. 
  They really topped the cake 
 when they added drivable cars to the gaming experience in Nightlife. Being able to go on dates 
 and actually have some realistic interactions has kept me playing. Being able to throw a drink 
 in an annoying Sim's face has to totally rock. To make the date more interesting put a dab of cologne 
 on and see what can result from that. 
  I loved how they added the 50's era to the CAS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude1515
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The second expantion to the Sims 2. Nightlife focuses on the singles game and dating. In this instalment, 
 Communtity lots are a lot more important than they used to be. This is either good or bad news, 
 depending on the speed of your computer, I personally have a slower computer so I found this more 
 annoying than fun.
  
  You can now take your sims downtown for dates or outings. This seems like a good idea, but in reality 
 it is tedious. Dates are to easy and the outings are too, well boring.
  
  Other than this, the new objects and other additions are great. Your sims now have cars and can 
 build garages. The new objects such as the D. J booth are great and very fun, even outside the community 
 lots.
  
  If you like the Sims 2 and can't get enough, then this is for you. If you are a casual Simmer, 
 this isn't something you have to get. In all, the SIms 2 Nightlife gets a 6.9 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  Compared to the university expansion pack this is worth buying. I guess the car is a real attraction 
 and its something you would really want to add onto your sims2 series, since you can chose from 
 around..5 cars you get to choose all kinds of paint jobs.
  Like all sims2 expansion packs, there are, of course more interactions, furnitures etc etc . to 
 choose from, but the lightings are really impressive, too bad it runs slow on my computer since 
 there already uni and sims2, so it does take some time to load up downtown, and im glad that maxis 
 decided to add more places for you to go, and I no longer have to travel all over the town to get 
 a cell phone and some clothes. 
  The new aspiration and the addition of "turn-ons" and "turn-offs" also makes the game more worth 
 it. Well at least you can decide what kind of person you sims would be attracted to, and, you wont 
 have to groan about the repetetive aspirations to chose from. However i found the pleasure aspiration 
 can be pretty annoying since most of them it would like to travel our and have hangouts, more time 
 is spent on loading up for locations, and then when you play for 20 min your sims starts to get 
 tired, and the whole "hang-out" thing gets boring. 
  A two person date is much better, since you dont have to deal with so many people, and you can 
 have fun with the interactions over the table. 
  
  I think this would be a nice collection to the sims2 series, and its worth buying. i enjoyed the 
 game more than University. And its great to see new characters such as the vampire and drop-dead 
 gorgeous-
  ms. crumplebottom, just beware how her handbag manages to make your date from horaay to dam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowmunchers
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  If you ever played Hot Date in the original Sims then you already know 
  everything there is to know about this new expansion pack. There is a whole 
  new area called 
 downtown, if you dont like that name you can change it, 
  filled with clubs, stores, restaurants, and bowling alleys. The whole point of 
  the downtown 
 is a place where your sims can go to loosen up after a hard 
  days work. 
  
  The areas in the downtown are well designed, and well furnished. You really 
  dont need to change 
 anything to have a good time downtown. I also enjoyed 
  the A. I boost so there is less of a problem sitting at tables and being seated by 
  the waiters. 
 When ever you order any food it is rapidly delivered which is 
  excellent when you are on a date. 
  
  When you ask a sim out on a date a meter appears showing 
 how well you are 
  doing. Every action you take that your date wants to do, or the both of you 
  enjoy raises the 
 meter until you get to dream date status. The reason you want 
  to raise the meter is to increase the amount of time you have to reach dream 
  date status. Every 
 time you move up to a new level you time limit goes 
  up. Unlike real life you will not have to guess what your date wants to do as 
  you can see all 
 her wants and fears. 
  
  You can also go out on a group outing which works like a date except you 
  can have a larger 
 group of people. You can also customize different groups 
  of people using the phone book. Thus one call will get all your poker buddies 
  over instead 
 of having to call each one individually. 
  
  Another feature trumpeted about the game are cars. However in my opinion 
  they are merely a 
 fancy toy and provide no real gameplay benefit, other then 
  as a status symbol. However another great feature which was never 
  mentioned is the ability 
 to now see every other building around you. This is a 
  fantastic feature that is way better then getting a car. It makes you feel like 
  you live in 
 a real neighborhood. Plus you can go to the other buildings simply 
  by clicking on them. 
  
  However, marring the good are the same complaints as ever. Barely any new 
  clothes or furnishings. 
 They say there are over 125 new items but I have a 
  hard time believing it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestiesMA
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  I have really enjoyoyed playing The Sims 2, and I really liked the University expansion pack. It 
 added a significant amount of different gameplay. The Sims 2: Nightlife does not add quite as much 
 unique gameplay, but what is does add is a lot of fun! My thoughts on the new features:
  
  Turn Ons/Turn Offs: I am not sure that I have seen how these work yet, although I have logged a 
 lot of hours on this XP. I assume that they play into the chemistry thing, but that is unclear. 
 It is fun to give a Sim some off the wall trun-on though!
  
  Chemistry: This is very neat, and I love the "Scope Room" action that allows Sims to find someone 
 that they find hot. It is good way to know who to talk to whe your Sim is looking to hook up! Also, 
 I have found that all f my previous pre-Nightlife pairings have at least some chemistry (whew) !
 
  
  Dates: These are neat, but can get boring. It is a good way to pump aspiration up to platinum, 
 but some of the wants are impossible to meet on a date! I love the little presents post-date - 
 one of my broke single guys got a big screen Tv as a result of a bowling date! Now that's what 
 I call a dream date! 
  
  New Items: I love the cars, although it has been hard to fit a driveway into some of my old lots. 
 I did not notice a whole lot of other new stuff, other than the downtown items. Some more clothing 
 and hair styles. I love the new music!
  
  All in all, a good expansion pack worthy of a buy for Sims 2 fans. But where are the pets???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cad2505
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 nightlife adds many interesting ideas to the sims 2 but u probably wont find yourself 
 using them very much. The cars are overly expensive. the new spots get overcrowded and can slow 
 the frame rate and the idea of vampires is just stupid. But the new idea of turn ons and turn offs 
 gives the game a greter sense of realism when it comes to the relationships. I would have liked 
 more costumes for going out at night to be added into the game. 
  
  overall it is a good game but only worth buying if your a sims fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miragedolphin7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  "Nightlife" is a welcome addition to the "Sims 2" series. Even though I have a slower computer 
 (and I haven't got to see everything run it in its true form) , it's still loads of fun. There are 
 things that make it worth getting, like the cars and the option to go out and have a good time 
 with friends. The vampires is over-rated, I agree with GS here on that, and the dating scenario 
 is a little stressful (but I blame this mostly on the fact I never ran a Greek house...) .
  
  Anyway, it is a wonderful game that is worth the time and money. Have your Sims live it up!
 
  
  Happy Simming,
  miragedolphin7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyxx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game is addictive once you start playing it you realy cant stop. It is a realy good game if 
 u like to cantorl poeple. Once you start playing it you can gat why you dont have more games like 
 it and it also help you see how hard it is to look after a family in real life. IT REALY is the 
 BEST game in the world.
  (For boys & girls.) And for all you lot how can see your dream house then stop thinking about it 
 and by this game and make it!!! why not make your family and house (you can make some one you hate 
 and make them UGLY) but i hope you dont hate any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  About this game i can say that have much things than let you want to keep playing, like the number 
 of foods whe the sims cook and the ages of the live, and it new theme nightlife it's cool, and 
 this game is superbfor that.
  
  the simulation it's reality because you can do the things can you do in the real life and buy some 
 stuff. Only play it and you now it's a simulation of a reality life and this expansion nightlife 
 give more aspects than let you want to buy more and more sequel of Sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spore_9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Good game with lots of things that will make you feel addicted to this game. It is good with the 
 vampire. I also think that MAXIS did a good job on this and other sims expansion pack. Try playing 
 it and you will feel how being a creator feels like. Oh! Don't forget, use the cheat codes.... 
 It will make this game way more fun than not using cheat codes. I reccomend you to buy this. IT 
 IS ONE OF THE BEST EXPANSION PACK IN THE SERIES.
  
  
  
  Summary:
  Worths playing and I command you to buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidGuy11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife was the highly anticipated 2nd sequel to The Sims 2, and it was definately 
 a success. With worthy add-ons such as the dating game, cars, and vampires, any simmer with $35 
 should definatley go out and buy this. Some issues from previous games have not been fixed in this 
 EP, but Maxis has, drumroll please....... Finally released a patch! Yes, go to www. thesims2. com 
 to get it for free, and make sure not to buy nightlife just to fix bugs, as it fixes few to none.
 
  
  The dating game is an interesting addition, but can get too repetitive, and will not be as appealing 
 after 4-5 dates. Cars are an addition that is, well, just plain awesome. It's great to see your 
 sims with a garage, though it can cost a bit. Vampires are a decent add-on, but don't change the 
 overall gameplay much. I won't give details (come on, what would be the fun of that?) , but there 
 are some interesting things they can do. Last, but definately not least, is the downtown area and 
 the fact that you can now see other homes other than yours. That's right, you are no longer isolated 
 in your own world, although this can slow your game down. If you can barely run the Sims 2, I would 
 either get a graphics card update, or don't turn on this option.
  
  Overall, it's worth the $35 out of your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Definitely glad they finally came out with this expansion pack. Just like all of the Sims stuff 
 its very addictive and fun as well. I definitely enjoy that they are able to have their own cars 
 and have some fun. I also enjoy the new houses as well as the new people. All kinds of new items 
 and new assortment of character for your Sims to get involved with or have a friendship with.
 
  
  The graphics are off the hook and definitely love the new social interactions that they all have. 
 Like I said if you love the Sims of any kind you will love this Expansion Pack its a definitely 
 a must have. Hope you enjoy it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, a full review listing the features of the expansion would be pretty useless, since Sims expansions 
 are rather well-marketed and the title itself should be self-descriptive enough. I'll just dive 
 into the details...
  
  An expansion about dating and fooling around town doesn't sound too good on paper, seeing as the 
 original game's relationship system is already quite good and that the way the community lots are 
 implemented in The Sims 2 doesn't exactly encourage trips downtown. Amazingly, Nightlife changes 
 all that.
  
  The dating mini-game and the downtown areas are two separate features, but ultimately they work 
 as one. Take your sim's date to the all-new (and incredibly well-done, even though some of them 
 are rather redundant) community lots, fulfill their wants (or fears, if you're into ruining people's 
 lives) , use new social interactions, bla bla bla. Doesn't sound too different from what it was? 
 Wrong. The fact that successful dates (and group outings, although these are infinitely more difficult) 
 results in tons of aspiration points and increases for all 8 needs help make community lots enjoyable 
 places to be.
  
  Lesser additions include cars, the concept of hatred (woefully underdeveloped) , vampires, and the 
 obligatory 125 new objects. Those blood-suckers aside, Nightlife's other features are rather disappointing, 
 but none of them are actually detrimental to the experience.
  
  I usually write longer reviews than this, but Nightlife's nature causes a writer's block for me. 
 It's one of those 'a-little-did-a-lot' expansions that implement rather minor changes to the existing 
 game to great effect. Nightlife is not a full-fledged expansion like University, but the effect 
 it has on your Sims 2 experience is far greater. A must buy for Simmers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeybones4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game is 10 times better than the sims university. In the sims university you 
 mainly only got new stuff for college. There are more stuff for the sims nightlife. You can have 
 different shaped pools, CARS!, more clothing, more stuff, more wallpaper, you can become a vampire, 
 you can have a whole new downtown mode, you can build restaurants, bars, night clubs, bowling alleys, 
 and even a place to play poker. You can create whole different characters with turn-ons and turn-offs 
 and a pleasure aspiration which makes you wanna party. There is even a hidden grilled cheese aspiration 
 that makes your life revolve around grilled cheese. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iridius
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I long for the days of Command and Conquer: Red Alert when an expansion pack actually meant something. 
 New levels, new weapons, improved mechanics... and often times fixes that made the game infinitely 
 more balanced, more playable and more fun. Granted, this was also a time when we saw things like 
 Final Doom. Nevertheless, my point stands: expansion packs these days do little to affect the aforementioned 
 areas.
  But these days all that we get are cars. Cars that require asinine driveway placement. Cars that 
 allow you to save a few minutes waiting on the taxi to take you shopping but don't allow you to 
 drive yourself to work. Cars that give your sims one more place to Woo Hoo.
  The Sims 2 is an outstanding game. However, what is there to say about this expansion? There is 
 very little notable improvement in the game. As always, there is a host of new items, primarily 
 for community lots this time, a new soundtrack, and a series of improvements to the sim interaction 
 system. And much like The Sims 2: University added a college campus (or three) , a new Downtown 
 destination has been pre-designed for sims to visit.
  Now, all of this is fine but, aside from the car, there is nothing notable here. My sims can go 
 on dates now, they can tool around in their new sports car (I bought in on the cheap, by the way, 
 at only 11,000S) , and they have new and fascinating ways to piss each other off by making passes 
 across the room at other sims.
  I would argue, however, that much of the functionality included in this expansion pack should have 
 been present in the original. Only because of precedent (Hot Date from the original) do I concede 
 that the dating component could reasonably be a stand-alone expansion. But the car, for example, 
 should have been a part of The Sims. This expansion should be improving the car. For example, it 
 should enable you to take it to work, not just to community lots. Or, in a revolutionary, ground-breaking 
 improvement, they should have been fixing it such that you no longer have to demolish your kitchen 
 and reading room to place the driveway in its one acceptable spot. Seriously, the car animations 
 aren't that good... I see no reason to insist on it being a limiting factor for driveway placement. 
 A word to the wise: just buy a new house with plenty of room for a driveway if you are that desperate 
 to purchase the car.
  My feelings on this expansion are thus: everything here should be in the original release of the 
 game. That being said, it is a moot point. Most of the features included are good if not necessary. 
 If you are a fan of the series, buy this expansion. While it is arguably not a good stand-alone 
 expansion, it isn't a complete waste of money either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that this is one of my guilty pleasures. I've lost many a night sleep with this 
 series.
  
  What a brazenly simply concept captured so beautifully in this game. The playablilty is astounding... even 
 a new player can be cruising around like a pro in a matter of minutes. The choices and the freedom 
 that the game offers you to create is wonderful.
  
  I have to admit that even through there's not conquer and crush and maim and all that jazz in it... I 
 find that I enjoy every aspect of the game without the need... a nice break from the norm!
  
  I give this game a standing ovation... I can't wait to see what the come up with in SIMS. open 
 for Business! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lynx_101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  The Nightlife Expansion to the sims 2 builds again on to the immersive gameplay of the sims 2 and 
 the university expansion.
  
  The new "Dream Date" element was an excellent game mechanic. Albeit easy to achieve top status, 
 it is a fun way to advance a relationship faster than the regular way.
  
  Cars are a welcome addition to the core game mechanic, allowing you a faster way to travel to and 
 from work or community lots.
  
  The additional items also add to the game to make it more immersive. The bowling lane is a particular 
 favourite of mine.
  
  This game is a solid addition and an excellent building block onto the inevitable other expansions 
 of the Sims 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The good things about the sims nightlife is that there is cars garage doors
  driveways, you can date the videos when you get married are better
  and theres less sensual content 
 then the sims 1 and your
  sims can age and theres alot of good cheats such as unlock career rewards and get the car death 
 phone and bring back your dead sims
  and you can have a cow plant that will eat you friends not you and you drink its milk and you live 
 longer
  
  the only bad thing is you need a pretty good comp to play it not to good but good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j111233
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The Sims at it's best, at least until other expansions.
  
  You can visit Nightclubs, Bowling Alleys, Grocery Stores, Clothing Stores and Restaurants.
  
 
  Easily the best game of all time in many ways.
  
  A good reason that it's $35.00.
  
  You can have your date on the night of his/her life or you can ruin it so they'll remember it forever.
 
  
  Cars are one of the great new features in The Sims 2 Nightlife. You can have as much as you can 
 fit. (Depending On The House Size.)
  
  Can't wait until the next expansion, buy it.
  
  Thank you for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo24-7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  this expansion pack to the sims has every thing that a person wants. you can go on dates, and you 
 can meet vampires and become on your self, which i thought was really cool. and if you become tired 
 of being a vampire you can buy a potion to cure yourself. and you can buy a poker table and play 
 poker. i'm really glad that its not strip poker. ; ) also their is a photo booth that you can buy 
 
  or go to and get a picture of your sim and/or thier date, and if their vampiers they have a special 
 pose. and you can dine out and even skip the bill. but having said all this their were a couple 
 glitches were my sims got stuck in the hot tube. but the but i did get get tired of simish after 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife lets your sims out on the town with new dating and group social features. 
 Take your sims out for a night of partying, have a formal dinner in a top-class restaurant, bowl 
 your way to social acceptance or just take your car out for a spin once in a while, you can do 
 all of these and more in Nightlife.
  
  The Sims 2 Nightlife is the second expansion pack for The Sims 2, sequel to the best selling game 
 of all time. With many new objects to buy and build with, new nightlife commercial areas and 
 more social interactions whilst you are out on the town, this is a great game for those with a 
 computer which can pack the punch of this processor-punching game.
  
  Nightlife allows your sims to purchase over one hundred and twenty new items, including a few different 
 types of cars, each with seemingly unlimited styles of paintwork, bowling alleys, poker tables 
 and other additions to original items (ie. more beds, chairs, sinks ext) . The items which have 
 been included are mainly community-based objects which add to the going out feel, but there has 
 also been an ok addition in the household-based items, which is sure to grow.
  
  The new pleasure-seeking aspiration is, in theory, a good addition, as there should be more aspirations, 
 but the new aspiration falls a little short of the goal. It was a good idea, sim that just want 
 to have fun, but really, isnt there more to life than just going on dates and switching jobs? 
 With the want of changing jobs, it makes it virtually impossible to complete the lifetime aspiration, 
 if it is to get to the top of a career track, if you fore fill one of the most highly awarded wants 
 for this aspiration. 
  
  The new dating feature is an original, but quite easy, way to get a higher relationship score with 
 a sim and earn rewards. I say original because of the way it makes the dating game feel like a 
 little mission objective, and this adds more entertainment values to the game. I say easy, though, 
 because of the simplicity in socialisation in The Sims 2. If you know that your sim can tell a 
 joke to another sim and they will constantly raise a relationship point or two, you just do it 
 continuously, and this just becomes repetitive and makes a feature in the game which is supposed 
 to challenge the players as easy as reading the time.
  
  The inclusion of many new outfits can give your sims more personality, and this is just one of 
 the things which make this a much better expansion than University.
  
  Nightlife is a powerful game  everyone knows that sim games are processor chomping, and Ive even 
 found with my computer, which goes above the minimum requirements sometimes freezes and closes, 
 which takes away from the gameplay entertainment and lowers my score a bit.
  
  Overall, a great game for all those sims lovers, but if you arent, there is no point in spending 
 your money  and make sure you have a mighty computer to play this mighty game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJsimulation
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Nightlife is definitely the "must have" expansion for Sims 2 Players. This game is so 
 addictive from Day 1. With all the added extra content, extreme sim gamers will find most of it, 
 and then spend the rest of the time playing, getting dream dates or hanging out with the Grand 
 Vampires... to get bitten, of course.
  
  The Positives:
  It still retains the sims' silly presence that has made the series so hilarious. If your sim tries 
 to DJ with a low creativity level, you may end up hearing wacky tracks all the way from big band 
 music to childish sounding music. The funny part is the sim is oblivious for about 5-10 seconds 
 while the wrong track plays, bobbing their head and throwing their hands up. You're definitely 
 grabbing your side for about a few minutes until you can calm yourself down. It's that crazy. Dumb 
 but hilarious. The vampires also are pretty funny, and the new irritation option "bleh!!" is great 
 if you want to scare the crap out of your sims' friends or people you just met without losing relationship 
 scores or getting them furious.
  
  Now, on to this new aspect. The furiousity system is a new thing (as in real life) when your sim 
 is burning up over a certain negative interaction another has done. It's great if you want to get 
 into a fight without taking the long road down -90 relationship hill. Watch out -- the sims you don't 
 play as also get furious with your sim if you do something wrong. It's really funny to see Sims 
 that you aren't currently playing or townies getting into a fight over a drink being thrown. And 
 don't forget the thought bubble with the sim's face in it followed by (or just a picture of) the 
 interaction's object or clue as to what happened.
  
  The music is good -- some of it may not appeal to everyone, but the remixes of the previous TS2 expanions's 
 music and the base game together is just phenomonal.
  
  Lastly, teens can get bitten by vampires just like adults and elders.
  
  The Negatives:
  
 The game that was supposed to be bug free from the start has some new ones such as the memory thumbnails 
 being wiped clean of the GIF in front of it. The game stil lags, even with my 700+ MB and my exceptioinal 
 video card and processor. The grand vampires are so scarce that they are barely found the first 
 time you play unless you visit almost every lot after every 1-2 hours, as there's just 1-2 counts 
 and countesses. Whcih also means the controllable vamp sims you have can't autonomously bite another 
 sim while your on the unbitten sim's lot (unless you cheat, but then that wouldn't be a free will 
 interaction, would it?) , regardless of their relationship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:23 am PT
Review:  the Sims 2 has never disappoint Sims fans, the same goes for The Sims 2 nightlife. it has loads 
 of clothes, music, objects and other fun filled gameplay included in this expansion pack.
  
  first of all the sims has a turnon and a turn off function, which means sims can be attracted 
 to certain sims that have some characteristics of it like, a sim who prefers blonde sims, with 
 makeup or even vampires. sims are now have a new aspiration that is pleasure seeking aspiration. 
 they want to have fun in their lives and hate doing something that is painful, embarassing or something 
 which is a chore. however, this aspiration, i think failed to distinct from other aspirations like 
 romance and popularity.
  
  dating gameplay and sims going for and outing is pretty good to have fun with. SIms can go out 
 to have a date, or just hangout with his/her bunch of friends. sims can now wine and dine, go bowling, 
 karaoke or just boogie down in their outings. rewards for a good date or a good outing may vary. 
 from flowers, new skill, or a new contact... which is pretty benificial for sims wanting for a 
 promotion.
  
  moreover, for so long sims fans have been wanting to own a car for their sims, now sims are living 
 in their dream. sims can now travel to work or take their kids to school, as well as a place to 
 make out. unfortunately, there are only limited and dodgy looking cars to choose from, and only 
 several paint jobs to choose.
  
  interestingly the usuals add ons are a pleasure for every player for the sims. new clothes, furniture, 
 building tools and so on can really keep a sim fan busy for a while. the sims 2 nightlife is an 
 expansion pack not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 30, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The second expansion pack for The Sims 2, entitled Nightlife, has arrived. One thing is for sure, 
 we can always count on Maxis and EA to add new content to The Sims franchise with it's multitude 
 of expansion packs. This new expansion pack adds cars and a chemisty level, but adds a couple of 
 bugs that were non-existant in other iterations.
  
  First off, it is definately cool to take your Sims out on the town. Going to clubs, bowling alleys, 
 lounges, restaurants, etc. is just plain fun. Every location has it's own look and feel, it's own 
 style. I can name 2 things right now that make this expansion worth while for me : karaoke and 
 being able to DJ at a club. There is tons of new content in here, and being able to take your Sims 
 on dates and outings is a tremendous idea. It ends up being a whole lot of fun to see them in action, 
 especially when they are doing the Smustle. The cars are a cool little addon, but they don't really 
 save time that much, even for the carpooling.
  
  What I didn't like about this expansion is that Sims seem to "forget" what they have to do. You 
 queue up an action and it just dissapears. You queue it again, it dissapears again. This can get 
 really frustrating and I had not noticed this bug in the original game and University. Another 
 thing that I've noticed is that when you do an outing with your group of friends, they tend to 
 wander off and do other stuff, making you have to call them back to you. It's not a big deal, but 
 it can get tedious when you are trying to coordinate a "Super" outing.
  
  All in all, The Sims 2 Nightlife is a good expansion of the original game, although it has a couple 
 of annoying bugs. It is great fun for any Sims fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  The whole dating concept, being able to move between lots and all the new places to go to is really 
 a worthwhile addition to The Sims 2 and adds significant new depth to the overall gameplay experience. 
 Even the car thing is quite cool, although it doesn't really add any depth to the gameplay.
  
  While there are still some issues to be resolved, The Sims 2 series is fast becoming a classic 
 in my books and worldwide support/sales prove this fact.
  
  At this rate, I cannot wait for the next expansion pack, since it seems that the guys at MAXIS 
 are improving the product with every new expansion pack release and we might just end up with a 
 close to perfect product - eventually! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 18, 2005 6:09 am PT
Review:  Yes, The Sims 2 Nightlife does lots of things that the first expansion pack - University - didn't. 
 The whole new bunch of interactions, objects, dating and group outing systems and other additions 
 make it an awesome expansion pack for The Sims 2.
  
  One of the main things I liked about Nightlife is that all the new features in the game are open 
 for sims of different age stages and not only young-adults like in University. The new objects 
 in the game like the bowling alley, the DJ booth and the Karaoke machine are really wonderful!
 
  
  The whole Neighborhood view is much better now since you can see neighbors' home around your sims' 
 so you don't think that your sim lives in the middle of nowhere. However, this feature requires 
 a stronger video card to display the best graphics quality.
  
  The new dating system is really great and I think it's actually easy to have the best date ever, 
 since you can see the wants and fears of the sim your sim is dating! The group outing is also awesome 
 but a little harder especially when there is a big number of sims in the outing group, you can't 
 see the wants and fears of the sims in the group. You can also have different outing groups, you 
 can manage these using your sim's phone, for example you can create a group called anything you 
 want and add the sims you want to it and then invite the group to downtown (or over to your home) 
 and have fun!
  
  The new vampires in the game are nice too. In order to turn your sim to a vampire, your sim has 
 to be bitten by another vampire and this requires a very good relationship between your sim and 
 that vampire! When your sim turns to a vampire, he turns immortal (never dies) . Vampire sims can 
 turn into bats and fly instead of walking to spots in the lot. A vampire sim doesn't have reflection 
 in the mirror. When exposing a vampire sim to the sun his needs will drop and he will die shortly 
 if he doesn't rush to the house and have his day sleep in the brand new vampire-coffin bed! So 
 vampire sims are playable during the night if you don't want them killed! A vampire sim can cure 
 himself anytime and return to a regular sim by buying and drinking a special potion from the new 
 matchmaker woman added to the game!
  
  The brand new cars in the game are also very useful. You can choose from five different car brands 
 and each one has a variety of colors! When you assign a car to a sim in the lot that carpool of 
 that sim (if he has a job) won't show again and your sim will drive to work by himself using the 
 car! You can also invite other sims to downtown and use the cab but the car. So no more waiting 
 now! Your sim can have fun with his car by taking it on a spin in SimCity streets (no, you don't 
 see this, you just stay in the lot view) . You can also use the car to make out with other sim or 
 even WhooWhoo in it!
  
  The soundtrack in Nightlife is very cool and has lots of awesome tunes that even makes you, the 
 player, dance in front of your PC!
  
  Nightlife is such a great expansion pack and is a must if you have The Sims 2! It adds a brand 
 new gameplay to every sim in the family no matter what his age stage is!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 16, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I just got this expansion pack for The Sims 2 and have found it is alot easier to learn than the 
 previous expansion pack for The Sims 2 (University) . Though I have found there are alot of glitches.
 
  
  I like the idea that there are now cars in the game, though I don't like that Sims get confused 
 and have a hard time going where you want them to go when they get out of their vehicle. Also when 
 you make your Sims get in their vehicle, they will sit there for a couple of seconds before turning 
 the car on and start to drive.
  
  I have also experience a glitch where I made my Sims get in the pool, and when they got up the 
 ladder to get out, they would end up swimming (only their heads would show and they would move 
 around in a swimming motion) and then they would walk up stairs or use and object and there would 
 be waves of water coming from their shoulders and it really looked stupid.
  
  I have heard of other glitches, but I have not experienced any others yet.
  
  I hope someone 
 from EA or GameSpot reads this and does something about it.
  
  Despite these glitches, I would still recommend this game to anyone who has played The Sims before.
 
  
  Have Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Author_1990
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is a long time running series that has been a success because of it's high ratings, and 
 quite a number of fans. It has received numerous awards and sold millions of copies. And for 5 
 years, it has been like this. 
  
  So let's start with the basics of this game. The Sims is a game of real life; It revolves around 
 living a life by finding a job, making money, making houses, accomplishing your sim's basic needs 
 such as Hunger, Bladder, Comfort, Energy, Room/Environment, Fun, and Hygiene, and even making your 
 sims in the desired fashion. Of course, this means you need objects to buy, which costs money. 
 In this statement, we can conclude that we need a job. So, you usually see yourself first making 
 a sim, then moving them to an affordable house or a lot, then build it to your own dream home and 
 get a job. But as soon as the cash flow it doesn't end there, promotions can be achieved. Of course, 
 promotions can be easy and hard to achieve. To be able to achieve a promotion, you need a desired 
 amount of skills such as Charisma, Cooking, Mechanical, Creativity, Body, and Logic by using buy-able 
 objects. Another requirement is having a good mood while your in job. Of course this can be achievable 
 by making sure your sims are in a stable condition by buying his/her necessities in the Buy mode. 
 Then another requirement is having a number of family friends, which is acheivable by socializing 
 with other sims. Of course, as I said, sims can have friends which can help them advance to their 
 chosen careers. To be able to do this, you are given different choices of interaction you want 
 to be made, such as Talk, Compliment, etc. Of course, Friends can turn to lovers. And lovers can 
 get married. And couples can have children. 
  
  With the success of the game, Maxis has launched 7 expansions with different themes. These are 
 Livin' Large, a simple pack adding much more experience to do the game, House Party, a game which 
 lets your sims host incredible parties, Hot Date, the first expansion to invite your sims out of 
 their house to downtown to date, Vacation, a pack which sends your sims to a vacation on vacation 
 island featuring 3 locations: Snowy Summit, Forest Mountain, and Hot beach. Another expansion is 
 Unleashed, the pack which adds to the existing neighborhood with more lots and of course the ability 
 to own pets; Superstar, a pack which lets your sim become famous by going to the Superstar career; 
 And Makin' Magic, the last pack where you can cast magical spells and eventually gaining power.
 
  
  With the success of the 7 packs, The Sims has become an enormous hit. But has EA stopped the production 
 of The Sims? No. After a year of the release of the last Expansion, Makin Magic, Maxis launched 
 the sequel to this game, The Sims 2. 
  
  The Sims 2 was more of a remake of the original game which now features a complicated 3 Dimensional 
 (3d) game. With all new features, such as aging, genetics, aspirations, new skills and so much 
 more. Of course, The Sims 2 was also an enourmous hit selling a million copies worldwide in only 
 10 days prior to it's release. With it's hit, Maxis has launched The Sims 2: University, which 
 was recently released just this year's March which let's your sims venture to college world academically, 
 socially and financially. With it's release, the fans has echoed another Expansion to fix the techinical 
 problems the Expansion has bought. And just last week, The Sims 2: Nightlife, the second expansion 
 to The Sims 2, was launched.
  
  In The Sims 2: Nightlife, we let our sims experience the Nightlife. But it may not be as expected 
 as you are expecting, Nightlife has a few surprises which makes the game fun. Let us say though, 
 Nightlife contains alot of elements that of Hot Date, but doing it the Sims 2 way. Yes, Downtowns, 
 Datings, Dinings and more are back but as I said, these features are revolutionized. Like in the 
 original The Sims, same Dating rules are applied, make sure your zodiac signs are compatible, and 
 start of slowly by talking with them, complimenting them and into finally asking them to have a 
 date. In The Sims 2 though, it has been made a little bit more challenging.
  
  In this game, sims has now has their Turn Ons and Turn Offs. This makes the date a little bit fun. 
 Sims can have 2 turn ons and 1 turn offs. Selecting the Turn ons and offs of the sims can get loony 
 somehow. You may find yourself making Custom Hairs and Fatness a Turn On of your Sims, and Fitness 
 as a Turn Off, which we can call wacky. There are so many choices which makes your sims more attracted 
 to a certain sim with those features. Of course, when selecting a date with those feature may mean 
 fiasco. That chosen sim can have a Turn Off of a feature that your sims sponsor which will make 
 the Dating game harder.
  
  Made Harder and funner this time, The Dating Game is the main feature of Nightlife. As soon as 
 the chosen sims accepts your date, a pop-up shows up in the upper right hand of the screen, informing 
 the wants of your dates, the remaining time, and the rank of your date which are (ordered from 
 Worst to Best) Horrible, Lame, Bad, Okay, Good, Great, Dream Date. Of course, there will be some 
 rewards according to the ranking of the date that can let you put a small smile in your face, or 
 put a wider smile (laugh) on your face. The Dating/Attraction System is a great addition to the 
 game.
  
  Another major feature has to be the Neighborhood update. In this game, you can view the neighborhood 
 in your very own house! You can see your neighbor's house, that big oak tree that nobody owns, 
 or that big water tank near that amazing skyscraper. The game becomes even more fun to play because 
 of this feature which is an advancement in graphics and gameplay. Though this option can be turned 
 off for the advancement of slower computers. 
  
  Of course, nobody can say The Sims 2 is a power hugger, and even in a fast computer you will experience 
 lags which can turn you off. Plus to make it worse, we are going Downtown and you know the mechanics 
 of the game when you leave your lot. But, a new feature has been introduced, instead of selecting 
 the destination in the neighborhood, you select the lot as soon as you call the cab. But then, 
 to make things better, Your sims can now own Cars!!! You can build your very own garage. Speaking 
 of which, there are now new additions to the building tools. You can now make diagonal pools and 
 half-wall.
  
  What more can we expect from this game? You can form casual groups which occasionally calls you 
 for you to hang out somewhere. There are now Vampires in the game. Mrs. Crumplebottom is back and 
 want to Bowl at the Bowling Arena. You can also gamble. Plus, you will find the new features of 
 having to carry the entire Table set, including the chairs, to your destined place instead of placing 
 them one by one. More new objects such as the ReNuYu Sensor Orb, Karaoke Machine, a big Revolving 
 Circle thing that lets your sim ride on it. there are 2 new aspirations such as Pleasure and Grilled 
 Cheese (which is the result of a failed experiment in the ReNuYu SensoOrb) . Lots of dancing and 
 more.
  
  Also expect to have nice new graphical effects from those disco lights and brand new environments 
 due to the new feature of viewable neighborhood from your lot. Cool Remixed sounds and even more 
 features a sim fan wouldn't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Nightlife is a wonderful add-on to the simmish universe. It adds a lot of new things, both in gameplay 
 and content.
  
  A new neighborhood (containing both commercial and residential lots) sets the stage for Nightlife 
 (NL) . There are many activities for your sims to enjoy: bowling, fine dining, night clubs, poker 
 games, picnics, the list goes on. This becomes important when considering where to go on a date, 
 which brings me to the biggest gameplay addition.
  
  Many people thought the "dating" in NL would be like that in Hot Date. Not so. Dating has now become 
 a timed mini-game, similar to getting your children into private school or throwing a party. Dates 
 can run the range between being a total flop or a "Dream Date". There are a couple of considerations 
 that will help when going for the dream date.
  
  As always, just as in real life, a good mood is important for getting the most out of your date. 
 Next, it helps to start out with someone you're attracted to. Yes, sims now are attracted to other 
 sims. Attraction is determined by the game comparing a lot of factors: shared interests, aspirations, 
 turns ons and turn offs, etc. There are some interactions you can do to see if there are any likely 
 candidates in the room for your romantic machinations. The next order of business is to have fun. 
 And it's timed. Fortunately, every time your date bumps up a notch, you'll get more time. So while 
 you only start with about 3 minutes, you'll get an extra 3 minutes when you raise your date score 
 from "okay" to "good", and so on. Your score is measured in a handy thermometer/timer on the right 
 of the screen.
  
  Now, I know the quick ones out there noticed that I listed turn ons and turn offs when giving the 
 rules of attraction. That's right - when you create a sim, you now set two turn ons and one turn 
 off when you're tweaking their personality. Existing sims will have a one-time use potion in their 
 inventory that will allow them to set their preferences in partners. Yep - sims now have inventories. 
 No more losing thier reward objects when they move. 
  
  Additionally, there's also a new aspiration (well, two...) - the Pleasure aspiration. These sims 
 are all about doing what's fun. They love to go out on dates, outings, out to dinner, dancing, 
 etc. The other new aspiration comes from using a new reward object. I won't spoil it, but it's 
 pretty funny.
  
  There's a smattering of other new stuff in NL: cars, vampires (I'm working on getting my sim bitten 
 :-) ) , objects, social interactions, etc. The game just feels very rounded out as far as content 
 goes. They've also added some new music, which is very good. This is really a very large expansion 
 - Maxis has been doing a good job on giving you bang for your buck on expansion packs. University 
 was very feature-packed, as well.
  
  If you're a simmer, you will want this game. It's a lot of fun and expands the world of the sims 
 in leaps and bounds. Do yourself a favor and make a date to pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykalob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  As a one of the big fan around the world of the sims game i like this expansion pack and i say 
 expansion pack i said expansion pack cause if you was imagine that this new release include main 
 fixes of the older two games you're deadly wrong and save your money .the same interference the 
 same graphics engine ( and i like it so much ) the same strange simlish language ( wat would happen 
 if they made it in english all the world speaks english also it would give reality .any way that 
 dosent mean its all bad i just wanted to give idea about this expansion pack and earlier releases 
 
  
  
  
  this release with loads of improvements which i am going to put it in points :-
  
  1- cars 
 ( just about five you can chosse ) by the way you can't custom it and you are not the controller 
 of the car.
  2-sims are going to be more out going and its a must (if you have have university edition you will 
 know about the pleasure meter in the aspirations 
  3-bowling clubs
  4-disco 
  5-high class restuarants this
  6-picnics
  7-clothes shops ( new lovely way)
  8-all this things 
 in the downtown area
  9-very new stuff starting from floors arriving to phones
  10-high controls and features for building mod lovers
  
  
  
  while you're dating you must 
 know the fears and the memories of this sim and dont talk about it so you must know how to be attractive 
 and how to be a real lover
  
  addition to you can say this release easier the sims 2 cause you have many ways to have your aspirations 
 meters filled
  
  the new atmosphere of nightlife is better and have more enjoyment.
  the friendship relationship is important
  and you must be a professional in the sims game to 
 make your 
  meetings andgroup meetingswork cause you must watch the big meter on the right of the screen 
 to make sure that everyone love it 
  
  at last a new game with a new ideas and its a good step but still not a big one
  Hmmmmmm..... 
 i respect this game .. and i expected more than this 
  
  By Mahmoud Samir 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 14, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This review was done on a:
  
  Dual Intel Pentium 4 3.0Ghz Processor's
  ATI X800 XT
  1024MB Ram
  More than enough GB
  
  Many have compared The Sims 2: Nightlife to the hit seller 
 of the original expansion pack, for The Sims 1, Hot Date. While there are comparisons, many fans 
 of the series will be pleased with the differences. Unfortunately, the strong idea wasn't put to 
 its full use and it has also proven to be a rather demanding product if you want to run things 
 at its highest settings.
  
  There are a variety of new features added into The Sims 2: Nightlife. All of these features, while 
 not revolutionary, would be nice to have both for the present and the future. To emphasize this 
 point, one can simply look at the base facts: The game now has a downtown you can use for your 
 Sims to visit. The things you can do down there are not all too numerous, but come with enough 
 variety to keep things from getting raw. This excludes you players who would go downtown two or 
 three times per Sim day, of course. That said, a new dating system has been added along with a 
 group outing. Both are pretty much the same thing, in that you must keep the sims with you happy, 
 but obviously one will have more of a challenge (Hint: Keeping more sims happy might be harder) . 
 Thankfully, neither are extremely difficult and reaping the rewards from these amusing features 
 can be well worth the time investment. Add the story potential behind these features, for you story 
 tellers, and this is quite a bit of hefty additions on its own.
  
  Changes to the core gameplay haven't been altered and that's probably a good thing, considering 
 the games overall success. There are some new items, some of which can get you some extra cash 
 if you're lucky (Ex: Poker) , but probably the thing that stands out most is the cars. Now I don't 
 care what anyone else says but the fact is: The cars are cool. They don't really add any depth 
 to the gameplay but they do save you time. And just having one of those "babies" parked on your 
 driveway, or in your garage, sure makes things look a lot more... Natural. On that note, there 
 are only a handful of cars available, all of which have a variety of paint jobs, but hopefully 
 that will change as time progresses.
  
  Looking at screenshots and clips would give a player an idea of how the game looks: Indifferent 
 from the past. There are some new nifty lighting effects though nothing significant has been done 
 to alter the previous graphics. This isn't to say that this is a bad thing - On the contrary, The 
 Sims 2 still looks great. But on that note, don't expect your machine to run at top settings with 
 some of the new additions. Take, for example, the new neighborhood view. While it doesn't sound, 
 in theory, to be like a drainer, I have noticed that things do "hiccup" every once awhile and while 
 it isn't a big deal, it sure can get annoying after awhile. And it only gets worse when you go 
 downtown.
  
  There are some new tunes added into the game, some of which will receive mixed opinions. Personally, 
 I'm split on some of the music though I'll leave that judgement to each individual person. Fortunately, 
 the key elements of the sound remains strong overall, with no obvious problems. That said, the 
 sound is barely Great, but far from being superb.
  
  The Sims 2: Nightlife should be in the collection of any Sims 2 fan. Why? It adds enough content 
 to be entertaining and will without a doubt, add a great level of depth to future gameplay. Whether 
 you're a story teller, a casual gamer, or a hardcore sims fan... The choice here isn't whether 
 you should buy it - It's when. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
