-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims: Vacation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simsvacation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,568 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Mar 25, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Vacation breathes enough life back into The Sims to make it interesting again, though it's really 
 at its best when used with other expansion packs. 

 At this point, there isn't much to say about The Sims that hasn't already been said. Maxis' innovative 
 strategy game, which is all about simulating the lives of little computer people, was released 
 in 2000, and since then, it's become incredibly popular -- as well as a breakthrough commercial success. 
 And up until 2002, no less than three expansions had been released for The Sims, and each was a 
 good, solid add-on that might not have solved all the problems of the original game but always 
 added lots of interesting new options to play with. And fans of The Sims did just that -- they played 
 the game incessantly, downloaded extra items for their homes, chatted about the game on Internet 
 message boards, and built custom downtown areas with the most recent Hot Date expansion. It's hard 
 to imagine that a game this popular and this widely played -- even one as interesting as The Sims -- could 
 continue to be played and enjoyed all these years by so many people without getting at least a 
 little stale. But it's 2002, and the fourth expansion for The Sims, Vacation, does breathe enough 
 life back into The Sims to make it interesting again, at least for a while, though it's really 
 at its best when used with other expansion packs.           Can The Sims still be as interesting 
 as it was two years ago?    

  Vacation lets your sims call a travel agent on the phone and go on one of three vacations: a camping 
 trip, a winter resort trip, or a beach trip. And like the previous expansions, Vacation really 
 makes only a few significant additions to the core game, but these do help keep The Sims interesting. 
 First off are the new vacation areas, which, like Hot Date's downtown areas, let you take your 
 sims outside of their homes. All of Vacation's new areas come custom-built with items such as carnival 
 games, snowboarding half-pipes, and volleyball nets, but just like in Hot Date, you can completely 
 clear out one or all of the preset areas and fill it with whatever new items you like.   

  Vacation packs lots of new items that can be used for both your resorts and your sims' homes, which 
 should help give fans of building custom areas lots of new options, especially when used with the 
 Hot Date or House Party expansion. That's because many of Vacation's new items are group activities 
 that work well for your own nuclear family of sims. They also work great for dates and parties. 
 Vacation's new group activities include things such as building a snowman, scavenging with a metal 
 detector, and fishing on a short pier.           Nothing says "vacation" quite like a souvenir. 
    

  The other major addition that Vacation makes to the core game is souvenirs -- items of varying value 
 that your sims can win through playing carnival games or discover through using the new metal detector. 
 They can also be awarded souvenirs by a resort area's vacation director or can simply purchase 
 them. And just like many of The Sims' other goals, like advancing in a career track or improving 
 their attributes through practice, you can treat winning souvenirs as a goal to work toward or 
 take the easy way out and pick up some cheap ones at a gift shop. Of course, the most difficult 
 souvenirs to acquire are the most worthwhile -- they add considerably to your home's "room" value 
 and can provide other bonuses too. Once you've acquired souvenirs, you can set them up on a souvenir 
 rack in your sims' homes and use them as another group activity -- that is, standing around and admiring 
 your souvenir rack. This is a good way for your sims to entertain guests and an even better way 
 to keep them occupied if you're throwing a party with the House Party expansion. Souvenirs ultimately 
 provide another kind of goal for players to aspire to, and meticulous fans will want to collect 
 them all.    

 Even with all its new additions, The Sims: Vacation still looks like... The Sims. Don't expect any 
 kind of graphical improvements upon Vacation. The expansion has the same kind of isometric 2D backgrounds 
 and the same exact jaggy-looking 3D characters as in the original game and every single other expansion, 
 though it does have some new faces and outfits. But as you might expect by now from an expansion 
 pack for The Sims, Vacation has several new animations that are every bit as expressive -- and occasionally 
 hilarious -- as those you've seen in The Sims. Your sims will leap through the air on the snowboarding 
 ramp, performing handplants and occasionally falling flat on their faces. They'll kneel around 
 their snowman as they build it, and child sims will hop into their fathers' arms to admire their 
 handiwork. And best of all, each of Vacation's resort areas are staffed by a different mascot character -- the 
 kind who wears a big furry suit or oversized novelty mask and goes around making exaggerated gestures 
 (like laughing silently or walking in place) and randomly hugging visitors. Even the most jaded 
 players will at least crack a smile when they see the winter resort's Betty Yeti approach some 
 visitors and break into a soft-shoe dance routine.           A dancing mascot can make any vacation 
 extra special.    

  In addition, even though most of Vacation's new items and areas might not look incredibly realistic, 
 they're at least colorful and interesting to look at. You'll see the same sort of character you've 
 come to expect from The Sims' expressive gibberish language and humorous animations in the brightly 
 colored carnival games and the garish-looking arcade-game cabinets.   

  Vacation also sounds great. The new expansion adds even more new "simlish" -- the gibberish language 
 of The Sims -- to your sims' vocabulary, including the gasps and grunts of volleyball-playing sims 
 and the very funny, excited mutterings of sims who take their video games just a little too seriously. 
 The expansion also features some new music in its resort areas and on the main vacation area map -- mostly 
 upbeat reggae music with appropriately nonsensical simlish lyrics, though there isn't all that 
 much new music in the expansion otherwise. That's a shame, since The Sims' great music -- which usually 
 consists of clever parodies of real-world music -- has always been one of the best things about the 
 game.           Unfortunately, Vacation doesn't really "fix" The Sims.    

  Unfortunately, just like all the other expansion packs that came before it, Vacation isn't perfect. 
 For one thing, just like every other add-on for The Sims, Vacation doesn't actually solve any of 
 The Sims' basic problems. The game's camera scrolls around the screen as sluggishly as ever, and 
 your sims still have pathfinding problems and get stuck in corners or near other objects.   

  But fixing the original game has apparently never been the point of any of The Sims' expansion 
 packs. Livin' Large, House Party, and Hot Date have all simply built upon what was in The Sims 
 and added new features and options to play with. You could say that Vacation actually builds upon 
 previous expansions -- its new customizable resort areas are a lot like Hot Date's downtown, and 
 its new family activities are a lot like House Party's party games. You don't really have to analyze 
 things that closely, because in the end, Vacation does what a good expansion for The Sims is supposed 
 to do -- breathe new life into the original game. If you play and enjoy The Sims, you'll play and 
 enjoy Vacation -- and you'll just enjoy it more if you happen to have Hot Date and House Party.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: coolestkid200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Of course it may not be the best, but its a fair expansion, AND its a break off your sims work/school- 
 since theres no weekends (what torture!) it is quite amusing to see your sims playing volleyball 
 on the beach, or practicising archery near their camp site, or making snowmen etc, all in all this 
 is a solid piece of gaming, i agree with gamespot- it is better when mixed with other expansion 
 packs.
  
  Plus, Theres added items, more stuff to do etc.
  
  However it is kinda hard to keep up track with their needs, but hey its still cool, i just love 
 the idea as well, taking your sims on holiday :)
  
  Overall 7.5- V. good
  
  i would recommend to anybody who likes going on holiday :P
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoncub
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Although the Sims are, overall, enjoyable, I could see NO POINT to this. Obviously, the purpose 
 was simple enough to understand - take time off work without being fired! After all, there's no 
 such thing as a weekend.
  
  In teory is should be quite exciting, in reality it was far to disappointing. The new objects and 
 interactions were great  really fantastic. But the whole thing...
  
  When you go anywhere, not only are you paying more than a sensible Sim to stay in a tent or igloo 
  let alone a hotel  you still are responsible for your Sim's needs. Unfortunately, these are 
 a whole lot harder to keep topped up when on vactaion. In fact, I couldn't even get them to stay 
 halfway, which is why I labelled this as hard. I just never go on vacation and if I want a break, 
 I take a day off work and go to the Old Town park (Sims Unleashed) . So much more satisfying  and 
 all you have to pay for is a pie when you get hungry!
  
  Vacation does provide some interesting additions including a set of Fairground style games  Test 
 Your Strengh, Wack-A-Willy, fishing and archery can all earn you tokens to trade in for a vacation 
 souveneir. Seeing as I couldn't stand going on Vacation, an added bonus was that these were available 
 in Old Town (Sims Unleashed) so they didn't cost $500 to use, and it was easier to keep my Sim's 
 needss high.
  
  Vacation does supply plenty of new objects and interactions, but is simply not useful enough to 
 be worth anything. If it's cheap, get it for the stuff, but not for the destinations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay for the Sims: vacation is great and adds another great area to the Sims universe. 
 The main focus for this expansion pack is vacations (holidays) . The game adds more objects for 
 your home like shelves to put your souvenirs on to. There is also a new area called Vacation Island 
 and thats where you go on vacations (holidays) to. There are 3 areas in Vacation Island, beach, 
 forest and snow. Some of the new items in Vacation Island are: Snowman, tent, fishing pier and 
 half pipe. There are some new character you will meet in vacation island, they are: Beach shark, 
 Robin Hood, yeti and the holiday director. Overall the gameplay in the Sims: vacation is great 
 and adds more to the Sims experience.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the Sims: vacation is ok, as they havent changed for the original game but they 
 could be a bit better. The games vacation island looks ok and so do the new items. There are new 
 items for your Sims what looks ok as well. There are a couple of new animations to this game like 
 kneeling to build a snowman, fishing at a pier and lots more. Overall the graphics in the sims: 
 vacation looks ok but could be a little better.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the Sims is great, the music you get the game is good. The Sims language (simlish) 
 sounds nice. There is some music in the game what you get from the radio what sounds good. They 
 have added a couple of new sounds the simlish language like grunts when they are playing volleyball 
 and a couple more, there is new music added the vacation island area but not to your home what 
 is a shame, the music added is nice to listen to while you wait for the game to load. Overall the 
 sound in the Sims: vacation is great as it has been in the past Sims games.
  
  Value
  The value for this game is ok as it has added more objects that will keep your sims busy for a 
 while and so will the vacation island. The souvenirs feature added for when you are on your vacation 
 (holiday) is a good idea and will keep you coming to Vacation Island for more and more. Overall 
 the value for the Sims: vacation is great and will keep the Sims going for a little longer.
  
  Overall experience
  Overall if you want a great expansion pack for the Sims then you should 
 pick up the Sims: vacation for its great gameplay and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Vacation really was the thing that sold the game for me. The vacation aspects are very 
 interesting to play with, and the killer add-on's of furni really are some of the best which were 
 added in all of the original Sims games.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 ~ They are the Sims graphics, not quite the Sims 2, but they were great for the 
 time!
  
  Audio - 10/10 ~ The audio was always great, but this one peticularly really did it for me! The 
 awsome soundtrack really gave me the 'vacationing' feeling!
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 ~ What can I say, the Sims really was the best game of my generation thus far. 
 The game was wicked to begin with, but once Vacation was brought into the play, it is just that 
 much better!
  
  So overall, get The Sims Ultimate edition for like $20.00 and you will enjoy all the Sims packs, 
 especially Vacation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Vacation is a great Sim Game beacuse you and your Family of sims can take a vacation!!!! 
 The same old sim gameplay is there like, You can create your own sim, Or Family of Sims which is 
 SUPER!!!!! You can also buy your family's own house or you could build it, Which i Perfer more 
 than Buying a house. The fun thing is for the Vacations you can pick diffrent areas to go vacationing 
 in like a Snowy Area, A Beach type area and finally a Camp ground type area. There are many diffrent 
 places to go which is reallly really cool!!!! And the best is having cheats for ultimate money 
 which really helps you get so much things. Sims Vacation Never ever gets borring!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) I can't stop buying these expansions! When I first started playing this game 
 I got addicted. I loved the graphics and how I could control almost all aspects of my Sims life. 
 The modding community is spectacular and you can find just about everything you could imagine to 
 add to the game. The characters actually talk so it is fun to hear their conversations in simmish. 
 There's a lot of stuff you can buy for your sims. You can build a pool and a lot of other stuff. 
 You can hire people and you can pick from many jobs for your own Sim. The only limit is your imagination 
 with this game.
  The Bad: A few glitches but all in all the game is smooth and you will have hours of enjoyment 
 if you enjoy games like this. The minor issues will not ruin your gameplay in anyway.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: (expansion) Overall this game is highly addictive, and highly fun. If you have a PC, 
 (which you will have if you are reading this) buy this game. It's a great series with many hours 
 to let your imagination run wild in. I'm addicted to this series and I just have to have every 
 expansion released.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Sims Vacation/ On Holiday, lets you take your sims on a camping trip, a stay at the beach or a 
 ski resort. As with the other EP's comes with new Furniture, clothes, wallpapers ect.. Brings another 
 type of town, vacation island with 3 lots for each type of weather, (snow, camping, beach) . When 
 your sims go on holiday they just have to go on the phone just like going downtown. Just pay the 
 $500 choose who's going and then when ever you go on that lot on the neigbourhood it will take 
 you to vaction island. once your there check in and enjoy. well your sims will more than you. this 
 just doesn't have that addictive factor. things like romantic getaways just don't work. if your 
 trying to get a sims relationships better dont go on holiday. but most other parts of the game 
 great.
  kids are born with snowboarding skill, and adults can fish and catch boots. 
  For value for money i would say 8.99 ($14.99) brand new and 3.99 ($5.99) used. Learning Curve 
 is 0 to 30 minutes for sims players (not sims 2) , and 60 or more minutes for people who are brand 
 new to sims 1.
  This overall is worth playing. ***' (3.5 stars) .
  Thank you for reading 
  Webmessia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The Sims Vacation is one of the expansion packs for the sims. Vacation lets your sims, well, go 
 on vacation. Either to a winter resort, beach, or a camping trip. What you have to do is get your 
 sims to a phone, then call an agent to pick you up. With all the places to go, you can change what 
 items are there with what you want.
  
  Speaking of items, there are a lot more items in the game, which keeps The Sims more enjoyable. 
 Like in the winter resort, there are snowman kits, or a half pipe, or in the woods for the camping 
 trip there are tents, sleeping bags, and even fishing poles so you can get your sims to fish! There 
 are a few bugs in the game, nothing serious though.
  
  The thing you should know about this is that it WILL slow down your computer. If you run The Sims 
 with a little lag, then you will get tons of lag and long loading times in Vacation. You need a 
 beefy computer to play this and the other expansion packs.
  
  This is a good expansion pack, it should keep you interested in The Sims for a bit longer, but 
 this doesn't deserve a medal or anything. If you do have a good computer, and some money, then 
 you should buy this. But remember, you have to have The Sims in order to play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cars01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Your sim is tied of working they need a break from life. This is where the sims vacation comes 
 in. It give your sim a holiday at the snow, or a relaxing time at the beach, or play some archery 
 in the woods. The sims is one of the best games ever made the vacation adds to the sims experience 
 in these holiday destinations you can ski in the snow play archery, swim, and you can buy food, 
 and the good thing is you can stay as long as you want. As long as your sim as got the money so 
 build up the penny's and give your sim a holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  If you have read my previous reviews, then you might think: What the f***!? Have this guy played 
 The Sims?!? Actually I own the game. It's a long time ago, and I'm writing a lot of reviews right 
 now, so then I thought I could also write a review about this game too. And here it is:
  
  Vacation is of course about a family you've made by yourself, then you buy a fair house for them 
 and make sure that they're feeling fine, and that means: Do they have enough fun? Do they like 
 the decoration of their house? Are they going to the toilet soon? And most important of all: Are 
 they happy? And that's what The Sims is all about, shortly. But there is a lot of more stuff and 
 crazy things, that can happen and you can buy. For example, the burglar can visit your house, there 
 can break a fire out in your kitchen (remember the fire alarms) , you can order pizza, or in this 
 new game Vacation: You can order a vacation. And best of all, you can make your own holiday spot! 
 That can be skiing, a nice trip to the forest in a tent or a lovely trip to the beach. All of this 
 is of course a lot of fun. 
  
  The GooD:
  - Tons of new things you can buy.
  - Making your own holiday spot is a lot of fun.
  - It's very hard to get tired of making your 
 own family.
  - Solid replay value.
  
  The BaD:
  - After two years and still the same graphics. Ain't that too bad?
  - Not the best sound effects. (But 
 defintely not the worst)
  - After so many expansions, and the gameplay hasn't changed that much. It could have been a lot 
 better.
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Who wouldn't like to take their Sim on vacation? I found myself doing this all the time.
  
  When I played this game, there are two new things that are really big that you can do. First off, 
 take your Sim on vacation. Second, design the spot where they will take their vacation. These were 
 really cool. I would take the biggest vacation lot and put in the best of the best.
  
  It's an average Sims game, with graphics, gameplay, etc... all the same as the originals. Maybe 
 a few minor changes, but overall, it's another add-on to the originals. A nice add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  the sims on vacation is nice . . . . . when you can do shooping and buy new clothes . . . and buy 
 to your sims the game "the sims" and its nice allso all the hotels . . . and all that stuff . . 
 . allso the idea with the tickets . . . and then your sim can gett a prize . . . so this game is 
 nice and woth to play
  but i am not a really sims lover so i can't really say that i was really enjoyed it
  but every 
 one with the games that he love . . . . . :\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Now our Sims can go on Vacation! How great is that? Now they can just get away from the day to 
 day hassle of going to work, paying the bills and meeting mew people. 
  
  Vacation is a nice change of scenery for both the player and the Sim. You can go to a Camp sight 
 to catch up on some fishing, to the beach for some carnival fun or head for the hills on a Ski 
 holliday. 
  
  The new interactions and objects are awesome. It really adds a bit more to the game. So grab your 
 skies, fishing rod or swimming trunk and meet new Sims in the new Vacation lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiinfarfalino
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  The sims vacation is great, with the new vacation city, new objects. just great. and with the social 
 interactions, I sped hours playing sims it's great I just can't stop it's like great just greatsometimes 
 I wake in the morning and I play sims till night I J U S T C A N ' T S T O P!!!!! help me!!!! me 
 going crazy and bla bla bla, bla bla bla, like wath everThe sims vacation is great, with the new 
 vacation city, new objects. just great. and with the social interactions, I sped hours playing 
 sims it's great I just can't stop it's like great just greatsometimes I wake in the morning and 
 I play sims till night I J U S T C A N ' T S T O P!!!!! help me!!!! me going crazy and bla bla bla, 
 bla bla bla, like wath ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game is sooooo cool. Just make a house full of people, get some money I'm not saying how though. 
 After you make your giant house you can either leave them at the house OR take them on a dream 
 vacation. They can go to the beach, woods, or the snow hills. 
  
  Sometime though you should build you own vacation spot. You can make it any thing you want. There 
 could be some apartments or there could be one giant house for you and your family. But whatever 
 you do it is still a fun game. So get out ther buy The Sims and any expansion pack you can find. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
