-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Pets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thesims2pets/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pets add an interesting new dimension to the game.
 Plenty of new items to choose from.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pet management is difficult to schedule into a regular sim's day.
 new gameplay options will appeal mainly to experienced Sims 2 fans.
 like with all other Sims expansions, no noticeable technical improvements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,819 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Oct 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Pets expansion adds an interesting wrinkle to The Sims 2 but won't set the world, or even your 
 sims' house, on fire. 

  The Sims 2 remains a popular and difficult-to-describe strategy game that lets you control the 
 lives of little computer people in the house you build for them, as they love, grow old, have families, 
 chase their dreams, and occasionally use the potty. The series is known for offering zany humor, 
 colorful graphics, a gibberish language that its "sim" characters speak (known as "simlish") , cheerful 
 music, and numerous retail expansion packs. And the most recent expansion, The Sims 2: Pets, doesn't 
 break with tradition, so to speak. It adds domestic dogs, cats, birds, and rodents to The Sims 
 2, along with plenty of new items. If you weren't already a fan of the series, it seems doubtful 
 that Pets will change your mind, but the expansion still adds plenty of content that will definitely 
 be of interest to experienced players looking to add more to their Sims 2 experience in any way 
 they can.  

          You can get parrots and hamsters for your home, but cats and dogs are the real stars of 
 The Sims 2: Pets.     

  Pets act as brand-new family members, although hamsters and birds generally stay put in their cages. 
 For these smaller pets, you can feed them; play with them to give your sims some social contact; 
 and in the case of birds, teach them to talk to improve your charisma. Dogs and cats can be much 
 more interesting. You can create canines and felines from a great number of different breeds and 
 are given tons of different customization options that let you choose size, age, different ear 
 types, fur color patterns, and even some minor pet accoutrements, like collars. You can also determine 
 your pet's personality, such as whether your pet is friendly or aloof, neat or messy, and quick 
 to learn new tricks or a bit slower on the draw. If those last sentences got you excited, there's 
 a good chance that The Sims 2: Pets is for you.  

  That's because pets -- dogs and cats, anyway -- function like limited people in the game. You can't 
 take direct control of dogs or cats, but you can teach them new skills (pet tricks) by spending 
 virtual hours (which equates to several minutes of real time) of your day training them until they 
 learn how to sit, shake hands, and roll over. This system is similar to how you can improve your 
 sims' marketability by spending virtual hours repeatedly training at skills like charisma, repair, 
 and cleaning. You can use interactions with them to fulfill your sims' social needs (so yes, you 
 can play as a "crazy cat lady" who associates only with her house cats) , just like you can with 
 live-in family members. And you can even send your pets off on different career paths. If you care 
 to, you can have Fido pursue an exciting career in show biz, for instance, and just like in the 
 original Sims games, in Pets an increasingly nice car will pull up to your sims' house to pick 
 them up as they climb the professional ladder and whisk them away for hours on end, until they 
 return home later that day with an honest-to-goodness paycheck. These new options open up a slightly 
 different avenue for gameplay than having just another roommate.  

          French poodles bringing home a paycheck? There goes the neighborhood.     

  Cats and 
 dogs can also interact with each other, and based on the personality you've given them, they may 
 get into fights with the neighbors' pets or get friendly with them, even to the point of building 
 up a relationship that leads to a new litter of puppies or kittens. In the meantime, if you happen 
 to care about your house's property value, your dogs and cats are always works in progress, since 
 you must constantly catch even the best-behaved pets in the act of destroying furniture, digging 
 up the yard, or relieving themselves in the house so that you can scold them -- which teaches them 
 not to do such things. (Alternately, if you care to, you can try to breed the biggest jerk of a 
 cat or dog in SimCity by repeatedly praising your pet for destructive behavior and then turning 
 it loose downtown.) Either way, patterning your pets' behavior is surprisingly time consuming and 
 not always convenient -- if you want to have a well-behaved pet, you have to always keep an eye on 
 it and constantly drop what you're doing to dash over and scold or praise it -- and once you get 
 there, actually giving your pet that feedback takes a little while, too. It also seems to take 
 quite some time before constant scolding or praising sinks in with even the brightest pets... and 
 if you decide to have any of your sims take a job, or to send you pet out to the workforce, that 
 just means less time for your sims to spend together teaching your pets.  

  This is the main issue with the way cats and dogs work in the game -- trying to create the perfect 
 pet, or even a decent one, is difficult to schedule in the bustling world of The Sims 2, where 
 your sims are also trying to make it in the working world themselves, build up their own skill 
 points, pursue their wants and life goals, and take care of their own personal needs for food, 
 rest, and social interaction. This is to say nothing of the other Sims 2 expansions' gameplay features, 
 like University's influence system, Nightlife's group outing and dating system, or Open for Business' 
 start-your-own-company system. If you try to pursue any or all these different gameplay styles, 
 they'll just put even more time constraints between you and nurturing and developing your pet. 
 You can try to either double up on pets, or on family members, and micromanage each sim, and experienced 
 Sims 2 players may indeed take that approach as the toughest challenge yet -- juggling a household, 
 a cadre of cronies, a steady girlfriend, a burgeoning home business,  and  a happy dog or cat. 
 Most other players will probably have trouble keeping up with the conflicting needs of both their 
 sims and pets, which are both demanding and require separate blocks of time in any given virtual 
 day.  

          Everybody's a critic. It's tough to have an active social life and a happy, well-trained 
 pet in this expansion pack.     

  Otherwise, the expansion adds some welcome new music tracks that fit in just fine with the game, 
 along with well-suited animal noises (dogs barking, cats purring, and so on) that are just as expressive 
 as the still-upbeat gibberish "simlish" language that sims use to communicate with each other, 
 and now to coo at and criticize their animal friends. While the expansion doesn't add a new set 
 of out-of-home "lots," the out-of-home areas that sims can visit by calling a cab, it does add 
 plenty of new objects both for lots, such as pet-shop stalls if you own Open for Business; pet 
 supplies, including scratching posts, doggie chew toys, aviaries, and so on; plus new household 
 items. The new additions look just fine and seem to fit in very well with The Sims 2's colorful, 
 if perhaps no longer cutting-edge, appearance.  

  Even though it does add a decent-sized chunk of new content to the original game, The Sims 2: Pets 
 isn't about redefining the Sims 2 experience or winning over any new converts. It seems to be for 
 players who already know and love The Sims 2, who will actually spend time layering spots and colored 
 patches onto a dog's fur, or who find the idea of having a starlet house cat bringing home the 
 bacon (while the deadbeat family sits at home and plays pinball all day) to be hilarious.  

    Editor's note 10/25/06 : The original text of this review implied that the expansion included 
 new clothing items for human characters, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  this expansion to the sims 2 is worth a go if you're an animal lover but with the limited variety 
 of pets (only cats and dogs) , it makes it slightly disappointing and very unsatisfying.
  
  this is also in addition to the fact that the expansion doesn't improve on much of the bugs that 
 plague the core game effectively. 
  
  furthermore, most of the wants and needs of your sim could sometimes become so orientated with 
 pets that they only want to praise, scold or command them to do stuffs, all of which provide minimal 
 aspiration points and hence, are very ungratifying and slightly tedious as it gets repetitive.
 
  
  nonetheless, if you're an avid fan of the series, have wished for a little more 'real life' element 
 added to your game or just want to have access to becoming a werewolf (like how all the other expansion 
 packs add supernatural creatures to the base game with aliens) , then this game could be considered... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I was wondering when The Sims 2 creators would make a Pets expansion, if at all. It was good to 
 see something else familiar from the classic Sims games being reborn into The Sims 2. How can we 
 forgot those little critters we used to adopt at a local pet shop in the world of Sim. Everything 
 has returned, of course, with more detail and functions. There are a few 'real-life' flaws in the 
 creation of some of these pets, especially in the dogs, but overall, it is a good add-on. Just 
 like old times, you care for your pet (s) , they cause havoc, they bring humor, and they show devotion 
 for their owners. Strays are shooed, or petted. They are trained, they learn. Just like old times. 
 So go adopt The Sims 2: Pets at your local game store, if you haven't already. If you want a fun 
 expansion pack, that relates to the classic Sims games, than don't waste your money on the 'Stuff' 
 add-ons. Adopt 'Pets'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrose8723
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  In general this was another one of the good expansions that came out with the game. Mostly I just 
 like the new objects and some of the new features they added to the game. But there were some things 
 that made it really repetitive and annoying after awhile.
  
  One thing was the annoying animals. Even if you had the perfect pet he still did some things that 
 you trained him NOT to do. No matter what and it got on my nerves to have the sound pretty high 
 up and get freaked out when a cat starts randomly meowing.
  
  The other thing was the annoying wolves/dogs that came up onto the lot and dug trillions of holes 
 in your yard that would increase in number if you didn't fill them up. And even if you went and 
 greeted the pet and try to scold him for it, it wouldn't work (not sure if I was doing something 
 wrong on my part but still nevertheless annoying to have to fill up holes every morning) .
  Also just befriending the wolves were hard in itself to get a werewolf was difficult in itself. 
 I usually don't like to use that many cheats since I had my fair share of making my game crash.
 
  
  One last thing I thought was really weird to add was some random but funny glitches that can make 
 your day besides the negatives of this game. It's a pretty good game that's worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandora2014
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  This is a good expansion and all but it's the same old thing to me. You play it for days and days 
 make a hundred diffrent families then suddenly the fun dies as you realize the only thing left 
 to do is find another expansion. While playing this game I realized something. THE ONLY THING YOU 
 CAN ACHIEVE AS A GOAL IS BECOMING A WEREWOLF! Which would be fun if it was actually possible... 
 it is so hard even though i've owned the game for several years i've never accomplished this tedious 
 task. But overall it gives you something to do for a few days and lessens the need to go buy one 
 more cruddy expansion. Which you shouldn't have to do. The only thing left for to do is to continue 
 to kill off tthe hundreds of familys when I first bought the game how fun does that sound. I hope 
 Sims 3 brings a little more to do and less cruddy content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truecoder777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  While it is able to retain the Classic Sims 2 gameplay it also brings new elements that fall a 
 little short of breakthrough for the sims.
  First the good. Some of the dogs such as the Golden Retriever or Chihuahua have been done VERY WELL. Some 
 dogs like the Yellow Lab and the Great Dane... not so much.
  
  Its not so much that the gameplay lacks idea and that it doesn't work because things like the praise 
 and scolding system work well and the pets function just like real ones but there are some major 
 flaws with the animals. For one the wormrat (the rodent in the little cage) is very misleading to 
 those who actually want guinea pigs. Why? They would follow what they see on the game and buy a very 
 small cage which may be alright for corporate pet shops but not so much for oh lets say people 
 who give a damn about their animals.
  
  The animals don't really capture their breed personality and size correctly. For one... the Great 
 Dane, one of the biggest dogs around, is the same size as a golden retriever. And also The create-pet 
 idea works well but doesn't really help me with smaller fluffy dogs like Westies because along 
 with the size, the coat will be much smaller, sometimes a little too small. Though I was able to create 
 a very good depiction of Pablo the Chihuahua, if you don't know who that is look it up, very cute 
 chihuahua. In my opinion the best 3 dog models they have in the game are Golden Retriever (They 
 just did every detail so nicely) Border Collie, and Doberman Pinscher. There are options to edit 
 the ears as the Doberman has docked ears to begin with but since most people might detest that 
 you are allowed to make the ears floppy or long etc. since your allowed to edit Created pets as 
 well as existing pets.
  
  Personally i haven't used cats often but My favorite is the Norwegian forest cat. All the models 
 are very well done... excluding the eyes, so Paranoid...
  
  Overall the game is still very nice and I wouldn't spend to much on this expansion but its still 
 a nice little add-on if your looking for those furry companions. I give it a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  So straight off the bat, obviously first thing you want to do is buy a cat or a dog. So after you 
 do, you feel so excited and I couldn't help but feel disappointed. The fact that you can't control 
 the pets is understandable, but it'd probably better if you could in this case.
  
  It's just there's so little to do, all you do is feed them, play with them, teach them a trick 
 and they go to work. The coolest thing to do with pet's is make them and see all the different 
 breeds, collars and fur colours in the game.
  
  Pets, in conjunction with Open For Business, is pretty cool however as you can buy and sell pets 
 in your businesses.
  I really can't write much more on this review because that is all the game has to offer, excpet 
 for parrots and hamsters, but they're just objects, so i'm cutting this short. Pet's gets a shameful 
 4.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakahashi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I have spent many hours playing the Sims 2, but until my birthday this year, I won't really know 
 what's about to hit me. I've seen the game at work, and I've even created loads of custom content. 
 However, when The Sims 2 Pets comes along, I'll just be all the more happy.
  
  My friend, who happens to share the same name as me, owns this expansion pack. We were playing 
 one night, and she said, "Let's make your family and my family, and we can live in one of those 
 split houses you make!" I happily aggreed, not knowing that she had the Pets.
  
  So, as a talented Simself creator, I went to work creating our families. Down to a T, if I may 
 add. Then she said, "Let's make our pets!" I looked at her like a COMPLETE idiot.
  
  After about 20 minutes of fooling around with the layering effects, I created our pets very well. 
 Her family was leaving for away for about a month, but I managed to play once more before they 
 left.
  
  I cleaned up my Sims 2 laptop, and I made room for the Sims 2 Pets, which will be arriving shortly 
 at my house!
  
  PROS:
  - Pet graphics and sounds are amazing!
  - Adds an exciting aspect to the game
  - Made me want to keep my Sims 2 collection even MORE 
 (I was planning on selling it after Sims 3 came out)
  - Gave me a reason to stay indoors on a warm spring day (that and hay fever)
  
  CONS:
  - 
 It made my laptop a bit slower (on average, it took about 8.6 seconds longer to load web pages, 
 15.4 seconds for all programs)
  - I could never get time to spend with my pets
  
  Other than that, I'd say that this expansion pack was a GREAT idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperwolf_SN
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  In University and business, you can see alot of changes in the sims 2, making it a new game !
 
  but the problem here, pets is nothing with out another expansion pack's.
  
  here you can buy dogs and cats, and play with them, training them, and pay little mony for them 
 ! (for eating, training, and to buy special furniture for them)
  
  You will not be able to move your pets as you want, but you can see if they are hunger, sleepy 
 ... etc. There are a little new furniture for pets.
  
  you can take your pets out, and play with, learn them a new skills. The greatest thing here, you 
 can let your pets have a job! and you must learn them alot if you want them to work well, and dont 
 worry if you dont have enough time, you can pay to the pets trainer, and also some times you can 
 find some pets that already have alot of skills but you will pay more to buy!
  you can also sell your sims if you dont like them!
  
  another new thing in the game is skunk, 
 please dont play with it! and try to keep your pets inside your house if it come!
  
  I think you will like it , if you like pets. and you will have a fun time with this expansion, 
 you will enjoy specially If you let your pets job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The Sim 2: Pets is another expansion for the popular The Sims 2 game. Obviously, this expansion 
 introduces pets to the mix, so your Sims can finally have a furry friend to hang around with. This 
 is a great idea... however that is all they added.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  The graphics have not been improved compared to every other The Sims 2 expansions. However, the 
 newly added pets look amazing. They are greatly detailed. The fur is nice and you can even see 
 their tongues and teeth. Besides the pets, everything else has stayed the same.
  
  10/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  The gameplay has not changed at all. You still control your Sim and run 
 their lives however you want. However, unlike in the old pet expansion for the original The Sims, 
 you were able to control your pet. Now, your pet can do whatever he or she pleases and it's up 
 to you to train them. You could train them to be the nicest dog in town, or be the messiest, meanist 
 dog in the city. Pets, now, also age, just like Sims! The go from puppy, adult to elder. They can 
 even breed with one another so your pets can live from generation to generation!
  
  7/10
  
  --Music --
  
  More catchy tunes have been added to the game! Wether you're loading to get 
 to your family, looking around the neighborhood or listening to the Sim radio, it's always nice 
 to have the volume on!
  
  9/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Unlike the console versions, "The Sims 2" PC games allows you to do whatever you want. Basically 
 anything you can imagine is here and newly added werewolves is one more thing! If you are good 
 friends with a particular wolf, there is a good chance that it will nibble your hand and your Sim 
 will become a werewolf. Every night you will transform back into a werewolf, unless you cure it 
 with a potion. Being a werewolf adds small features, that don't do much. One is being able to summon 
 wolves to your lot. Ummm, okay, the point is? Another is attacking other people to become werewolves, 
 that is pretty cool. Besides that, the other stuff that happens is you howl often, your energy 
 goes up and your hunger goes down. Werewolves is a cool idea, but gets boring.
  
  8/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  The Sims 2: Pets is a great expansion and any owner of The Sims 2 should 
 definitely check it out. Pets are a great addition however 30 bucks for just adding pets seems 
 pretty steep.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the Worst of the Sims 2 Expansion Packs Yet!!! Although you get to have pets 
 with jobs, you don't have very much say over what they do. They reach the top of thier job career 
 too quickly. They constantly do the same things over and over. Although you can train you pet to 
 do certain things (And this can take forever) and give them a little treat for good or bad behavior, 
 there is little much here for the player to look forward to . Maybe the game would have has it 
 better if they added pet competitions with Rewards to show off or somthing. This is not a very 
 good expansion pack. Infact I think it was rushed to do the great demand for it. But when there 
 is such a demand for the product it would be better to make it slow coming with great work. Creativity 
 and Inginuity are lost in this game. There is much to be desired, and you just don't get that with 
 the Sims 2 Pets Expansion Pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuxCayes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Pets is a version of (okay, the awesome) The Sims 2, except you can add pets to your 
 sims. Everything else is the same. Like sims, you can breed pets and get litters of puppies/kittens. 
 Then (also like sims) , they grow up and the life cycle goes on and on. The thing is, you can't 
 make pets marry. And you don't control they're actions, unlike sim people. Like real pets, though, 
 you can teach them tricks, take them for walks, and many other things. Your sims and pets relationship 
 grows, like sim people. This game is just as nice as the original The Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintha2002
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 Pets may just be the most well-animated of the expansion packs in the Sims 2 series of games. 
 The depth of quality in the animation of the dogs and cats is just astounding (they're so lifelike, 
 even more than Sims, which tend to act robotic) . And the expansion pack may appear tasteless and 
 bland at first, but it is actually quite interesting. After I got bored with a Family i was playing 
 with, I got them two cats, which became family pets, breeding generation to generation (of course 
 with other unrelated cats) and making my Legacy family all the more interesting. Also, time management, 
 among family members, friends and pets makes Sims 2 Pets deeper than its superficial exterior. 
 Some complain that Sims 2 Pets offers no new neighborhood but in lieu of that provides Sims 2 players 
 with a refreshing addition (the Zombies of University, the Vampires of Nightlife do get tiring 
 after a while) .
  
  I must say that the items that come along with the pack are delightful. They include a number of 
 pet beds, and a new style of furniture, retro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This expansion for the Sims 2 game adds pets for your people to play with and enjoy.
  
  Gameplay 8- Since all this pack does is add extra stuff to the basic game, the great gameplay of 
 the game as a whole remains virtually unchanged.
  Graphics 7- Good graphics, little bit aged look to them, and it causes more computer lag than it 
 should.
  sound 7- Aside from the very annoying song that plays during the Sim creation process the music 
 and sounds fit in well.
  Value 7- There is always a reason to play Sims it seems. this is why Sims 2 and all its expansions 
 remain as one of the most popular PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-San
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 has been a great game. University added a new age group, Nightlife added dating, and Open 
 For Business added owning your own business. Pets, the 4th Expansion, adds a new life to your Simulation, 
 Animals. You've been able to have fish, but that's the closest thing to pets you've gotten. Well, 
 prepare a stick for fetch, and a couple of cat-scratching poles.
  
  Well, the obvious thing you can get with this Expansion is, well, Pets. From Hyper-active Chihuahuas 
 to Hypo-active Tabbies. In my humble opinion, while these pets can give you a life-long buddy, 
 they also take up space, and money. You can buy them a multitude of luxuries, from doggy-mansions 
 to cat towers. Granted, some of the luxuries are required, and some can be quite funny. IF you 
 get a cat, you'll need a scratch pole, but you'll love the catnip mice. The dogs will require a 
 chew-bone, and if it's an indoor doggy you'll want, get a doggy-bed, as well.
  
  Along with at-home pets, you can also find strays. You can easily adopt pets, too, just call a 
 pet adoption agency on your phone. And that's not including the skunks. Don't anger them or prepare 
 for a sudden drop in hygiene. You also can find wolves around your neighborhood. Any of these pets 
 can get onto your lot if you don't have a fence. And if you they do get on they can start digging 
 up that dirt that holds your lot together. You can always just chase off a pet, but they'll be 
 back again, and again, unless you spend a couple 100 or so simoleons on fencing up taht empty lot 
 of yours.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love pets, they just take a lot of money and space, and then you've got the 
 wolves. Watch out for yellow-glowing eyes in wolves, and if you see one, don't get too close, and 
 don't get to friendly, or prepare for a Werewolf! Werewolves go from human to their true form at 
 night. When as a werewolf you can attack another person, causing them to become uglier werewolves. 
 Werewolves have all of the same needs as humans, they just look different at night 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  I was thinking last year while I was on holiday that there should be a Sims 2 Pets and when I got 
 back, I got an e-mail annoucing that theres a gonna be a Sims 2 Pets and I thinking '... yes, oh 
 yes woohoo!'
  
  Pets is really fun because you can make your own species like a doberman-poodle mix just by mixing 
 up the fur designs and colours. I also like that the pets can interact with toddlers, like the 
 toddlers can hug them and the dog can lick the toddler which is pretty cute.
  
  Whats annoying about the game is that the pets can make a total mess of the house so you have to 
 train which can take ages and it drove me crazy.
  I still love though ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The sims pets changes the game play a lot. Now it just makes the game a lot more realistic and 
 more options for the players. You can now adopt pets. Which are mouses, cats, dogs, and fish. They 
 aren't ranged that much though. But the most or whether main part is the dogs. you get to walk 
 them and feed them and you have to keep up with them. Its actually really good if you cant handle 
 more than 3 players. So than you can adopt the pet. After a while you get to play the animal but 
 not when they are newborns. But after you can control them. You can bite people, play with people, 
 and do a whole bunch of stuff thats cool. You can get cool decorative stuff for your dogs like 
 cages and all that stuff. Its really cool if you want something control thats not to hard like 
 a human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musixdude
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Ive been a Sims fan for a long time. EA has done alot with the series, but this title has many 
 many similarites to the original pets on the Sims. I find myself trying to control more things 
 than I anticipate. While its kinda fun to train a pet its also very time consuming. I found myself 
 almost totally neglecting my pet so that i make a living and keep my sim healthy if you will. I 
 think EA needs to quit going to the well with the same add-ons and get creative. The sound is just 
 ok, the graphics are only as nice as your Sims 2 setup. Its a add-on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irunongames
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I'm a realy big sims fan. But this could have been better. First i got the one for psp hated it. 
 Then traded it for this. But this was a little better but not that much better. Also more types 
 of pets could have been added. Also I find the sim/pet relationships very confusing. Also when 
 you want to breed a pet and you ask the pet to breed with a certian pet it most of the time bites 
 you. Also dogs fight and do stupid things. Most of the time it's over a doorbel ringing. Also mabey 
 they should have added alergeys to pets, cusions, food ecx.. so I say only buy this game if your 
 a real pet lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  The Good: Good selection of cat/dog breeds. Virtually limitless customization options for cats/dogs. 
 Satisfying selection of new objects.
  
  The Bad: No other pets apart from cats/dogs/birds/womrats. Essentially no changes to core gameplay.
 
  
  It's finally here. The Sims 2: Pets finally gives The Sims 2 owners the chance to own their own 
 pets, play with them, train them, find them jobs and spoil them with toys, treats and furniture. 
 Apart from that, this expansion pack doesn't really add much to the core gameplay, and after installing 
 the game, the Pets feel so well integrated into the core game, that it doesn't really feel like 
 an expansion pack at all, which is both a good and a bad thing.
  
  The good thing about the pets themselves is that they won't necessarily affect the dynamics of 
 your Sim families at all, unless you have 6 dogs that need constant bathing. The pets look great, 
 they're VERY well animated, and they're extremely customizable in create-a-sim mode.
  
  There are a myriad of cat/dog breeds available, and you're free to create your own.
  
  I was 
 satisfied with the number of new objects available, which included an atomic themed line of furniture, 
 and an atomic junior line for the kids, giving your Sims' homes/community lots that futuristic, 
 sci-fi feel. Owners of the preceeding expansion pack The Sims 2: Open For Business can also run 
 their own pet stores.
  
  Pets don't require much effort in order to train, as they will behave according to which behaviours 
 you scold them and praise them for. For instance, if your pet sleeps on your bed, or pees on the 
 floor, you may scold them in order to correct their behaviour, or you may praise them, thus encouraging 
 them to act in that manner. So if you want your pets to run amok, destroying your furniture and 
 scaring your neighbours, you're free to do that at your discretion.
  
  Apart from the cats/dogs, the only other pets on offer are birds and guinea pig-like creatures 
 called Womrats, and although they can't be customized or interacted with to the same degree as 
 cats/dogs, they are a nice addition and are nicely animated, although I was a little letdown as 
 The Sims: Unleashed had also offered turtles, iguanas, lovebirds, and goldfish.
  
  A nice bonus is that a translated version of Pussycat Dolls' infectious hit Don't Cha, has been 
 translated into the Sims' native language, Simlish, and can be heard in the game as well as a few 
 other lesser known licensed tunes.
  
  This expansion doesn't add a lot to the game, although it would make a nice combo with Nightlife 
 if you don't own any other of the 5 expansion packs currently available (minus the 3 stuff packs) .
 
  
  All in all, if you want the option having cats/dog/birds/womrats in your game, this expansion is 
 a great buy, however if you dislike Pets, and feel that they are a feature you could do without, 
 you're really not missing much. Give Seasons a try instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm one of the biggest Sims 2 fans you'll be able to find, but come ON! You call this an expansion 
 pack?!?! Stuff packs have more than this!
  
  Onto the features.... And such... Starting with Gameplay.
  Three words can sum it up. Bland. 
 Shallow. Done. The Sims 2 alone is great, and all the previous expansion packs (Except for University) 
 have been masterpieces, but Pets is just a quickie released to try and please the total obsessed 
 fanboys. There are almost no interactions ot be done with pets, they can sometimes be moronic (With 
 mine sometimes even not remembering to EAT, if you can so believe...) , and to top it off, no new 
 neighbourhoods, and no new sim outfits. I mean, let's be honest, they could've done so much better. 
 Werewolves were a nice touch, though, I'll admit... It's a hard pinnacle to reach, but it's fun 
 once you've gotten there. Pet customisation is pretty deep, too.
  
  Graphics are the same as in the original Sims 2. Obviously. This IS an expansion, af ter all...
 
  
  Sound isn't as bad... Some of the songs they translated into Simlish are ok... I'll admit, the 
 Pussycat Dolls aren't all bad, and it was mildly amusing to hear Don't Cha in Simlish... But the 
 Aly and AJ in it is horrible... They're a little too... Disney for me.
  
  Overall, I'd say... Cat or Dog-crazed sim fans could get it. Otherwise, steer clear. I wasted $45 
 AU on this, and almost ruined my interest in the Sims... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Pets new family members, except for hamsters and birds that are just objects that your sim will 
 feed, play with and in the case of birds teach them to talk then talk to them as way to build up 
 charisma. The whole attention goes to dogs and cats which have lots of breeds to choose from, many 
 customization options and also age, grow up and die.
  Cats and dogs also have personality, and even zodiac signs. They make friends and even enemies, 
 fight, play with other pets or Sims and even have their own puppies/kitten which inherit characteristics 
 from both the father and the mother.
  You may also get your pets a job if you are in need of some extra money, and they can advance in 
 their careers if you teach the the required commands.
  The game could have introduced more pets, but at least it has many ways of having fun with the 
 basic ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DellFreak777
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This is just an intro to Seasons only due to the teaser inside the package. It sucks. The graphics 
 are horrific. I expected alot more items than a dog bowl and a stupid cat condo that the damn cat 
 dosen't even use. This is a horrible expansion pack, I uninstallled it and returned to the store. 
 Yes Maxis you can bet I did that. This ep nearly destroyed what the Sims2 Empire struggled so hard 
 to build. This ep makes me think where did all your imagination go. If you expect me to buy this 
 crap that its the best ep yet you not lost a sale but a hard core Simmer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I found this expansion very dissapointing. I was hoping for a lot of really cool animals to keep 
 as pets, but all you can have are dogs and cats. You can get a bird or a hamster, but they're just 
 objects in the lot rather than actual characters. I was hoping to have things like lizards, turtles, 
 snakes (i like reptiles) , tarantulas, an ant farm (would have been a funny pet for kid sims) , and 
 birds other than just parrots. But no. You have dogs, cats, a parrot, or a hamster. And there's 
 an extra fish tank (but no cheap fish bowl ) . So if you love dogs and cats and love the Sims, this 
 is for you. If you don't like dogs and cats, or you love other animals besides dogs and cats, then 
 you might want to just skip this one or wait for the next expansion, install that, then borrow 
 Pets from a friend and install it so that you can run it with the more recent expansion. Mwahahahaha. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Pets is my favorite PC game right now I love how you can have pets in this game Dogs, 
 Cats, Birds, and Hampsters.
  
  I like how you can custom make a dog or a cat. I had to make my dog Star, and he's a Dachshund.
 
  
  This is a good game for kids who can't have pets or grown-ups wanting to have there favorite pet 
 brought back to life, I also have made my dead doge Coco, a Sheltie.
  
  This game has it all, and much more.
  
  I love this game and if your a pet lover then you should 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 remains a popular and difficult-to-describe strategy game that lets you control the 
 lives of little computer people in the house you build for them, as they love, grow old, have families, 
 chase their dreams, and occasionally use the potty. The series is known for offering zany humor, 
 colorful graphics, a gibberish language that its sim characters speak (known as simlish ) , cheerful 
 music, and numerous retail expansion packs. And the most recent expansion, The Sims 2: Pets, doesn't 
 break with tradition, so to speak. It adds domestic dogs, cats, birds, and rodents to The Sims 
 2, along with plenty of new items. If you weren't already a fan of the series, it seems doubtful 
 that Pets will change your mind, but the expansion still adds plenty of content that will definitely 
 be of interest to experienced players looking to add more to their Sims 2 experience in any way 
 they can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The Sims is an awsome game on its own and the expations are cool, more on pets and buisnesses. 
 But the pets is by far the best. Anyway i would just like to say that this is a really cool game 
 and a fun game too. You can do all the stuff with pets like feed them and clean them and walk them 
 etc, which may sound cool (probably not) but it gets really boring after a while. It often becomes 
 a chore for you to do, not just fun. The pets job thing is cool so you sims dont have to work sometimes, 
 unless you are tring to get rich. The graphics look as good a always and the would is good too. 
 But there isent even really good thing to do after you play for about 3 - 7 hours, but it is worth 
 the money all the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  There is a big problem i have noticed with Maxis these days. University was cool, Nightlife was 
 to a disappointment, OFB was fresh and more than Amazing, the stuff packs we avarage, but Maxis 
 have released The sims 2 pets as a all console game, which means that this PC expansion pack isn; t 
 going to be as good, and you can see that. You get the pets, feed them, train them. Apart from 
 that, you're back to normal sim day to day life. No pet shows (Like Sims Unleashed) and now real 
 pet feeling. Iff it was a PC only, it would be a lot better becuase they don't have to worry about 
 the console version of the game. But if you were to get this expansion pack, turn away, oh that 
 goes for Festive Sims Stuff, thats just as rubbish. Wait for Seasons because this is a waste of 
 &pound;20. No Joke. You'll see. Veterans of the sims will notice it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets isn't that great. Pets always have a good place in our Sims hearts but The Sims 
 2 Pets added Pets... and thats just about it. Some of the objects that came with Pets were ok, but 
 the 1960's styles is so, 1960's and just seems outdated and not needed. The music is something 
 that is good though about the game. With some real life bands adding their songs to the game it 
 makes turing on the radio even more fun. While most packs add something new for every type of Sim 
 players... Pets doesn't come close. So if you love animals it's a good pack... but if not... look 
 the other wa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2's 4th expansion is amazing. It meets all of the requirements of of an excellent.
  First if all, the stories changed to fit the games criteria like most of the children want the 
 pets. You can either adopt, make or buy the pets with many different choices.
  Your sims have lifetime wants. If you do achieve one, your sim will be in Platinum all the time.
 
  The game also has some problems like you can't cotrol the pets. You can't even cancel their actions. 
 But thats why you train them to prevent problems.
  In the end the game isn't so bad, its GREAT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack is better than the original pet pack for the original Sims. In Unleashed you 
 had a limited amount of tricks that took forever to master, this game not so much. Also Unleashed 
 had them stay puppies forever while this game has a complete life cycle. The drawbacks are that 
 in both games the pets still have their own autonomy which still limits you to only being able 
 to see where they're going and what they're doing. You can now cancel pet actions though. There 
 is also more of a diversity when creating pets in this game than in the last game, but this game 
 is still missing some of the things that made TS Unleashed good: there aren't any pet shows and 
 you have to call the trainer to come to your house at a bit of a steeper price. Overall, this game 
 still is better than Unleashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afreak3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack adds so much to the game! I definately suggest buying it! I love the pet editor! 
 For dogs, you can have small dogs or large dogs, and you can change the colour of fur, breed, and 
 it's personality. I made this really big ugly poodle with red eyes, so it looks evil, and on it's 
 personality page, i made it a doofus, lazy, messy, and mean. For cats, you can do the same thing, 
 except you can't change the size of cat. I luv it. Get it!
  
  -Afreak3
  
  gjfhjgvhjgvhjvhggvhgvjhbvjgb hjgvmjnhvjhmg,  
 joojojo jkj hkijnk hbjkh kujhkj jkhkj jhkjn jkhj hghj hygjhgj juhhkjh jkhjk jkhkj hjkjhk jhkjhk 
 jlkhjkl jkhkj jhkj kljhkh hkhkj jkhkjh jhkjh jkhkjh jhkjh jkhkj jhkjhk ljhkj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  What I have to say about sims 2 pets is that you should get it! It is one of the great extion packs 
 for the sims 2. The sims 2 pets lets you have new bussiness like pet wash and a adopt center and 
 a pet show. It also let's you have furniture like pet house and new aspiration awards like the 
 kibbel of life, and it has paintings of pets wich are cute as your pets. You also get it because 
 you can go on thesims2. com so you can download lots, pets. objects, and even sims! All in all you 
 should get sims 2 pets for all these reasons and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DNate04
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I have all the expansions (not the stuff packs, but actual gameplay changing expansions) and this 
 one has to be the most boring of all the others. I like the idea of having pest with the family, 
 but the controls for the pets are terrible and if you are a dog fan you will find yourself washing 
 the dog every other day even if it is a clean freak. One good aspect of Pets is that you do have 
 the option of getting the pet a job, which gets them outta your hair for a while and brings more 
 steady income for the family (if you choose to play w/o cheats or counterfeiting) which can make 
 that house on the hill a little closer in grasp. If its on sale for ten bucks theni would say give 
 it a try, otherwise I suggest open for business if you don't already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jessicurr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2: Pets is quite fun but just not the best in its series. It still has that annoying gibberish, 
 at least the animals don't speak gibberish. There are some difficult tasks like training your pet 
 that can take hours (on the sims time) of your day. It's a change but not the best change ever. 
 It's fun to try it out, and if you're a real sims fan, you'll enjoy it, but if you get impatient 
 easily, you won't. I think it's pretty cool to play with pets and all, but it interrupts your sims 
 life-style, like you make your pets happy playing with them, feeding them and teaching them tricks, 
 but your sim will be exhausted and hungry. You may want to rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam0926
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 pets is the latest expansion pack for the Sims 2 that every one has been expecting because 
 of the Sims Unleashed. The Sims 2 pets allows your Sim family's to adopt or make there own pets, 
 The main two pets to chose from are a cat or a dog to add one to a already existing family you 
 will have to go to the community pet store and buy one, Or you can create one while you are creating 
 a family. You can also get smaller pets like a Hamster, Bird or and fish but you will need a cage 
 or tank for them to live in witch you can buy in buy objects. You will need to care for you pets 
 by giving them love, teaching them commands, feeding them, keeping them clean and providing them 
 with a bed. If you don't look after you pets the police will come and take them away to be put 
 up for adoption but if you don't care for you hamster for example forgetting to feed it or not 
 cleaning its cage clean you will find its died. You don't get many new objects with The Sims 2 
 Pets apart from objects for the pets and a few new building tools. Overall The Sims 2 Pets is a 
 good expansion pack with lots of new features to keep you interested until the next one comes out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion. Although I do think that there was way to much hype for to little stuff.
 
  
  The bad thing is that you do not really have all that much choice in the amount of Pets Goodies 
 you can buy. I would have liked to see more stuff for pets.
  
  But on the flip side, this is a really fun expansion. The option to be able to create your own 
 pet makes the veriety of pets you can create endless. From spots, stripes and curls to those cute 
 collars, most of the fun is creating the pet.
  
  You need to also teach you pet all kinds of things. Not to chew the funtiture, not to eat human 
 food, not to lie on the bed or sofa, not to pee in the house and all those type of house breaking 
 things. Then you can also teach your pet new tricks like stay, talk and play dead. There are a 
 few more, but I can't remember them.
  
  The feel is different as well when you have cats or dogs. Although they pretty much learn the same 
 skills and are able to get the same jobs, something does feel different. I think it is the way 
 you interact with them differently.
  
  I must admit that the animals are really life like which freaks me out a bit. It's really good. 
 You can also buy a hamster or some birds if you want. But I prefer not to. :) Good game. Will keep 
 you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donprwells
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this EP with high hopes; most of the Sims 2 EPs have been good if not great. I has 
 sorely disappointed in the result. Where with other expansions there are a lot of new places and 
 activities and 'things' for your Sim. In University you gain a new age, a college lifestyle and 
 a jump start on a career. In Nightlife, you got cars, need I say more? In Open for Business, you 
 got to start your own business and it changed a lot of the game play. In this EP, however, you 
 gain mere annoyances. The pets you own can be alright and okay to deal with, however, all the strays 
 that seem to roam your neighborhood and make a mess of your yard. Sure you can train them for their 
 own jobs, but what fun is that? I dont have much more to say except get the new EP out soon, having 
 seasons should be a new experience. Im sure Sims everywhere will celebrate the 4 seasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colton_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 is one of the most addictive games I have ever played and possibly ever will, but Pets 
 adds very little to the experience, unlike some of its predecessors in the game's line of expansion 
 packs. While it honestly elicited a few smiles from me, it didn't give me the usual surge of addiction 
 that I received from, say, Nightlife.
  
  The strong point in the game is the graphics. While they are not the best, the animations are adorable 
 and realistic. Watching my cats roll about, hop primly from their litterboxes and cuddle affectionately 
 with their owners is a treat for the eyes, and in a lesser degree to the ears. The animal sounds 
 are good, though I expected cats to be more vocal. This is where GameSpot's review is truly accurate. 
 I doubt that this expansion pack would add value to anyone but the hardcore fans like myself. Actually, 
 it feels so shallow in its addition of new things I would have expected it to be part of the core 
 game. Additionally, it's so cute to watch a kitten whimper at not being able to climb a staircase.
 
  
  I anticipated a great deal of flexibility in the creation department, but was sort of let down. 
 While it seems to offer many customizable features it falls flat compared to Create-A-Sim. One 
 can, for example, only adjust the size of the eyes to a near non-difference. In order to create 
 a truly diverse pet, one has to fiddle with the templates, which is annoying. On the other hand, 
 the creation of a pet's coat is rather good, despite there being a limited amount of markings the 
 player can tack on. It's also nice to able to save breeds. A Sim can even phone the Pet Registry 
 to register a breed, say after having bred their pets. The personality traits are fun, allowing 
 one to make their pet as stupid, smart, messy or clean as one wants. It's great that you can teach 
 your pet to be as well-behaved or poorly-behaved as you want. I taught one cat not to jump on furniture, 
 yet contradicted myself in teaching her to sleep on her owner's bed. In that way, you really can 
 make a unique pet.
  
  Some of the tricks feel a bit too easy to achieve. For example, I was able to teach a cat to use 
 the toilet in a mere afternoon's toil. This also makes advancing in a pet's career a simple matter. 
 It is, in other words, easy to advance through a pet's career.
  
  If you love The Sims 2 and are willing to pay for a minimally exciting addition, I would recommend 
 it, but if you don't have the other expansions, this is not a good choice. I would opt for Open 
 for Business, which includes all of the features of running a business, as well as features from 
 Nightlife (such as cars) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good if you want to add pets to your sims, you will have lots of fun, I like 
 the way this pets behave and how they look. The addition of a new friend is guaranteed to enrich 
 the daily lives of your Sims! Not only will players have the opportunity to choose from a variety 
 of existing breeds, and hot designer mixes, but they'll also be able to personally design their 
 new friend with the Create-a-Pet feature. The ability to customise gives fans the opportunity to 
 create their ideal pet by choosing their body shape, unique markings, even their pet's personalities! 
 With so many different animals to choose from, there's no telling what unpredictable experiences 
 could occur!
  
  Players will also be able to teach their pet new tricks, take them for a romp in the park, outfit 
 them with new pet accessories and even give them a job! As in real life, your Sims' pet will require 
 care and training. A neglected cat with an urge to scratch might claw up your new couch if you 
 aren't careful, and leaving your dog unattended near a freshly planted flower bed probably isn't 
 wise!
  
  You have different features in the console games, but for the PC got the unique stuff like Friends 
 for a Lifetime: Your Sims' pets are members of the family and share all of life's great moments 
 whether it's kids training puppies, teens playing fetch in the park, adults watching TV with their 
 cats, or elders enjoying a sunny day in the park with their long-time companion!
  Create a designer breed: Your Sims pets have genetics, allowing you to create the latest designer 
 pet, including popular hybrid breeds like the Labradoodle, Puggle and Schnoodle! Like what you've 
 created? Register them to appear in Create-A-Pet as a unique pedigree!
  Bring Home the Bacon: Sims aren't the only ones with careers anymore! Skilled pets can earn a living 
 from three career tracks Show Business, Security, and Service and work their way up through five 
 job levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theartistgamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I'm a big sims fanatic, and I played the Sims Pets before there was Sims 2. While the game is good, 
 it could be better.
  
  Dogs and Cats roam and you have the ability to take care of them. Feel them, play with them, buy 
 them big expensive beds, it's pretty self explanitory. There's also a Bird and a Hamster or Wombat... 
 or something... you can get, but these pets have little to no benifit. You can play with them and 
 the bird can get you charisma points, but that's it.
  
  I think they could have worked with this game a little more. Maybe added some more animals.
  
 
  I had mixed reactions on the dogs and cats controlling themselves. I think that's for you to decide. 
 At some points it makes it easier because it isn't just another person to control, but then it 
 makes it more annoying when you can't get them to do something you want.
  
  I was definately amazed and thought it was awesome how you can make you cats and dogs from breeds 
 and do all your own spotting.
  
  I think it's worth buying, but depending on what you think you might not want to get it. It made 
 the game a little more interesting, but you could do that with any expansion pack. It was my first 
 expansion pack for the sims 2, but it wont be my last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Let me start with this: when I heard that the next Sims 2 expansion was going to be about Pets, 
 I was less than thrilled. I got really excited about the University and Open For Business packs, 
 but the features in Pets didn't seem broad enough to make it a great pack.
  
  I will go with the good stuff first - the pets are fantastically executed with great animations 
 and interactions with the sims. A lot of time was spent on allowing players to customize the looks 
 of their pets, which is good, but must have come at the expense of other features. The pets are 
 really worth buying the pack for, but if you're not enthralled by the idea of your sims having 
 animals you might want to give this one a miss.
  
  I say this because apart from pets, the pack is really limited in terms of new objects, clothing, 
 walls and floors. Perhaps EA just wants players to buy the stuff packs, but there are really very 
 few new objects apart from some pet objects and a little new furniture. Your sims still have the 
 same old fridges and bathroom objects they've always had. There are no new themes like the Greek 
 in University or retro from NightLife as far as I could tell.
  
  Some of the new building options are handy - diagonal roofs being the standout here. It's hard 
 to get too excited about this becuase they really should have been included with the base game. 
 The new 'sledgehammer' tool is handy but again it's surprising it's taken them four expansions 
 and two stuff packs to add it.
  
  Overall the pets are excellent, but only buy this game if they excite you because otherwise you're 
 likely to be disappointed. If it's new objects you're after, save a little money and buy the Glamour 
 Stuff Pack. On the other hand, if you're a completist like me you'll probably still be pretty happy 
 with it, like all of the Sims 2 expansions the gameplay does flesh out the more you play it - not 
 all of the new stuff is evident at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikayla_74
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game from the minute i added it on. I like the fact that pets now have genetics 
 too and that you can breed them! I think the little pets look adorable and how you can teach them 
 behaviours is good too.
  I am not an animal lover, but i still am really enjoying this game
  There are a range of cool 
 houses the pets can sleep in, bowls and toys for the pets to play with. Also I like how you can 
 create a really original dog, and save the breed incase you want to use it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Finally The Sims 2 series that features pets! Now all animal lovers will rejoice for this long 
 awaited expansion pack. In this expansion cats and dogs can be created from scratch, like Sims 
 do, or you can just adopt them if you are overwhelmed by the options offered.
  
  Definately felines and canines are the focus of the game. There is not way you can control them, 
 the only thing Sims can do is to encourage or discourage cetain actions. Besides that, Sims can 
 command them to do tricksif they are properly trained. I think it is a drawback for the control 
 freaks. Beware of the untrained pets, as they can go crazy without Sims telling them what is appropriate 
 behaviour.
  
  These pets can bring in the cash too! Interesting to note that pets can be hired for a career and 
 contribute some income to the family. Sounds ridiculous, but that is what Sim games are -- they 
 never fully resemble reality even though its life simulation .
  
  Moreover, two more types of pets are featured here, which is the parrot and the womrat (guinea-pig 
 looking hamster, i am not sure myself) . Well since they were confined in a cage, guess it is nothing 
 much to do to them other than feed them and occasionally take them out and play. One exception 
 is parrot can be taught to talk and increase charisma skill. But seems to me they focused too much 
 of the furry creatures, they seem to ignore the humanly Sims expansions. No clothes, very few furnitures, 
 some nice music (kinda like simplish version of pussycat dolls though :P) and that's it.
  
  All in all it is a good expansion not to be missed, especially pet lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets is a good game. The idea of putting a pet in a Sim's life is really incredible 
 and the things dogs can have is also fantastic, for an example my dog in this game gets very spoiled 
 by me and I like it that. I think people would agree with me that The Sims 2 Pets would be even 
 better if we were able to control our pets, probably people out there are thinking that there is 
 a cheat that does that but I would say not all people like cheating and that if they put a patch 
 for this it would be fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The Sims phenomenon seems to know no limits. After gracing us with three interesting expansions 
 for The Sims 2, EA and Maxis take the virtual life a step further with sim pets.
  
  As you enter the Create-A-Sim screen, you will notice two additional options for the newest members 
 of the family: create a dog and create a cat. Some of the dog breeds you will find include Collie, 
 Boxer, Beagle, Dalmatian, German Shepherd, Chow Chow and many more small and large breeds. Persian, 
 British Shorthair, Norwegian Forest and Siamese are some of the cats you can pick from.
  
  After you have selected your breed, you can customize your pet's appearance. Fur can be long and 
 wavy, curly or short and you can combine several different layers of different colors for any part 
 of the body. You can end up with some really weird fur patterns if you try. Then there are body 
 and face modifiers, and you can adjust everything from nose to ears, stomach, neck, tail and eyes 
 (including eye colors) . You can create your own unique breed by altering a pet's features, and 
 you can cross-breed them in game as well.
  
  You can give your pet a collar, and the last customization process takes you to the personality 
 modifiers. Here, you can pick how your pet will behave. Is it a genius or a complete doofus? Friendly 
 or aggressive? A pig or a picky eater? Lazy or hyper? There is a happy medium for each of these 
 personality traits, and it's funny to see how pets react to things according to their personality.
 
  
  The first thing I did was create virtual representations of my two cats, personality and all. They 
 turned out exactly as the real ones, from playing with every toy available to scratching the sofas, 
 pouncing for no apparent reason or sitting on the kitchen counter just admiring what goes on. I 
 could spend hours just watching their behavior and how my virtual self and my virtual husband interact 
 with them. The hugging, the petting, the finger playing, the feathers on a stick, it's something 
 I'm very familiar with and it's just delightful to see it happening in game as it does in real 
 life.
  
  A family with dogs was the bane of my existence though. Every time I tried to create a dog, the 
 game would crash during the customization process. Finally, I gave up and just randomized everything 
 so I could play. It's funny that dogs at first didn't seem that much interesting as cats. They 
 don't have nearly as many objects to play and interact with. Dogs have their doghouses, beds, food 
 bowls and bones to chew on. Cats have scratching posts, litter boxes, a catnip mouse, a toy bird 
 on a spring and a kitty condo/tree for them to climb and nap on. But after seeing animals interact 
 with each other, neighbors coming over with their pets, and sims interacting with their own and 
 other pets, there is a lot more to it than it initially seems.
  
  It's in the interaction that the game really shines. Hug your pets, give them a treat, play fetch, 
 scold them for destroying the furniture, hire a trainer or teach them tricks yourself, the animations 
 are extremely well done and the simmish language is funnier than ever as your sims talk to the 
 animals. They go to the point of rolling on the floor to teach their dogs or cats how to roll over, 
 it's hilarious!
  
  The weakest point of this expansion (no, it's not the even longer loading times) is the amount 
 of new objects, there aren't as many as I would expect. Most of the new furniture and build items 
 have a modern, slightly futuristic design. I particularly like the new bedroom set, rugs, flowers 
 and paintings, not to mention the numerous walls and floors and a diagonal roof option. However, 
 I expected landscaping items to create gorgeous backyards and exquisite parks to walk my dogs in, 
 as well as more pet toys (balls, squeaky toys and so on) .
  
  The Sims 2 Pets is like having a little bit of Unleashed in full 3D. You can create pet stores 
 and pet adoption centers in community lots, you can have cats and dogs but also small pets such 
 as birds and hamsters. Although there are no pet competitions and judges to impress, now you can 
 go as far as trying to find a job for your pet in three career paths. And to add to the aliens 
 and vampires that make your neighborhoods so exciting, you will now have to watch out for werewolves.
 
  
  Taking care of pets isn't exactly a walk in the park, but a sim's life won't be complete without 
 one. Those unique tender moments of virtual puppy or kitty love are totally worth getting the expansion 
 for.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=ts2pets 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Storm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  The Sims (2) games have been a huge hit for EA Games and really bring gaming back to the PC. Since 
 this is the current Sims game out on the market I'm going to start with Pets and sum up my entire 
 Sims game experience.
  It may seem Sims 2 is just a rehash of the original... well duh yeah it is, but this time it comes 
 back at you with more rendered detail, a better camera, more control over what you do and just 
 way more in depth and fun. Some the the major changes to The Sims is the create-a-sim mode which 
 allows you to literally create your sim or pet. Big eyes, ears, nose, chin, its all yours to warp 
 twist and shape into whatever beauty or beast you want. Also, instead of clothes being designed 
 for just certain skin types this time the clothes can be worn by any sim of the same gender (and 
 body type) . Your Sims can also get fat if they don't exercise which actually affects your sim, 
 everything you do has an impact on who they will become since you can also customize their personalities. 
 Also new to the Sims 2 is the ability to actually own your own car (though limited in styles hey 
 how about some actual licensed products) and owning your very own business (Open For Business) . 
 With Pets your gaming has also been tweaked with a few new tools like a sledge hammer to literally 
 obliterate anything you own or build just by clicking on it, and the new level tool.
  If you are like me and just like to build big expensive homes then you cheat!!! Oh how wonderful 
 the boolprop cheat is and the motherlode cheat, all which can be found right here on GAMESPOT. 
 (shameless plug by an impressed user.) You can even enhance your Sims game with hacks and downloads 
 from the hordes of Sim fan sites. (even naughty adult stuff as well to help make you sims more... eh 
 hem... anatomically correct ;-D ) If you are into that stuff (**looking around suspiciously**) or 
 even if you want recolours or some very ingenious new stuff for your Sims 2 game. These people 
 spend a lot of time making these items, its not easy trust me, I use to do it for the original 
 Sims game and even that took a long time, with the new enhanced game play with Sims 2 its even 
 more difficult and harder to do since you can litterally zoom right up to your sim, just be-careful 
 not to bump them in the head with the camera. (that's a joke, you can't actually do that) . Want 
 to kill you sim off in fun ways, like death by flies, a satelite falling on their head, starve 
 them to death, there are so many ways, then who's that, the Grim Reaper!?! Yes he has come to take 
 your sim away... and depending on how popular or unpopular your sim was you may get a little surprise 
 for the funeral. Just pray he doesn't stay too long... he just might use your washroom??? Yes it 
 can happen. But wait, now you miss you're sim and want them back, well just use the cheat or excell 
 at the paranormal career to get the death phone. Give old Grimmy there a ring to get your loved 
 sim back... just be warned, he does want something in return and it'll cost you... a lot... unless 
 you want a zombie!!!
  As with all Sims games there are glitches (you'd think by now some would be fixed) like not being 
 able to call up family members after you move out of the house. And recently with the Fun Stuff 
 and Glamour Stuff packages the Sims 2 only supports certain video graphics cards so if your game 
 has suddenly had blue flashing walls after installing these stuff packages or Pets you just may 
 need to get a new video card either ATI or Navida compatible.
  If you've never played the PC Sims games give them a try you'll surely become an addict like me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The Sms2 pets expansion now offers little Sims characters to posess pets. A similar expansion pack 
 was realsed for the first Sims; Unleased. The Unleased had huge amount of content and remained 
 popular amongst the Sims community. This expansion pack however steers in a different direction.
 
  
  The expansion still has the same gameplay which has remained solid but you'd think by now, they'd 
 come up with something nwew. and the expansion offers no technical upgrades like the other expansions. 
 But the graphics still look pretty good, but will slow down at times. Along with new pets is also 
 the create-a-pet feature which gives the player the oppertunity to make your perfect pet (or a 
 Lassie) but after exploring it for a few minutes, you be done with it.
  
  The whole pets feature on this one is not all that great. The pets act as almost an entirely new 
 sim making juggling your sims and pets hard. The pets are more of a hinderance rather than an addition. 
 Yeah you can teach pets tricks and what to do and what not to do but that doesn't really mold their 
 personality as the Sims producers said would. Tricks act as skills which you need to teach your 
 pet to advance up the career path. The pet's characteristics offers almost nothing in the gameplay 
 except for your pet growling or being a bit unfreindly if you made him a jerk. Although atleast 
 with cats you can finally create your crazy cat lady you can finally make her crazy hence the aspiration 
 level.
  
  The pets having careers was probably one of the most over-hyped feature and it ends up not really 
 meeting our expectations. You'd expect long careers but instead there are only about 4 different 
 jobs per career path and there are only three different career paths to choose from. Not much variety/ 
 There aren't a whole new batch of items, only having a few new default furniture and a pets catalog 
 and even that doesn't have a large selection. The producers should of just made this a Pets Fun 
 Stuff expansion rather than an entirely new and full expansion what with the lackluster amount 
 of content and reused gameplay elements that will even bore those Sims fans relatively fast. You 
 will most likely be excited for the first 15 minutes, then start regreting why you spent 30 bucks 
 on it. To illustrate an mental image of how horribly understocked with content this expansion is, 
 I'll say this, this expansion pack will not even satify the thirsts of hardcore Sims fans. It may 
 put a small smile on animal officinados although it would eventually subside and the player will 
 be craving for more. For the average gamer who happens to have a copy of Sims 2 and looking to 
 buy an expansion, DO NOT BUY. Sims fans, of course the expansion adds some new content but most 
 of which we seen before (with the exception of the Werewolf, Which I would say is probably the 
 funnest aspect of the expansion -_-) But do not be fooled! This is probably only worth a purchase 
 for collectors.
  
  Overall, for 35 bucks, you get some dogs, some cats, a few items and thats it, I implore all gamers, 
 fans of the series or not, Do not but this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noblead16
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The Sims2: Pets, was possibly the most eagerly awaited of all the expansion packs so far. However, 
 I feel that it didnt live up to my expectations. As a regular on the Sims 2 UK forums it became 
 evident that most users had problems with it both in terms of gameplay and content, in specifics 
 the lack of it.
  
  I say the most eagerly awaited based on the excitement it caused among gamers. A resurrection 
 of the most popular expansion pack of the original Sims, Unleashed, was in high demand. Although 
 after playing it I was rather let down about the lack of content and gameplay additions. Of course 
 the main addition is pets; however I expected more additional content along with the pets. I personally, 
 enjoy building and decorating lots rather than actually playing the game, because the game has 
 now become rather boring. Perhaps the lack of a challenge makes the game tedious. Up until recently 
 I was a Sims 2 addict, now I simply dont play as I have nothing to progress in. I get bored of 
 most families after about 3 plays and move on to something else. There is nothing remarkably interesting 
 about the game anymore. The lack of content besides pets was also a problem. We got diagonal roofs 
 which was a bonus as I hate unsightly roofs when I build a diagonal wall, but not much more than 
 that. However it does have its good points. I was very impressed with the detail of the pets and 
 the extent to which you can customise them. The learning curve is rather short as it is very similar 
 to the Create A Sim feature. Although I complained about additional content, I have to bear in 
 mind that the name of the game is Sims 2: Pets and not Sims 2: Pets and other stuff, they accomplished 
 what they set out to give their consumers. Also I have to keep in mind that they try to release 
 an expansion pack twice a year so they have a limited time in which to make the pack. So the lack 
 of content cant be grumbled at really. Also, us players of the game have a tendency to get so 
 get so excited about it and place our expectations too high therefore, we feel let down when it 
 actually comes to playing the game. Overall, Id say that it wouldnt really be a waist of &pound;20; 
 however I still think that Open for Business is still the best expansion pack so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Man24
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  this expansion pack was just not as good as any of them. Sure the animals are fun and u can do 
 cool things with them, but there weren't any really cool items in the game, or new ones, realy. 
 unlike open for business, this one doesn't have that good of gameplay, not much added things to 
 do, and some of the graphics just plain suck. but it was still worth buying even for the $30 price. 
 in the next expansion pack they better make the graphics better, and make sure they add a lot of 
 new gameplay and different options in playing the the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I've been playing since it was released. You can create a dog or cat and add 
 to a family. Or you can adopt a stray or head to the pet store or pick up the phone and adopt one. 
 You see lots of strays as you play. The cats are not so bad but the dogs will tear up your flower 
 beds. Often day or night you will see a wolf. But they just look like regular dogs with glowing 
 eyes. I was hoping they would look more like a wolf. If you befriend the dog and keep playing with 
 it the option nibble on your fingers will come up and you can be turned into a werewolf. Course 
 you can call up the gypsie women to buy a elixer and become human again. Oh and yes you can be 
 a vampire and a werewolf at the same time. Turning into a werewolf takes a long time so not something 
 easy to get. At the pet store you can not only get a dog or cat you can also get a bird, hamster/gerble 
 type animal, fish. There are lots of things you can buy your pet such as pet houses, food bowls, 
 colars. If your pet does not have a colar then you may lose it. I also like the option of taking 
 the pet for a walk.
  Oh and when you play with your pet and teach them tricks you get big social levels. So now a pet 
 can replace having to talk to people all the time.
  If you get a cat make sure you get a big bay window with nothing in front of it and the cat will 
 climb in the window and look out.
  You can send your pets out for a job they make pretty good money. The better they do the more pet 
 things get unlocked. so now you can stay home and let the pet go out and make the money.
  
  You can teach your animal tricks I always teach come here and stay first that way if there is a 
 bad animal outside I can get them out of harms way. Yes they do fight. They also can make whoohoo 
 and produce very cute puppies this also takes a long time. You can not control the pet so you can 
 not make them get along they do that on there own. So when they get high relationship points with 
 each other you can try for puppies but if they dont you lost a lot of points.
  One bad thing I have ran across is most downloads I have on there for a bathtub will not work for 
 the pets. The option of washing the pet ( only for dogs) will not come up. And of course this game 
 is not all about the pets you have some new options . You now can make octogon houses, there is 
 a hammer option so you can take something away in the build mode and not have to be on that screen 
 to do it. Lots of new houses in the house bin. Cute puppy foot doors and windows. Cute floors and 
 wall paint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engelasche
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Pets is one awesome addition to the Sims 2 expansions , but unlike the others it doesn't 
 feature a new neighbourhood (not that its bad) . And the only new thing that you can do in create 
 pets. Unlike the previous expansion Open for Business where you there where a ton of options of 
 what store you could open and what items you could sell, Pets is bases around... well... pets. And 
 there are only so many things pets can do. Sure you can customise their coats and stuff, but the 
 actions they can do are limited and once you go through all of them it gets a bit boring. Though 
 i must say that EA did a great job on how the pets look. That's my fifty cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is great as far as CAS, or CAP ( Create-a-Sim) . Outside of that, not much is happening 
 besides your pets digging up your flowers.
  
  This game adds pets, new features with the pets and items. That's it. Nothing more than that. That's 
 exactly where this game lacks. It doesn't have enough features to keep the player interested for 
 hours unlike older expansions like Open for Business, or University.
  
  Everything not involving pets is the same. My Sims motives are still as they were, my sims don't 
 age any slower. I only have a few new wants. This game was supposed to be revolutionary. It had 
 been begged to be made by many. As you know, unleashed was the best selling ep for the sims 1. 
 The Sims 2 pets does take steps up from unleashed, but theres no major sums added to the game from 
 unleashed besides the graphics.
  
  The Sims 2 Pets is for true Sims fans only, as people being introduced into the series will find 
 the game difficult and on a hours end, boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kou_seiya_girl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Hello Everyone! Okey i'm a simoholic.... i know i'm not a child anymore, but my husband buy me 
 all games... First off all i was waiting for this game with joy. Finally my husband got it for 
 me and i started playing... IMHO it's not the BEST expansion pack (and i'm an animal lover, i have 
 4 dogs living in my apartment) but it sure brings more fun and joy to our Sims. I think they could 
 have added more brands of dogs and cats (like portuguese water dog for example) and more interactions. 
 I also think that puppies shouldn't be all the same. Another thing is that should be there more 
 dog and cat objects and toys like a ball or another types of rubber toys...
  
  In General i loved very much this expansion pack. I just cannot stop playing :D
  
  Big Hug 
 to you all friends ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets:
  
  A fantastic expansion pack that'll be loved by all Sims 2 fans. The pack gives the user the ability 
 to make pets, such as dogs and cats. This doesn't improve the game an extreme amount like most 
 expansion packs do, but it adds a nice touch to the game. You cannot control the pets, which is 
 in some ways good being that you cannot control real pets. A lot of work has gone into the animation 
 and Maxis deserves a lot of credit for that. Animals are not easy to animate. To get the full use 
 of this pack its best to have previous expansion packs installed especially the Nightlife pack. 
 I've installed Pets with just the original game and it has the additions from the Nightlife pack 
 such as cars, but they're ghosted out and can't be used. This kinda makes you want to go out and 
 buy the other packs, whether this was intended or not i don't know.
  
  Overall, this is a great pack which does add a nice touch and is worth getting for sure especially 
 for all sims 2 fans. A lot of realism is in place for the animals with only a few minor flaws, 
 for example the dog will jump straight into a bath filled with water whereas in real life the owner 
 usually has to carry the dog in and the bath will only be half full. But that is a very small erm, 
 flaw? compared with the rest of the game, well worth &pound;19.99! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk2888
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the best updates so far, The Sims 2: Pets is well worth your time and surprisingly, your 
 money. The game offers a great variaty of breeds that are completely customizable. While you never 
 have direct control of your pet, you can influence its behavior and teach it new tricks, just like 
 a real cat or dog. There are three main types: cats, large dogs, and small dogs. The number of 
 breeds in the game is generous, and It shouldnt be too hard to find an animal that suits your taste. 
 in addition to these adoptable pets, you can also raise small creatures known as womrats, and several 
 species of parrot. this game ads hours upon hours of entertainment onto an already addictive franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmpenguin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  My biggest problem with The Sims 2: Pets Expansion is that it comes in a powder blue box that seems 
 intentionally designed to emasculate me. While waiting for the store clerk to open the shipping 
 box on the morning it was released, there were four other patrons also waiting for him to shelve 
 newly released games, except they were all waiting for Splinter Cell and Battlefield 2142. These 
 guys weren't shy about laughing at me. When the clerk finally gave me my copy of Pets (along with 
 the game guide, which is also powder blue) , I quickly rushed out of the store with my tail between 
 my legs.
  
  That being said, I really think this is a very decent expansion pack. Sure, it's not giving you 
 much more than the dogs and the cats, but how much more do you need? There are a ton of options 
 for what your dogs and cats can look like. But if you're like me, and you really just want a black 
 cat, then you can click a couple of buttons and you're all set. Actually, your sim can quickly 
 adopt a new kitten or puppy over the phone, but then you lose some control over the little guy's 
 personality. The dogs and cats in the game have a ton of funny animations and they interact with 
 everything in your sim's house. It is all very enjoyable.
  
  There are also new bird and hamster cages which even have a few customation options and some interesting 
 interactions (if you leave the bird's cage open, he will fly around the lot and then return to 
 the cage when he's bored) . My only complaint about the caged pets is that you have to feed them 
 WAY too often. I must feed that whiny womrat three times a day. Listen, I've owned hamsters. I 
 never had to feed them that much. And yes, they all died, but it probably wasn't because they were 
 underfed.
  
  My only other issue with the game is that stray dogs and cats are too common. They show up at your 
 house all the time. If you've invited people over to your house, and you use the Greet... Everybody 
 interaction, then you will also be inviting in any stray animals on your property. Then you will 
 have this annoying chiwawa tearing up all your furniture. They also show up at community lots in 
 packs of twos and threes. It would be fine if strays showed up at the Pet Park (a few pet park 
 community lots come with the expansion) , but do they really need to be strolling around and peeing 
 on the floor at the Modern Art Museum and Botanical Gardens Restaraunt?
  
  Certainly if you are a big fan of The Sims 2, then you will want this expansion. However, if money 
 is tight, then you may want to get some of the other expansion packs first. Nightlife is the best. 
 It gives you a very enjoyable downtown area, vampires, and cars. The University expansion is actually 
 not fun at all, however it has some career and aspirational unlocks that you will seriously want 
 if you really like the game, and a cow plant that eats people that you will seriously want even 
 if you don't. The Open for Business expansion is very well done, but you can skip it if you aren't 
 interested in running your own business. You can definitely do without the Fun Stuff and Glamour 
 packs. If you have the money, then sure go ahead. But really they aren't giving you very much at 
 all. You will never feel more ripped off than when the game informs you that it will be installing 
 a skimpy 4 megabytes of data on your harddrive.
  
  I can see how a person who doesn't want to make things too complicated can really get a ton out 
 of the game with just the Nightlife and Pets expansions. In fact, maybe I should just uninstall 
 the other expansions (along with all of the questionable content I've downloaded from the Internet) , 
 and just have fun with the game for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  This is Sims 2 Pets the 4th expansion pack for the sims 2 and basically what it's about is basically 
 what it says on the tin. Your sims can buy and adopt pets from Dogs, Cats to Birds e. t. c. so if 
 that's what you wanted to know about the new expansion pack... there's no-one stopping you from 
 getting the game.
  
  but to take and in-depth look at sims 2 the first thing you see from the game is the graphics of 
 the pets unlike the sims 1 unleashed, The pets were blocky and just waddled. However these pets 
 have a huge new definition they walk and interact great with the sims and other pets.
  
  The gameplay in this game........ well.... let's say........... hasn't changed......... because basically 
 this game is completley involved round Pets. where as in University for example, there was a new 
 university town with the new young adult and new carrer paths e. t. c. so if you compare this game 
 to University you can defiently see the difference in gameplay.
  
  Some Sims fans may be dissapointed with the fact that Maxis and EA have not put time into the gameplay 
 they just rushed it by putting in cats and dogs.
  
  this should not stop any sims fans getting this EP a must buy for some Sims 2 fans only if they're 
 not to spectical over gameplay like some Sims 2 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edvs89beauty
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I am a really good fan of the Sims, but I got to say I'm disappointed, every expansion that has 
 came out for the Sims 2 I gave them all a good review even University but I felt that the Sims 
 2 Pets was such a let down that i gave It the rating that it deserve.
  
  Why I feel so bad ? Well this game was supposed to be more revolutionary than Unleash, more animals 
 more interactions more goals, the birds and worm-rats another let down in Unleash at least the 
 birds have to be bought in a shop they didn't appear for 400 bucks in the cage like in Pets, there 
 aren't too many toys for PETS in this expansion , all the puppies are the same the only thing that 
 changes is the color but I made two chiguaguas and the pups were the same size than the germanshepherds 
 pups of my other neighborhood they were as big as the adult chiguaguas.
  
  I have just write all the bad things about Pets let me write something good the make a pet option 
 is great there I give them all the credits you can do just anything there are lots of options to 
 create and customize your pets.
  
  Well I expect this review to be helpful don't get mad at me if u like the expansion I'm just giving 
 my opinion. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brn819
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The tittle says it all.. PETS!! you own pets get jobs for them and all that jazz... theres a created 
 set for kids rooms which is amazing!! The new furniture ius really good... except teh pets are 
 not what u would expect them to be...
  
  Yes you can get them jobs and breed them but/.....
  
  you cant control teh pets liek in unleashed.. 
 they just walk aroubnd doin what eveer hey want... so itz easy to take care of them (but changing 
 the food gets preeeety annoying)
  
  Also a down side is that there are no new clothes.... yeah .... but itz still an amazing game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game rox my sox, although it is a little small. everyone knows this pack is centered around 
 pets, but some improvements have been made and features added etc. You can't really control the 
 pet directly (you can with a cheat but I've never tried) like a sim but what you can do is command 
 your pets around like you would in real life such as scold them for actions you don't want them 
 to do like rolling in garbage and you can do the opposite and praise actions like chewing on chew 
 toy and using pet bed although these effect relationship they are valuable tools when you want 
 a pet to do this and that and not do that and this, you can teach your pet skills and tricks like 
 you would toddlers except you are teaching things like using the potty and playing dead.
  
  Besides cats and dogs you can have birds and womrats (gerbils/rats/hamsters) you are very limited 
 to the actions you can do with these fuzzy little creatures but you can pick their fur design such 
 as albino rat or hamster or gerbil, not much to say about birds but you can teach it to speak to 
 sims or use it as a social need booster.
  
  You sims get some new playthings too, like a more spacey looking furniture set and new flooring, 
 tools like the sledge hammer and diagonal walls to octagon walls, pet stores can be created like 
 community lots and if you have open for business you can run pet store like other stores.
  
  There is some new simlish so that bumps sound up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Well, it's another one. And just when you thought no more Sims could come out... guess what? The 
 Sims 2: Pets is EA Games new (and I use that term very lightly) game, or create your own simulation 
 thing. Hey, now I know where they got that name from! Sim-ulation. Okay, back to the review. There 
 is what all sims games would have, the house, the garden and dog s*** lying everywhere. It gets 
 a bit of a pain once in a while, but mostly it shares what other Sims games had. You don't have 
 jobs this time and most of your time is spent at home looking after your pets . I wonder if there 
 is a way to kill them? It gets repetitive after a while, and I should seriously consider buying 
 things that are good and fresh ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipexcom2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 which already has dominated the market has developed too like its predecessor; The Sims. 
 With Sims 2 Pets looking too much like Sims: Unleashed things are getting a little to familiar. 
 The idea of adding pets to a home is a good one and Sims 2 Pets does not fail to add more entertainment 
 to the already good game but it simply does not add enough. Gamers are still prone to the common 
 Sims 2 problems and bugs as before even if we do get a cute puppy to cheer us up.
  All in all a decent expansion pack but Sims 2 needs to do more to be different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hladyb4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  If you happened to pick up this game expecting something exotic or different in the way of pets. 
 You're going to be disappointed. Maxis has stayed with the (more or less) traditional household 
 pets. If you decide to design your own pet in CAP, you have a choice of a variety of dog breeds 
 in two sizes, large and small. Cats, also in a variety breeds, but only in one size. Those are 
 the only two animals in the game that you have control over in the way they look. The other pets 
 you can adopt or purchase are womrats, a gerbil type animal, a parrot and fish. I've enjoyed the 
 game so far, even with the limited number of different kinds of animals in the game. There's a 
 lot of different options for your pets. You can train them and have them get a job. You can also 
 have a successful breeding program and sell your puppys and kittens. People new to the game will 
 find taking care of their sims needs and training an animal a challenge. For the experienced Sims 
 player this game can be addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpdude
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack, in my opinion, has not made me super excited and happy immediately after I 
 got it. After tinkering with Pets for a while, I wondered, Huh, that's it? What I feel is lacking 
 is the large amount of new gameplay that we have came to expect from Sims 2 expansions.
  
  In Sims 2 Pets, there are NO new neighbourhoods at all. Even the two to three supplied houses (that 
 came with pets) were not sufficient to allow any player to dive straight into the game. And even 
 if you may complain that there are loads and loads of options available in Create-A-Pet, the game 
 will just about get worthless from there. Having said that, what I do feel is the Create-A-Pet 
 is the most superb gem in this expansion.
  
  Even by integrating Pets straight into the neighbourhood, there are not many options you can interact 
 with your pet, and interactions will not cause any significant difference to your Sims' lives. 
 By making pets uncontrollable, it increases the difficulty and multi-tasking required to play the 
 game smoothly. Having pets in your household also does not seem (in immediate effect) to improve 
 your household.
  
  Even those keen on making storylines with Sims 2 Pets will have problems as there is no way to 
 completely control your pet, as there is not even a cheat to change behaviour (however, there is 
 a cheat to allow pets' actions to be cancelled) . For storytellers, it may just be difficult to 
 create masterpieces with Pets.
  
  This game is also pretty empty as compared to other EPs. In University, you get a whole new college 
 area and new age group. In Nightlife, you get a Downtown area and cars to complement your Sims' 
 lives. In Open for Business, setting up a business provides more diverse gameplay compared to having 
 Pets alone.
  
  Of course, as with any Sims EP, by having older expansion packs will increase the value of the 
 expansion. One notable mention is the great integration with existing custom content, which is 
 a great thing as older EPs had problems with Custom Content. All in all, I feel that this expansion 
 could have be more improved to live up to its predecessor, The Sims 2 Open For Business Expansion 
 Pack, which offers more gameplay and deeper storytelling to the Sims 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better expansions with some of the fewest problems both in the expansion itself 
 and with 3rd party add-ons. There is very few that is not compatible with this one and it adds 
 a great deal of depth and dimension to the game. I do not believe the professional reviewer (s) 
 were playing the same game, or they are new to Sims in general as there is not any problems with 
 caring for and training your pet, maintaining your Sim, promoting relationships, and advancing 
 in your career. Like those that played Unleashed I had fears of the strays overwhelming my households. 
 Thankfully this was not the case at all and the stray issue has been VASTLY improved making strays 
 actually fun to have around with one of my Sims adopting one. Those with Open for Business can 
 even run their own pet store with this, and with Nightlife your pets can go with you in your cars. 
 The descriptions of the pets way of thinking is done in a very amusing way, for instance when you 
 have a good relationship with your cat, the cat things that your sim is theirs and not that the 
 cat is the Sims pet. This reminds me of my own cat. While you can't control your pet directly (without 
 using a cheat) this isn't really an issue as the pets do a fairly intelligent way of handling their 
 own needs. This is an add-on well worth getting for your Sims 2 game and I believe anyone that 
 does will be happy they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The sims 2 pets is the most featured expansion so far, there are lots of new things you would expect 
 in the game, of course pets. Pets are like sims, they can grow old just like sims, they have genetics 
 like sims, so they can also breed. Unlike the original the sims unleashed expansion, sims can now 
 train pets and pets can have career paths just as sims do. There are lots of features in this game, 
 including the create-a-pet mode.
  
  Create-A-Pet: The create-a-pet mode is similar to the create-a-sim but you can now create pets 
 in the game, you can adjust the facial, body, personality just like you can do in create-a-sim 
 mode. But some parts are much more better that you can't do on create-a-sim obviously, the layer 
 feature allows you to create layers of the pets body so if i want my pets to have a grey colour 
 body i might want to have white ears and put fur around my pet. You can only create cat and dogs.
 
  
  Sound: This expansion added more songs to the game than any other expansion did, there is also 
 a new country music station in this pack. You may notice some similar songs you may heard of before 
 but the pussycat dolls?! omg!!! they made one of their own songs into a simlish language! wow. 
 There are new sound effects when you play sims mode, you may heard dogs barking loud and stange 
 weird noises?!
  
  Graphics- The graphics are still the same but the graphic feature of the pets looks very interesting 
 and very graphical /: o
  
  Items-
  There are many new items in the game like the new high-tech telephone, the new fish tanks. Gameplay-This 
 is the best part of the game. When a pet is doing something wrong like scratching furnitures you 
 can tell your sims to scold them so they would learn from their mistakes just like us and the sims. 
 You can train your pets different commands so your sims can get full control of your pets but beware 
 that they might not listen if they are nasty beans! Anything bad in the sims 2 pets? well there 
 are many issues that were dissapointing
  - Longer loading time- if you had the pets e. p you may notice that some loading times takes double 
 because it has to load all the pets in the game well you will have to get used to it if you want 
 to play pets : (.
  - Many strange things?- Sometimes you may notice that every expansion removes previous e. p or stuff 
 pack items because of custom content.
  
  Building tools- Now in the sims 2 pets, there are new tools that you can use which is much easier 
 to build houses, there is the sledgehammer tool so it would be easier to delete things instantly 
 instead of hold ctrl+del to delete walls. There is the new flatten tool, this tool is known as 
 the miracle tool because the worst thing about building is location location so it would take forever 
 to flatten the ground to fit the doors or even the rooms right so this tool would flatten all of 
 yout property space to street level. Diagoal walls and octagonal walls, these are basically same 
 as wall room tool but diagnol and octagonal but this would make it much easy to make rooms and 
 it's less annoying. Last of all now you can rotate floor tiles as well, this feature can let you 
 make better looking flooring and different patterns as well as the old same.
  
  Other features- You can adopt pets or give away pets, sims tv has pets, you can hire trainers to 
 train your pets, the new custom painting allows you have your own images to the sims 2 game! the 
 new encyclopedia allows you to view all the game tips through out all of the expansions so you 
 don't have to wait for the tips to come. The game has now got an unlockable key so if you achieve 
 something in the game like promotion you would unlock new things for your pets. You can also share 
 unlockable online with the codes.
  
  The sims 2 pets deserves more than what gamespot rated it, and it is a fine expansion to play no 
 matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets is by far the most anticipated expansion pack for The Sims 2. Fans of the game 
 asked for the pets feature since the game came out and as a fan of Unleashed for TS1, I had to 
 get it. I've been playing the expansion pack for three days now and here is my take.
  
  Of course, as the name implies, Sims 2 Pets offers your sims new family members: dogs and cats. 
 Adding a pet to your sims family can be done in several ways, one of them being the all new Create-A-Pet 
 feature which really amazed me when I first used it. It is wonderful how detailed and customizable 
 your pets can be when creating them in CAP, it offers lots of options to change simply every single 
 inch of your pet's figure including multiple fur patterns, different eyes colors, tale size and 
 shape, body size and shape, ears size and shape, nose size and shape... And from here you get the 
 point. You can simply copy your real-life pet to a virtual figure in the game and add it to your 
 favorite sims family! Of course other ways to get a pet is by adopting one using the phone, adopting 
 one of the strays which tend to pay your garden a visit or buying one at a community lot from the 
 all new pets display object.
  
  After getting a pet, your sims can interact with a it in various way, play with it, train it to 
 do a series of tricks etc... Your pets can even get jobs and advance as they learn to do new tricks 
 and commands. Pets are not directly controlled like sims, but you can customize their behavior 
 by using your sim to praise or scold them based on their different actions. For example, if a pet 
 decides to take it all out on your sims couch, your sim can scold him, and by time the pet will 
 learn to stay away from the furniture. Maxis added few objects to go with the pets theme including 
 pets beds and and houses, food bowls, a litter box etc... However, I still don't think that the 
 variety of pets objects is enough at all and that's one disappointment I had in the game, Maxis 
 should have added more pets objects. The rest of the buy catalogue does include new furniture in 
 many categories including few new chairs and sofas, new decorative items and finally a new phone. 
 Build mode also got its share with a new hammer tool to delete anything on the lot very easily.
 
  
  A nice new feature in the game is the unlockable codes. After your pets gets a job and advance 
 in its career, you'll be given a new pet accessory with each pet promotion. These includes new 
 fur patterns, collars and more for both dogs and cats. The game also adds warewolves which your 
 sim will turn to after getting bitten by the leader wolf. There are also birds and hamsters in 
 the game although these are more close to an object than to a pet.
  
  The new soundtrack in the game is just wonderful with really great Simlish songs like Don't Cha 
 by the Pussycat Dolls. The pets' sounds are also very good and stable giving the real there-is-a-pet-in-the-house 
 feeling. No improvements in the graphics department and no new technical features either.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2 Pets is a very good addition to the game play and will offer a rich experience 
 to the fans of the series. The lack of pets objects did disappoint me though. If you are a dedicated 
 Sims 2 player this is a must, if you are a Sims 2 hater I doubt 'Pets' will change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slurpicus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  For all you animal lovers this is an obvious choice. This does not let you down one bit. this game 
 has many breeds of cats and dogs. The ability to change any small breed into a large and vice versa 
 is a cool option. The create a pet is very in depth, just like create a sim. You can layer coats 
 of fur on your cat or dog. It would be nice to have that much control over the birds and wormrats. 
 Another very small issue is they have a Pit Bull terrier and a Staffordshire terrier, these two 
 breeds are very similar and often considered the same breed. The only difference is the size and 
 its not enough to call one a small breed and large breed. I would rather have the Yorkshire instead 
 of the Staffordshire. In fact the heads of the Staffordshire and Pit Bull are almost identical. 
 You could easily adjust the head of one or the other with a few minor tweaks and get other head. 
 yeah I know your saying why complain about something so minor, well since there is nothing else 
 to gripe about in create a pet i guess it has to be this. I agree this is very minor and not a 
 big deal.
  
  Pet interaction with the sim seems a little off. But its like there interaction with any other 
 object or another sim. Its a Bit off but has that Sim feel we all know and love. Training is a 
 bit time consuming but there are schools. I haven't tried any of the job tracks for your pet yet. 
 But they do seem very interesting. The characteristics of a dog seem spot on when left as default. 
 I made a Pit Bull and it started to destroy my house. I had to scold it many times. Also the dog 
 is hyper and loves to play. So having a pet will take time from your sim, like in real life, and 
 require good ole TLC.
  
  This expansion pack does not add things like new lots or a new area. put it doesn't need to either. 
 If it did It would probably feel like fluff and we would be missing something important. The pets 
 behavior is by far better then what i expected. Maxis did a very good job with training a pet and 
 keeping there actions random. The pets seem life like , well as life like as any sim should. Only 
 having this game a day I have not found many major bugs (i am sure they exists as with any new 
 expansion) . This game is well worth the price tag. This expansion is also one of the ones they 
 are a must have. (along with Nightlife) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  The animals are looking so good, they are very very nice to see and they look almost as real as 
 real life pets. Like in real life you need some time to teach them tricks and learn them how to 
 behave. But they also got a mind of there own, so they do what they like. So expect some unexpected 
 things from them. They are also not controlable, but you can control them through your own human-sims. 
 You can buy pets in a pet store, or adopt one from the phone, or create them like the way you can 
 create your own sims. And ofcourse don't forget to buy them toys, or other whise they will use 
 other items, like the coutch, chair, bed, and that's something your sims don't like. In the short, 
 it's a very good game for the one's who like pets and the sims games. These animals will defenetly 
 keep your sims busy. In the game you can keep: dogs, cats, womrats and birds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackrose245
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Through all the hype, after you finally get to play... Sims 2 Pets kind of let me down. While the 
 Create a Pet, and Womrats are fun. It is difficult managing the time to do things in your day to 
 day. You either keep eating your poptart, or you Scould your pet for biting the furniature. And 
 it seems like theres ALOT of things to scould and praise them for. On the bright side, the new 
 furniature really all mesh's with everything that was already there. The new Space ranger kid's 
 bedroom furniature really hit my soft spot too If your pets have jobs you can get them in the best 
 mood possible, but it seems like they almost always come home in a bad mood. The new tracks that 
 come with the music are also great, songs like 'Chemical's React' and 'Dont Cha' really make the 
 soundtrack better. The graphics seem alot better, the dogs fur, teeth, gums all look like a real 
 dog should. The Birds are beautiful, and the Womrats... well their just womrats. All in all its 
 worth buying at only 29.99, besides who can resist that face?
  
  Gameplay- 7
  
  Graphics- 9
  
  Sound- 10
  
  Value- 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzombie
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Well, everyone who played unleashed was begging for pets in the Sims 2 but nobody wanted annoying 
 strays, luckily this EP has taken care of that problem. Making a pet can be tricky especially when 
 it comes to the layering system, but it gets easier after a few tries. The paranormal aspect of 
 the game is about the were-wolf, I have seen the wolf and one way to know he's here is by his glowing 
 eyes. The graphics are surprisingly good for the pets. Taking care of more than one pet at a time 
 with more than one sim in a household can be tricky if you never manage to keep 8 sims happy.
 
  My favourite aspect is where you can make a TOTALLY unique breed. Overall, this is a great expansion 
 to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Sims 2 Pets says it all. You create, buy, adopt your own pets and watch them grow. Choose from 
 a collection of dogs, cats, guniea pigs and birds etc..
  
  The pets (dogs and cats only I think) can have jobs just as the sims do. they can also breed.
 
  
  I was amazed to see the variety of breeds for both the dogs and cats. That's a plus right there.
 
  
  And plus there are lots of items u can buy go your pets: house, bowls, play toy and many more..
 
  
  U can even teach them new tricks which are essential for them in get promoted in their occupation.
 
  
  One thing that annoys me is they destroy any thing they get there hands on. (it's life so i can't 
 hate)
  
  the downside of the expansion is that u can normally control them as u do with a sim. you'll have 
 to control them by the command from a sim. thisI can see is very stressful and tedious.
  
  I was amazed that the rumours were right there is a track of the **** CAT DOLLSt - DON T CHA on 
 the POP station.
  
  Overall the expansion is great. this addition. can't wait to see what sims2 seasons has to offer. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
