-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Simpsons: Hit & Run
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/simpsonsthehitrun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,051 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Nov 13, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you missed out on the console versions of The Simpsons: Hit & Run, the PC version ultimately 
 won't disappoint. 

  It's been about 15 years since the weekly television debut of  The Simpsons , and over that period 
 of time, more than a dozen video games have carried the license of the seemingly inviolable Simpsons 
 franchise. However, with perhaps the sole exception of Konami's 1991 arcade action game, The Simpsons, 
 none of these games have ever managed to really capture the sharp humor and unique personalities 
 of the Springfield universe, and none have really even proved to be much in the way of fun either. 
 Thankfully, this trend finally came to a close earlier this year when VU Games released The Simpsons: 
 Hit &amp; Run on all three console platforms. The game borrowed heavily from the recent entries 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series, and, in so doing, it did a spectacular job of bringing the world 
 of Springfield to life -- with all the witty humor and unique style of the show left intact. Now, 
 VU Games has released Hit &amp; Run for the PC, and, despite a few hitches here and there, the 
 PC version does its console counterparts justice.  

          The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run lets you play as Homer, Bart, Lisa, Marge, and even Apu.   
   

  The story of The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run is perhaps a bit convoluted in its design but seemingly 
 in an intentional way. At the beginning of the game, Springfield is being overrun by mechanized 
 bees, mysterious black vans and cars, and an insidious cola that is controlling the minds of the 
 city's residents. In the game, you'll take control of the four core Simpsons family members (Homer, 
 Bart, Lisa, and Marge) as well as resident Kwik-E-Mart proprietor, Apu, to investigate the origins 
 of and motives for all these strange happenings.  

  As the game follows the same structure as the GTA entries, much of Hit &amp; Run involves a linear 
 series of missions, with a number of exploration elements to boot. The game uses a basic level 
 structure, with seven total levels, each with seven primary missions. Each level in the game is 
 assigned to one specific character. There's one for Lisa, Marge, and Apu, while Bart and Homer 
 get two apiece. Missions are assigned by interactions with the city's various characters. They 
 generally involve collecting and delivering items to other people or locations, racing other characters, 
 and even getting into full-on car combat situations. In actuality, practically every mission in 
 the game is a direct clone of one of the GTA driving missions. However, the lack of originality 
 in the game's mission structuring is more than made up for by the decisively original style of 
 Simpsons humor. The end result is actually very fun.  

  Each level also has one bonus mission and three non-story-related race missions. Completing both 
 the bonus missions and race missions help you to unlock new and unique cars in the game. This is 
 key, as vehicles are the most important aspect of Hit &amp; Run's gameplay. Hit &amp; Run has a 
 bevy of different cars to choose from, ranging from the more generic and standard looking cars, 
 to a host of different, episode-specific cars that fans of the show are bound to recognize. Each 
 character in the game starts out with his or her own car. Marge has her road-rage-inspiring Canyonero, 
 Homer drives the family sedan, and Bart drives Martin Prince's entry into the Springfield soap 
 box derby, the Honor Roller.  

  These are not the only cars that each character can drive, however, as certain missions will require 
 them to purchase new cars from vehicle merchants located around Springfield. For example, one early 
 mission requires Homer to destroy Mr. Smithers' car before he can get to the power plant to conduct 
 Homer's employee review. So, to do this, Homer purchases the massive Plow King from his good friend 
 Barney. In a pinch, characters can also borrow cars from passing motorists, though these cars are 
 all pretty generic. However, if you can find one of any of the numerous phone booths strewn about 
 the town, you can access any of the different cars in the game. There is a seemingly endless number 
 of different cars to unlock and purchase in the game, from Homer's self-designed car (aptly titled 
 "The Homer") to Comic Book Guy's beaten-down jalopy to Professor Frink's futuristic hovercar. All 
 in all, the selection of cars should keep you plenty entertained as you navigate the streets of 
 Springfield.  

          The game's storyline has you uncovering a plot that involves mysterious vans, mind-controlling 
 cola, and robotic bees with cameras in their heads.     

  The game's mapping system is denoted by a GTA-esque circular street map that appears in the corner 
 of the screen. It shows where you are in relation to where you need to be. Additionally, there's 
 also a system that works by having arrows appear on the street, pointing out the path you need 
 to follow. In many ways, it's actually a better arrow system than the one used in the GTA games, 
 and it keeps you from ever really getting confused while driving.  

  Driving isn't the only way to get around Springfield, as you can opt to just run and jump around 
 town, sans vehicle, any time you please. Each character has basic jump, attack, and jump-attack 
 functions. Each can be used to destroy enemies and objects or to explore hidden areas. You can 
 even kick a passerby. Every character can also double-jump, and each also has a unique jumping 
 slam attack. Homer, for instance, can land a pretty hefty butt-stomp when the occasion calls for 
 it. The game also employs an action button, which can be used to activate different objects, like 
 moving platforms and the like.     

  Outside of the game's storyline and missions, there's plenty of stuff to discover and explore in 
 Hit &amp; Run. Items, money, and hidden gags can be found throughout the city of Springfield. Money 
 comes in the form of coins, which can be obtained by destroying various pieces of the scenery, 
 like soda machines, street signs, and lampposts, as well as the evil mechanical bees that pop up 
 all over the place. Wanton destruction, however, is simply not permitted. Not for long. Cause too 
 much chaos, and eventually you'll end up with the cops on your tail. Your level of rampage is monitored 
 by a meter that appears in the lower corner of the screen. Once it fills up, the police will chase 
 you down. If you're caught, it's a 50-coin fine, which isn't too bad. But if you're careful enough, 
 you should be able to collect coins easily enough without having to constantly deal with the police. 

          You can drive a bevy of different cars in the game, ranging from the basic Simpsons family 
 sedan to Professor Frink's futuristic hovercar.     

  Once you've got the cash, you can obviously buy cars from different characters; but that's not 
 all. Each character also has a different set of outfits that can be purchased at different locations 
 around town. Some of these outfits come directly into play with the game's storyline and are necessary 
 to complete missions. Others are simply there for the fun of it. All the different outfits are 
 throwbacks to episodes of the show, including Homer's muumuu from his brief flirtation with morbid 
 obesity, Marge's cop uniform from her days as a member of Springfield's finest, and Apu's "American" 
 outfit, complete with baseball jersey and oversized cowboy hat.  

  There are also a number of gags and collectible items strewn about the town. Gags vary from location 
 to location and can be interactive or simply in the background. For instance, walking into the 
 Kwik-E-Mart reveals a couple of different gags. Walk to the back, and you find Jasper, or "Frostillicus," 
 encased within a freezer. Interacting with him will cause him to start shivering, and he'll throw 
 you one of a few different one-liners. On the other hand, if you simply stand near one section 
 of shelves, one of a few different gags will unfold in front of you -- including Hans Moleman's mugging 
 by Snake the convict or Krusty the Clown's ogling of an "adult" magazine. You can also find a number 
 of collectible items around town, like wrenches that fix damage to your car and trading cards that 
 reference different items from various episodes of the show. These cards cover a pretty wide spectrum 
 of references. They range from the Mr. Sparkle box (which coincidentally bears Homer's likeness) 
 to the evil Krusty doll that tried to kill Homer in one of the infamous "Treehouse of Horror" episodes. 
 Each card also contains info about the episode in which the item appears and a quotation related 
 to it.  

  All told, Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run does a really great job of making the world of Springfield an 
 incredible backdrop for an entertaining gameplay experience. If there's one knock against it that 
 keeps it from being a truly superb experience, though, it's that the game just isn't quite as polished 
 as it could have been. One of the less-frequent, but still quite notable, issues in the game is 
 that occasionally bugs pop up that break missions. Occasionally, AI-controlled cars find themselves 
 stuck in situations where they are absolutely unable to get to the required destinations in the 
 allotted time. For example, in one instance, a CPU car actually drove off a cliff, and the game 
 respawned the car in a spot where it could not feasibly get back on the highway. Thankfully, the 
 game lets you restart missions at any time by simply selecting the restart option from the pause 
 menu (another feature that, actually, would have been really nice to have in the GTA series) . You 
 always start right back at the beginning point of the mission, without having to drive all the 
 way back to the starting point, so this issue is relegated to a periodic nuisance rather than a 
 serious problem.  

          All your favorite characters are along for the ride in Hit &amp; Run, including Krusty 
 the Clown, Principal Skinner, Comic Book Guy, and Ned Flanders.     

  Hit &amp; Run's controls were pretty easy to navigate on the consoles. However, on the PC, the 
 game does suffer a bit in that respect. Hit &amp; Run is really designed for a dual analog controller, 
 and pretty much any other type of controller we tried felt a little bit too squirrelly when we 
 tried to move around, particularly on foot. As far as trying to navigate with a keyboard and mouse 
 goes, you can pretty much forget about it. The only way to turn while moving -- when using keyboard 
 control -- is to press both forward and to the desired side at the same time, thus making it extremely 
 hard to keep from turning too little or too far in whichever direction you're trying to go. There 
 is a mouselook function you can turn on by digging through the game's control options, but it takes 
 some serious messing with the mouse sensitivity to make it properly manageable, and honestly, it 
 isn't really all that great. Also, since the game's camera often tends to require some baby-sitting, 
 it's far more convenient to move it around with an analog stick than by assigning various camera 
 buttons. Ultimately, if you've got a good dual analog controller, you won't have a single complaint 
 about Hit &amp; Run's controls. However, if you  don't  have one, the game's control scheme may 
 prove problematic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  It was lots of fun when I was younger, but now I look on it and see it differently. I completed 
 the game several times, getting all the vechiles etc. But now its not as fun, and still easy.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Cool how you can drive, and exit your car. Avoiding the cops is so easy, just enter a building. 
 Or climb one. Simple but fun, for younger players. Or not as mature players, if your not as mature 
 when you are older. The content isn't for older players, so you might want top recomend this for 
 a firend who is at this age. Basically no story, more like quests.... that is what I understood.
 
  
  Graphics/Sound
  Graphics aren't good, they could've been a lot better than that. Sound, the sound effects were 
 bad. Like the civilians when they scream its like "ahh..." then it just cuts off...
  
  I dont play it anymore, and don't plan on. Now I've got other games too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhruv990
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  superb game loads of fun i can play this at a stretch for more than 6 hours and not get bored!!!!!!!!!
 
  of course those who are going to buy this for just cars will bw dissapointed this doesnt have 
 nissans, ferraris, buccatis and what not but this game has a lot of fun value.
  Many people will beat me after reading this but i liked this better than gta i got bored after 
 killing people throwing people out of their cars and taking off with rides after some time.
  IM NOT A KILLER!!!!!
  this game is reccomended for everyone ESPECIALLY YOU...
  DOHHHH..........
 
  Moreover my brother HATES GAMES but he loved playing this...
  though ive just begun i love playing homer 
  all the character voices are superbly done.
  the 
 games just plain awesome hell loads of fun.
  my favourite quote till now is homers "BOUNCY BOUNCY".
  and its got all the humour that youd 
 expect from the series.
  Brilliant game , GAME OF THE YEAR (atleast in my collection)
  thanx to the developers and publishers hope theyll release more
  GO BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound:9
  Value: 6
  Tilt:8
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Simpsons: Hit & Run is a fun game. Its not the best game but it is definitely the best Simpson's 
 game I have played. There are seven levels all together. You play as Homer, Bart, Lisa, Marge, and 
 even Apu. Each level has seven missions that must be completed to advance to the next. But other 
 than the main missions, each level includes side-missions. Some of the side-missions are completing 
 races, collecting cards, buying your characters clothing, which are familiar from the show itself, 
 and much more. You will explore Springfield like never before. Furthermore, this games genre is 
 mission-based driving for a reason. There are more than a dozen cars to buy and unlock. And yes, 
 Lisa and Bart can drive. You can steal cars, except, you'll be actually just be getting a lift 
 from a random person. Your character will sit in the passenger seat, while you control the original 
 driver of the car. Moreover, the game can become repetitive. You are either following someone, 
 running away from someone, collecting something, or destroying something or someone. Thats pretty 
 much the seven missions for each character. Overall, The Simpsons: Hit & Run is a fun game for 
 all. The missions can get on your nerves a lot, mainly because of the time limit, but I guess it's 
 not such a big deal. If you like GTA and/or the Simpsons then you'll probably enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Bob_UK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons: Hit & Run is a mission-based driving game with some adventure thrown in. It seems 
 pretty complex when you begin playing but you realise it's all pretty simple. You take on the roles 
 of Homer, Bart, Lisa, Marge and Apu as you try and stop some weird guys from tampering with the 
 town's source of water.
  
  The missions have simple instructions to follow. However the difficulty is everywhere. Sometimes 
 your blood will boil so much when you can't complete a mission that seems so easy. The single player 
 is alright, but not great.
  
  There's no point in buying this game if you want a driving game, but if your a Simpsons fan, you 
 might aswell buy it. It's really cheap nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of The Simpsons show, or maybe to the new released movie, then Simpsons Hit &amp; 
 Run, would be like a hole big episode for you. Yes, an interesting episode, where you play the role. 
 And if you are not a The Simpsons show fan, then this for you will be a completly weird game full 
 with sick elements that will make you laugh on the floor, shouting so loud.
  
  The game is supposed for every age in my opinion... Parents, Kids, Grandmas, Grandpas, and even 
 newborns. It's because it has interesting elements for everybody, and also it hasn't got any special 
 mature content.
  
  When we get into the game, first we see homer's part of the episode. He goes to buy a new promoted 
 Buzz Cola, that has just been promoted when the hole episode starts. Some weird black vans running, 
 when it all in the end will get that it's aliens. You'll have many advantures, example with Lisa's 
 part you're going to be saving bart etc...
  
  Through the game, there will be collectable cards that you can open, as well as cars, bonus missions, 
 and other stuff that should keep you stay on to the game for some time.
  
  Maybe it would have been a good idea if it had a multiplayer option, but nothing with that...
 
  
  Great game, deserves to be played... If you read all I wrote, than you probably now if you need 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run is the probably the first really good Simpsons game. The 
 amazing gameplay and gags really bring this game to life. The gameplay is pretty much a stripped 
 down version of GTA although the all the basic elements from GTA are here. The navigation system 
 in my opinion is way better in this game as the arrows on the ground help a lot. You'll hardley 
 ever become lost. There are a bunch of collectables that you can choose to find ranging from outfits, 
 collectable cards, cars and gags. All these relate to the television show in a way. The game is 
 quite funny and doesn't fall short of the Simpsons name. The only problem with Hit &amp; Run are 
 the controls. On the PC, the controls are horrid. The game was obviously poorly ported over to 
 the PC because it seems they took no time developing the controls for the PC. The camera is the 
 thing that will bug people most. There is no way to play this game on the PC without a Dual Analog 
 controller.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics are superb. There isn't anything wrong with them. They match 
 the Simpsons' Universe perfectly. The sound is great.
  
  Replay Value: You can always go back and find all the collectables. After completing the game 100% 
 though, there isn't much replay value left.
  
  Overall this game is amazing. If you are a GTA fan or Simpsons fan or just like good games, then 
 make sure you pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kreepman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really played this game in a REALLY long time, but I have enough memory to review it 
 (obviously) .
  
  If you like Grand Theft Auto with a little bit of Comedy and a good storyline; you will love this 
 game.
  
  Whats better? The greatest cartoon ever WITH GTA on it?
  Tell me THAT doesnt make a great game.
  
  Graphics are lacking a tad bit (Imagine it with The 
 Simpsons Game [2007] graphics... godlike) but the storyline and the humor of the game make up for 
 it.
  
  Over all this game is one for the books and if you dont have it, you should definaltly get it now.
 
  While its cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons : Hit &amp; Run The Game is really cool n keeps all the gamers glued to the PC.... i 
 will get straight to the point, The Simpsons : Hit &amp; Run is a game that is similar to one of 
 those GTA typa' games.... the player can go around the city n play around a few bonus levels. The 
 game also has specific stages with different environments for each character which makes it more 
 interesting The graphics are pretty cool with all the flashin of the coins n entry points. The sound 
 is the main attraction ,the voice of all the characters are that of the cartoon. the extra effects 
 while driving around adds interest playin the game. The Gameplay is something i didnt expect.... it 
 can take quite some time for a gamer dude who takes interest in cruzin around the city n takin 
 care of small stages included with each character. Although this game does not include Violence 
 n Blood.... u can beat the crap out of innocent springfielders ,that is until u attract enough police 
 attention to get ur self busted..!!! Overall, the game is awesome ,n everyone can find it interesting... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely fantastic, can't stop playing. A great game with graphics of a real springfield and 
 perfect incorporations of the characters. Springfield in the game was the thing that I most loved. 
 Divided in Seaside, Evergreen Terrace, Power Plant, Downtown and East Side, the city makes you 
 think that it's possible to exist. And why not?
  
  Backgrounds musics, twisted missions, voices, perfect town, everything is delicious to play. Really, 
 A very good game.
  
  After completing it, it's norma to get sick of it. But with elapsing of the time, you get something 
 like abstinece of the game, so you need to keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is the funniest Simpson game I ever played :D It's very cool how they made this GTA-stilled 
 Simpson game. The storyline is kind of weird but it puts a lot into the humoristic part of the 
 game and really ads a lot of fun. One thing is for sure: it has pretty good graphics for a 2003 
 game even if now they don't seem to be much. Oh and this game is very good and has a very good 
 source, not like other games that have a good source but the games are crappy :) So what can i 
 say more.... if u like the Simpsons go and buy it u shouldn't miss this one at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons have had their own line of games since 1991, starting with the simply titled The Simpsons: 
 The Arcade Game which was surprisingly released in arcades. We are now up to Hit and Run in '03 
 and perhaps this is one of the best Simpsons games to date?
  
  At the start of the game you find out that the town is infested by mechanical bees, black vans 
 and Buzz cola. Weird? You bet, but it is just a storyline like this that really makes you believe 
 you are playing a Simpsons game. In the game you can play as either Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and 
 Apu (you can also become other people such as Skinner in missions, but this is only while driving) .
 
  
  The idea of the game is to follow the story by completing tasks or missions, sometimes for other 
 people around the town. While you are at this you can roam Springfield collecting coins which you 
 can spend on new cars or buy funny outfits for your character. You can also collect all the cards 
 around the town to unlock a funny Itchy and Scratchy animation from Comic Book Guy's store - this 
 really does add extra hours onto the game if you want to get 100%.
  
  The game is also split into 'levels', each level representing a different character and a different 
 part of the town. You usually move onto the next character when a big change has happened within 
 the storyline. With the new characters comes new missions and cars.
  
  Hit and Run has the real voice actors reprising their role in the game, so you wont hear some 
 random man shouting D'oh! , but you will instead get the real deal - this of course adds to the 
 comedy moments with some great lines from the characters.
  
  The graphics are all in 3D and they pull off the town and show's atmosphere perfectly. Although 
 the characters aren't the most detailed thing, this doesn't particularly matter. The graphics are 
 also last due to their cartoony style. Even today in 2007, they still look good and in no way outdated.
 
  
  The Simpsons Hit and Run is the best Simpsons game to date and if you are a fan of the cartoon, 
 you really can't call yourself a fan unless you've played this superb, near-perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons: Hit and Run is a very good game, it has its parts. This game is GTA but without the 
 blood, words, and guns, and health! Yes, this game has no health. The players dont die in the 
 game at all, but that doesnt make the game any easy, its still challenging and some of its missions 
 and very hard. The story is very good and funny: There are some weird things going around Springfield! 
 Black vans, and mechanical bees are roaming around Springfield and they are spying on every house 
 in the city. Homer came to know about this and he had a hint that it was his boss who is under 
 this plan, but later on he came to know that the vans are only pizza vans, later on Bart gets in 
 a UFO and vanishes, thats when the story begins. Thats where weird things happen. They are not 
 weird but they are very funny!
  
  We can play as 5 characters in this game, Homer, Bart, Lisa, Marge and Apu! All have their own 
 vehicles, and have one power to defend their selves from the bees, they can kick! They can kick 
 to collect coins, and from these coins they can buy clothes and many types of vehicles. The gameplay 
 is great, just like GTA! It can be hard and frustrating sometimes, but its still funny and challenging. 
 The graphics are pretty neat, its very detailed, and its just like we are in the TV show! The characters 
 look very same, not like some games of tv shows where we cant even identify the characters. The 
 voice acting is perfect, the dialogues are very funny and the quotes from the characters too like 
 this one from Homer: Two, Four, Six, Eight. You Suck! Im great. La Da, La Da. You I Hate There 
 are many quotes in this game. The game consists of 7 Levels and over 56 missions including the 
 story missions and some bonus missions. It even has a bonus game. There are 3 environments and 
 it keeps changing at every level. And of course, the last level was the best level, it had many 
 new cars and all.
  
  Overall, its good to play the game, it should be purchased by every Simpsons fan! Dont miss it 
 guys, its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is like the GTA series but with a twist, the Simpson's, Springfield. Very good game and 
 good fun, Springfield is created beautifully. You can play multiple characters in the game and 
 you play eight missions on each level of the game. There are 8 levels where you play different 
 characters and eight missions in each which are mostly driving missions. In each level of the game 
 you explore different locations of Springfield. This is a very fun game to explore and you can 
 explore through beautifully created locations in the game. It is the best Simpson's game on multiple 
 platforms and it is well worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  It is amazing... version of GTA, but better characters, more interesting vehicles and no blood... 
 Sounds like a dream, doesn't it? Well it isn't a dream. It's pure reality... You can have it all 
 in Simpsons hit and run! The graphics could be better, but all the other preformances (gameplay, 
 sound...) make up for it! It's really fun... I think that the game is better than any part of GTA 
 series... Maybe cuz I'm not big fan of GTA... Anyway, back to Simpsons... In the game, you can 
 actually see things from their point of view... You can explore the city, drive some cool cars, 
 wonder around your neighbour's property and scare the hell out of people... Also, in the beginning, 
 you play Homer, I think, then Bart and so on... You play all members of the Simpsons family, i 
 think... I like it not being so violent, not for me, but maybe for some kids who are forbidden 
 to play violent games (by their parents) ... As I already said, everything in the game is perfect 
 except for the graphics... But it's solid... After all, the game isn't really new, so you can't 
 expect it to be perfect in all ways... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for 5 dollars at a yard sale. There has been a very small group of games that are 
 good GTA knock offs and this one of them. The storyline feels just like an episode of The Simpsons 
 television show. The graphics are very well done and the sound of the game is nice. The voice work 
 was well done because they use the real cast of the show to do the voiceovers. I would recommend 
 this game to any Simpsons lover of anyone who loves a good game. I rated this game a nine point 
 two out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Springfield is invaded by wasp-cameras and black pizza vans, something strange is happening and 
 Homer, Marge, Lisa, Bart and Apu decide to investigate.
  
  The game is made out of GTA engine and mainly based on a missions with vehicle. Somehow it works 
 brilliantly and surpass every other Simpsons themed game. 
  
  The missions are interesting and challenging taking place in 3 maps and few variations of them 
 in witch you'll find every famous place and character seen in Simpsons series. As you do missions 
 for main story, you can do side missions : one per each level, and for each successfully finished 
 mission you'll receive an unique vehicle. Also you can buy them at different local dealers or get 
 in street races witch are organised by Marge's twin sisters. 
  
  As driving based game it has over 40 vehicle you can travel around with. Some are basic and well 
 known for Simpsons watchers such as Marge's Canyonero or Homer's Plow King, and some are really 
 unique like witch's broom or a car specially designed for Homer ( as seen on tv! ) .
  
  Aside from story and side missions you can uncover gags witch keep in them special Simpsons satire 
 and humor and collect cards witch are hidden all over the map and when all are collected - you 
 unlock special movie.
  
  All over creators of this game really did well by making this game fun and entertaining as long 
 as you don't take things too serious. Best from all Simpson's games so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbalenzuela
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game may be a complete rip off of GTA but without the guns blood and gang war crap, but this 
 game makes up for what it lacks in stupid themes with halarious yellow men and classic simpons 
 attitudes. How could you go past a game where you are paid to run things over?
  
  This game rocks to the highest level... keep em comming simpsons. 
  
  Im not sure if there has 
 been a more funny and entertaining game since space invaders. But then again, im not exactly all 
 there in the head.
  
  THIS GAME IS AWSOME! buy it now, thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Although the Simpsons rock this game i thought was a bit lame for what i am used to seeing out 
 of the Simpsons. The graphics for the game made the simpsons look a bit flat even though they where 
 3D. The missions where pretty had for this game. The constant going back and forward and having 
 only certain sections of Springfield made this game kind of boring. the game only took me 3 hours 
 to complete and once you have completed the game even though you get the mini races to do there 
 isn't much else to do in the game apart from drive round with a Simpsons character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Yeah, yeah. The Simpsons : Hit & Run is basically a carbon copy of Rockstar's infectiously addictive 
 Grand Theft Auto series, but nevertheless, The Simpsons : HIt & Run stands on its own as a darn 
 addictive adventure game featuring a truckload of references to previous episodes, gags, and characters 
 you probably didn't know existed.
  
  The game's premise is simple. A bunch of mysterious black vans and survelliance wasps begin appearing 
 throughout Springfield, and the local denizens are feeling a tad suspicious. So it's your job (As 
 Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Apu) to find uncover the mystery which has plagued the town.
  
  Much like GTA, you have the freedom to drive in any car you desire, however your designated 
 character doesn't hijack the vehicle, but you can carpool with the driver.
  
  And like GTA, you will need to complete a series of missions. Many of them are repetitious, and 
 may need to be replayed a number of times in order to complete them successfully (which can become 
 really tedious at times) . Usually by driving from point A to point B, and perhaps picking up a 
 specified number of objects within a time limit.
  
  There are also collectibles throughout the game, such as gags, vehicles, clothes, and collector 
 cards which each feature an obscure object featured in an episode of The Simpsons, followed by 
 a textual quote from the episode, and a short description as to what the object's purpose was in 
 that episode.
  
  The game is pretty easy as there are only 7 levels (each with 8 missions) , and my 11 year old cousin 
 managed to blaze through the first 4 levels in a couple of hours. However if you wish to collect 
 all the trinkets in the game, you'll need to play significantly more than that.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it's pretty simple, provided that you're familiar with the Grand Theft Auto series. 
 The town of Springfield is free to roam around, however, depending on which level and character 
 you're playing, you'll be restricted to a certain district of Springfield (there are 3 districts) . 
 My favourite is the waterfront.
  
  What annoys me though, is that you can run over any character in the game, however if you destory 
 or "harm" objects or citizens, the cops will be after you for a short period of time a al Grand 
 Theft Auto. So in theory, Bart or Lisa can beat up their parents and vice versa, which just seems 
 a little disturbing. I love running over Ralph though. Teehee. Damn, I'm sadistic. :-p
  
  There's also a go-cart game (on the PC version anyway) , in which up to four players can drive across 
 up to 8 different race tracks with any car which has been unlocked in the game. It's cute and fun 
 to play with friends, but the controls are difficult, and frankly I didn't find the game to be 
 that much fun.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but not the most impressive. The folks from Springfield all look 
 a little weird in 3D, and many have suggested that cel-shading should have been used to make the 
 characters appear more authentic to their hand-drawn counterparts. Textures, on the other hand 
 appear to be quite pixelated, and are quite distracting to look upon, however for the most part, 
 the graphics are respectable.
  
  Not much to complain about in the audio department. The music is catchy, and there are tons of 
 quotes from all your favourite Springfieldians, however some lines may become a little repetitious 
 after a while. (Each character has around 20 quotes. Not too shabby.)
  
  In terms of value, I picked this game up for cheap, therefore I don't feel ripped off. There's 
 tons of fun to be had here, and this game would be fun only for casual or hardcore Simpsons fans 
 as opposed to serious gamers or those who have never watched The Simpsons before. (I mean, who 
 hasn't?)
  
  I don't think the replayability factor is very high on this title, however I may pop the disc in 
 to take a spin across Springfield again from time to time.
  
  Overall, The Simpsons : Hit & Run is a fun, kid-friendly romp through Springfield which is a hoot 
 to play from start to finish. Irregardless of its flaws, both casual and hardcore gamers alike 
 will enjoy this game for what it is. I wouldn't recommend paying a premium for this game, but if 
 you can pick it up cheap, or perhaps rent it for a while, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! If your simpsons fan you must get it! It gets all the lines from the Simpsons 
 and all the cars that come up in the simpsons, but better yet, Matt Groening is the one that made 
 the story line! the 3D animation isn't that good but the crazy fun destruction of springfeild and 
 the charater's chatch lines are just great! Oh and not only do you play HOmer, Lisa, Bart, and 
 Marge but you can aslo drive as Apu, Police Cheif **** the hill billy, Krusty, the science guy, 
 Princible Skinner, his Mum, ZOmbies, Donut Homer, Mr Burns! and Smithers!
  Don't take my word for it! buy it and try it out! it's cheap now because it'S a old game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_chris_1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is good, you unlock and buy cars, there is a wide selection of cars to drive which 
 makes it a bit fun because you could drive a bus or a fire engine, then go and drive a fast sports 
 car. The missions are good most of them are too easy except for the last mission, which i still 
 havent completed it yet it is too hard. The characters make the game funny by what they say and 
 do.
  So overall it is a good game and i do recommend it, the only downfall to the game is apart from 
 the last mission they are too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Heck its a funny game wen the yellow people talk. U cant stop laughing and u just want to do it 
 again. The best thing i think about this game is that u get a really cool and fast car and run 
 over stuff especailly people and they the best stuff in history! And u'll want to keep on doin 
 it and u cant stop unti u get a hit and run. Its ok if u dont get caught but if u do, then u must 
 PAY, and its really annoyin wen u need more dosh to get a evenbetter and faster car to run over 
 the goddamn people so they shout at yer. The thing thats really annoyin is wen u hav to find the 
 bloody cards, gags and bees AND money cant forget about that, and wen u cant find the things then 
 it makes u want to giv up and get on with the missions and the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leafgreen551
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  This is the best Simpsons game i have ever played! It is really fun and i like the cars. I have 
 it and i am currently on Apu's level and i love driving the cop car. When i get hit and run, the 
 cops don't even notice me. I like the 3D Graphics and when you get all the collector cards on one 
 level you unlock a bonus track and you drive around on the racetrack with any car you have unlocked. When 
 you start a level you get a car to start off with. You can also get cars by winning races and buying 
 them for a certain price and you can also change what you are wearing for a certain price. So if 
 you are buying a PC Game i recommend you buy The Simpsons: Hit and Run. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons: Hit and Run is part arcade racer, part platform game. For most of the game you will 
 be racing around the town of Springflield in various vehicles, but there will also be some running, 
 jumping, kicking, and collecting.
  Some are quite simple, but there are missions that seem close to impossible to complete. One such 
 mission, featuring Apu, has you alternating between car and foot as you collect something or other. 
 This mission requires pinpoint precision and feels quite out of place, as the rest of the missions 
 are doable and don't penalize you for missing a shortcut with their time limits. I checked an online 
 walkthrough and the fella said that he managed the mission with 2 seconds left on the timer. Thankfully 
 you may skip certain missions if you fail them a number of times.
  However, the missions do tend to get repetitive very quickly. You'll either be racing someone, 
 following someone, losing someone, destroying someone, or collecting something. Nothing like Grand 
 Theft Auto's range of various missions here. Fortunately for the young ones, though, the violence 
 is minimal. You can destroy various items and are even rewarded for doing so with coins, but you 
 can't run people over (your car just drags them, kicking and screaming, which is perversely more 
 enjoyable) . All these actions lead to your wanted level rising (it slowly decreases if you drive 
 responsibly) and may lead to Wiggum chasing you. If you are caught you fail the mission and pay 
 a fine - no big deal.
  While the gameplay and storyline may not be all that original, the voice acting and humour are. 
 This is a Simpsons game and as such makes full use of the various inhabitants of Springfield, and 
 you will meet all of the recurring characters. Usually there are a few jokes sprinkled into conversations 
 so you'll have no reason to skip the cutscenes, although the characters don't do much in them except 
 tap their feet and rub their chins. The only voice acting that grates is the in-car banter. All 
 your characters will spout one-liners as you hit things or change positions in a race and while 
 amusing, the constant barage of "Speed, glorious speed" and such gets old fast. 
  In the end, the fact that this is a Simpsons game, for fans of the Simpsons, is what makes it fun. 
 There are many plarts of the city to visit and many characters to talk to and all are nicely created 
 in 3D. There are also lots of jokes for fans (Comic Book Guy, seeing an alien spaceship: "Worst, 
 effects, ever") and humour for everyone (End-of-work horn toots, Burns on power plant PA: "Mindless 
 drones! Return to your ugly families!") . This game would not work well were it not a Simpsons game, 
 but considering that's the reason you're probably interested, there's no reason not to give the 
 old pink Simpsons' car a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After several unsuccessful tries on bring the Simpsons licensed games to the console and pc universe, 
 Simpsons' Hit and Run suddenly emerged and it has blown us away with its excellent gameplay and 
 style that brought the Simpsons' world to life. This is arguably the best Simpson title ever release 
 into the video/computer games world.
  
  Gameplay: Borrowed heavily from the Grand theft auto series except it is much more linear. Lots 
 of platforming action and all are executed impressively. Humorous storyline. However, Driving mechanics 
 is kinda weird though.
  
  Graphics: Smooth framerate, great character models and pretty well done animation. But the frustrating 
 camera angles for the platforming section is unacceptable at these day of gaming.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting that brought out the best of every characters in the cartoon series. 
 Cool background music. 
  
  Value: The game is pretty short, but the satisfying gameplay saved the game.
  
  Tilt: This 
 is probably the first Simpsons game that feels like a Simpsons game.
  
  DJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afreak3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Ok, first let's talk about the characters. In this game, you can play as:
  
  Level 1: Homer 
  Level 2: Bart
  Level 3: Lisa
  Level 4: Marge
  Level 5: Apu
  Level 6: 
 Bart
  Level 7: Homer
  
  
  Now, these characters aren't the only ones that you see in the game. For example, in some missions, 
 you have to talk to other well known characters before you start the mission. A few of these characters 
 are:
  
  Apu Nahasapetapetelon (sorry, i don't know how to spell it) , Cletus, Krusty, Snake, Ralph Wiggum, 
 Dr. Nick Riveara, Police Chief Wiggum, Milhouse Vanhouten, Nelson Muntz, Ned Flanders, and the 
 list goes on and on and on.
  
  Now, one of the reasons I got this game was because of the cars. You can smash them, blow them 
 up, dent and damage them, crash into things, ram into other cars, hijak other cars, and run over 
 people (but they don't die) , knock down street lights, traffic lights, fire hydrants, mail boxes, 
 and many many more.
  
  On Foot: When you get out of your car, you can walk/run around to your heart's content. You can 
 get some places on foot that you're not able to by car and do some things that you can't do by 
 car. Walking/Running around is also a great way to get a close up, detailed look at Springfield.
 
  
  Buzz Cola Cards: Collect every single Buzz Cola Card in each level to get a Bonus game (There is 
 one Bonus Game for each level)
  Collect every single Buzz Cola Card in the game because you get to see a special movie thing. (I'll 
 tellyou more about it in my cheat message)
  
  Look at my cheat message in "Cheats". Look for "Best Game I Have Ever Had! cheats" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  I should have done this much sooner, but I totally forgot that I have played this game. Not much 
 to give an in-depth review of the game, but from what I have played this game has the great divide 
 between real-life and the cartoon series that airs on TV. So if you like "do'h" and neck strangulations 
 from the cartoon series, you are going to love this game. Besides the missions have nothing to 
 do with the cartoon series, the mini-games inside the missions do. You can play the soap-car derby 
 race and you can mimic the opening drive sequence of homer from the power plant if you wanted too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeydaclown
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I haven't finshed it but is good. It you don't have anything to do this is a game for you to do. 
 Some of the things will probably make you laugh. It is a time suming game. With Marge, Bart, Homer, 
 Lisa, and Apu, as drivers I'm sure you will have lots of fun. I sure did. When you are driving you 
 have to be very careful. Hit and Run is a good titile for the game. The police do chases you around 
 Sprinfield. Sometimes it can be fun. But when they catch you you lose 50 coins. That puts you down 
 because you can't but accessories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  i really loved this game he was very cool
  and i really love the simpson family so i really loved it
  this game is like GTA but not really
 
  you can steal cars... and ther are missions
  but this game is very cool
  you can play on it a lot of time if you realy love it
  and allso the game is not that easy... ther 
 are mission 
  that takes time unteal you finish...
  because you need over and over because you time run out 
  or somhing like that....
  so this 
 game is very cool and if you are not trying...
  YOU LOOS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: can_drive_55
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  My Ratings:
  
  Graphics:8.5
  
  Interactivity:9.12
  
  Play: 8.99
  
  Sound: 9.8
  
  Overall Rank: 9.2 (Superb (To Me Anyway) )
  
 
  
  LEVELS:
  
  Level1: Evergreen Terrace (Day)
  
  Level2: Downtown (Bart)
  
  Level3: Squidport (Lisa)
  
  Level4: Evergreen Terrace (Evening)
  
  Level5: Downtown (Apu)
 
  
  Level6: Squidport (Bart)
  
  Level7: Evergreen Terrace (Eternal Night)
  
  
  The Very First Task: The 
 Cola Caper
  Description: Go To Kwik-E-Mart And Buy Cola And Ice Cream With 
  The Mini Pies In It.
  Lowdown: Turn Left On To Evergreen Terrace And Go All The The Way Up Until 
 You See The Kwik-E-Mart Sign, Turn right Into The Parking Lot And Go Inside To Talk To Apu, Ask 
 Him For The Stuff, Collect It And The Mission Is Complete.
  
  
  Summary: It Rocks!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  
  Sincerely: Can_Drive_55
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Hit & Run is hard to describe... in a good way! This game was the best game i've ever 
 played (in 2003) . This game is highly addictive, or so I think. I played day and night and laughed 
 so damn much! This IS the funniest driving game ever!!
  
  Gameplay: The GTA-like gameplay, is something you never ever get tired of playing!!! But something 
 I miss in the game, is maybe some harmless weapons, maybe a slingshot or something. 
  
  Graphics: The creators of the game did the best they could... what more can I say?
  
  Sound: 
 The Simpsons voices and music, really makes the sound great and funny!! I never get tired of this! 
 
  
  Value: Lots of replay value... I have finished the the story missions over a hundred times!!! 
 
  
  There is a few bugs here and there, but if you don't care about that, then you should go and buy 
 The Simpsons Hit & Run, if you're a Simpson lover!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is very good. Here is first thing: drive a car. In this game are 50-60 missions with a 
 Bart, Homer, Lisa... Difficulty is just right and game is also for small kids. In this game is 
 very good humor. Kill Ned Flanders :D.
  
  Graphic:
  Graphic is not very good, but is better than in a cartoon. All things are 3D.
  
  Sound:
  
 Sound is good. Peoples are speak normaly in this game and is very good humor.
  
  Value:
  If you like Simpsons and driving games you must buy this game because is very good humor in this 
 game!!!!!
  
  Tilt:
  Gameplay is very good, graphic are OK, sound is good, difficulty are good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with great graphics/sound/gameplay and value for money. A lot of people think 
 think this game is over rated i think its totally under rated. Why do we all play games, for FUN, 
 and this game is sooooo much fun it has great characters, its funny, has good gameplay, sounds great. It 
 has something for people of all ages. This is without a doubt the best Simpsons game today and i 
 have a lot more fun robbing cars and running over people in this then i do in Grand Theft Auto. If 
 you are looking for a game to either play with the Kids or something that has something for the 
 whole family then i would defiently recomend this AAA+++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2004 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Despite their enormous cultural influence, The Simpsons have really only produced three computer/video 
 games of any note - The most-vaunted Arcade game, Bart vs The Space Mutants for the NES and Road 
 Rage, the Simpson's passable answer to Crazy Taxi. It's with some delight then that after such 
 a long wait and having to sit through the deplorable Wrestling and Skateboarding games that the 
 true epic Simpsons game is finally here. And it's very, very good.
  
  The underlining plot involves a bunch of alien wasps and their infiltration of Springfield, and 
 it's up to the Simpsons and Apu to work out what's behind all of this. The game takes place in 
 a GTA-like 3D environment across three different stages over seven levels, with each of the stages 
 taking place at different parts of the day.
  
  You can traverse these levels by foot or by car, and there are a bucketload of cars available to 
 you, either by completing side missions, winning races, or buying them. The game does the mix well 
 - on one hand it's a solid driving game and on the other it's a competant action game. There's 
 surprisingly little hand-to-hand combat in the game, and none of it particulally necessary. You're 
 free to kick anything and everything, though, but if you want things that actually fight back, 
 you'll find opponents lacking.
  
  Sonic-wise, the game is really, really .... good. All the sound effects are spot on and sound suitably 
 cartoony. The game also benefits from the actuall cast providing their voice talents. The dialogue 
 is extremely well recorded and delivered, which is just as well because the characters delivering 
 them don't seem to be awake most of the time.
  
  While from a distance the 3D characters are well realised and animated, during a lot of the in-game 
 cut scenes they show very little emotion or change in expression. Homer will raise his fist and 
 Lisa will stroke her chin, but otherwise most characters will look the same if they're happy, sad, 
 angry or even asleep. It removes a lot of the emotional impact of the dialogue and ultimately looks 
 a little unprofessional. The CGI cutscenes on the other hand are really well animated, and not 
 too dissimilar from the Halloween special "Homer3". The opening movie is especially good, and the 
 ending is also very good, if a little short. 
  
  The dialogue is genuinely funny in a lot of places and downright drab in others. Luckily the drab 
 stuff only happens during the cutscenes. Other than that, you'll delight in the whole family's 
 outbursts as they run into people, objects and other cars. Even the non-descript bypassers have 
 some really good lines, and you'll find it hard not to bump into them just to hear them.
  
  Perhaps the most pleasing aspect of the entire package is the incredible score. A lot of effort 
 has gone into its production and it really shows. Each character and level has its own set of tracks 
 and really suits the environments and the character's personality, such as Bart getting rock tracks, 
 Lisa getting Jazz and Apu running around to Indian music. The tracks are uniformally great and 
 are so much better than a bunch of generic Simpsons-like brass tracks, it must be said.
  
  Unfortunately, the mission structure isn't terribly good. A lot of the missions don't actually 
 have anything to do with the story and are just there as filler. There seems to be no reason why 
 I have to find Hans Moleman so he can tell me to talk to Granpa Simpson, who sends me off to find 
 Nelson who's taken his pills who doesn't have them anyway. It's only really the 6th and 7th levels 
 that really have any proper semblance of structure, and as such it is those levels that stand out 
 from the rest. That's not to say that the other levels aren't fun and exciting - it's just that 
 it would have been better if they'd stuck to the story a bit tighter, rather than just be there 
 for the sake of it.
  
  Speaking of which, the story itself could have used a bit of a tune up. While it's functional it 
 that it provides a reason for everyone to run around town, it probably could have used a couple 
 more levels and gone a bit deeper, too. After it's all over, you may get the impression you just 
 sat through a very long Treehouse of Horror special. 
  
  Even so - under all that is an incredibly solid game that incredibly fun to play. While the game 
 certainly give you a completely free hand to steal cars and cause mass destruction, it gives you 
 enough freedom to play the game at your own pace and engage in a spot of exploring. There's certainly 
 enough bonus and unlockable items to warrant you running about and straying from the plot a bit 
 more.
  
  Dismiss it as a poor man's GTA if you will, but Hit & Run deserves much more than that. It has 
 a humour and a flavour all of its own and there's a pretty solid game under all that Simpsons packaging.
 
  
  And besides - what other game gives you the oppotunity to run Hans Moleman over with a school bus? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmnt4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 26, 2004 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game is incredibly charming! The awesome voice acting of the cast is on par with their work 
 on the show, and the humor is the best part of this game! The one-liners from each different characters 
 are hilarious and I just found myself wanting to hear more. Running people over, hitting other 
 cars and punching people down both look and sound pretty funny. Yes, each character does has a 
 limited set of dialogue, but that's to be expected from any game. Most of the vehicles have some 
 humorous aspect to them and the different costumes you can wear are pretty cool, too. I'll admit 
 I don't understand all the references in this game since I don't actually watch the Simpsons anymore, 
 but they're amusing anyways.
  
  The game's graphics use simple textures and colors, which is a perfect choice of style for bringing 
 an animated show into 3D, in my opinion. The simple drawings of the show translate well into the 
 simple 3D models of the game. I did find myself wishing that the models were capable of greater 
 facial expressions, though. Seeing the characters' eyes and eyebrows move, even a little, would 
 have greatly enhanced the overall charm of the game. Instead everyone stares blankly forward.
 
  
  Each level takes place in a self-contained location in Springfield, and all the areas are colorful 
 and visually engaging. After spending a lot of time retrying missions in any given level, though, 
 it was a joy to finally reach the next level and have a new area to explore. However, after playing 
 the first three levels in three different locations, I was very disappointed at having to play 
 the remaining levels in the same three locations again. Aside from the change in the playable character, 
 there isn't much change in any of these places, as the people, coins, wasp cameras, boxes, etc. 
 are in exactly the same positions as before. To me, recycling the locations doesn't seem justified 
 in any way. The 7th level proves to be an exception, as it brings that necessary visual change 
 to really make the endgame unique, satisfying and lots of fun.
  
  The gameplay is actually pretty repetitive, with most of the game spent either racing other cars, 
 collecting items in a specified time limit, destroying other vehicles, and just generally racing 
 the clock to get somewhere. Despite this, the game is still lots of fun and is kept fun by giving 
 you access to faster cars and pitting you against tougher opponents. Missions in the later levels 
 will blatantly place pedestrians in your driving path to ensure that the cops come out and give 
 you yet another obstacle in your race against time.
  
  One thing that puzzles me is that this game comes on 3 CD's, so the reason why the developers couldn't 
 fit more environments or dialogue into the game than single CD game (such as Soul Reaver 2 or System 
 Shock 2, for example) isn't readily apparent to me. With that much space, I feel it could've had 
 the extra one-liners and dialogue that people want as well as a different location for each level. 
 Overall, though, it's a cool game and a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 15, 2004 1:15 am PT
Review:  Although I am a fan of the Simpsons and I enjoy going on a crime spree in Grand Theft Auto III, 
 the game Simpsons Hit and Run does not have the personal touches that make the other two enjoyable. 
 This game play's more like Crazy Taxi. I wanted to walk around spring field and feel like I was 
 really there. instead I felt like I was on a race track with peices of the Simpsons world of springfield 
 tucked inside. And although there were all the major characters of the simpsons world you could 
 not talk to them at will and enjoy them. It ended up being a bit of a hollow world. I also would 
 have liked to have seen the game cell shaded. I would recommend Mafia instead. And for the Simpsons 
 die hards I think Virtual Springfield for the Mac has more personality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Don't go into this game expecting overly deep storylines and twisted plots. It's not that kind 
 of game. It's pure mayhem in a box. You get to run around as the various Simpsons characters, driving 
 strange vehicles and wearing odd clothing, crashing into things while performing mission tasks. 
 The game levels are quite large, with a lot of little nooks and crannies to explore, and interesting 
 things to find. The levels are stuffed with gags and humor.
  
  The actual gameplay is just plain fun. When I first installed this on my system, I started playing 
 at 8pm. When I next looked at the clock, it was 4am. I haven't lost that much time in a game in 
 a very long time, not since the Sims first came out.
  
  I have to ding the Simpsons: H&R on the camera and controls. The camera does not like to be pushed 
 in, and if you move your character so that they have their back to a slope, for instance, you will 
 have a very hard time facing directly away. The camera view keeps forcing the character to turn, 
 so that the camera would be in open space. This makes some of the running around missions a bit 
 difficult to do.
  
  Other than that, a great game, huge amounts of fun, and worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glen_jacobs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2003 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of The Simpsons. Even as I type this review, I have 2 Simpsons games installed 
 on my PC, a Simpsons music CD in my CD-ROM, a Simpsons trivia card game, 3 Simpsons books, and 
 a 12 inch talking Homer doll on top of my case. All that is just the stuff within a 3 foot radius 
 of me, not to mention all my other Simpsons paraphernalia. 
  
  I will admit that previous games using the Simpsons license have been rather lackluster, although 
 I did really enjoy playing The Simpsons: Road Rage. I like playing this game for the same reason 
 as Road Rage, the dialog. All the principle voice actors lend their talents to this game. The missions 
 and dialog recreate so many fond moments of the show, it brings a smile to my face each time I 
 hear it. For any Simpsons fan, the dialog alone is worth the price of admission.
  
  The graphics are adequate for its purpose but the developers could have gone that extra mile and 
 used cell shading to really give it that cartoon look. The characters do translate to 3D fairly 
 well, there aren't too many instances where you would say that character just doesn't look right 
 but they do exist. The environments are great, incorporating so many elements of Springfield like 
 Barney's Bowlarama, the monorail, The Android's Dungeon, The Kwik-E Mart, and many more. I did 
 find it disappointing that they just used the same 3 districts for the 7 chapters. 
  
  As everyone knows, Hit & Run is GTA3 in Springfield. You have to talk to various characters and 
 they give you missions that you have to accomplish to progress in the game. These missions involve 
 retrieving objects, destroying vehicles, racing someone, avoiding someone, or a combination of 
 the above. Later in the game, there will be multiple objectives in a mission. There are 7 main 
 missions, 3 races, and 1 bonus mission in each chapter. When you accomplish certain tasks you will 
 be awarded with special vehicles. This is one of the key elements of the game, you need a variety 
 of vehicles and outfits. Some missions will require you to buy an outfit or vehicle from certain 
 characters in the game. In one mission Apu has to buy his "American" outfit so that he won't be 
 conspicuous when following a vehicle, in another mission Bart has to purchase Homer's Mr. Plow 
 truck to collect all the escaped monkeys. The vehicles can be accessed, once you purchase or unlock 
 it, by many of the payphones that are littered across the gameworld. Of course some vehicles are 
 better at performing certain tasks than others, you wouldn't use school bus in race just as you 
 wouldn't use a go cart to destroy a cola truck.
  
  Value is definitely there for any Simpsons fan. There are enough collector cards, bonus missions, 
 and gags for the completionist. This game is a must-buy for any fan of the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fafaflooey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2003 8:59 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I am a huge Simpsons fan so whether that gives me a bias or am more 
 critical I cannot say. This is basically a driving game with all your favorite Simpson characters. 
 The driving is really well done and loads of fun, the wisecrackes are hilarious but I can't get 
 over the fact that this game is very repetitive. One thing I also hate is the design where you 
 have to redo a mission over and over to memorize the placement of certain objects before it can 
 be done properly. This is used extensively in this game and it can be frustrating. All in all I 
 enjoyed it, great graphics ala 3D Simpson characters, perfect sound and if you're a fan you'll 
 enjoy it. A good game but still not the perfect Simpsons game... still waiting ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2003 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First thing, this is Grand Theft Auto with the Simpsons, and pure fun. If you are a fan of the 
 show (and I am one of the biggest) you will love this. If you are a parent and are afraid of your 
 child playing a game like GTA then get this game as a piece of mind. 
  
  The graphics on this game are good but could have been better, they could have used cell shading 
 to produce a comic feel rather than a 3D feel, but it is still done well.
  
  The sound is trully the best part of this game, and is up there with the TV show for quality.
 
  
  You play as Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Apu trying to solve a conspiracy that seems to be taking 
 place in Springfield. All of your favs are here and there are hundreds of in show gags. The controls 
 are a bit fiddley when in buildings but is nothing major, the cars handle really well and can blow 
 up. 
  
  This game to me is the best Simpsons game ever, because lets face it they have made some pretty 
 crappy ones in the past. I do hope they make more Simpsons game like this because this is truly 
 amazing.
  
  Best Simpsons Game Ever! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
