-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Temple of Elemental Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/greyhawkthetempleofee/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,420 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Troika Games
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 16, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some bugs, The Temple of Elemental Evil stands as one of the most authentic PC Dungeons 
 & Dragons experiences of the past few years. 

  Longtime fans of Dungeons &amp; Dragons recall that The Temple of Elemental Evil, before it was 
 a computer role-playing game, was a popular module for pen-and-paper D&amp; D. In fact, the original 
 version of The Temple of Elemental Evil is the quintessential D&amp; D campaign. It puts a small 
 party of adventurers, skilled in armed and magical combat, deep in a dangerous fortress filled 
 with hundreds of sinister monsters and untold secrets and riches. The adventurers start off relatively 
 weak, but through their trials and tribulations, they can become powerful enough to thwart the 
 evil lurking in the temple's heart. To capture the spirit both of the original campaign and of 
 modern-day pen-and-paper D&amp; D, the developers implemented a turn-based combat system featuring 
 the new 3.5 Edition D&amp; D rules, which gives you a fine level of control over your party -- as 
 well as plenty of leisure time to admire the game's great-looking creatures. However, an occasionally 
 cumbersome and obtuse interface and occasionally buggy gameplay do limit this game's appeal mostly 
 to those who don't need an invitation or introduction to the world of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. But 
 these players should be readily willing to overlook the game's problems for the sake of its challenging, 
 strategic battles.  

          The Temple of Elemental Evil is based on a classic hack-and-slash Dungeons &amp; Dragons 
 campaign.     

  The Temple of Elemental Evil is a single-player-only adventure with a straightforward premise that's 
 mostly an excuse to put you through a lengthy, diverse dungeon crawl. This isn't an epic-scale 
 adventure -- most of the game takes place in the titular temple (though, at the beginning, you explore 
 the countryside until you find it) , though the temple is a sufficiently huge, multistory affair. 
 Initially, you create a party of up to five characters (or you may choose from pregenerated characters) , 
 who begin as neophyte first-level adventurers and can eventually grow to 10th level, which isn't 
 as high up there as some other recent D&amp; D games have allowed you to get. Make no mistake, this 
 is no flaw -- Dungeons &amp; Dragons is probably most well balanced, tense, and exciting at the earlier 
 levels, so this game's focus on relatively low-level adventuring leads to many nail-biting battles 
 in which you must take great care to keep your party out of harm's way as best you can. Indeed, 
 starting out, your party is vulnerable even to common thugs, though later on, you'll start to feel 
 quite powerful as your fighters gain multiple attacks per round, your healers become much more 
 useful, and your mages learn to cast damaging area-of-effect spells.  

  One interesting aspect of The Temple of Elemental Evil is that the characters you can place in 
 your party must be of similar moral alignment. In fact, you must choose a moral alignment for your 
 party, which governs who can and can't be a part of it. For instance, a chaotic evil character 
 wouldn't have any business being in a lawful good party, though a neutral good or lawful neutral 
 character would be welcome. This choice affects the brief introductory sequence for your party 
 (there are nine different variants, in total) as well as the conclusion of the game. Other than 
 that, alignment doesn't play a huge role over the course of the game, as there isn't much in the 
 way of dialogue with non-player characters -- not compared to other D&amp; D RPGs from over the past 
 few years, anyway. Good, neutral, and evil characters alike will still find themselves fighting 
 for their lives against the countless vicious foes defending the temple from any interlopers.  
 

          Dozens of great-looking, tough monsters await in the depths of the temple, which is where 
 the majority of the action takes place.     

  3rd Edition Dungeons &amp; Dragons rules have been featured in computer games such as Pool of Radiance: 
 Ruins of Myth Drannor, last year's Neverwinter Nights, and some others, but The Temple of Elemental 
 Evil is the first game to use the 3.5 Edition rules. As the name implies, this update mostly adjusts 
 the balance and some of the naming conventions of 3rd Edition D&amp; D, and while some of the changes 
 will seem very significant to hardcore fans, they aren't readily obvious, in general.  

  At any rate, the game clearly tries to stick as close to the book as possible, and purists will 
 certainly appreciate this. The turn-based combat system faithfully incorporates most all the facets 
 of pen-and-paper D&amp; D. Not only that, but this is an interesting and complex game system in 
 its own right, seemingly conceived with computer role-playing in mind. For example, each character 
 moves in order of his or her initiative rating, and faster characters like monks and barbarians 
 can move further in a round than others. Characters whose hit points are depleted in battle do 
 not necessarily die outright (depending on how hard they were hit) but may find themselves at death's 
 door -- only if their wounds are tended to by an ally or if the battle is swiftly resolved will they 
 be saved. Also, larger characters such as ogres, or characters with longer weapons such as spears, 
 gain an attack of opportunity against incoming foes with smaller arms, discouraging their enemies 
 from charging headlong into them. Characters may also use some unique tactical options, such as 
 attempting to trip their foes, or trading their ability to move in one round for an additional 
 attack. In all, these are just a few of the many complexities of the turn-based combat system of 
 this game, which has plenty of strategic depth, making the relatively slow-paced combat anything 
 but boring.     

  The game's interface does get in the way of the action to an extent, unfortunately. The mostly 
 mouse-driven interface appears quite slick, but it's rather sluggish and lacks some important details. 
 The mouse cursor moves jerkily about the screen, which makes it difficult to navigate the radial 
 menus and click on some of the small text required, say, for casting spells. And, in general, the 
 game assumes too much familiarity with the Dungeons &amp; Dragons source material. When choosing 
 new feats, skills, or spells for a character, you'll find yourself scrolling through long, purely 
 text-based lists of the available options. Descriptions of the various choices are sometimes helpful, 
 and sometimes not, which may leave you wondering whether you're making the best choices you could 
 be.  

          The game's interface takes getting used to, but the turn-based combat is complex and faithfully 
 adapted from the source material.     

  As a result, if you don't already know enough about post-3rd Edition D&amp; D to know that "cleave" 
 is an extremely useful feat for a fighter, or that any wizard worth his salt should learn "fireball" 
 at his or her earliest opportunity, then The Temple of Elemental Evil will be very difficult or 
 even bewildering as you slog through the character-building process. It would have been great if 
 the game, like Neverwinter Nights, allowed you to automatically choose "recommended" features for 
 a character upon leveling up or during character creation. An interactive tutorial, a comprehensive 
 manual, and a text-driven in-game help system should collectively provide someone with all the 
 information they need to play and enjoy the game, but The Temple of Elemental Evil is certainly 
 skewed toward those who already know their way around a Dungeons &amp; Dragons game.  

  These players will most quickly notice the bugs in the game, but they are also the least likely 
 to be overly disappointed by them. The bugs here generally aren't showstoppers, and they simply 
 mean that certain skills, spells, or items won't work as you'd probably expect them to. But some -- such 
 as how monsters encountered while resting may spawn inside solid walls -- are pretty annoying. In 
 addition, the game has some AI problems. Pathfinding issues occasionally cause your party to become 
 split up, especially in the temple's tight corridors, which can be really bad if just a couple 
 of your characters blunder into an encounter. Also, some enemies will occasionally ignore your 
 party members as you walk right into their midst, killing off some of their companions. And, in 
 general, the game just seems rough around the edges, mostly on account of the unwieldy interface, 
 and in some other details such as how spells and arrows seem to fly forth from characters' heads 
 rather than their hands. Most all these issues could be resolved by a patch or two, but their presence 
 in the retail version still means most players' experiences with The Temple of Elemental Evil will 
 hit a few snags.  

  Too bad about that, because The Temple of Elemental Evil otherwise looks really great. Using a 
 combination of fully 3D, texture-mapped character models and richly detailed prerendered background 
 art, the game's look really comes alive and makes this one of the most visually impressive computerized 
 Dungeons &amp; Dragons experiences to date. The various monsters in the game feature most all the 
 D&amp; D classics like goblins, gnolls, bugbears, trolls, gelatinous cubes, hill giants, lizardmen, 
 and more, as well as some more-esoteric critters like giant crayfish, giant toads, and others. 
 These are faithfully based on the source fiction, yet they have real character and personality 
 in their lifelike, highly articulated movements. Simply put, the character graphics in The Temple 
 of Elemental Evil really help the game's cause. Even your own party of adventurers looks great, 
 thanks to their realistically rippling capes and robes. Some generous spurts of blood and some 
 impressive spell effects further add to the game's sharp look, though all this can be resource-intensive 
 for slower systems. You'll notice how the game's larger battles noticeably impact your system's 
 ability to render everything that's going on, and you may need to tone down some graphical options 
 to get the game running smoothly.  

          The Temple of Elemental Evil may not be as epic as some other D&amp; D role-playing games, 
 but it does a fine job of capturing the spirit of Dungeons &amp; Dragons.     

  The game's audio is very good, as well. An ambient musical score makes ample use of bass riffs 
 and percussion, eschewing the typical symphonic soundtracks found in virtually all RPGs for a sound 
 that's much more interesting. The only problem with the music is that there really isn't enough 
 of it, and you'll hear the same combat themes, as good as they are, repeat frequently. Other than 
 that, the voice work in the game isn't plentiful but is mostly good, and the actual sound effects 
 of battle -- monster groans, swords slicing their targets, the clack of crossbows firing, and so 
 forth -- are very well done.  

  Despite its bugs, The Temple of Elemental Evil stands as one of the most authentic PC Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons experiences of the past few years. Rather than try to deliver some sort of epic, 
 original storyline, the developers paid homage to a classic D&amp; D campaign by faithfully capturing 
 its settings and its challenges in a computer RPG. The result is a hack-and-slash game that's made 
 entertaining by its complex combat system and great graphics and that suitably rewards your efforts 
 as you survive numerous, difficult encounters to find your characters becoming much stronger. It's 
 too bad that the game is rather rough around the edges, as issues with the interface and gameplay 
 can occasionally undermine the fun. Then again, The Temple of Elemental Evil has some decent replay 
 value, for good measure, due to its different intros and endings and to the overall depth of the 
 highly refined game system that the developers managed to translate from the printed D&amp; D rulebooks 
 to a very good computer game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Procrastin
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up in a bargain bin recently and it was almost worth the $5 I spent on it. I was 
 in the mood for some old-school DnD style gaming and that's what this is. It is perhaps a little 
 too-hard core since if you're like me, and you've never actually played the paper and dice version 
 of the game you'll find your self at a loss as to what "feats" to pick and what exactly some spell 
 do. The learning curve is quite steep at first as basically anything can, and will kill you.
  I did enjoy the first several hours of game play even though the number of bugs present kept me 
 saving constantly so that I wouldn't lose my progress in the frequent crashes. 
  
  That said, the crashes make the game unplayable by the end of the game as it lead to hard lock 
 ups repeatedly on my system to the point where I couldn't even play for more than 5 minutes at 
 a time. There is a modding community which supposedly has fixed a lot of flaws, however even with 
 their fixes I was not able to return my game to a useable state.
  
  Overall it's somewhat fun, but only pick this up if you're willing to risk the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharizden
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the buggiest game I have played to date! But once - or should I say; finally, 
 after many wasted downloads - I finally managed to get this bug-infested game to play on Windows 
 XP, I found it to be very enjoyable, and highly addictive.
  
  However, after the god-knows-how-many crashes & freezes, I finally gave up in despair of ever completing 
 this game.
  
  I did enjoy the fresh looking interface, but perhaps it was the "new" game rules, or the Radial 
 menu set-up, but it just didn't "feel" right.
  
  Having said all that, I highly enjoyed what part I did get to play (which I believe was probably 
 about half the campaign.) I was soo looking forward to completing this game, after reading all 
 the positive reviews when it came out (which was when I got it.) However, a complete re-build of 
 the computer system, and 2 fresh re-installs of XP later, I finally got to start playing the game. 
 I only wish I could complete it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimes73
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil deserves two votes here from me (as it is often the case for extremely 
 bugged productions) : 4 is my vote to the final product that came out on the stores. Too many gamebreakings 
 bugs plagued ToEE, making it simply unplayable. But then the never forgotten Troika developers 
 released a series of patches that helped quite much to make the experience more enjoyable. The 
 real big contribution though comes from the Co8's fan made patch 5.0.5 (current version but being 
 still updated) that solve numerous bugs and improve the game's playability in many senses. With 
 this patch on, the games jumps from an insufficient score to a full 7. Let's comment on what does 
 not work (anyway) despite fixes and tweaks: the voice acting is often at amateur level, the 2D 
 background artwork is sometimes excellent (mostly indoor scenarios) while others is subpar (mostly 
 outdoor areas) . The sound effects are okay and the music is rather uninspired. Excellent, like 
 I said in the deck, the D&D 3.0 rules implementation with special mention for time-based fights. 
 I would classify the encounters in ToEE like the most interesting and rewarding I have ever played 
 in a RPG. The presentation of the game itself is also extremely good with a deep and highly customizable 
 player creation. The 3D graphic is also good and it's a pleasure to see your party "sneak". What 
 makes the game stand out is also an extremely good characterization. You will end up remembering 
 what enemies you fought against. Save random encounters (boring as they can ever be) and usual, 
 impersonal horde of enemies in mass fights, there are names and fights you will not forget: they 
 will seamlessly blend through the game and will make you think that you are living some real experience. 
 And this, for a RPG, is the greatest success. It's sad that Troika didn't have the time and the 
 chance to finalize their game because I am sure that with more resources (to go to the sound and, 
 in a minor way, to the graphic department) , this game could have become an unforgettable experience. 
 It will certainly be such for those who try playing it without patches (both official and unofficial) 
 but more in the sense of a nightmare. But my final score is still 7 because there are out there 
 the means to make the game climb the ranks so I believe it's just fair to review the product in 
 its best possible version. It's "broken"... but it can be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil is a slow paced and delightful RPG focused on the strategic aspect of 
 Dungeon & Dragon. The story is rather bland, and fighting is what makes it shine. If you don't 
 like turn based combat, slowly fought to the end with the help of your brain and the rulebook, 
 you can't enjoy TOEE. If you don't use the rich panel of possibilities offered by D&D rules, pondering 
 what to use and what to use not, carefully planing moves and actions, you can't beat your opponents. 
 Don't be fooled by the isometric aspect of the game : it has nothing to do with an action RPG, 
 neither does it come close to the Baldur's style. The more related gameplay you can find is in 
 the last Pool of Radiance.
  
  TOEE is a great learning tool. Perhaps you are, like many PC RPG gamers (myself included) , a bit 
 confused about the "behind the click" mechanics of Dungeon & Dragon. This game offers you the possibility 
 to learn and understand what is at work in the mysterious calculation department. The 3.5 edition 
 of Dungeon & Dragon rules guide is embedded in the game, and will provide you with every possible 
 information. Just click on any word related to the game mechanics (those words are in blue) , and 
 a window explaining the function of it pops up. Exact application of spells, details on rolls, 
 precisions about states, subtleties of bonuses, various interactions of hidden mathematical elements... 
 Everything is clearly exposed.
  
  Temple of Elemental Evil is a great RPG combat teacher and allows you to understand everything 
 of the game mechanics. And understand you must, if you don't want to die at the hands of your foes. 
 Combat is not easy in TOEE. Be smart, or be dead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1211212112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is just plain funny.
  This is one of those games that are heavily underappreaciated, but yet have so much to offer to 
 those that are seeking something a true game can give. The problem is, people judge books by their 
 covers, and therefore do not give them a decent chance to shine. This is one of the examples ( 
 Mark of Chaos is another one, and Bandits - Phoenix Rising, and on and on... ) , and I am really 
 confused on this one. Gamespot has the best reputation as a game site, they have, like, all the 
 information a person would need to hear related to any type of game, and yet here I am, looking 
 at Temple of Elemental Evil - s ( ToEE in further text ) screens, and wondering - Does the guy 
 that made the screens have a 15 year old, or a 150 year old computer? The resolution on some screens 
 could very well be 320 x 192, and that just SUCKS. I remember that ToEE inspired me in some ways, 
 and I remember that, although short, it gave me quite an enjoyable experience. I play DnD in real 
 life, and I am telling you this - ToEE is the game you want to play if you love DnD. Neverwinter 
 Nights is a... meh.... good game, but the graphics suck ( even for that age, so don't go like - Oh 
 come on you retard it is an old game ) , BAH! ToEE is a year older than NWN, and yet it gave me 
 a more satisfying experience, and I don't see people hurling to play ToEE, no...
  
  Anyhow, I am not here to bash, but to compare. It is what I always do, and giving examples is the 
 best way of explaining something to someone. Now...
  
  Graphics - For that age, they are beautiful, as mentioned before. Although, different tastes may 
 think otherwise, but I am telling you my opinion on this matter. I like the way battle is overviewed, 
 so you get a good view of everything that is going on at the moment. It is a little confusing at 
 first to master the moving techniques, so you can cooperate them with effective graphical performance 
 ( especially in cities ( especially in BIG cities ) ) , but once you get the hang of it, it is perfect
 
  
  Sound - The sound is, as I recall, very good I must say. The music in the background is soothing, 
 the ambient sounds are realistic ( even if you don't have a surround system ) , and there are no 
 annoying repeative battle shouts like, Goddes take you now!, I shall smite thee Wicked!!! and so 
 on, blah blah
  
  Gameplay - This is mainly connected to the fact are you a DnD player. To DnD players, this is paradise. 
 To normal RPG-ers, this is an enjoyable experience, to normal players who play everything, this 
 is a very good game, and to the people who play RPG-s for the first time.... well, I think they 
 should consider other games, because to master ToEE, you need to know at least some basics of the 
 DnD ruleset. Like, I liked the game when I played it the first time, and I had no idea what the 
 hell is DnD, so when it said 19-20 / x2, I thought that I have some sort of penalty, and didn't 
 use that weapon, so I was mainly stuck with Warhammers, Greatclubs and such ;-)
  
  Multiplayer - Unfortunately, this game offers absolutely no multiplayer, BUT, you can play something 
 like a hot seat mode, where 2 or more players are playing on the same comp, and picking what they 
 do in their round, which can be quite interesting if you have the humor and spirit to do such a 
 thing. I've tried it with some of my friends, and we had a blast. Allthough we couldn't talk with 
 the GM, or ask him for suggestions ( duh, it is a computer ) we really felt like in a realistic 
 DnD game
  
  Value - It is definetely worth the spent money, and with the main company of this game recently 
 shut down, I think they won't sue you if you Download it from somewhere ( Torrents are a f****ng 
 mirracle, I'll tell you that ) , so even if you don't buy the original, you won't lose any special 
 benefits.
  
  Overall - Dungeons and Dragons - The Temple of Elemental Evil is a splendid, multifuncional game. 
 You can have fun with it, you can have fun with your friends, or you could learn DnD rules through 
 this game ( sort of )
  I won't say it is the best game I have ever played, but I would certainly put it in my top 15, 
 and I stand behind what I said - 1 ) Buy this game, you won't be dissapointed. 2 ) Remember, whatever 
 others say, this is THE DnD game. No other game can give you this much DnD loyalty as ToEE.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Not only is this game one of the worst, unrefined, poorly coded, shoddenly controled Dunegons and 
 Dragons games in the last decade, but its also one of the worst games I've ever played period.
 
  
  I love D&amp; D PnP, this game however much you want to beleive could be like real DnD isnt... this 
 game totally fails to execute pretty much anything.
  
  Bad glitchy poorly run graphics, decent sound, terrible terrible controls. Little to no explaination 
 about the games weird interpriation of some of the already complicated game rules.
  
  The game also starts extremely bad, stupid story, horrible first quest. I've been trying to like 
 this game on and off for 4 years now.
  
  I thought maybe I really didnt like DnD anymore, so I picked up DnD tactics for the PSP to test 
 myself. I think DnD tactics is an 8 to 9 score game.
  
  So congratulations to ToEE - you get a 1 and I hate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake14159
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I have played almost every DnD game out there. This game is at least in the top 10. I would take 
 a Baldur's gate 2 or NWN over this game any day of the week , but overall TOEE is an awesome game. 
 The fact that you can create your whole party from scratch is a cool feature. The different opening 
 are cool because it gives your party a different motive than beat the crap out of the bad guy. 
 The only real problem I have with the game is you never hit the enemy. My guy has +13 on a weapon 
 fighting a goblin and he never hits him. Now maybe that's just me but that's the only reason this 
 game is not a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithburgun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  There's almost nothing as sad as the story of Troika, guys who really wanted to make RPGs and knew 
 how to do it, but who were just getting screwed by the media and by their publishers because they 
 cared about game design and things that matter to real gamers, instead of just caring about screenshot 
 power and big **** or whatever it is that lawyers think makes a game sell.
  
  You have to download the Co8 mod and other patches to get this game to work correctly, but once 
 you've done that, it's a TON of fun. It's like Baldur's gate, except with a WAYYYY better true-turn 
 based combat system and badass 3D graphics. The animations and sound for combat are BRILLIANT, 
 the voice-acting is BADASS (as usual for them) and you simply MUST play this game if you like CRPGs. 
 Note that the difficulty IS very hard with this game, it's very true D&amp; D so you really have 
 to TRY... it's like the opposite of Oblivion in that it doesnt hold your hand at all.
  
  The saddest thing is that no one makes games like this anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kataragirl
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  In this game you should create or pic a team of five members, later in the game you'll be able 
 to hire tree more maximum. Then you will go to a town named - Homlet were your adventures will 
 begin. There you will meet many different people. The game alouse you to choose an aunser to the 
 qeastion that the person from the game askes you. You will have missions. For their complection 
 you'll get expeareance that will help you encreace your level. In the game you'll be able to travel 
 all over the map, kill enimies and collect, buy, sell things and armor. tHERE ARE A LOT OF DIFERENT 
 ENDING OF THE GAME. The main vilan- lady of Fungy. Well Enough of talking try it uot and you'll 
 see that it is neet! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  the first time i played i had to restart as it crashed whenever i loaded the game so that was a 
 rather bad start. one patch later and i just had to put up with creatues in the walls and for some 
 reason some of my characters couldnt move in combat, i think they had the bird flu of the greyhawk 
 realm.
  
  the game has the best use of d&d 3rd edition rules. it is how they are actually meant to be played 
 and turn based is so often over looked these days in favour of 1st person shooters and 3rd person.... 
 well shooters in general. i like not having to have my hands on every key on the key board and 
 clicking the mouse wildly like some kids with ADD. it is good to be able to stop and have a drink 
 of tea, coffee or even a beer without the fear of having to go skitzo on the mouse and keyboard 
 again.
  
  got to say well done to the CO8 team. they turned a serious buggy game into something great. i 
 know troika would have liked to have finished it but they had to create other games to keep the 
 money backers happy. thats an angry story for another day i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torq2112
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Too bad it needs a bunch of patches right out of the box to play right. This game isn't that bad 
 once you get it patched and stable. Toika should have waited a bit to release and get more of the 
 more disturbing bugs worked out. Then maybe, just maybe, this would have been a hit instead of 
 $hit.
  
  I'm actually on old D&amp; D pen&amp; paper player from way back (started in '79) and I thought this 
 game wasn't a bad representation of the genre, but not a really greeat one either. It was further 
 hindered by the newer ruleset (this module was written with the original 1st edition rules and 
 works better with them.
  
  But anyway, once patched it''s not bad, but it could've been so much more. And that my friends, 
 is a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malifax2
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil was a game I was looking very forward to playing. It seemed to have a 
 very old-school feel to it right out of the box. I created my party and had a blast doing it. The 
 character creation was very detailed and thorough. The game had different BEGINNINGS based on your 
 party's alignment. Very nice. I must say that ToEE has some of, if not THE, best turn-based combat 
 I have seen in a CRPG. Very well done. All this is thrown to waste though due to some very unfortunate 
 circumstances. First, the game is broken. I needed to apply a fan-made patch just to get the game 
 playable on XP. I had lots of crashes to desktop even AFTER this patch. The story seemed forced, 
 and repetitive. Been there done that a thousand times over. No real newness to it at all, no big 
 plot twists or turns to keep me interested. Overall, ToEE is a very average game, unfortunately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinotenshi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  After just finshing NWN2 all i am left with is the reminder that TOEE is the finest D&amp; D game 
 ever. if you complain about dieing and having to think esp when you are low level then this is 
 not the game for you. But if you enjoy the beauty of Combat, of molding characters from clay in 
 steel, this is the game for you. There are bugs but no more than NWN2. In short if you ever wanted 
 to understand the essence of what D&amp; D is, then this is the game to play. What it lacks in story 
 in more than makes up for with the deepest, and most rewarding combat system, God or, the universe 
 or any Family of deities ever saw fit to put in a RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  First, I'd like to say that this game is good, better than most would give it credit for, simply 
 because of the plethora of uninspired and silly games. Also, the music and dramatic tile sets used 
 to create this game are grand and lovely. The attention to replicating D&amp; D rules is not perfect 
 but markedly better than most D&amp; D computer games that are available, to the point of excellence 
 in light of joystick shooter versions of D&amp; D. Sadly, it still is a shoot magic missiles at 
 the monsters sort of affair, and never rises above situations where fighting or pointless delivery 
 quests are the height.
  
  The guys who made this game did not do their best, but it plays like Broadway Shakespeare as performed 
 by drunks. The Temple of Elemental Evil was a game module for AD&amp; D first edition, and to be 
 complete should include the module Village of Hommlet, which this rendition does include.
  
  Regrettably, aside from some misplaced humour, the game falls short of all it could be. The 
 guys in Troika locate incredible music and arrange dramatic lighting but aren't so very good with 
 dialogue and adventure, and stink at gameplay variety. As I have stated elsewhere, Troika seems 
 to have three writers, a South Park style humourist, a scholarly poetic type, and a guy that wants 
 to script fighting without much relevance. The combination falls flat, because they do not seem 
 to work at the same high level.
  
  It is sad that Troika is considered to be an excellent game developer by afficianado of Fallout, 
 Baldur's Gate, and other games by the triumviate of Bioware, Black Isle, and Troika. It is equally 
 sad that people scoff this game due to claims that it lacks where it actually excels. It excels 
 as a game to tide oneself over til a smart D&amp; D computer game of genuine and honest quality 
 is designed, presuming one is fond of D&amp; D to begin with, which I am.
  
  I particularly rue the lack of village politics that was reduced to romantic squabbles and small 
 silliness that never truly arises into interest, but it is obviously an assumption that permitting 
 players to focus on social issues as a centerfuge of gameplay, avoiding battle for hours of gameplay, 
 would be to the detriment of the game entire, an entire falsity and foolish as an approach with 
 the depth of the game material drawn from.
  
  If there were a different team working with the same game, well educated and interested in actually 
 designing a good and deep game of D&amp; D as played within Village of Hommlet and Temple of Elemental 
 Evil, I'm sure they might have a better game on their hands and so would we.
  
  As is, what we find are haphazzard game elements that seem consumed with foolery and folly, very 
 drunken, and not quite ready to play in a serious, commercial venue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The game doesn't feature a lot of story. Other than in the start, its pretty much a hack and slash 
 in the dungeon game. There are only two towns, both of which are limited in detailed npc. The first 
 story segment is generally just to give you a reason to be in the dungeon, and its pretty forgettable 
 once the battles start. I wish it had more atmosphere and story, but it doesn't really take away 
 from the core game much. You main goal is simply to explore a large temple.
  
  The character models are nice and go well with 2d backgrounds. If you've played Baldurs gate, you'll 
 have an idea of what to expect. The animations are more fluid, especially with the monster design. 
 The spell animation are top-notch. The style is similar enough to most infinity engine games, if 
 not better, so its something easy on the eye and familiar.
  
  The best part, and the bulk of the game, is the battle system. 3.5 rules fully applied. Gone are 
 the fast paced realtime battle of recent crpgs, in comes a tactical system to set standards. You 
 control 5 pc characters in turnbased battle. The menu system and interface is grid based similar, 
 but improved, to neverwinters nights. During battle, your characters have option to full attacks, 
 trip attacks, feints, flanks, withdraw, defense against spells, and many more. All of this plays 
 out with initiative, placing all characters and monsters in a certain order to act. There are tons 
 of options, keeping the battles from ever becoming canon fodder for your heroes. Speaking of which, 
 the game is hard. It will keep you on your toes. No more click-fest. It will be to much for the 
 weak, a welcome challenge for the gamers looking to have their skills tested.
  
  Everything about the game seems to be designed for old-school gamers in mind. This is for the true 
 d&amp; d players. The battle system rocks. Since it is based on an existing module, your max level 
 is only 10. Also, the game is rather short. You only have two dungeons to explore, and two towns. 
 Though, the temple itself is BIG. Finally, the original version of this game has its share of bugs. 
 This shouldn't be an issue once patching is done, otherwise its not gamebreaking, but frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchexxx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  It's a shame that Troika is dead by now, I enjoyed a lot both The Temple of Elemental Evil and 
 Arcanum. But this is an example of how great RPG games should be made, despite it's ocasionally 
 dumb bugs, this game is awesome!
  Being the only Dungeons & Dragons game set in the oldest campaign of D&D, Greyhawk, this game proves 
 D&D gaming gets like a bottle of wine, the older it gets, the better you get from it. This is my 
 favorite D&D game because I learned most of the D&D rules by playing it. If you need to learn the 
 rules, this is the best D&D teacher you can get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on September 16th of 2003, Troika Games released their second game of three before closing 
 down. Troika set out to give players a unique Dungeons and Dragons experience wanting to create 
 a realistic table-top experience in a unique setting where computer games havent traveled before. 
 From all the success of the Baldurs Gate and Icewind Dale games, one could assume that The Temple 
 of Elemental Evil (TOEE) would be a success. Players still are creating mods for Baldurs Gate 
 to this very date breathing new life into the Black Isle/Bioware games. Could this same stroke 
 of success come with TOEE?
  
  If youve ever played Dungeons and Dragons (DnD) , youre familiar with the TOEE adventure, a pre-designed 
 adventure/module that professional game writers created for players to purchase and then Dungeon 
 Master to their own party and friends around a table. Well, Troika first picked out the Greyhawk 
 setting and then proceeded to choose a popular adventure and came to the conclusion of choosing 
 the TOEE module. They chose to go with a pre-designed adventure so that they could focus more on 
 developing the game instead of creating a unique adventure, plus if it was one that fans were familiar 
 with, theyd be more adept to being interested in it. The story of the TOEE is pretty cut and dry 
 with an adventuring party coming into the village of Hommlet and learning of the Temple of Elemental 
 Evil. The temple, which was closed up by ancient wizards and mages to once and for all lock all 
 the evil demons inside seems to have been breached and now strange things are lurking across the 
 land where it had once been peaceful. There is quite a bit of small tasks and quests to do throughout 
 the village Hommlet where you can build up your party and each of these quests are unique enough 
 to easily separate themselves from each other, but it just seems like youre grinding away to build 
 your characters up before you make your way to the actual temple. And this feeling of grinding 
 is from the game being an actual DnD adventure instead of something created fresh from the developers. 
 When Black Isle created the storyline for the Baldurs gate games, they started fresh for both 
 and built the adventure from there giving the player quite a few hours of gameplay with a lot of 
 quests along the way that made the story progress keeping the player interested. TOEE does have 
 quite a few quests, but all the quests are centered around a couple different areas and the amount 
 of walking can get quite tedious if youve seen it ten times before. Unlike either the Baldurs 
 Gate or Icewind Dale games though, in TOEE, your characters only go from level one to level ten 
 and this what might make the grinding so long because of the lack of areas to explore when progressing 
 through the game till you reach the final temple. But were not here to compare the two games, 
 Im just trying to show how the story of TOEE can be seen as lacking.
  
  The Temple of Elemental Evil is the first game ever to use the 3.5 rule set of DnD and this is 
 convenient because these are the rules that everyone interested in DnD associates with. In the 
 beginning, youre able to create up to five party members which is quite fun with all the different 
 combinations you can have. Along your adventuring way, youll be able to gain members around the 
 different villages to up your party to eight members total to take on Greyhawks toughest monsters 
 Youre able to choose everything for them in the 3.5 rule set all the way down to their alignment 
 and alignment does count because each alignment has a different starting point in the game. The 
 issue youll have with dealing with alignment is that all of the characters within your party have 
 to be somewhat close in alignment so you wont have to deal with confrontations between opposing 
 personalities. There are quite a bit of different customizations that you can do to your characters 
 including height and weight along with different hair colors. Trying to stick as close as they 
 can to the rule set, Troika made combat within the game turn-based game. While this helps to regulate 
 the DnD rule set easier, it also makes the game last quite a long time in some battles. And because 
 of the many different rules in DnD, this is where the game runs into trouble. Dealing with different 
 abilities such as dodge and the different types of attacks in DnD, it can be quite hard to implement 
 every rule perfectly into the combat system. Even though combat is turn-based and because of it, 
 the rules being easier to implement, this is where the game struggles. Because of all the rules 
 and different configurations that are needed with the different feats and abilities, bugs are numerous 
 in TOEE and to hardcore DnD fans, this is unacceptable. To the average gamer that is not as familiar 
 with the rule set, they could probably easily play the game without noticing any of this, but Troika 
 had to know from the outset that this game would appeal more to the hardcore DnD people. One thing 
 should be said about the turn-based combat though, and that is that it creates a strategic depth 
 not found in other DnD games, but at a cost of having a slower gameplay with numerous bugs.
  
  Graphics within the game are quite nice with the different characters that you can create and 
 the different NPCs spread throughout the game are both unique and separate from each other because 
 of all the different types of clothing that is available at the different shops around the towns. 
 Each of the characters and monsters have nice animations where cloaks and hoods sway with each 
 footstep to make the characters more realistic in the game. The different environments that youll 
 adventure through are nicely detailed with a combination of pre-rendered backgrounds and constant 
 graphics. The village of Hommlet and the village of Nulb are quite different and so are their art 
 designs and the design of the Temple of Elemental Evil was done to what anyone could have imagined 
 it. The art and graphics have to be somewhat of a high point in this game and this gives some humor 
 to the situation because in games such as this, dealing with DnD, fans would probably have graphics 
 be one of the lowest components of the game that they would want to care about, but this is where 
 TOEE shines. The different spell affects are quite nice and unique and the combat animations look 
 great with each and every character you see.
  
  The music within in the game shines also, but there is basically only one problem and that is that 
 there really isnt enough of it. With the extended amount of time that youll be in combat, youll 
 soon learn to loathe the musical score that plays while taking on the different zombies and wraiths 
 in the Temple of Elemental Evil. When choosing and making your different characters, youre able 
 to choose different voice sets for them which youll hear throughout the game as you give them 
 different actions. While the different voices are nice, there really isnt a lot of choose from 
 at the start up. However, the different voices of the NPCs that youll meet throughout your adventures 
 provide depth to the different characters.
  
  One nice feature that this game could have had was a multiplayer component. There is some replay 
 qualities to the game with the different combinations of characters you could take along the adventure, 
 but I think developers are overshooting themselves when they say that TOEE has a non-linear storyline. 
 There really is one set path for you to take, its just the grinding that youre subdued to throughout 
 the games length. And not having any modding tools released for the game truly does hurt the fan 
 community down considerably. Some fans have gotten together to try and make their own patches for 
 the game considering that only three were released for this game, and thats quite a small amount 
 considering the amount of bugs in the game. The fan patches help out quite a bit, but one can only 
 compare this games support to Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines, another game by the same developer 
 where fans had to take it upon themselves to patch the game up the way it was meant to be played.
 
  
  Everything aside, besides the numerous bugs, the lack of patch support and having no modding tools 
 available, TOEE does try its hardest to stick true to the DnD 3.5 rule set. You could easily say 
 that this game incorporates DnD rules the best out of all the DnD games so far including the BG 
 and IWD series and also Neverwinter Nights. From Troikas three titles they released before they 
 closed down including Arcanum, TOEE, and Vampire: TM  B, one can easily see they had great visions 
 for their games, its just that they couldnt execute the final product all the way through whether 
 it was because of the lack of time, funds, or support from their publisher, one can only guess. 
 If youre a fan of other DnD games or want a game that sticks to the rule set, pick this game up 
 and use the fan patches and have a good experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  As I said in my title "TERRIFIC". I have been waiting so long for a 3.5 rule edition game. And 
 to all you Dungeon and Dragons players out there ITS 95% OF THE RULES!!! The game has the best 
 battle system EVER!!! Its clean and efficient. Greatest thing is it only cost me 10 bucks. The 
 graphics are the best out there currently for RPG's of its style. The backrounds are prerendered 
 besides water and vegetation and all the character models are 3D. The only problems I have with 
 the game is it has a few bugs, which do not effect the gameplay much. 
  Overall ALL D&D Players MUST BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Rogue
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Im a little bias, having played the old paper and pencil rpg. I do like it alot, but in the end 
 it has tech issues. Certain bonuses aren't applied correctly or at all, some of the final dungeons 
 literally lag (my system isn't the greatest but I out shine the recommended specs) I even had one 
 characters have a permanent reflex check somehow bestowed upon him as well as some graphical glitches 
 (but what games doesn't have those) . Plus an added DM tip here or there would've been niceas well 
 as a comfirmation of your actions before you exicute them (I would try to click to do one thing 
 and all of a sudden my character would run in the wrong area, my fault but idiot proof it for me 
 plz, I play late at night and the expresso wears off every now and then) . I do like to turn based 
 combat, very reminisant of the old days and the use of the 3.5 rules is a cool bonus. It has good 
 sound f/x and music, great graphics for an iso and it's loads of fun when it; s not acting funny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  I started playing D&D way back in the mid-eighties. I remember getting together with a group of 
 school friends and playing that first game. We were round my house in our loft conversion, which 
 was quite small and a bit dark but that added to the atmosphere.
  
  We started playing and 12 hours later we finally finished our first adventure, it was awesome and 
 something that was repeated many times after. We were all totally hooked on it.
  
  So since those days I have always been looking out for a computer game that could re-enact those 
 days but on my computer screen. Many games came along and they were all not up to the task and 
 by that I mean they did not use the full and proper D&D rule-set.
  
  Then, sometime in 2003, a friend bought me The Temple Of Elemental Evil and I installed it. I was 
 not sure what to expect, I had tried so many games before but I gave it a chance. How wrong I was, 
 this game rocked, it had everything I was looking for. The game was based on v3.5 of the official 
 rules, you could have large parties of up to eight (5 adventurers and 3 followers) , all the skills 
 and class abilities were there with over 50 feats and hundreds of spells.
  
  This was the game I used to play, I was very impressed. I played the game for hours and hours, 
 enjoying every minute of it. Graphically, it was a rich and colourful world and the animation looked 
 great. The sound is spot one with plenty of rousing scores and atmospheric background noises to 
 keep you on your toes.
  
  The whole thing is set in the Greyhawk setting, one of my favourite D&D campaigns. One of the best 
 bits about it though is that there are multiple start points and endings so no two games are ever 
 the same. I have played through it a few times now and never started or completed it in the same 
 way. A really nice touch.
  
  So, if you are looking for a great turn based RPG that is based on the official D&D v3.5 core rule-set 
 then this is the game for you, I can't recommend it enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  this game has pretty impressive visuals. other then that this game is horrible. I am a die hard 
 D&D fan but this is not anything like D&D is. I mean the control system is constantly having problems. 
 You get alot of misses and horrible hits, also you get stuck on walls and in levels. Once you go 
 into a level you cannot get out unless you beat it which will take alot of time and annoy you soo 
 much. The sound is also annoying with the same 2 voice overs constantly playing while you move 
 your character or party around. OVerall is say do not get this game at all. I wouldnt even take 
 it for FREE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most bug-ridden piece of software I have ever purchased. There really 
 isn't much of a story to it, you basically briefly go to a couple of towns, and then start running 
 around in a big dungeon, killing stuff. In terms of dungeon crawls, its OK if that is all you are 
 really looking for. The combat is turn-based, and actually is probably the one thing Troika/Atari 
 did well. But thats about where it ends. This is the first game I have ever played, where it seems 
 to lag no matter what is happening. Scrolling is a mess, and the way you select actions is a pure 
 disaster. You basically right click on a PC, and a ring of 4 or 5 options, each with a submenu 
 of selections, and, sometimes, those submenus have submenuse (for example, whe casting a spell) . 
 By the time you go to pick what you want to do, your mouse pointer is on the other side of the 
 screen. The gameplay overall is pretty annoying, but the bugs are the worst part of it (especially 
 the bugs that cause graphics glitches and blunders) .
  
  Unfortunately, you can tell this game had quite a bit of potential. it has a bit of an eerie feel 
 to it once you get inside the temple, and you have a good deal of flexibility with how you create 
 and develop your party. Unfortunately, the bugs are not only with scrolling and graphics, but a 
 lot of the abilities and spells apparently don't work right, either.
  
  Overall, the marginal amount of enjoyment you might get will be superceded by the constant annoying 
 bugs you have to deal with. in short, it's just not worth fighting through the bugs to try to enjoy 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryx42
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  If I were still role playing, this would still be one of my favorite mods. They left out some of 
 the more interesting plot points in my opinion. The story line in the Baldur's Gate series was 
 much more in depth and it seems like back sliding in any D&D setting to not give the story more 
 focus. I'm also not the biggest 3rd addition fan and would prefer a more palidium type skill based 
 system then some of the feats they have available at lower levels.
  
  Graphics - A good job but nothing to write home about.
  
  Sound - Nothing about the sound impressed 
 me enough to leave it on.
  
  Gameplay - a bit choppy and less enjoyable than Baldur's Gate if you've played that.
  
  Value 
 - Even with the different possible begginings and endings, I wasn't inticed to play it more than 
 once.
  
  Tilt - A serious let down on something that had so much potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  I may be a little skewed in my opinion about this game because I am a RPG fanatic. If you are a 
 fan of the Icewind dale/Baldurs gate series this game is a must. We jsut dont see any REAL roleplaying 
 games as of late. This game will quench your thirst for the time being. Until we get a company 
 like SSI who knows how to create a good roleplaying game we will have to do with what they give 
 us. This game is worth buying. The story is mediocre but the gameplay is great. The game has a 
 Baldurs gate feel to it with better graphics. We need to find a way to get companys to produce 
 more quality roleplaying games and the only way is to buy them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gix47
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  it has some flaws, like you can not rotate the camera and its a bit to tuff but in all i still 
 live this game and am a little sad becouse wizards more then likly will never make a pc game based 
 in greyhawk, all the more reason to love this game, being a hard core d&d geek i have to love this 
 game and love i do!. Also i love the fact you could play a evil party but in all the towns people 
 still speak to you in the same manner and the message text is the same no matter whats your alignment 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsmone
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 9, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil is a game for the true DnD pen and paper player. 
  Out of the Box the game is hardly playable. Its buggy, crashes and has several game breaking misinterpretations 
 of the core rule books. To play this game at its full potential you will need to visit www. co8. com/forum 
 and read about their community fixes and mods available. Atari doesn't seem to want to support 
 this game and it really needs too. 
  The gameplay bascially is a 2d painted map with 3d characters on it. Similar to Icewind Dale or 
 Baldur's Gate's series. The radial menu to get characters to do actions can be cumbersome. This 
 is easily handled by hotkeying some of your most used commands. Even then you are forced to remember 
 which key you hotkeyed to a radial command. This makes battles take longer then they need to. The 
 combat is on a turn basis. As I said this game is for players already familiar with DnD rules. 
 Someone who has never played a game similar to it would be extremely confused. To speed up combat 
 some enemies will take their turn at the same time. This can get confusing when 3 or more enemies 
 all go and you miss exactly what they did. If you enjoy pen and paper DnD you will find TOEE a 
 great transition from 3.5 rules. The gameplay can be slow at times. 
  The story plot is very weak if non-exsistant. Its very unclear what your suppose to be doing from 
 the beginning. It kind of makes sense though. The developers are not holding your hand and forcing 
 you to do anything. There are plenty of small quests to do for experience. The missions are simple 
 and mostly redundant. I used a guide to assist me with the missions since its very hard to even 
 find one. The game is very hard till you get your party above level 2 and can fend for themselves. 
 You will spend at least your first 2 hours running around the first area trying to wrap all the 
 missions up. 
  Time changes from day to night. Different NPC's can be found roaming around depending on what time 
 it is. Days pass by but there really seems to be no reason to care what day it is. 
  The graphics are very high quality. Characters perform animations and it seems to give them life. 
 One thing it lacks is the ability to zoom in and out and see close up details. Its nice to find 
 a item, equip the item and actually see the character holding/using it. Magic has effects like 
 you would imagine. Very flashy and cool. This can also be a pain. If you have many magic effects 
 on you they all will be glowing on your character. Having 5-8 avatars on the screen with several 
 effects can cause performance issues on slower systems. 
  Sound. The music is either on the mark or annoying. Some of the music fits the climate perfectly. 
 Sound effects seem to land well and mixes well visually. Some of the back ground combat music is 
 too bassy and can get annoying quickly. Some of the spell effects are bugged and come across too 
 loud on the speakers. Characters seem speak to often. The inital voice selection is rather limited 
 and most pre-made voices are annoying. I personally found some custom voices and its make the game 
 so much better. Allot of sounds you will never hear without some form of mod installed. 
  Right now TOEE will be found cheap if not practially given away. With the proper patches and mods 
 its a great game in its own right. The information can be found on Atari's forums. Circle of Eight 
 www. co8. org are a great source of people who love TOEE and see its full potential. If you love 
 Pen and Paper DnD, have allot of patience, can sort through mods and patches, you will enjoy in 
 this game. With the lack of turn based RPG games on the market, this game will supress some of 
 your desire to go insane. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 25, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  Dear lord... this had the potential of entertaining me for a while, but life has moved us on from 
 pen-and-paper for a reason. If I wanted to spend 3 days between actions in a game, I wouldn't game 
 -- I would READ. The graphics are decent, and the sound is good foor 2003, but the gameplay is 
 tedious and downright annoying. Games like Diablo, Baldur's Gate and others have helped us move 
 past many of the obstacles that this game randomly forces you to endure.
  
  If you feel that your life should include nothing BUT playing a game, this game may be tolerable 
 to you. But, if you use games as a diversion from a rather busy life, this game is like a second 
 job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evest2
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  More of a dungeon crawl than anything. Little depth. I remember the real thing being much more 
 exciting. Perhaps it was the engine, but I'm used to a role playing game having more substance 
 now. I would have loved to have seen a NWN-like game applied to the awesome memories of that classic 
 module. Characters like Burn played a much greater role when we played it for real. Hommlet had 
 a lot of character. Instead, it was just a connect-the-dots for minor quests. All in all, it was 
 disappointing, but then again, it was facing a lot of hype because of the module. It would be very 
 cool, though, if they could continue to come up with remakes of old modules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhprime
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time D&D fan, I was psyched for the release of The Temple of Elemental Evil. It was 
 a great D&D adventure when it was published years ago and I remember that it was quite challenging 
 at the time. Troika did a great job implementing the PC version of the game. The game uses the 
 new 3rd Edition D&D rules (3.5 to be exact) and the added features of skills, feats and attacks 
 of opportunity really add a new dimension to the game. The graphics and sound are exceptional and 
 really achieve the goals of making the game creepy and great to look at. The only complaints I 
 had about the game had to do with the beginning ramping up stages and the technical issues. The 
 journey from first level characters to third is boring. Simple and often dumb quests in a few nondescript 
 villages and surrounding areas made for a slow start. I do not know why the developers couldn't 
 provide some more low level encounters in order to make levelling up a lot more fun. I also had 
 problems with the games bugginess. The interface was great, when it worked. Crashes and looting 
 bugs made the game tedious at times. To their credit, Troika did release a patch which alleviated 
 most of the problems. Despite these issues, it is a must play game for any D&D/RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great for D&D games, still 2D though. The gameworld is very well detailed, with 
 leaves falling from trees, grass and bushes flowing with the wind. Unfortunantly, there's not much 
 life to it. A guard may walk by here and there, but that's it; it really makes the game seem a 
 bit barren. Spell effects have seen a great improvement over any D&D game to date, with many great 
 and unique effects. 
  
  Sound is decent, a nice semi-slow song plays throughout the game, changing depending on your actions. 
 Nothing is really exciting about it though, which is somewhat of a dissapointment. 
  
  Greyhawk: The Temple of Elemental Evil is a turnbased game, so if you're expecting battles like 
 Neverwinter Nights or Infinity Engine games, you might be dissapointed. You really have to be a 
 fan of turnbased battles to enjoy this game. 
  
  You can now have a party of 8; you create 5 and you can hire 3. There's quite a few NPC's to hire, 
 though most of them are just fighters so in actuality, it's rather limited. With the hireables, 
 we come across the first and bigges annoyance of the game; hirelings will take a share of the loot. 
 
  
  Some will only take specifics, one guy takes only gold (and a half a share at that) , another one 
 takes ALL wizard scrolls (which basically makes having 2 wizards an impossibility) . Though some 
 will take a little of everything, filling up there inventories disabling you from transfering items 
 (so when you find an item just perfect for that character, to bad, their inventory is full and 
 they can't accept it) . Secondly, with all the items they'll easily go over their weight limit making 
 them run slower / not run at all. And of course, they always take the best item which they won't 
 drop / sell / give back. It really is one of the most annoying things I've seen in any game. 
 
  
  There are, unfortunantly, plenty of bugs to follow that up. Most are only minor, and not game threatening 
 / ruining, but they're annoying none the less. There's a long list somewhere if you really want 
 to know what they are. 
  
  Back to the gameplay, something not seen in previous D&D games is how important each character 
 is. In Greayhawk: The Temple of Elemental Evil, you will really see the benefits of certain skills 
 and certain character types/skills. Speech/Diplomat skills are much more important than in other 
 games of it's kind. You get the idea, there's plenty of places and ways to see things like that, 
 you'll just have to play and see. 
  
  Greyhawk: The Temple of Elemental Evil is a pretty fun turnbased game that makes great use of the 
 3rd Edition rules. There are numerous challenging battles if that's the type of gameplay you like. 
 If you can get over the bugs and annoyances, you'll have a great time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallimoose
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 26, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a Baldur's Gate-esque type adventure when I picked up the Temple of Elemental Evil, 
 and I was sorely disappointed. Every so often a nice morsel of goodness will make itself apparent 
 in the game; but more often than not, TToEE is a boring, uninspired game that fails to stand out 
 amongst a sea of solid PC RPGs.
  
  Temple makes a poor first impression the moment it is booted up. The character creation process, 
 although very deep, lacks any sort of aid for understanding Dungeons and Dungeons 3.5. Games like 
 Neverwinter Nights held your hand if the complexity of the system put you in over your head -- Temple 
 leaves you to drown in the minutiae.
  
  It doesn't get much better. You choose your group's moral alignment upon starting, but the choice 
 is almost entirely superficial. You're treated to a different opening cinema depending on which 
 alignment you chose, but that's where the importance of the alignment system ends. After that, 
 you're plopped in the same town, and given the same main quest, regardless of your choice.
  
  The presentation is weak. The graphics are honestly at the Baldur's Gate level -- which is simply 
 inexcusable, considering that BG is 5 years old. The sound and the music do nothing to help. The 
 entire game feels like a stale and lonely slideshow of blatant unimportance, and it practically 
 begs you to hate it. 
  
  But I trudged on. One of the first houses you visit is occupied by a lone woman. You speak to her, 
 and she rambles something about how hard it is to take care of her many children. What is she talking 
 about? There are no children in the house, outside the house, or anywhere in the town. Searching 
 for these mythical childspawn was an exercise in vanity. They don't exist. 
  
  The game improves a little when quests start popping up -- albeit mostly uninspired, the quests at 
 least provide something to do. It's a shame they are mostly trekking quests -- you'll wander all 
 over town, delivering messages from husbands to wives and employees to bosses, all of it relevant 
 to the grand scheme of things in no conceivable way. You may stick with them, hoping something 
 intriguing pops up. Nothing ever does.
  
  The only gem in the entire game is the combat system, which is well thought-out, pretty well animated, 
 and simply addictive. Turn-based and tactical though it may be, I found myself continually interested 
 by everything it threw at me. It's sad that combat here is rather rare, at least in comparison 
 to most RPGs. I would have enjoyed the game better had the battles come more frequently.
  
  I've read that Atari rushed TToEE out of the door, thereby ripping it from the hands of the talented 
 folks at Troika. I believe it -- something is not right here. The entire game is an unfinished bore. 
 Perhaps with time it could have been something good, but we'll never know. 
  
  I recommend that any gamer intrested stay far away from this failure. There are dozens of better 
 PC RPGs out there -- don't punish yourself with this dreck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 25, 2004 7:02 am PT
Review:  When I first saw that a new D&D title was coming out and it was in old-school Grayhawk, I thought 
 I was in for a great game. Keep in mind, I have played a lot of D&D and I knew all of these rules 
 front and back. One of the best things about this game is it plays almost just like 3.5 D&D. The 
 fact is, the fun of this game wears off when you see that it barely has a story. The side quests 
 just seem like filler that don't really mater. I really think that they could have put more thought 
 into the story, because after all, RPGs are all about story.
  
  The game has many good points. You can play any party alignment, from Lawful Good all the way to 
 Chaotic Evil. I will say that the opening stories for each party are good, but the overall story 
 just wears off after awhile. With an evil party, you can go to work for the different elements 
 within the Temple, which is very cool and, in my opinion, better than being good. However, even 
 fighting on the side of the Temple, you end up killing most of the leaders in the Temple anyways. 
 It's just that playing as an evil party puts a different spin on the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are decent. Overall, I really like the way the whole game is set up. In 
 the future, another D&D game should be made with this set up, after some small improvements. The 
 patch fixes most of the issues that had with it when it first came out. With this set up and a 
 good Forgotten Realms story, we would have an awesome D&D game. After playing TOEE, I would say 
 that only hard core RPG fans and D&D players will end up enjoying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 26, 2004 4:13 am PT
Review:  Toee is a decent game though unfortunately it was crippled by major bugs, not only that patches 
 took about 6 months to come out. This is the only game I had to wait about 8 months to finish because 
 of constant crashings that were eventually fixed in a patch. It'd suggest heading to co8. org .It's 
 kinda poor when a third party group does a better job of patching and fixing quest bugs and annoying 
 features like the black fog that covers the towns. 
  
  Gameplay - Probably turn based D&D combat at it's best, quite technical and in some respects people 
 who know the D&D rules are going to get alot more out of playing this. It does start off quite 
 hard and it might put off the novice gamer, but stick it out. I found the gameplay interesting 
 but for me it started getting a bit repetitive one you hit the temple as you had enedless rooms 
 of monsters to decimate. Quests were fairly interesting, you could even side with the enemy so 
 it was quite flexible in it's approach.
  
  Graphics - Really sharp, I hope they make more D&D games with this. great spell effects.
  
 
  Sound - nice sound effects for the spells, music was excellent as well with fitting tracks in 
 most areas.
  
  Value- A fair amount of replay as the ending can be slightly different depending alot on what your 
 actions were.
  
  I'd suggest any D&D fan get it because basically there isn't alot of D&D games coming out so you 
 can't afford to be too choosey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Koala
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 25, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  ***Note: The difficulty has been classed just right since, for the most part, the game provides 
 an experience that is close enough to that descriptor.***
  
  The Temple of Elemental was one of the most promising D&D interpretations to date, with a thorough 
 implementation of the 3rd Edition rules and a module that is based on the Greyhawk area of the 
 franchise and was made under the supervision of the creator of the lore, Gary Gygax. It sounds 
 like a winning RPG on paper, but what you get is decidedly different. The Temple of Elemental is 
 full of a large number of glaring bugs right from the outset and, in general, the game just isnt 
 up to par with other D&D games or developer Trokias previous works.
  
  The game begins, appropriately enough, with you creating your party. Much like the Infinity engine-based 
 D&D games, your party consists of six characters, and the character creation is very true to the 
 pen-and-paper fare  aside from the requisite in-depth skill and feat selections you must make 
 (updated with the latest feats and spells) , you even have to roll to decide your statistics, 
 which is a neat touch. After setting some other options, such as the alignment of your party, youll 
 be taken to an opening vignette according to which alignment you chose, and although this may seem 
 impressive, these opening scenes are very short and whichever one you end up playing is a pretty 
 minuet point. At any rate, your actual adventure begins in the quaint town of Hommlet.
  
  Seemingly, Hommlet has all the makings of a great D&D town  a pub where you can pick up adventurers 
 and chat up the locals, a church where you can see a priest for free healing, and a bunch of NPCs 
 that will, when prompted, give you quests that your party can complete to earn experience points 
 to level up and learn new skills and gold to purchase new weapons, armor, and accessories. Unfortunately, 
 most of these promises are swiftly broken.
  
  First of all, the villagers dialogue is poorly written and voice acted with the emotion of a painkiller 
 addict, making the conversations youll be having more or less disposable  you wont want to listen 
 to the characters speak their lines like in Icewind Dale II or Neverwinter Nights  instead, youll 
 find yourself turning the speakers down and skimming through the text as quickly as possible so 
 that you can get the dialogue branch that results in a new stage for a quest, triggers a new party 
 member, or something to that effect. If youre looking for a well-crafted storyline, The Temple 
 of Elemental Evil is not for you.
  
  Secondly, quests have a serious lack of variety. The denizens of Hommlet insist on giving you FedEx 
 quests instead of something, you know, interesting to do. The lack of locales also seriously hamper 
 things  since the titular temple makes up the vast majority of the adventure and you wont be 
 heading back anywhere else once you get in (for the most part) , the opening quests can really only 
 take you to three different areas.
  
  Once you get inside the temple, things thankfully pick up a little. The game is essentially one 
 big dungeon crawl, and if youre into traditional Dungeons and Dragons combat (traditional in the 
 sense that the games combat is completely real-time) , youll be in a zen-like state of gaming 
 euphoria. However, just like the opening town, things get dragged down pretty quickly. For one, 
 the game seems to be a touch too difficult at the beginning and much to easy at the end, and this 
 reverse difficulty ramp is pretty weird, to put it bluntly. This difficulty at the opening stages 
 is no big deal, right? Any D&D gamer would tell you that you could just rest to recuperate. Unfortunately, 
 this is not an option, for the most part.
  
  Aside from the extremely rare safe rooms in the game, resting is a complete disaster in The Temple 
 of Elemental Evil. As you rest, youll be assaulted by huge groups of monsters every hour or so 
 which, as any D&D gamer would know, will heal only a sliver of your adventurers wounds. Even worse, 
 some monsters will spawn inside of walls, making them impossible to hit, and since you cannot escape 
 a combat situation, youll be stuck in at an infinite stop and will be forced to load your last 
 save, so unless youre the type that saves every five minutes, this can be detrimental to your 
 play experience.
  
  In the end, The Temple of Elemental Evil is far too flawed to be a good purchase for anyone. It 
 looks pretty good (aside from the ugly black that shrouds the environments) and sounds acceptable, 
 but in the end, D&D RPGs are about the gameplay, and this game has none of the style or the substance 
 of its source material or the other games that use the same inspiration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcollin
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 27, 2004 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best one I ever played, but it still have some fun gameplay. Graphics are 
 not bad, but they could have been better than that. I mean, for a game made in 2003, I would expect 
 better graphics than these little 2D graphics. Also, one disappointing point in this game is that 
 youll spend like 60% of the game doing little quests like helping people, you know stupid quests 
 like telling to somebody that a certain person loves him or her... AND YOULL SPEND MOST TIME OF 
 THE GAME DOING THIS, but thats the only poor part of this game, because when you get involved 
 into doing real quests like killing a certain person, now you see how much the engine of this 
 game is good. You could play this game even if you dont know anything about dungeons and dragons 
 rules, and you still can learn the rules with the detailed in-game manual or with the users manual. 
 This game may worth the look if youre a fan of dungeons & dragons based rpg but be cautious because 
 the demo only shows the fun part of this game (Im not talking about the 6 hours demo) . Youll 
 start into a swamp and almost after the few first step you make, ennemies come from everywhere 
 (thats the moathouse quest) . Anyway I would recommend to try the 6 hours demo to see all the aspects 
 of the game, not only he fun ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 19, 2004 3:58 am PT
Review:  Old fashioned hack and slasher. Was disappointed in the lack of overall story. When I played this 
 game with pen and paper I remember the story being the main thing, filled with intrigue, twists 
 and turns. I also remember the Temple as being more alive - the temple denizens got to know the 
 party and would set little trips and traps for us. None of that appears to happen in this game. 
 It is just a dungeon crawl.
  
  That being said, I like the specialization of each of the classes. I liked the fact that my magic 
 user was completely useless in combat, and that my theif couldn't hit someone from the front (but, 
 oh, we she got someone from behind!) And of course, after I got one of those super-swords and increased 
 my power-attack number my paladin was a force to be reckoned with.
  
  Basically a good game marred by the weakness of the overall storyline. For me, a game should be 
 all about story and less about combat, and this game favors the latter over the former, hence the 
 low score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 11, 2004 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The upside: TOEE looks beautiful, combat is fun, developing your characters w/ 3rd edition feats 
 and differently aligned party combinations gives ton of replay value, and the storyline -- while 
 a bit abbreviated -- is fairly interesting and the varied NPC quests are for the most part, engaging 
 and worthwhile and solvable in multiple ways. And the atmosphere and music is perfect. I wish the 
 Baldur's Gate series could be re-released with this level of graphic polish. I like the radial 
 menus but no shortcuts is pretty ridiculous.
  
  The downside: The learning curve was an avoidable mistake. Troika makes playing the game -- which 
 is great fun -- unnecessarily hard. Item descriptions are awful or nonexistent. Maintaining NPC 
 party members' inventories is a royal pain in the arse. Pathfinding is atrocious. There's little 
 guidance or documentation (besides gamefaqs. com) to what any of the feats do. Overall, the game 
 is pretty short. Like 10-15 hours short, if you accidently finish the game without exploring any 
 side-quests.
  
  Overall, I'm glad I played through the end and experimented with a few different parties and alignments 
 ... but I doubt I'm gonna play this one again any time soon. (Unlike Baldur's Gate or Morrowind, 
 which I never seem to get enough of.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2004 12:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the CRPG genre, then this game is definitely worth playing if you can look 
 past some of its obvious flaws. You should also be warned that some aspects of this game will really 
 appeal to some and really annoy others.
  
  From a graphics/engine perspective, this game is clearly in the next-generation category. The graphics 
 and animations are far more detailed than in any other "overhead" isometric RPG that I've played 
 to date. For me this was a big plus and really said to me that something was different about this 
 game. I was pleasantly surprised the first time I walked across some water and it started splashing 
 around me.
  
  The rules in this game are very complicated, probably the most complicated that I've ever played. 
 I believe that is due to the game's faithfulness to the D&D rules. This was a plus to me and probably 
 a negative to others. I like games that have lots of rules, lots of numbers and lots of tables. 
 I previously played Neverwinter Nights and Icewind Dale II and I was not enamored with the 3/3.5 
 AD&D rules that they employ. While the 3.5 D&D implementation in ToEE is different, they are similar 
 and ToEE gave me a better appreciation for the rules, mostly because you could see how the rules 
 applied to the game.
  
  For example, the "Rolls History" window is a great idea. For each attack and damage roll, you can 
 get a detailed list of all the bonuses and penalties, along with the die roll that went into making 
 that roll. You can see the immediate effects of various tactics, items or skill attributes. No 
 more, "What exactly is the 'Bluff' skill used for".
  
  I also personally like the turn-based nature of the game. I prefer games where you can take your 
 time and carefully consider your strategy in a battle. The turn-based nature also allowed the developers 
 to implement the various motion-based rules like Attacks of Opportunity and the 5-Foot Step that 
 would be hard to do in a real-time game.
  
  Despite the pluses, this game definitely has some problems. I played with the first patch so I 
 wasn't hit as hard as other people, but there were clearly some annoying problems with the game. 
 Some of these "defects" were oversights or perhaps even intentional decisions that took away from 
 the game. For example, the towns have no auto-maps to label the houses (and if you try to label 
 them yourself, you'll discover a 16-label limit) . You have to spend gold to cast the identify spell 
 (the same amount of gold you have to spend to have someone identify something for you) . The game 
 doesn't make it clear what items you haven't identified unless you mouse-over the item. Many of 
 the magic items have no useful descriptions. In order to discover what effects an item has, you 
 have to put it on and try it. The generic descriptions sometimes leave you to wonder if you have 
 yet to identify the item. If you use up the scrolls you find then, toward the end of the game when 
 you wish to burn off experience points for new items, you'll discover there is no one in the entire 
 game who can sell you or create a copy of that scroll you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2004 12:29 am PT
Review:  If you like fun RPG's where you can build your characters up and use some strategy instead of just 
 hack n slash clicking, this is for you. The game doesn't stray from its D&D foundation -- and that's 
 awesome. The combat graphics (spells & critical swings) especially are excellent, and the overall 
 dungeon romp and character development is simply a lot of fun. Isn't that what we want out of these? 
 It's also a made for PC game, unlike some of the new console-friendly RPG's. If you like old school 
 RPG's buy Temple of Elemental Evil. 
  The downsides are the radial menu, the graphics can slow things down from time to time, and many 
 of the subquests aren't rewarding (maybe that was intended) . I hope the makers come out with expansion 
 modules or sequels, because they've built a great engine and it definitely comes as a good new 
 RPG after Baldur's Gate II and Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries1
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 8, 2003 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game isa very good game --- it has obe major flaw, though ---
  the turnbased combat... The game combat system is outdated, in my opinion. And it is very hard 
 (for me) to select the small characters on screen in order to right click them bringing up the 
 radial menu.... Deeply annoying... Also the turnbased combat system get splintered when they're 
 'attack of opportunity'. 
  
  The turnbased combat system, I'm sure, works well, if you're sitting in a den with your pizza and 
 drinking coca cola, with tabletob figures on the table..
  So that you are able to move the figurines (the figures) on the table...
  
  Also I think that 
 the game is very hard --- not that I mind games being hard --- but the game difficulty in this 
 game is very hard. 
  
  In summary: This game could have been a great game... instead of being just an average game --- 
 if it had the courage to NOT INSISTS on using the TURN BASED COMBAT !
  
  Aries
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 20, 2003 10:58 am PT
Review:  Temple is a welcome addition to the D&D games. I am a Baldurs Gate innate; I played all of the 
 expansions, and BG 2 and its expansion. They are without a doubt a hard act to follow. Since then 
 I have played a myriad of games, EQ, Gothic, Dues Ex, Diablo 1 & 2 and its expansions. I have played 
 Omicron, All the Jedi Knight series and the superb knights of the Old Republic, I love gaming always 
 will. This game is not Greyhawks Baldurs Gate, but the graphics are superb for this type of game, 
 and the gaming system mirrors the 3.5 d20 rule exactly. The in game movies and cut scenes are magnificent 
 and worth the effort I believe. It has a few bugs, but they are nothing compared to the old games. 
 I am not overly happy with the level caps they have in the game and the fact that its really impossible 
 to get to the level cap it has. Encounter-wise this game rates 6 out of 10. However, my rating 
 overall stands. Well done, I hope this is a prelude to better things to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdag
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2003 1:02 am PT
Review:  I cut my teeth on the original Baldurs Gate so my experience with RPG may not be as long as others. 
 The Temple of Elemental Evil even with its few bugs and greedy NPCs is still an enjoyable game. 
 I never did finish Never Winter Nights, as I was just never happy with my characters, maybe I need 
 a larger party. You can have up to 5 characters and as far as I can tell this is a good balance. 
 Twice now I have had my party at level 4 before moving to Nulb (the second town prior to the temple) . 
 Yes I have started over once was unhappiness with my characters and the second time as I made the 
 mistake of letting a NPC join my party. NPC will take what ever they want and not share. Even though 
 I had picked up a very entertaining NPC (a bard) it could not negate his taken of everything and 
 getting burdened by weight. Only after choosing a lawful good party did I get into a fight right 
 away to see how well my characters did. If this happens to you, from the start in Homlet, I suggest 
 that you go left and up a little to the woodcutter and do his quest. This is a good little battle 
 with two Giant spiders to test your party. The game is a little jerky at times when you get into 
 a large battle but not so bad as to warrant not playing. Speaking of large battles you can get 
 into some really big ones. And nothing is more satisfying than walking away from one of those. 
 So even with the few quirks I mentioned this will defiantly be a game I will finish. Hopefully 
 they will follow up with another game I can take my level 10 characters even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalOZ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2003 8:31 pm PT
Review:  ToEE has the best D&D rules implementation to date and the squad based combat is a lot of fun. 
 Unfortunately, the patchwork feel of the game combined with questing that is minimal and forgettable 
 ranks it much lower than similar games in the genre, such as Icewind Dale. The game shipped with 
 many bugs and has the feeling of a game that hadn't quite come together yet. The graphics and sound 
 are average. The music is good, but doesn't have enough tracks and therefore gets repetitive. The 
 voice acting leaves much to be desired. The tactical combat is a blast and makes the game worth 
 playing in short bursts, but there is no sense of the epic to be found here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfpoiu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 4, 2003 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game with some flaws. The gameplay is very similar to Troika's previous game, 
 Arcanum, only adapted to D&D 3.5ed. rules and settings. This has been enhanced beyond Arcanum by 
 having 5 party members instead of only one. The graphics are very pretty and make use of an active 
 mapping function that shows what has not been explored as blacked out, while what has been explored 
 but not in the character's view is greyed out. The control of each party member is made easier 
 by the use of a radial menu that makes it easy to find what you want the character do do. One problem 
 I have with the radial menu is that is you move the mnouse too far in one direction you lose the 
 command you want.
  Some of the bigger flaws I have found so far is that in the character shapes and colors there is 
 a limited variety of hair styles and colors with no way to vary it (petty, I know, but irritating 
 nonetheless) . Another problem I have with the voice acting is that the voices seem to be repetitive 
 and in some cases annoying. The music is good and does'nt repeat much, though it can get opressive 
 at times.
  Overall, this is a good game but could have been better. Maybe Troika will release updates to address 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElfPhoenix
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 3, 2003 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Trying to find out about all the intricate little details that are needed to truly make use of 
 the full capacity of ToEE's 3.5 ed. D&D rules is a bit duanting. Many are buried in a small novel 
 of a manual with an inadequate indexing system. That's one of my large gripes.
  
  The manner in which the mouse is set up (via DirectX's DirectInput) is tedious and poorly designed. 
 I have to play in windowed mode to get around that inexcusable flaw. Cain blames it upon DirectX, 
 technically correct. Yet they knew that going in, so why set the mouse up in a way they knew was 
 flawed?!
  
  Crashes, Blue screens, and lock ups (especially lock ups) are terribly commonplace. And this playing 
 on MS's more stable OS of XP. The game was tossed to the public roughly six months too soon. That 
 I blame squarely upon Atari.
  
  The game play is mostly a dungeon crawl with combat very commonplace. This bothers me only a little. 
 I like true role-playing in RPG's, and there is minimal here. Yeah, there are different pathes 
 for different team allignments, but ultimately, it is still combat, just with supposedly different 
 motives.
  
  I like the game, but regret buying it so soon because of the nasty bugs (numerous things do not 
 work as they should) and because the game, frankly, ain't worth $50. Maybe $30, but definitely 
 not $50. I strongly suggest waiting until it is patched and the price is significantly lowered 
 before considering purchasing it.
  
  Lastly, I like the turn-based combat a lot. There have been complaints that maybe there should 
 be a real-time option for nonchallenging fights. Well for those, I simply hit the A key to prepare 
 for action if that character is approached during combat for any team members not really needed 
 for the fight, and use only my fighters (and/or cleric for undead) . Combat is thus over fairly 
 quickly and cleanly, for me anyway.
  
  There just ain't enough story for my tastes.
  
  Elf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 3, 2003 8:42 am PT
Review:  A good game that could have been great.
  
  How many times recently has that been said about a CRPGs? It's really too bad when companies get 
 so close to a classic, but just miss. 
  
  The Good:
  Graphics - the graphics are outstanding. Great use of color and 3D effects.
  Sound - The sound 
 is good. Nice voice overs and music and background sounds.
  Turn-based Combat - The turn-based combat is a welcome change from all of the click-fest games 
 (of course you have to like turn-based combat to agree with me) .
  
  The Bad:
  The game has lots of nagging bugs. It is certainly playable and finishable, and Bugs - I encountered 
 no major bugs, but there are dozens of little ones from spell effects that don't work right to 
 reversed bonuses on certain types of armors and shield (i. e. you get minuses instead of plusses) .
 
  Turn-based Combat - The only problem with the turn-based combat is that they offer you no quick 
 way other than the survival skill for random outdoor encounters, to quicken or avoid combat. This 
 is the same mistake POR2 made, and I'm not sure why nobody is willing to offer either a quick combat 
 or avoid combat option for combats that provide no challenge (and hence very little experience 
 in the 3.5 D&D rules) .
  
  Overall I think the game is worth buying and playing for any D&D PNP fan, and certainly worth buying 
 and playing for fans of turn-based CRPGs. I think it may frustrate the Diablo click-fest CPRG crowd 
 because it won't be fast paced enough. Since I like turn-based combat for party-based CRPGs (real-time 
 is fine for a single character CRPG, but I really prefer turn-based for party-based) , I recommend 
 the game. If you're concerned about the bugs, rumor has it that Troika is set to release a patch 
 soon, and a user has already released a patch that can be uninstalled when the official patch comes 
 out that addresses most of the known bugs.
  
  If you play this game, be sure to run the tutorial and then ask yourself why the actual game didn't 
 include all the great descriptions and dialog present in the tutorial. That would have really added 
 to the game and given much more of the DM/module atmosphere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimGleaves
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 1, 2003 11:08 am PT
Review:  You can set up hotkeys using Alt- (keystroke) , but it's not surprising other reviewers missed it. 
 This shows how complex the game is, and how the manual is relatively skimpy since it can't possibly 
 summarize all of D&D 3.5. 
  
  Now about the game: I thought I was a reasonably hard-cord D&D kind of guy. I can explain why Harm 
 had to be nurfed down in 3.5 since it didn't allow a saving throw in 3.0. I can discuss the advantages 
 of taking 3 levels of paladin to create a "power-cleric." I understand why a dual-wielding level 
 20 rogue will often do more damage than a level 20 fighter IF they're flanking the enemy and doing 
 5d6 additional sneak attack damage. In short, to a normal person who actually has a life, the difference 
 between a really hard-core guy and me is insignificant.
  
  But ToEE is the game that makes the distinction clear between merely competent amateurs, and serious 
 professionals.. It's kind of like entering a martial arts competition, where the difference between 
 1st degree and 5th degree black belt is a lot. And if you have trouble telling them apart, then 
 you're going to get your butt kicked.
  
  This game really makes clear why all previous game developers decide to throw out certain parts 
 of D&D. Why yes, it does say in the official rules that casting Identify requires a pearl worth 
 100 gold pieces. But when I accidentally spent all my parties cash identifying a few scrolls that 
 were nearly worthless, I didn't say to myself "How wonderful! At last an accurate interpretation 
 of how Identify really works." Instead I said, "That kind of sucks!" 
  
  So as long as you're the kind of person who knows your BaB from your To Hit, you'll probably like 
 this game. The graphics and sound are good, the bugs are livable, and the plot fairly engaging. 
 But if you don't, stick to games like Neverwinter Nights, with a difficulty setting and a "Recommended 
 Stats" button. There are no crutches for girlie-gamers in ToEE.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2003 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Highly recommmend this game for anyone over 40 ;) . Its turn based. Its based on the Gold Box Series 
 combat. It is pure D&D rules, a perfect 100% implementation. it has a light but adequate story 
 line. For me it is the game that achieves what Ruins at MD or NWN failed to achieve. The game is 
 all about developing skills, feats and spells that are really needed and used for advancement and 
 combat. There is so much depth that the tactics of a battle are really only maximized by utilzing 
 all the skills and abilities of your characters. Anyway, I find a battle much like a duel in Magic 
 the Gathering, very absorbing, tons of strategy and extremely rewarding , especially in battles 
 of 8 vs 15 or more are fighting ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leachman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2003 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is the best turn based tactical combat engine I have played, and I have played many of them. 
 I've been gaming since the late 70's. This game implements the best isometric perspective combat 
 engine ever, IMO. Superb tactical battles.
  
  That being said, the learning curve can be very steep for newcomers to the official D&D ruleset. 
 This game may not be for the initiate role player.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. I can tell that the artists poured a lot of effort into creating very 
 detailed settings. The animations of creatures, NPCs and PCs is excellently done. Spell particle 
 effects are also well above average.
  
  Phonically, I find the soundtrack a breath of fresh air. The soundtrack has more of a electronic 
 synth feel than I expected, but I quite like it. It does a great job of putting the right ambience 
 to battles and more peaceful settings.
  
  The voice work varies from fair to great, and I suppose my complaint here is the lack of consistency.
 
  
  The ambient sounds are great.
  
  There are a few bugs that cause some frustrations. I assume that a patch will fix these. Here's 
 a short list:
  
  PC pathfinding needs to be fixed and optimized. Your party can be split up because the perspective 
 of some NPCs has them get lost depending on your party formation. Also, it seems as though pathfinding 
 is not dynamic at all, and a PCs path is determined before it ever begins to move... either it 
 can make it there or it can't. If it can't, it never moves, which leads to the split party problem. 
 At times the pathfinding logic can be resource intensive, which results in a full-stop pause of 
 the game engine while pathfinding is done.
  
  Item details are sparse and item identification either through spells or through a vendor doesn't 
 reveal much about items. I read a developer interview that states that this will be addressed in 
 an upcoming patch. Time restraints prevented over 300,000 words of "flavour text" from being added. 
 This includes item details text, and such things.
  
  There are some minor scripting issues which render some low level town quests unfinishable. They 
 are not important quests, but there are a few bugged side quests that I can see.
  
  In larger scale combat (dozens of foes) , this game can get very demanding on your hardware. I have 
 an Athlon 1900+, Radeon 8500/LE, and 3/4 GB of ram, and it can get pretty chuggy at times unless 
 I turn some visual detail down. Turning down the number of fog checks per frame makes a huge performance 
 difference.
  
  
  I don't see any bugs that can't be easily fixed by a patch. My playability score would have been 
 a 10 were it not for the nagging bugs listed above. I just wish that the development team was afforded 
 more QC time before they were told to ship.
  
  Minus the bugs, this game is in my opinion a groundbreaking D&D implementation. It is heaven for 
 the hard core type roleplayers, especially those who like Pen & Paper roleplaying, or those familiar 
 with the D&D ruleset. Newcomers may be overcome with details, and they will definately want to 
 read the great 170+ page manual before beginning their campaign.
  
  The combat alone is well worth the price of admission.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2003 10:17 am PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil is a very promising game, but it lacks some basics. For better or worse, 
 this is unlike any game you have ever played. This is a true, nut-and-bolt recreation of pen and 
 paper Dungeons and Dragons. The rules are extremely complicated and detailed, and the game takes 
 place in turns. Thus, it plays more like a turn-based squad tactics game than past RPGs like Baldurs 
 Gate and Neverwinter Nights. True role-playing is almost non-existent. A simple combat against 
 five bandits might take 60 seconds in previous games, but it can take 15 minutes in this game. 
 In general, the pace of this game is very slow. I think that Troika did a great job of making a 
 game that is both faithful to D&D rules and fun, but the game is really lacking some basic features.
 
  
  By now, you have probably figured out that this game is not for everyone. It isnt. If you dont 
 like +1 bonuses, die rolls, and inane rules, then you are going to hate this game. However, if 
 you are like me and you like a lot of this stuff, then this game seems like Nirvana. Its almost 
 a perfect recreation of D&D, and its very efficient. All of the rules, feats, skills, spells, 
 and actions have been distilled down into a simple set of menus and screens that you can access 
 with a few mouse clicks. For the most part, its intuitively set up and very easy to use. The radial 
 menu system works great. If you know the D&D rules well, then you will be at full speed in no time.
 
  
  Its impossible to overstate what an accomplishment this is. You just right click on a character 
 and by navigating the mouse, you can either drink a potion from your inventory, use the Power 
 attack feat, or cast a Magic Missile spell. The ease of use is one of the reasons why the game 
 stays fun.
  
  Combat in ToEE is the most fun and satisfying part. The battles are extremely hard and they require 
 you to utilize all of the tactical tricks that you can think of. The turn-based system is what 
 allows you to do this and get anything out of it. I enjoyed the combat in this game more than Baldurs 
 Gate or Neverwinter Nights for this reason. The game doesnt blow by too fast for you to use your 
 abilities without pressing the space bar over and over.
  
  This game has surprisingly good graphics. The pre-rendered 2D backgrounds are simply the most beautiful 
 that I have ever seen. They are not only gorgeous, but full of variety. The monsters are also richly 
 detailed, not to mention menacing. The monsters are also the best that I have ever seen in an RPG. 
 My only complaint with the graphics is how tiny your party is on the screen. You can hardly tell 
 your characters apart without squinting, and you cant tell what they are carrying or wearing by 
 glancing at them. The inventory screen is also very unattractive and the items are very bland. 
 Baldurs Gate and Neverwinter Nights have much more attractive inventory screens.
  
  I love the soundtrack for this game, but the voice acting is pretty sub par. A few of the characters 
 have good voice acting, but for the most part, its not very good. 
  
  This game does have some problems that slow it down unnecessarily. One of them is the inability 
 to set hotkeys. Customizable hotkeys was one of the great things about Neverwinter Nights. Unfortunately, 
 in Temple of Elemental Evil, in order to give a command 20 times, you have to go through it in 
 the radial menu 20 times. It gets old. In many places, the rules get extremely annoying  like 
 having to spend 100 GP to cast an Identify spell. How lame is that? The developers made no attempt 
 to compensate for rules like this by changing the treasure you find or the monsters that you encounter. 
 The map screen stinks, because you can only place a limited number of flags on it, and because 
 you cant use it to jump to a spot on the big screen. This means that you have to point and click 
 your way across every screen. Finally, the manual that comes in the box is totally inadequate. 
 You need to buy the Dungeons and Dragons Players Handbook to understand a lot of what is going 
 on (if you dont already know) . I see this as being a huge flaw for someone who is not intimately 
 familiar with the rules.
  
  I really enjoyed this game. I sincerely hope that Troika will make another D&D game with this engine 
 (plus a few tweaks) . There could be a lot of great adventuring done if they improve a few things. 
 As I said previously it is not for everyone. If you like planning and strategy, then I think that 
 you will like this game. You might want to get a strategy guide with it, because this is also the 
 hardest D&D game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 24, 2003 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Usually Greg Kasavin is spot on, but with this game, I think he's wrong. The Temple of Elemental 
 Evil (TEE) is a game with gorgeous in-game graphics, although cut scenes and stills look awful. 
 Sound is excellent, although the selection of voices for characters falls short. Same can be said 
 of the handful of portraits and other visual choices for characters, although the actual 3D models 
 look great. The story and dialog in the game seem really rushed, like no one took the time to refine 
 and edit either, but the worst offense by far is the bugs. The D&D rules are exquisite, and combat 
 is wonderfully awesome, but the game is basically unplayable because of the bugs. I tried several 
 times to forgive all the rough edges, telling myself the combat was so well done that none of it 
 mattered, but even the combat is ruined because of the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 24, 2003 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is a great looking game. The 2D isometric settings look great with the 3D characters on them. 
 The characters look great and the monsters are well done.
  
  The game follows the Dungeons & Dragons rules very well. The combat is excellently done in a simple 
 turn-based mode. This allows for more strategy than in more recent D&D games. Getting through some 
 of the initial combats with the party alive can be quite an accomplishment.
  
  There is not much of a story, but this comes to me as a welcome relief from the trite & dull story 
 lines in some more recent CRPGs.
  
  The only drawbacks are the mediocre quality of the voices, some minor bugs and some odd design 
 decisions. Among the poor design decisions are skipping on providing readily available information 
 for identified magic items and last minute cutting of loads of role-playing material to reduce 
 the rating from M to T.
  
  Overall, this is a good game that will only get better once a patch is released. I would definitely 
 recommended this for fans of fantasy CRPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2003 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Polished, Absorbing, and Well Presented.
  
  I'm dissapointed GameSpot didn't give this title due credit. Usually they're right on with their 
 scores, but I must say I've been waiting for TOEE for a while and I'm truely satisfied!
  Trust me, I've played most RPG's, and so far this is one of the best. 
  If you're into super-charged 
 power-gaming parties that reach epic levels, stop here. This is not for you. Instead, you'll be 
 treated to an immersive, tactical, wonderfully presented story where EACH character level is truely 
 important and each spell choice, ability score and character choice matter.
  Sure you can only reach level ten, and the story takes place mostly in the Temple, but imagine: 
 On one hand, you've got Lionheart, with 30+ character levels of mindless hack n' slash where your 
 charcter becomes SUPER Powerful and SUPER Boring, or 10 character levels of an absolutely delightful 
 adventure where you'll attach to each character for the whole ride. Definately worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fhalgrym
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2003 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Temple of Elemental Evil demonstrates a level of faithfulness to D&D that has never been seen in 
 a computer product before. The graphics look like the Infinity Engine (of Baldur's Gate fame) , 
 but much updated. I still think that for computer rpgs, this kind of isometric perspective is better. 
 The sound is a nice departure from the usual orchestra/symphonic treatment that RPGs often receive; 
 here we get an ambient soundtrack that provides an excellent background. I haven't felt that the 
 music was too repetitive at this point.
  
  Though I enjoyed the exactness of combat, one should be prepared for many reloads, especially at 
 early levels: one bad saving throw can mean your party will fall. I wasn't as miffed at the bugginess 
 as some people are, but there are several low-grade quests that are currently unsolvable. Nothing 
 that couldn't be fixed in a patch or 2, but it's annoying to halt the game because you have to 
 wait for the developers to fix things that shouldn't be broken.
  
  This is an easy game to recommend if you enjoy a strategic hack-and-slash sort of game. It lacks 
 the sweeping majesty of the Baldur's Gate series, but I feel it's easily superior to Neverwinter 
 Nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: how786
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2003 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the very best RPG I have ever played. 
  The graphics are drop-dead gorgeous. The spell effects are fabulous! The combat is what this game 
 is all about. Incredible turn-based combat system. I appreciate everything the artists have done 
 for the game - it looks freaking beautiful! It is, without a doubt, the most beautiful isometric 
 game to date. The programmers and the designers are to be no less credited as well for their work 
 on the game world and the terrific combat system. Seriously terrific job! 
  
  Even with some flaws, ToEE is the most faithfull tranlation of D&D rules to the PC ever. Yes, there 
 are some bugs, but it's thousand times as close to the real D&D rules as NWN or IWD2 are.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2003 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I was not one bit disappointed by TOEE. Many recent RPG's have been underwhelming at best, or just 
 plain uninspired. But not this one, it kind of revisits the original Baldur's Gate's sense of high 
 adventure. It is as DnD as you'll ever get on a PC and that is a very good thing.
  The gameplay although tried and true, feels very fresh by today's standards. It combines the greatness 
 of the RPG's of old with the technical wizardry provided by today's technology. It all comes together 
 creating a very immersive experience that plays almost as an ode to the original module, but still 
 bringing it's own personality to the table.
  
  Turn based combat is the way to go in the world of DnD. It has been transformed into real time 
 several times before and while entertaining, it can never match the strategic depth of true turn 
 based. The options for combat open up considerably as higher levels are attained and strategic 
 thinking becomes the norm as you tread halfway through the game. Diablo this is not.
  
  Visually, the game is beautiful. Many games rely on a strong graphical engine that displays all 
 sorts of the "latest greatest" to immerse gamers in their worlds. while TOEE is strong in this 
 area, with true 3D models, gorgeous particle effects, and very convincing animation, it relies 
 more on the beautiful art that is seen all the way throughout the game to suck you into the world. 
 Yes, there is the occasional bland screen, but overall, the world feels real and magical, crafted 
 with a bunch of love=) Oh, and the cloaks rock! 
  
  Some may complain about the fact that the plot is not a globe spanning quest in search of your 
 father who resides in hell and wishes to bend the world under his rule. I am personally tired of 
 these overly epic and very unlikely undertakings, and most RPG's seem to follow that path resulting 
 in cheap attempts at grandeur. TOEE's plot is still very clich, but it is more focused and straight 
 forward, therefore keeping the overall objective clear since your humble beginnings at Hommlet, 
 with a few expected little twists along the way. Just remember, this was the very first DnD module 
 ever, the one that has inspired a legion of others in its wake. There is some variety worth mentioning 
 in that your party's alignment sets the tone for how the plot will unfold. Very creative and definitely 
 worth the effort.
  
  Aurally the game holds up well. The music is plain but atmospheric. I miss BG's tavern music, or 
 IWD's epic score at times, but what is provided definitely sets the mood appropriately. The voice 
 acting is inconsistent, while good and even great at times, sometimes it just sounds plain horrible. 
 Sound effects are the best part of TOEE's aural presentation. Birds chirping, rivers flowing, swords 
 clanging, and blood splattering, it's all very convincing and does a great job at lending credibility 
 to an already appealing game world.
  
  I must say that if you are new to this kind of game it will be intimidating at first, but stick 
 with it and you just might find one of the best RPG's ever made, right up there with any of Bioware's 
 offerings. If you on the other hand know the genre well and pretty much understand the difference 
 between a second edition THACO of -3 vs. a third edition (3.5 to be exact) AC of 3, then you'll 
 have plenty to indulge in, and you might not want to leave your cozy dungeon for some time. Give 
 the game a shot, it is probably the best DnD adaptation ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 22, 2003 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you like tactical combat, the turn-based combat here is pretty great. The GS review already 
 explains why the combat is fun. But there are some other issues that bring the game down. Even 
 after patching, it is fantastically slow. The game will crawl at times for no apparent reason. 
 This issue is well documented in the game's forums. Apparently it has to do with the "fog" that 
 covers areas you haven't seen yet. The story and quests are paper-thin. It feels pointless to do 
 the simple quests in the 2 towns when the fighting offers more experience and more fun. The NPC 
 characters are not fleshed out much, even after you add them to your party. 
  
  There are level-limits which make some the low-level characters tricky to play because they don't 
 have much to offer in a fight until they reach higher levels, like the Mage and Druid. Fighters 
 have an easier time of it over all. 
  
  It doesn't help at all that the game is actually quite short: it ends at the temple. Just when 
 you have your characters built, the game ends. Blah.
  
  The shame of it is that the combat mechanics and game engine are solid. Fix the bugs and you can 
 make many more games with the engine. Now that some time has passed since the game's release, it 
 looks like there won't be another game using that engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bollwinkel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2003 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I've never like turn based games, but ToEE's deep strategy and high-stakes combat gives each encounter 
 a tension all its own. The mechanics are the truest pen and paper D&D reproduction to date. I heard 
 people make this claim before, and my reaction has always been "... whatever, dude." Well, now that 
 I've played a good reproduction, I've seen the light. This game FEELS like I'm back in highschool 
 with the guys, rolling up chars and crawling the best of dungeons, but this time with a DM who 
 knows the rules and knows how to challenge you without murdering you outright. This is game is 
 what computer RPGs should all strive to be. Granted, this game will not appeal to the mass market 
 in its present form  interface, and no automation for character 
 creation/advancement) . You wont see a port of this game on the X-Box or PS2 anytime soon. BUT, 
 if you like games that are challenging and with deep strategy and gameplay, this game is for you. 
 
  
  PS: If you were dissappointed with NWN's gameplay, you will be in for a pleasant surprise with 
 this underrated (take note Gamespot reviewers) sleeper Classic. I think it's strange that Gamespot 
 would ding this game for bugginess considering the fact nearly every RPG I've played in the last 
 two years was buggier by far. I think the real ding comes from the fact that the game is not at 
 all revolutionary. But what is uncommon about this title is that apart from the lack of swimming/climbing/mounts 
 this game lets you do all the things that other RPGs won't. This really is the game that NWN should 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosternicholas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 21, 2003 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Having been new to the D&D world (my only exposure is through the video games and this only in 
 the past year) I am finding this newest game out to be by far the most indepth of all of them. 
 The gameplay takes some time to get used to (about 1 hour of ramp up time) and there are a few 
 graphical adjustments that I wish I could make (mouse speed/ sensitivity) , but this is mainly because 
 I have an old computer that just meets the minimum system requirements.
  The story itself is compelling. 
  The greatest feature to me is the multiple story paths that 
 can be taken depending on what your alignment is. Because of this feature on is able to play the 
 game multiple time and have a different experience each time. 
  The worst feature, yet it is understandable is the level cap. Yes, I know anything above ten and 
 the game would become too easy, but when one is used to reaching those high levels with the high 
 level spells it can be rather frustrating.
  The final word is that you should buy this game. If you are a D&D fan it is a must, if you are 
 not the game is still fun and don't be too worried about the new 3.5 rule set, I have no idea what 
 everything even means, let alone does and the game still plays great. Besides Troika made sure 
 to include and very handy user guide that explains pretty much everything that one could want to 
 know.
  So again, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matirola
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2003 7:25 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhh
  
  Just completed the Tutorial a couple of times, just enough to give me a good feel before i embark 
 on the IRON MAN trip of a lifetime.
  
  What can i say. This game is the game i have been waiting for since i was 9 y old, avid fan of 
 D&D I was, now, supposed to be a grown up, dont have much time for real P&P D&D so this game is 
 peerrrrfect. Music is top notch, graphics are the best i have seen in this genre and there is that 
 extra "thingy" that really makes you feel like your playing that famous module for real.
  
  Thanks Troika, so now i can sell my house, quit my job and leave my wife to enjoy this title ! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinthalis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 18, 2003 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game will appeal to the classic D&D gamer in you!
  
  It certainly brought back memories of the original BG with some old-school gold-box nostalgia thrown 
 in for good measure.
  
  Troika managed to capture this classic pen and paper adventure in all it's adventuring goodness, 
 while maintaining that D&D feel through out. The game is a lot of fun, holds the interest, and 
 offers some replayability to boot.
  
  Having said that, there are some things that bring my total rating down a bit.
  
  Graphics 
 wise the game It feels a LOT like BG. This is both good (who didn't love that game) and bad. The 
 2D backgrounds are very nice and sharp, detailed, but they are 2D. No zooming in or out on your 
 party, no rotating about for a better view, etc. The buildings do not seem to fade as you step 
 in behind them either and it's easy to loose sight of an enemy an NPC, or one of your characters 
 behind a tree, home or archway.
  
  Ambient sounds are spot on, but the voice overs lack the quality of games such as BG and Neverwinter 
 Nights. Voice tracks can vary significantly in quality during a single conversation, and most are 
 uninspired or dull. Yet there are a few which are excellent, crisp, clear, and memorable. I don't 
 what happenned here, why didn't Troika demand the same level of quality from all their voice tracks?
 
  
  Combat is a faithful representation of pen and paper D&D. You have a myriad choices to play with, 
 and as the game is turned based, you have all the time you want to micromanage your party's action 
 during the combat round. This is by far, ToEE's shining achievement. Although it may be a bit complex 
 for those not familiar with the rules, once you get the hang of it combat will flow smoothly and 
 provide you with hours of pure sword and sorcery goodness.
  
  Overall the game was certaily worth this gamer's gaming time! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debrislide
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2003 6:52 pm PT
Review:  ok my geeky brother, this old school D&D RPG is going to knock your level 3 chain mail socks off. 
 It feels a bit like Baldur's Gate and less like Arcanum which is pretty smart in my book. I say ---essentials 
 Man, essentials (meaning elves, dwarves, dragons, trolls, eye of the beholder, swords, traps and 
 on and on) . This is old school. I remember playin the pen and paper version in the 80's. Sweet, 
 yes i just said sweet. I also played Middle Earth , But you know D&D started it all. Anyway if 
 you are an RPG fan in the classic sense. Pick this up NOW. I swear you will #1 forgive troika,#2 
 thank me, and #3 your wife will divorce ya. If you don't understand this review, blame it on republic. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
