-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Thing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 28, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 642 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Computer Artworks
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Aug 20, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If it weren't for a general scarcity of terror and a control scheme unsuited to its action-oriented 
 gameplay, The Thing would be great. 

 Given the bleak track record of movie-to-game translations, The Thing -- based on John Carpenter's 
 1982 horror film, which was itself a remake of the 1951 Howard Hawks original -- comes saddled with 
 some understandably low expectations. Against the odds, it's actually good. In fact, if it weren't 
 for a general scarcity of terror and a control scheme unsuited to its action-oriented gameplay, 
 The Thing would be great.           You can have up to three companions in your entourage.    

 
  Rather than retelling the movie's plot, the game starts right where the movie ended. You're sent 
 to investigate the pair of Antarctic research stations that provided the setting for the film's 
 events. Along the way, you'll run across various survivors and fellow investigators, with whom 
 you can team up. This is The Thing's most innovative idea. At any given point, you can have as 
 many as three computer-controlled teammates traveling with you. You can hand them weapons and ammo, 
 heal them, and give them simple dog commands such as stay and follow. Because the thing itself 
 is a parasitic infection, nobody knows who's infected and who isn't. Teammates each have a trust 
 meter that gauges how firmly they believe you're not a thing. Various actions, such as healing 
 them, helping them in combat, and giving them equipment, all raise this trust level, while other 
 actions lower it. If a companion doesn't trust you, he (they're all male) won't follow your orders 
 and may eventually even attack you. Each person also has a fear level. As his terror rises, he 
 becomes more unhinged. If nothing is done to relieve his fear, he'll eventually go crazy, at which 
 point he may become totally unresponsive, kill himself, wet his pants, or start firing his weapon 
 blindly. Roughly the same actions that increase a team member's trust in you will also quell his 
 fears. Of course, any of your companions may actually be a thing, meaning at some point he'll transform 
 into a monster.   

  In theory, this fear/trust/infection system sounds like a great way to capture the film's atmosphere 
 of unremitting paranoia. In practice, however, it has little impact on the game. The actions that 
 earn your teammates' trust and lower their fear are all things you'd be doing anyway -- arming them, 
 supplying them with ammo, healing them, and fighting monsters. So while it's possible for a sidekick 
 to lose his mind or turn on you, it'll never actually occur except as the result of a conscious 
 decision on your part to make it happen just to witness the results. Only once during the short 
 seven hours it took to finish The Thing did a team member ever succumb to fear, and that may have 
 been a largely unavoidable part of a puzzle sequence.   

  The threat of companions turning into things is less a source of terror and more a minor inconvenience, 
 since the things are generally no match for your weapons. When a teammate turns, you'll kill him 
 and move on. It's generally no great loss, both because existing team members often don't follow 
 you across level transitions and because new members are available at regular intervals. Every 
 other video game is about a solitary hero fighting a horde of monsters, so just having a coterie 
 of armed guards -- even if some of them are things -- actually further undercuts the game's horror 
 quotient.   

  In fact, The Thing is really more of an action game with monsters to shoot than a moody survival 
 horror piece. The hallmarks of the survival horror genre -- a relatively frail hero and a scarcity 
 of munitions -- simply don't apply here. As in a traditional run-and-gun shooter, weapons, ammo, 
 and health are abundant, and your character can take a real beating. At no point will you be low 
 on health and down to your last few bullets. Compared to you, the things themselves are pretty 
 weak. You'll often find yourself chasing a thing as it flees in terror from your flamethrower. 
 So in some sense, it works as survival horror from the thing's perspective.   

  However, as an action game, The Thing is largely successful. The controls are its only real drawback. 
 You view your character from a third-person perspective. You can look left and right with the mouse, 
 but not up and down. In order to look up or down, you need to hold in a free-look key, during which 
 time you can't move. Unless you're in the free-look mode, aiming is automatic. It's a control scheme 
 much more suited to a console gamepad (The Thing is also available on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox) 
 than the PC's combination of a keyboard and mouse. Having no auto-aim (or even an option to toggle 
 it on or off) and a persistent free-look -- essentially the de facto standard in third-person PC 
 games -- would have made for a much more satisfying control scheme.   

  Other than that, though, The Thing is a good shooter. The teammate AI is great in a fight, and 
 there are a lot of well-staged battles. One that takes place in a small building being attacked 
 from all four sides by waves of things is especially intense. The puzzles are lightweight, but 
 generally intuitive. The game has an almost perfect blend of story and gameplay -- interesting things 
 happen without intruding on the ongoing action. The game even utilizes a limited save system that, 
 with a few exceptions, is lenient enough to avoid being frustrating.            Teammates will 
 often react to stress by vomiting.    

  On top of all of this, The Thing's presentation is almost flawless. The lighting, detailed texture 
 work, and atmospheric ambient sound effects are all top notch. The designers have managed to wring 
 an amazing amount of variety out of what is essentially a long walk through a concrete bunker and 
 the barren landscape surrounding it. The character models are well animated, and, in a nice touch, 
 all of the team members you run across are unique from each other -- each has a unique face and inflection. 
   

  The Thing is kind of short, it's not especially effective at making you feel afraid, its most intriguing 
 gameplay elements are somewhat extraneous, and it suffers from a wonky control scheme. Yet, thanks 
 to some high production values and consistently interesting action scenes, The Thing rises above 
 these flaws. It could have been great, but in light of the checkered history of movie-licensed 
 games, being good at all is a pretty impressive achievement.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rasicar
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight. I love The THING. Specifically I love the movie: The THING. For a 
 grade B sci-fi horror it is wonderful. It has tension, it has gore, it has character development, 
 it has immersion, it has suspense. It is just plain good.
  
  This game has none of the above. This game has average (at best... and I'm being very generous 
 with that rating) graphics for its time. Terrible sound. Horrid voice acting and story. And what 
 is worse is the fact that the development team flat out lied to me - the customer. Multiple endings, 
 multiple ways of doing things - horsepucky. Anyone who tries to tell you there is multiple ways 
 of doing things only means that there are multiple ways of shooting something: you can use a mp5, 
 a shotgun, a grenade, but in the end you'll still want to finish whatever bugger your fighting 
 with a flame thrower.
  
  As for the multiple endings... there is only one ending. You kill the bad guy and fly off. No, 
 that is not a spoiler and if you play or have played it you'll understand why. THAT IS IT. I suppose 
 uninstalling and burning the game disk in effigy after you realize how terribly executed this game 
 is can be considered one alternate ending. And I almost did that. 
  
  And it saddens me too, because this had a lot of potential. As an amateur writer (armchair writer 
 for the most part) I can see a lot of potential with the story line that this was trying to do. 
 Unfortunately it looked like the author took a potentially good idea/concept and instead of building 
 on it, they went out and got drunk - sucked down two or three speedballs (coke & heroin) and then 
 proceeded to perform to the same ability the main characters team mates perform. Which is to say 
 they don't do anything worthwhile in a fire-fight and just end up peeing themselves, puking all 
 over the place and inevitably sprout tentacles and proceed to attempt to become one with your rectum. 
 (For me I feel as though that actually happened to my pocket book after shelling out $50 for this... 
 thing.)
  
  Seriously, this is a game that was built off a good exploratory concept which yielded high expectations 
 and had a performance magnitude similar to that of Milli Vanilli when the record skips.
  
  Lets break it down:
  
  You are a soldier going to the arctic to figure out what happened to 
 the base. You find its trashed and proceed to check out the neighboring Norwegian's pad and find 
 that all hell has broken loose there too. You go there because apparently communication was lost 
 with 'Team A' who went there first.
  
  The first creature you encounter is called a scuttler - i call it a complete rip off of half-life's 
 head crab. You find out that people are not trusting each other and then you are introduced to 
 the trust engine which boils down to 'if I give you a gun will you trust me?'
  
  It goes from there to a gov't conspiracy - evil military bio-warefare plot that seems like it came 
 out of a later episode of the X-Files (read: one w/out David Duchovny)
  
  If really want a good horror experience. Go to your $10 bin at your supermarket and buy the movie. 
 Get this game only if you plan on giving to someone you hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The Thing is a fun game, nice graphics and a nice story. The limited amount of ammunition made 
 it a challenge to complete missions and the annoying checkpoint system made you play several sequences 
 over and over again, which made the game longer, but more frustrating than it should have been. 
 It was fairly easy to get through with exception of the boss battles, which were tricky and it 
 seemed like pure luck to pass some of them. The ability for your compadres to become The Thing 
 made it interesting and made you wonder if and when your dudes would turn on you. The only real 
 problem I with the game was the final battle kept crashing and I was never able to finish the game. 
 I did what I needed to do, but it would not push to the final cut scene. Oh well, it was pretty 
 fun to play regardless of the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinmyers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, when I first heard that John Carpenter's classic, The Thing, had a video game, I 
 wasn't very excited. There aren't to many good games based on movies out there, and I sure didn't 
 expect that The Thing would end up being one of those good games. Thankfully, I was wrong. The 
 Thing is a fun and creepy game that adds some very interesting aspects to the squad system. 
  
  The Thing is looks pretty impressive for a game that came out five years ago. Character models 
 are detailed and sharp. The Things definitely stand-out. The Walkers are huge, terrifying and extensively 
 detailed. The small Crawlers look appropriately disgusting and creepy. The enviroments also look 
 great. Rooms filled with blood, guts and horribly mutilated corpses are common sights. The Thing, 
 like the 1982 movie, doesn't shy away from violence. Heads will pop and bodies will explode into 
 small, meaty pieces. Really, my only complaint about the graphics are the low-quality, blocky corpses 
 which litter the rooms.
  
  The Thing doesn't offer much in the form of a soundtrack, but that's not a problem. There are plenty 
 of sound effects to make up for that. Your squadmates don't mind expressing their feelings towards 
 the mission, taunting enemies, telling you where to go or comparing corpses to your former girlfriends. 
 All the voices sound good, and you can clearly hear the frustration, fear or humor in the voices. 
 My only complaint about the voice-acting is the abundance of "We got company!" That's pretty much 
 the only thing your allies say when they spot enemies, and it gets old fast.
  
  The gameplay is easily the best part of The Thing. It uses the familar squad mechanics you've used 
 in other games, but with two big twists: fear and trust. When one of your squadmates sees a mutilated 
 body or is involved in something scary, fear sets in. He'll usually vomit or wet himself, but if 
 he is constantly exposed to this he'll begin to lose it. He'll shake uncontrollably, fire his weapon 
 at nothing and, eventually, end his life. Once in the middle of a battle, my medic lost it and 
 shot himself in the head. It was one of the coolest, most disturbing and most unexpected things 
 I'd ever seen in a video game. When you take a squadmate's weapon, shot at him or don't attack 
 enemies, your squadmate will lose trust in you. Usually when a squadmate loses trust in you he'll 
 simply refuse to follow orders, but if you really piss him off he won't hesitate to fire on you. 
 
  
  Besides the trust/fear system, The Thing has a huge squad-system twist: your squadmates can turn 
 into the Thing at anytime. Seeing someone who you thought was your friend suddenly transform into 
 the Thing is sad, and you'll never really feel that you can trust anyone else. To counter this 
 you can pick up blood-test kits, but these do little to expose infected squadmates. Your squadmate 
 can pass the test, yet a little while later he'll turn into the Thing. This is my biggest complaint 
 about The Thing. Not the possibility that your squadmates are infected, that's awesome, but the 
 inconcistency with blood test kits. 
  
  Killing Things are also an experience in itself. They require a two-phase attack. The first is 
 just shooting the hell out of it. This reduces it's health, but doesn't kill it. To finish off 
 Things you'll have to burn them. This makes killing each Thing a challenge, and when you're ambushed 
 by multiple Things you may just want to pause the game to think up a strategy.
  
  Although it doesn't offer any multiplayer or much of any reason to play though again once you've 
 beaten it, The Thing is a great survival-horror game that fans of the movie will love, and fans 
 of games in general will love just as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Although my Review deck pretty much sums it up let me go into detail here.
  
  Graphics- Not bad considering how old it is. The lighting is still very top notch stuff. Although 
 a face lift wouldn't hurt Audio-Very atmospheric, with music from the film, Audio is spot on but 
 the voice acting is dodgy Gameplay- Here's where things go bad, the shooting is very clunky and 
 sometimes hectic in a bad way. The fear/trust system was a novel idea but because the infections 
 are scripted or random it takes away a huge part of it.
  
  Presentation- Relatively solid
  
  Overall Fun Factor- Pretty fun for the story but as a shot 
 em up it's pretty poor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Theres an indefinable thing about The Thing. Something about a novella released in 1938 that can 
 inspire two movies, another full novel, several comic books, and now a video game. Is it the secluded 
 frozen wasteland setting? Or the simmering fears of a small cluster of paranoid researchers systematically 
 destroyed by a shape-stealing alien?
  
  To me, its the great unasked question: What would I do in that situation? Survive, freak out, 
 or become lunch? Its a great premise, and one that shouldve made for a better game.
  
  Universal Interactives The Thing is a third-person action/adventure semi-sequel to John Carpenters 
 1982 cult-classic movie of the same name. Picking up shortly after the films fiery conclusion, 
 a military squad has descended upon the demolished Antarctic outpost to look for survivors and 
 investigate what happened. As Captain Blake, you find research notes, dead bodies, and destruction.
 
  
  Oh, and Things. Lots and lots of Things.
  
  What sets the game apart from other survival horror fare is that your squad-mates (engineers, 
 medics, and soldiers) will cooperate with you only if they trust you (i. e., dont think youre 
 a Thing yourself) . A squad-interaction screen gives you a readout on each mans trust level, health, 
 plus state of mind, ranging from calm to panicked. Divvying up weapons, administering blood tests, 
 and fighting Things raises trust; inaction and hoarding lowers it.
  
  The very best moments in The Thing take advantage of the games unique trust/fear system. Wearing 
 its M rating like a badge of honor, it boasts one early standout scene in which I saw one of my 
 medics spontaneously begin quaking and Thing-ing out. After killing him with a combination of shotgun 
 fire and a torch, I watched my hysterical (and vomiting) engineer take his gun, stick it in his 
 mouth, and paint the wall with his brains.
  
  There are too few of these moments, though, and part of the problem is the games fundamental design. 
 The small squad initially assigned to you leaves after the first mission. You meet new medics, 
 engineers, and soldiers conveniently placed throughout the games subsequent missions, but they 
 mostly help you open doors and fight against Things, and you feel no real empathy for any of the 
 characters (unlike in the movie) .
  
  Overall, I got the feeling that there could be a truly amazing game here if only the developers 
 had more time to polish it. Too many rough edges ruin an otherwise smooth production: clipping 
 problems, unexplained mission objectives (Why am I searching a warehouse? Why am I blowing up planes 
 with C4?) , save points strategically placed to artificially raise the difficulty of certain missions, 
 and an emphasis on scripting over substance. (I broke the game once by finishing one objective 
 before another; even though the mission itself was successful, I was forced to load a saved game 
 to continue.)
  
  Graphicswise, The Thing isnt for the squeamish. Blood and gore are thick as cake, and the ambience 
 seeps dread. My only quibble here is with the unrelenting sameness in the monster design. Id hoped 
 that Things would reveal themselves in a variety of grotesque manifestations, but there are really 
 only three  scuttlers, head-Things, and big Things  and their AI is straight out of The Big Book 
 of Generic Game Monsters. NPCs might as well be turning into werewolves or zombies
  .
  Being a fan of the movie, I cant help but be disappointed. The Thing tries to do the right thing; 
 it just doesnt do that thing as often as it should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Well well, where to start. I actually started to play this on the PS2 a while back at a friends 
 house, then all of a sudden while I was on here I realized it was a pretty good game so I found 
 it and bought it for the PC instead.
  
  First off, if you watched the movie and enjoyed it, I think you would enjoy the game. If you never 
 watched the movie, then watch it cause its a classic and mostly everyone I know has seen it and 
 enjoyed it.
  The game gives that same atmosphere and feeling which I really loved from the movie.
  The good 
 thing about this though is that it actually takes place AFTER the movie left off. So playing is 
 kinda like watching the sequel of the movie.
  
  Other than that, looking at it from a point of view that doesn't involve the actual movie, the 
 game plays out pretty decent. Good gameplay, great survival levels, graphics that reflect the time 
 it came out, scary scenes... all that you would need from a survival horror game.
  
  Honestly though, if i were to compare it to other games, it would stack up right next to Cold Fear. 
 I thought Cold Fear was better though, but I think just because it came later.
  
  So yea, if you are looking for something in the range of a survival horror game where you find 
 weapons and items with or without your squad, then check this out. If you want something newer, 
 give Cold Fear a try, I loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The Thing might be a movie-to-game adaptation, but, unlike most of those, this game is actually 
 good.
  The game picks up a few hours, or maybe days, after the movie ends. A rescue team is sent to determine 
 the fate of a research team in an antarctic military facility, but the rescue mission soon becomes 
 a survival one, as the shape-shifting aliens are practically crawling off the walls.
  
  The graphics in The Thing are a little out-dated, but the character models are exceptionally well 
 made, as each team member you encounter looks different.
  the environments are pretty repetitive and so are the enemies (halfway through the game you'll 
 pretty much meet every type of monstrosity The Thing has to offer) .
  The ambiance noises are the only touches of real horror in the whole game. The enemies are pretty 
 noisy; even your teammates will react to the strange sounds throughout the game.
  
  The gameplay is a little off for an action-based game, making the shooting a bit more difficult 
 than it should be, but the abundance in ammo and health makes up for the quirky controls.
  The AI of the NPCs are surprisingly good and they will be of great help throughout the entire game.
 
  
  bottomline- go see the movie, then play the game; you own it to yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Saturn26
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  This game is very good, but its not accurate to the movie at all, but if this was what happend 
 behind the scenes of The thing it would be awesome. Now in this game if u noticed that this game 
 is a borderline horror survival game, it had a weopens system i enjoyed and it allowed u to manully 
 spread out the weopens, but the problem was if u had a weopen on some one and they convert and 
 u kill them, u get cant ur weopen back. The weopens where really cool, u had nades, sniper, thrower, 
 pistal, shotgunl, and ext.
  
  The Game was wicked long, and the story was great, also if u noticed wicked hard. Now i hated however 
 that some bosses are ridicually hard, ok most bosses are, this throws u off if ur new to this game. 
 The real Weaknes of this game is the trust system, and infections, now the trust of u go up, if 
 u give weopens to ur teammates, and everyone of them can get infected randomly, and u wouldent 
 know when, it jest happens, and then ur BEEP with the weopen u gave him unless u die, redo that 
 section of the level and take his weopen.
  
  Over all a good game, that everyone should at least beat once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  For those seeking a scary game maybe this is for you though its not absolutely terrifying! You 
 take on the role as Capt. Blake who must lead his team through the terrible antarctic. I read a 
 review below on a person who gave this game a mediocre score... now fair enough thats his personal 
 opinion on the rating but when he mesioned about the small crab things are impossible to hit well 
 i was kid of angry. On the options or on what difficulty you choose the auto aim targeting gets 
 wider the easier and thinner the more difficult and if you have auto aim all you need to do is 
 shoot! but any way the game is an instant classic holding what any third person shooter should 
 have .
  Scares, gore, guns, language, intensity and horror!
  Though basically the main enemy (The thing) is given away pretty easily!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic simulation of the movie action and scenario. Thing is made an a good revolution in 
 game industry. May be not most of people made any difference, but it is really immpresing from 
 story line point of view.
  
  Graphically it is look like Freedom Fighters, even I would say it is in same engine. Same inventary 
 usage and same tipe of impact to the environment, like open doors, broke the boxes and etc.
  
  Also in game we see the "trust effect" well I caled it like that. You are not just bloody going 
 there and killing all that bloody Things alone and with out any difficulty. 
  
  First of all you came to that base with your team, which in short time get understand whole situation 
 here as your are. That is why trust between team members should be kept in adequate level, otherwise 
 you will get killed by your mates, rather than by "Alien **** becareful about this matter. Environment 
 has a few hazards to the player such as extreme cold weather outside the base and its vizavi fire.. which 
 burns out all that shit which you got hahahah lol.
  
  It is worth playing!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is a very scary game. The game features many horror filled locations, a desolate antartic 
 base, an underground base and a military complex. The character trust feature added is clever but 
 glitchy, shooting your men only once will set them against you or into a fear frenzy, they never 
 think it as an accident. The good points are that you can order them around and give them weapons 
 but that's it. The character design is pretty good but lip sync isn't, unfortunately. There are 
 plenty of jumps to rectify this though, along with grusome and well thought out enemies, the fighting 
 get good. Although the fightings pretty bad too, everything is lock on and when you go first person, 
 you can't move. Another good feature is that your allies are always at risk and can transform into 
 the vicious stalking monsters at any time, this adds even more jumps and tension into the bowl. 
 There are plenty of gorey moments, jumps, cool weapons and items around the world of The Thing 
 making this a great scarey survival horror, although if you want my advice for a survival horror, 
 buy this, but if you want a better horror, buy Resident Evil 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Thing continues from the movie which is a 1982 classic Science Fiction by. I never saw the movie 
 so I cannot compare between the game and the movie. This is one of the few movies to game titles 
 that are worth getting. The Thing gets a bit challenging in the later levels but that is where 
 the game gets really addictive.
  
  The graphics are good, but it could have been a lot better on the PC. The X-Box and PS2 graphics 
 were better. Overall the graphics were still good, smooth, clear, sharp, crisp, graphics with minimum 
 glitches. I would also like to mention that the lighting effects were better on the PC than on 
 the console version which is a huge plus for it.
  
  The controls are a bit awkward and sometimes irresponsive; especially while in combat. The controls 
 were made with the gamepad in mind. Your character is viewed from a third person view. When using 
 your mouse and keyboard, you look left and right only with the mouse. In order to look up or down 
 you need to hold in a free-look key. During that time you cannot move. Aiming is automatic, unless 
 in the free-look mode -person PC games -- would have made for a much more satisfying control scheme.
 
  
  The sound effects are good but something better could have been done about the music in most areas 
 and sometimes when you shoot you don't hear any sound effects. The game still provides a scary 
 atmosphere and will satisfy almost any horror fan. The voice acting was well done. 
  
  Is this game worth your money? Yes it is however, be warned there isnt any unlockables (or I dont 
 believe so because I did not get anything) . If youre a fan of the movie and you want to know what 
 happens next, this game is perfect but even if you are not it is still worth it and you might learn 
 a lot about the classical movie. The Thing is long enough and damn well hard enough to please almost 
 anyone. Chances are if you rent this game you might not finish it in a weekend unless you are a 
 hardcore gamer. The game is a bit difficult and in the later levels the enemy AI can be very brutal 
 and challenging. However I don't think there are any extras or alternate endings to look forward 
 for nor there is anything to unlock but you will have fun if you play it over again. 
  
  You will defiantly enjoy this game despite its draw backs. If you love horror games (The Thing 
 is not too much on the on the survival side) you will love The Thing. Even if you love squad based 
 games, The Thing delivers.
  
  Strengths
  Great Graphics
  Squad Based Horror
  Great Movie Licensed Game
  Good Audio
  
  Weakness
  Poor Controls
  Gets really difficult 
 at times
  No unlockables
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The Thing is a rare game that presents realistic responses to horror most terrible, would be entirely 
 outside human experience. Colorful language and gruesome detail have rarely been used maturely in 
 games - to actualy further plot rather than prompt puerile glee - but The Thing manages to present 
 a cohesive and compelling story line that is worthy sequel.
  An alien force that appears to straddle the boundary between sentient menace and virus has infected 
 a good portion of everything alive in the Antarctic. It can rapidly kill and control nearly any 
 creature, and can perfectly mimic things as complex as a dog or a human, leaving you to discover 
 who is still human, and which of your allies might try to consume you when you turn a dark corner. Often, games 
 work to frighten you by isolation, leaving you alone in a threatening environment with unknown 
 horrors. While The Thing sometimes leaves you alone in the dark, with threatening noises at every 
 turn, the fright of your squad enhances the experience. Fear is infectious. When squad starts cursing, you 
 know they are scared, and as terrifying as the alien threat may be, Knowing that something scary 
 lurks around the corner is a form of comfort - you know where it is. Discovering that your ally 
 could suddenly become your enemy throws you permanently on edge. The Thing will still provide you 
 with weekend's worth of action, horror, and fun with flame, while resolving a mystery begun in the 
 Antarctic twenty years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrebiusUK
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  For those who have seen the film (of the same name) you will be instantly be in familiar territory 
 on starting the game as it continues pretty much straight on from the film. But can a game based 
 on a little-known B horror movie be any good? The answer is a definite yes. 
  
  While showing their age now, the graphics are still solid and when combined with the haunting sound, 
 really create an isolated world in which you are hopelessly immersed. 
  
  The game features a great emphasis on party member interaction; the fear of other members of your 
 party and their trust in you plays an integral part in progressing through the game. For instance, 
 giving weapons to a frightened individual will lower their fear factor and increase their trust, 
 not surprisingly the bigger the weapon, the better their response. The opposite is also true - 
 taking ammo or weapons can lower their trust to a level where they refuse to cooperate and here 
 coercion is possible by pointing a gun at their head. This however annihilates all trust. If a 
 party member is overcome with fear they can even commit suicide. 
  
  However, having said this you've got to keep a watchful eye on your party as any of them could 
 be infected and become "things" right when you least expect it. Interestingly enough larger "things" 
 can only be defeated by fire. 
  
  I particularly enjoyed the tension created and maintained throughout the game; anyone and everyone 
 could be infected. The storyline, while nothing spectacular progresses nicely and is still brings 
 you back for more. 
  
  The game remains realistic, for example you can only spend a limited time outside in the cold before 
 you start to lose health and this also applies to the other members of your team. 
  
  Overall the game provides a refreshing originality by combining elements of first person shooter 
 with third person action adventure - and it's still terrifying. A worthy purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 17, 2004 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The Thing was first and foremost an enjoyable game that took you to all of the places from the 
 1980's movie but failed to capture the suspenseful nature of the movie. Alot of potential was there 
 and just enough of it was realized to make a good game but by no means a great game that will take 
 up probably no more than 14 hours for a novice gamer and as little as 7 for a skilled gamer.
  
  One of the coolest features I was looking foward to was the suspense of not knowing which of 
 my teamates might have already become things, however this was probably the most disapointing feature 
 in this promising adventure game as his has no bearing on the gameplay. Moreover the game is scripted 
 to take away most if not all of your friends at one point or another without any forewarning... 
 in fact I found through restoring that sometimes you could avoid fighting a NPC turned thing by 
 shooting them down as a test would reveal them to be perfectly human as late as only a few moments 
 before the location where they are scripted to change into enemies.
  
  On the pc, The Things roots as a console game (not a true port as both versions were developed 
 simultaniously) are very aparent in the form of save points and auto aim. Neither feature detracts 
 from the game and only the save point feature is misused in one of the later levels of the game 
 where you go an entire level without the benefit of a save location, which is practicaly unforgivable 
 and gave me 2 hours worth of pain that was totaly unnecesary. The restart level is a partial saving 
 grace for this feature, but it is only a partial fix as you cannot quit the game and restart the 
 last level.
  
  On the whole, The Thing was an enjoyable adventure game with a great deal of satifying action and 
 one or two tense moments making this title an average return for your 50$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 28, 2003 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot reviewer has once again got it about right (although as usual score is a bit high.. one 
 assumes to keep advertisers happy or something) - OKish game spoilt by awful interface that makes 
 it stupidly hard to hit the small fast moving critters that make up the bulk of monsters in many 
 levels - for example, even with the patch its almost impossible to get the elevation/inclination 
 to hit critters that are close to. Also, patch fixes mouse look (which halfwit decided to release 
 without this feature?) ... almost.... but you seem to lose the colour indicator that is meant to 
 give an idea of monster health. And if you're into produce a horror game that's actually no more 
 than a shooter, for goodness sake don't limit save games. Some people might find going over the 
 same ground over and over again satisfying - I and many others find it tedious.
  
  Otherwise; graphics alright, no major bugs (at least not at the abominable level of recent games 
 like Chaser) and Ok storyline. But not what you'd actually call scarey. And boss monsters for god's 
 sake! Why can't game designers get over a 20 year old strategy to delay progression through the 
 game and stop producing these over powerful, "you have to shoot it in this specific way" type of 
 encounters. Fine for kids on consoles but not really for a PC game.
  
  So, overall OK but a bit on the mediocre side - yet another almost made it but not quite. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
