-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Typing of the Dead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/typingofthedead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 193 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Sega
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 23, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Typing of the Dead certainly looks dated, but it's also surprisingly fun. 

  The Typing of the Dead is an offbeat first-person puzzle-action game for the PC that lets you fight 
 hordes of gruesome zombies by quickly typing out words that appear onscreen. This unusual game 
 actually has a history: It originally debuted on Sega's Dreamcast console in 2000 and was itself 
 a modified version of Sega's previously released light-gun arcade game, The House of the Dead 2. 
 The Typing of the Dead certainly looks dated, considering its age and the number of times it's 
 been ported onto different platforms, but it's also surprisingly fun.           What other game 
 lets you type zombies to death?    

  The Typing of the Dead's "story," such as it is, concerns a mad scientist's attempt to create an 
 army of zombies, led by a superzombie "emperor," to rule the world. Only your character -- a special 
 agent armed with a Dreamcast console and keyboard -- can stop him. That's all you need to know about 
 The Typing of the Dead's story, because once you start playing, you'll be too busy frantically 
 typing away at zombies to care about anything else. Every time an enemy appears onscreen, it's 
 accompanied by a word or phrase that you must type in quickly and accurately to defeat it. This 
 might not sound too interesting, but things can get very exciting when three or four angry zombies -- each 
 bearing a long, challenging phrase -- suddenly leap out at you from all sides.   

  As with most light-gun games, The Typing of the Dead is played "on rails" -- that is, you can't actually 
 move your character or choose where to go next; the game determines that. However, depending on 
 how quickly you defeat your enemies, you may be able to rescue innocent bystanders, uncover bonus 
 items, and choose alternate paths through a level, though you'll always finish each level by fighting 
 a powerful boss monster. These boss monsters will actually challenge you in a few interesting ways. 
 For instance, one will force you to figure out and type in the correct answer to a simple question, 
 while another will come barreling at you with a giant chainsaw and will strike you if you can't 
 type out a full sentence in time.   

  You can play through the game's six stages either in arcade mode or in an alternate, original mode, 
 which lets you unlock a few handy options, like starting new games with extra lives or with more 
 "continues." The game also features several other modes that let you square off against each of 
 the boss monsters or sharpen your skills by testing your typing speed and accuracy, and you can 
 unlock new modes as you complete each test.   

  The Typing of the Dead uses pretty much all the same monsters and levels from The House of the 
 Dead 2, and unfortunately, it shows. The same graphics, environments, and special effects that 
 may have seemed like the state of the art for an arcade game a few years ago now look flat, blocky, 
 and pixelated by today's standards. The Typing of the Dead runs at a fixed (and unimpressive) resolution 
 of 640x480, which doesn't do much to keep many of the game's textures from looking blurry. And, 
 in keeping with its horror theme, the game isn't especially colorful: Most of the levels you'll 
 fight through are drab, broken-down buildings and sewers. However, the game itself runs briskly, 
 even on low-end to mid-range machines, with absolutely no slowdown, and the zombies (and the heroes 
 who fight them) are animated well and look about as good as they can, considering how blocky the 
 game's 3D models sometimes seem.           The dialogue alone might well justify the price of admission. 
    

  The game also features the same music and sound from House of the Dead 2 and the Dreamcast version 
 of The Typing of the Dead. Its arcade-action soundtrack is repetitive, but you might expect it 
 to be, considering The Typing of the Dead's arcade origins. At any rate, the music is largely inoffensive, 
 and as you play, you'll probably find yourself so focused on typing zombies to death that you'll 
 ignore the music entirely. However, the game's voice acting is a completely different matter. Sega's 
 House of the Dead series is notorious for terrible voice acting, and The Typing of the Dead's voice 
 work is just as bad. In fact, the game's voice acting is so bad as to be thoroughly ridiculous -- but 
 then again, so is the rest of the game. At worst, you might find The Typing of the Dead's voice 
 acting to be disappointing. At best, you may actually enjoy how absurdly bad it is, since The Typing 
 of the Dead's silly voice acting and equally silly premise of secret agents armed with keyboards 
 seem as campy and as self-consciously funny as a cheesy, low-budget horror film.   

  The Typing of the Dead is an unusual game that might not have amazing graphics or sound, but its 
 gameplay is unique and extremely fun. Despite its strange, silly premise, it does have a few explicitly 
 gory sequences -- some zombies turn into sloppy messes when shot down, which is why it's an M-rated 
 game. But if you like action-packed games or horror movies, you'll probably enjoy The Typing of 
 the Dead... and even if you don't, you might want to give it a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  When my friend got this game, I swear he never could shut up about it. We actually had a pact where 
 I won't talk about how much I love Dethklok if he would just not talk about TotD. Anyhow, when 
 I tried it out, I LOVED IT!
  No matter how gay it is that I am giving this such a high score, it deserves it. Without getting 
 into the whole "its a great typing teacher" rant, it is still a fun game. First off, I am a pretty 
 good typer, so dragging this thing to hard makes it great. Sorry, I got carried away. The premise 
 is, well, who gives a **** it is just a doctored-up version of House of the Dead, but to kill zombies, 
 you just type out words and phrases. Typing a letter that pops up very fast can either save you 
 from a flying axe coming at you, or can get you an extra life. Most zombies, on the other hand, 
 will come up to you with a more simple word on easy mode, while others are harder. The game occasionally 
 has challenges that include killing 10 in 30 sec, or saving a civilian. Only problem is, challenges 
 are happy to torture you with commmas ( , ) and hyphens ( - ) . Then you get onto the bosses, which 
 can get VERY hard. I remember one that makes you think of your feet by answering a question super 
 fast and typing the selected answer. Another is a huge leatherface type thing that makes you type 
 LONG sentences super fast before you get owned. Not only all of that aforemention stuff makes the 
 game great, but also, the words are so random it is just great! It doesn't matter if you type sexual 
 harrasment to kill one zombie or rubber duck to kill another. It is great! Overall, get it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schicagos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  The reason I am giving this game a 10 is because, quite frankly... its the BEST typing game on 
 the market.
  There are no other reasons for the high score.
  If there was even ONE game better than this, I would probably give this game a 7 (depending on 
 the quality of the new game) .
  
  The dictionary that this game uses is awesome too.
  Unique words, and not only that, it also uses punctuation.
  
  Then, when you beat a level... 
 the game grades you on the quality of your typing.
  
  Soooo, not only is this game about typing fast, its about quality typing (which I lack) .
  
 
  I'm not sure if the game gives extra points for proper capitalization, it certainly SHOULD. Who 
 knows though, that is something that only the programmers know (unless the answer is in the manual 
 somewhere) .
  
  In fact, they should convert MOST light-gun shooters of this style to Typing Games.
  
  Imagine 
 Typing Crisis (Time Crisis) .
  Spacebar to reload/duck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmastor
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Every year there is a game that get everyone by surprize as being a great game that seem to be 
 the dumdest idea. I read about this game years ago and while on ebay (ebaing) I say this game for 
 sell for $50 i thought wow this game must be great so i found a cheaper one from canada for $20 
 with the intentions to help my little brother type better. Well i'm the one whho realize i need 
 to type better after playing this. The game is fun and runs smooth about any cpu today can run 
 this game with no problem the sound is great and it have you laughing at times. The gameplay is 
 also solid. If you want a game that is fun and different this is it, also it help you type better 
 and make you feel good inside like brain age do for the ds. PICK UP THIS GAME (well order it) I 
 hope they bring typing of the dead 2 to the us and on the 360 with online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qjns
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played Typing of the Dead was in the arcades. It was really fun holding a gun 
 and just killing every zombie that you see. When I saw this game in the store, I bought it because 
 I really loved the arcade version. I'm a fast typist so I don't really need this to improve my 
 typing skills. However, it doesn't mean that you wouldn't enjoy it if you're not fast at typing. 
 It may sound weird but it's really fun to kill the zombies using your keyboard. You kill them by 
 typing the letters to kill them. It would depend on what level of you choose because as the game 
 gets harder, it would ask you to type phrases then sentences. I admit it was a creative way to 
 enhance one's typing skills. I remembered playing super mario typing tutor game years before and 
 this is much better. I think they just had to improve on some things like the space bar not really 
 that important. While I was playing the game, it doesn't matter if you press the space bar or not 
 if it displays more than 1 word. At first, I assumed that I would have to type it but I accidentally 
 missed it when I typed the first letter of the next word. It did accept it so it could just be 
 a glitch. In summary, a fun action game that will enhance your typing skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shants
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This by far the best typing tutor i have ever seen. For those who wants to improve their typing 
 skills without getting bored. The hardcore action makes typing more exciting and at the same time 
 practicing the proper way of touch typing. It even has a tutorial for those who have no knowledge 
 of touch typing. I introduced this game to my friends and the moment they got it, they keep telling 
 me the next day that their entire family is addicted to the game. It's fun and learning all in 
 one. Learn to type the proper way in a fun way. I recommend this game to everybody who loves to 
 play games and at the same time improve their typing skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craig313
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  This Game has it all. Zombies. Typing. What more could you want? But Seriously, this game has what 
 no other piece of typing software has; entertainment. Sure, as a game alone, its pretty average. 
 I mean, its House of the Dead with the guns replaced by keyboards. The graphics are decent enough, 
 and the sound is unfiltered House of the Dead cheesiness. But I think the point to stress it that 
 this is the best typing software I've came across. I've been wanting some typing software, but 
 they are too bland, and the typing feels like a chore. With this, I actually wanted to keep playing, 
 trying to improve my 'grade', and of course, eradicate zombies. I recommend this to anyone who 
 hates typing software that offers little in the of fun. Zombies, and typing... who knew! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I own an old copy of Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing but it's never gotten me to sit down and 'learn' 
 to type for long. Sure, it's well made and has refreshing mini-games, but the motivation was just 
 never there. I learned to type thanks to DOS - the faster you typed, the faster you got things 
 done - nowadays it's all about how fast you can click, ironically just like the first House of 
 the Dead. Allow me to explain: Typing of the Dead is actually a sequel to House of the Dead, one 
 of those plastic gun games you see in the arcades. It was released on the PC, where you aimed with 
 the mouse, shooting zombies and other evil things as they popped up in front of you. The skill 
 involved was negligible and the educational value nil, but it was a fun game, pow pow socky limbs 
 fly off pow pow. 
  Typing of the Dead picks up right after House of the Dead, and even features an intro to get newcomers 
 up to speed. Let's be frank though, you really don't need to know what's going on, nor is there 
 any story beyond what you'd find in an episode of Ninja Turtles (Evil genius making evil, we must 
 stop all evil!) . Zombies have overrun the city and you must fight your way through them to reach 
 the headquarters of some company. So far, so Resident Evil. However, here's where Typing gets even 
 sillier, but that's not to say it isn't good gaming.
  Enemies appear with certain words on them and you must type these words in order to destroy the 
 enemies, which sounds simple enough but can be quite nerve-wracking when there are three of them 
 closing in and you keep hitting the wrong letters. Type the wrong letter and you'll 'miss', type 
 the correct one and the enemy will recoil as your shot makes contact. The faster you type each 
 letter (the less time spent searching for the next one) the better your score for that enemy will 
 be, and you'll get a report at the end of a level showing your problem letters, and an allocation 
 of points. You'll see what you need to improve, just like a teaching program should demonstrate.
 
  The gameplay is excellent and will help you improve your typing, as each level brings tougher/longer 
 words and even a few novel twists, such as an enemy with three snake heads - you have to pick the 
 head with the correct answer to the question posed before your time runs out or bitey bitey. 
 
  The game's graphics aren't the greatest, but they shouldn't be a deciding factor for any discerning 
 gamer. Sure, they look blocky, but everything looks like it should and it'll run on just about 
 any PC around nowadays. The characters look downright silly running around with keyboards strapped 
 to their chests, though. On the topic of silliness, let's not forget the accompanying audio, which 
 was most likely recorded by the programmers themselves during their lunch break. I'll tolerate 
 the 'script' as b-movie fluff since it matches the whole concept of the game (zombies!!) , but the 
 dialogue mostly sounds like someone reading individual words off a paper rather than coherent sentences. 
 Oh. No. There. They. Are. That sort of thing. One bat-like enemy even intones his sentences badly 
 - I'm certain he's asking me if I want to suffer like G did, instead of giving me an order. (Suffer 
 like G did?) 
  The game is also quite short, consisting of just several levels, but there are other game types 
 you can try, such as boss-only battles, which will extend Typing's life a little. Obviously the 
 words that appear on your enemies are random, so there's also a lot of replay value there. Some 
 of the combinations will have you scratching your head, but that's all part of the fun.
  Typing of the Dead mixes old-school 'storylines' with modern technology and adds some educational 
 value into the mix, and there's not many games around that can actually boast improving a skill 
 that isn't only useful in the gaming world. (Counterstrike will teach you modern warfare? please.) 
 If I were to start learning to type anew, I would thoroughly enjoy a game like Typing of the Dead. 
 Plus, I'm not a perfect typer and where there's room for improvement, Typing of the Dead will find 
 and help. That's exactly what an 'educational' title should do, even if it does it with globs of 
 green zombie blood. Gross. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcoDeGammo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  If u see this game played you need to take over the keyboard.
  It has lead to many a screaming match in my house about who can type the fastest.
  
  House 
 of the Dead 2 is a mindless fun game no one has a problem dropping a quarter in an arcade to play, 
 but Typing of the Dead add a little more skill to game and adds a fun factor thats undeniable. With 
 Each letter typed on the keyboard representing a bullet in a zombies skull it seems a little more 
 satisfying than going trigger happy with a lightgun. The game get even more fun in later level when 
 u have to type full sentences or even paragraphs in the case of some boss fights. The whole game 
 makes learning to type faster to blow away the undead a blast.
  
  Forget the Story
  Forget the Graphics
  But You Wont Forget the Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dn3datomiced
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Let's get the bad stuff out of the way:
  
  The graphics are very blocky, very ugly, very bland, etc.
  The character models are blocky, ugly, 
 bland, etc.
  The voice acting is laughably horrific. (Takes the edge off of a real beating, though)
  The plot 
 is ludicrous.
  
  Now, bad stuff aside, this is one of the most dependably entertaining games on the market, still. 
 Since you will be typing your enemies to death, there is a certain degree of replayability in the 
 fact that, on any given play through, you will be typing completely different words. Unlike TTotD's 
 predecessor, The House of the Dead 2 (the game which this title is completely based off) , it's not 
 just a matter of remembering where the enemies pop out and where to shoot them. It feels different 
 every time you play.
  
  Also, this game REALLY DOES help you type better. It comes with a set of requisite typing tutorials, 
 and they ARE worth looking at, especially the numbers and special key tutorials. (I never learned 
 quite how to reach those numbers UNTIL this game) Every stage becomes a little more challenging, 
 even to a seemingly impossible state, but be advised that even I have gotten so good, I can beat 
 the game with little trouble. Anyone with just a rudimentary knowledge base of typing will find 
 themselves compelled to achieve better typing, if only for the sake of blowing the crap out of 
 zombies. Have you ever seen Mavis Beacon do THAT?
  
  Bottom line: If you can get past the graphics standard of yesteryear and handle some VERY bad-funny 
 dialog, this game will inspire you to type better, faster, and cleaner than ANY OTHER tutor I've 
 ever picked up. This is the only game that has ever kept me entertained while ACTUALLY teaching 
 me something constructive. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
