-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Ultimate Doom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ultimatedoom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,315 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even now, The Ultimate Doom remains ultimately playable. 

 The original Doom, in this almost final version that includes a never-released episode called Thy 
 Flesh Consumed, will go down as one of the biggest computer game hits of all time. With the release 
 of Wolfenstein 3-D, purists might set the clock ticking on 3-D action games, but Doom went farther 
 and faster, and with much more fury.  

 Almost everything about this game was different from what had come before. The bloody action rivaled 
 games like Mortal Kombat, and in many ways surpassed them with its high compulsion factor. Sleepless 
 nights and raves around the water cooler became the sign of the hopeless Doom addict.  

 And the way the game was soldwe played the first episode free, then registered to pay for 
 the chilling conclusionproved that companies didn't need million-dollar marketing campaigns. 
 Since then, many games have used this technique, from the popular puzzler Zoop to the robo-combat-flier 
 Descent.  

 Even now, The Ultimate Doom remains ultimately playable, thanks in large part to the original design 
 that allowed hackers to program their own levels. Doom isn't just a game, it's an environment. 
 I can remember talking with a gearhead buddy of mine, discussing the use of the Doom engine as 
 an operating environment for the office. Yeah, I've got those third-quarter figures for you 
 in an Excel spreadsheet, you might e-mail a colleague. You'll find it in the basement, 
 next to the Baron of Hell. See you at the meeting.  

 While Doom kept most of us awake far past midnight, it was the game's multi-player fight-to-the 
 death Deathmatch mode that made it the bane of offices worldwide. The Ultimate Doom, with its new 
 episode, is still worth a trip to Hell.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wolfpred2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Doom is a great game. It really is.
  
  I first played Doom January 2009, when a friend brought it to school to put it on the computers 
 in our computer class. I agreed to try to install it since most school computers wouldn't let us 
 install anything.
  
  So I installed it, and I was amazed at how good Doom is after 15 years. 
  
  When I first played 
 it, I was a bit scared, not knowing where anything is, but I learned fast.
  
  The graphics, though dated, are still good, and it is really fun to navigate the dark halls, waiting 
 to fire at any demon that dared entered my line of sight.
  
  All of the weapons are useful, though some, mostly the fist (unless you have the berserk pack) 
 and the pistol, are near useless against stronger enemies, such as the Barons of Hell. The ultimate 
 weapon is the BFG 9000, which can kill everything in 1 to 2 shots.
  
  The variety of demons are immense, varying for the zombies, to the imps, to the Cyberdemon, and 
 some you really do not want to encounter without a rocket launcher or a plasma rifle.
  
  The multiplayer is still fun, and Doom was the first game to feature Deathmatch, which is my favorite 
 competitive mode.
  
  One great thing about Doom was its ability to be modified. It still has people making new levels, 
 enemies, and weapons to this day.
  
  Even though Doom is 15 years old, it is still as addictive as ever and remains one of the best 
 FPSs ever.
  
  I give Doom/The Ultimate Doom:
  97%
  A
  
  
  On a side note, you may want to use a source port, such as Skulltag or Doomsday, to enhance the 
 game. Most include the ablility to jump and to use free look. Some even include new weapons and 
 demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESI_EVILZERO
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Doom is a 1993 computer game by id Software that is a landmark title in the first-person shooter 
 genre, and in first person gaming in general. It is widely recognized for pioneering immersive 
 3D graphics, networked multiplayer gaming on the PC platform, and support for custom expansions 
 (WADs) . Distributed as shareware, Doom was downloaded by an estimated 10 million people within 
 two years, popularizing the mode of gameplay and spawning a gaming subculture; as a sign of its 
 effect on the industry, games from the mid-1990s boom of first-person shooters are often known 
 simply as "Doom clones". Its graphic and interactive violence has also made Doom the subject of 
 much controversy reaching outside the gaming world. According to GameSpy, Doom was voted by industry 
 insiders to be the greatest game of all time in 2004.
  
  Doom has a science fiction/horror theme, and a simple plot. The background is only given in the 
 game's manual, and the in-game story is mainly advanced with short messages displayed between the 
 game's episodes.
  
  The player takes the role of a nameless space marine (referred to as "Doomguy" or "The Doomguy" 
 by many fans) , "one of Earth's toughest, hardened in combat and trained for action", who has been 
 deported to Mars for assaulting a senior officer when ordered to kill unarmed civilians. He is 
 forced to work for the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) , a military-industrial conglomerate that 
 is performing secret experiments with teleportation between the moons of Mars, Phobos and Deimos. 
 The Marine may have been forced into a security or unimportant staff position according to the 
 manual, stating "with no action for fifty million miles, your day consisted of suckin' dust and 
 watchin' restricted flicks in the rec room." Suddenly, something goes wrong and creatures from 
 Hell come out of the teleportation gates, or "Gateways". A defensive response from base security 
 fails to halt the invasion, and the bases quickly get overrun by demons; all personnel are killed 
 or turned into zombies. At the same time, Deimos vanishes entirely. A UAC team from Mars is sent 
 to Phobos to investigate the incident, but soon radio contact ceases and only one human is left 
 alive - the player, whose task is to make it out as such
  
  In order to complete the game, the player must fight through three episodes containing nine levels 
 each (see Episodes and levels of Doom) . Knee-Deep in the Dead, the first episode and the only one 
 in the shareware version, is set in the high-tech military bases on Phobos. It ends with the player 
 fighting the Barons of Hell and afterwards entering the teleporter leading to Deimos, ending with 
 the player getting overwhelmed by monsters and seemingly killed. In the second episode, Shores 
 of Hell, the player journeys through the Deimos installation, whose areas are interwoven with beastly 
 architecture, warped and distorted by the demonic invasion. After encountering the Cyberdemon, 
 the truth about the vanished moon is discovered: it is floating above Hell. The player climbs down 
 to the surface, and the final episode, Inferno, begins. After destroying the final boss, the Spider 
 Mastermind, a hidden doorway opens for the hero who has "proven too tough for Hell to contain", 
 leading back home to Earth. The expansion pack Ultimate Doom adds a fourth episode, Thy Flesh Consumed, 
 chronicling the marine's return to Earth, in other words his adventures between the first three 
 traditional episodes of Doom and Doom II.
  
  Doom is widely regarded as one of the most important titles in gaming history. It was voted the 
 "#1 game of all time" in a poll among over 100 game developers and journalists conducted by GameSpy 
 in July 2001, [17] and PC Gamer proclaimed Doom the most influential game of all time in its ten-year 
 anniversary issue in April 2004, and named it the second best game of all time a year later (number 
 one was Half-Life) . However, several game journalists have also contrasted the relatively simplistic 
 gameplay in Doom unfavorably with more story-oriented first-person shooters such as Half-Life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qubert27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly my favorite game of all time (Doom 2 is better) . It doesn't really concentrate on 
 and sort of story. It just plainly says in the begining "A gateway to Hell has opened..." then 
 some other things about your mission and you start. And it never got repetitive like a lot of games 
 from this time did. And I can't forget the fact that the music was awesome. Even though they obviously 
 took a lot of riffs from bands like Metallica, Alice in Chains, Pantera ect. It was a really Anti-Christ 
 game though. Mangled bodies, rivers of blood... Some things were a little greusome. But I don't 
 care. This and Doom II should be in any PC gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  After the release of Wolf 3D, id software was already on the ball and developing the next generation 
 of FPS'ers. We got a taste of this in the release of Doom shareware back in the early 90's. The 
 idea was simple, give away 1/3rd of the game to the public and let them make the choice as to if 
 they want to buy the rest. The strategy paid off and Doom sold more then it's share of units. 
 
  
  When Windows 95 was released, id software decided to create a port of Doom that could be played 
 with directx backing it. Thus, Ultimate Doom came on the shelf for the very first time offering 
 a chance for fans and new comers to experience Doom on Microsoft's newest OS. It was also the first 
 time that the full version of Doom was sold on store shelves instead of ordering it by phone. The 
 result is an excellent package that takes the best of Doom and also gives us a new episode to play.
 
  
  Thy Flesh Consumed is a new episode that takes place right after the end of Inferno and right before 
 Hell on Earth. The first couple of levels are quite a challenge, but soon it becomes easy enough 
 to complete in one play session. The levels are designed well by the same folks who built the original 
 levels of Episode 1, 2 and 3. While it was kind of upsetting not to see some new textures or monsters 
 in this add-on, you will still find the same great gameplay that made the first three episodes 
 a classic. 
  
  This is the kind of game that you should tell folks about just for it's historic value. It was 
 quite a thrill the first time I played thru the first Doom game. Even after playing thru it yet 
 again I leave my computer happy and entertained. The gameplay is classic and if you can find some 
 buds to deathmatch then the better. Ultimate Doom is worthy beyond words for any serious gamer's 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Doom has always been one of those games I'll always love. It is a highly addicting FPS that really 
 did set the standard for other shooters. (Even though Wolfenstein really was first) The addition 
 of the fourth episode is a nice addition to an already awesome classic. For it's time, it was a 
 graphical marvel, using 2.5D environments, even if it was a bit limited.
  
  Even now, you can download different mods and other things on that order, making it game you'll 
 want to play again and again. This game is a the original Doom even better, so if you want an awesome, 
 addicting, old-school game to play, pick this game up! (It's pretty cheap, so don't worry!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The Ultimate Doom will always be considerd one of the greatest games of all time. Doom brought 
 us a genre of games known as First Person Shooters. And changed gaming history forever. There's 
 truely nothing like going to Union Aerospace Corp. And blasting everything in sight it just never 
 gets old. Gameplay - Gameplay is great easy controls and a blast to play makes The Ultimate Doom 
 fun that won't go away. From the bosses to the hell knights this game was well thought-out. Graphics 
 - The greatest graphics at it's time introducing the FPS genre and 3D gameplay that was way ahead 
 of it's time. Sound - Some of the best music tracks in history the sound will never get old in 
 this game. Sound Effects are just well done making this score a perfect 10. Value10.0. Overall 
 - Doom left us a game that will go down in history as a fun revolutionary game of excitment that 
 won't soon go away. There's nothing like blasting your way outa hell! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synister
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  When you play Unreal Tournament or Half Life.. They never would have come about had it not been 
 for games like this. Doom is forever a classic that never dies. You can travel through mazes of 
 monsters blowing them back to hell with your shotgun or the almighty BFG hehe, or run up and let 
 the blood fly with the all time favorite chainsaw. A first person shooter/horror game was definately 
 a great idea and as we all see it still is a great idea as many games have spawned from this series. 
 Doom will remain number one as far as I am concerned because it never dies, when you think its 
 gone.. here it comes again. Great game all in all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  I was born into a world of DOS, lemmings and Doom95... and 19 years later
  Doom is still the greatest game I have ever played, I've played is constantly for years. I would 
 recommend buying/ downloading this game to everyone it may be a classic but if you've never had 
 the doom experience you are nothing!
  Playing doom is like an art, it's like playing the piano every key you press brings all your actions 
 together resulting in a beautiful composition of ultra violent kibbles. Although in my opinion 
 doom got progressively awesome, final doom was a bit more of a let down but still hosted all the 
 gory chainsaw action with hordes of undead. Doom 3 however was not doom... it's just not, good 
 game but not doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: It's Doom with an extra episode, amazing level design. fantastic gameplay, simple but 
 amazing, you don't need disc to play, this game is almost as good as Doom 
 
  THE BAD: It's not as good as Doom 2!
  
  Ultimate Doom is the original Doom with an added chapter. It's perfection. Again! I play my Doom 
 games all the time and this one is my 2nd faveourite game of all time. The graphics: perfect. The 
 sound: perfect. It's almost as good as Doom 2!
  Like my Doom 2 review, this is just a short but snappy one. I got this game by purchasing the Doom 
 Collector's Edtion, so I don't even need the disc to play any of the 3 games included. This adds 
 to how great the game is!!!
  
  BEST BIT: Fighting the Cyberdemon.
  WORST BIT: Getting so far through a level and dying... especially when you forgot to save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXXGMRXXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  One of the most amazing and most memorable games ever created and yet so old by today's standards. 
 1. Graphics: While not the best today, were considered amazing back then. The hell knight, imp, 
 cacodemons, and all others have such classic images that no one can ever forget them! The graphics 
 are so classic that no one can do anything but enjoy watching the cacodemon's face grimace as you 
 pummel it with a chaingun! 5/5
  
  2. Sound: The most distinguishing part. Try to play the game without sound, you just can't enjoy 
 the experience. The moans, the roars, the howl of the Cyberdemon, and not to mention the creepy 
 background music, are all classic and well done. 5/5
  
  3. Gameplay: This portion is done so brilliantly. Four long and intense episodes, and not to mention 
 four of the most amazing and memorable bosses ever encountered! The levels are incredibly creative 
 and, from green ooze to teleporters, there is always a challenge. The keycard idea is genius and 
 adds strategy to the game. This is definitely THE first weapon setup that can ever be remembered. 
 From your callous fists all the way to the mother of all weapons, the BFG, the possibilities are 
 endless! 5/5
  
  4. Difficulty: It will range from incredibly easy to incredibly hard. Both the ingame difficulty 
 and the difficulty you set it at play a factor (there are 5 difficulties you can select before 
 the game) . NIGHTMARE mode is a genius idea, not only providing you with most damage inflicted, 
 but monsters will even respawn! Whoever says old games aren't challenging never tries out EVERYTHING 
 the game has to offer. 5/5
  
  5. Replayability: After playing through all the levels, you will still want more. The urge to destroy 
 the demons and utilize such creative weapons will carry you on to playing this game for as long 
 as you can before something else takes you away from it. And of course, who can forget the memorable 
 cheat codes embedded into the game. Infinite ammo, god mode, level warp, and others will keep you 
 experimenting forever, always finding something new. 5/5
  
  6. Story: The stranded marine, fighting his way through hell is the simple set up that carries 
 you through everything. The narratives at the end of each episode sets you back into the story, 
 and will prepare you to fight hell once again! Simple and effective. 5/5
  
  Final Verdict: 30/30 Recommendation: PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzbegner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Doom I and Doom II were huge hits and classic games that will live through the ages. But what about 
 this Ultimate Doom game? I just got to say it takes Doom I and II up a notch! Ultimate Doom comes 
 with complete new Doom games called TNT and the Plutonia Experiment and the 4th chapter of Doom 
 I. TNT and Plutonia E. are packed with tons of levels, a bit more harder then Doom I and II levels, 
 but fun none the less. There are no new monsters or weapons, but who cares, the games got enough 
 of that! Its Doom all over again just bigger and more intense. Don't forget to hook up with some 
 friends on your Modem and kick eachothers asses. Overall go get Ultimate Doom, you wont regret 
 it EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beandip1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is what revolutionized gaming. My dad said that in 95' you could here people screaming 
 and laughing and cussing out there TV, while playing this game. It is intense when set on certain 
 difficulties, and can be confusing. I spent 30 min. looking for the exit of one level. Anyway, 
 if your looking for a classic game that will send a chill up your spine then you should take a 
 look at this game. For instance you could going through a level, with a corner, and there would 
 be a light flickering on and off, you'd see a shadow of whats around the corner then the light 
 would flick off then on again, and the shadow would be gone. you'd creep around the cornr and WHAM! 
 you get like bitten in the face or whatever it is they do to attack you. That is a basic day in 
 that game... until you get to harder levels.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_Pirate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Doom a classic a very good classic and i will say Doom is one of the greatest games in the history 
 of video game a FPS that put you right in the action the monsters are just absolutely perfect a 
 incredibly good game you canot make a better FPS like this for those who never heard about DOOM 
 you HVE to play to this game a one of a kind an incredibly awesome FPS from 1995 that's just awesome 
 and fun that's all i have to say about The Ultimate DOOM. DOOM 3 will never beat the Ultimate DOOM.
 
  
  Simply awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Doom makes a fairly good case at being the greatest FPS. It popularised the genre with state-of-the-art 
 graphics but most importantly was a heck of a lot of fun to play. Doom still holds up excellently 
 today, and The Ultimate Doom is the expansion to the excellent FPS, with one extra chapter. Even 
 if it looks old you'd do well to give The Ultimate Doom a try because it's still great fun to play.
 
  
  The whole point of The Ultimate Doom is the adrenaline rush. The game takes place in huge levels 
 which could easily take you 10 minutes to beat but there is often more to them than meets the eye, 
 such as innumerable secrets where you can find such elusive treasures as the chainsaw or a multitude 
 of powerups, armor upgrades and powerful weapons like the BFG. Ugly (but beautiful) monsters swarm 
 the area, and will give chase if you piss yourself and run (not likely hopefully) . The games enemies 
 range from small fodder like grunts to gigantic cyberdemons spoiled with a rocket launcher that 
 could wipe you off the face of hell.
  
  There are 3 chapters in the game including an extra chapter made for The Ultimate Doom. The chapters 
 usually have about 7 levels plus one or two additional secret levels that require some serious 
 investigating. If you die at all in the level all your progress is wiped and you once again start 
 off as a lowly marine with nothing but a pistol and 50 bullets. You might want to save during the 
 level at times when you have plenty of health, or you'll just take it like a real man and accept 
 fate. But you'll still want to save to make sure you don't start at the beginning of the WHOLE 
 GAME when you launch it again. At the time this game would have has plenty of eye candy, although 
 as you probably guessed this isn't the case now, although modifications exist to tune up the graphics 
 to display 3D effects. Corridors and rooms are rendered in full 3D but the enemies and your weapon 
 are all sprites. Pixelated, but your unlikely to get a headache if your running it on a modern 
 machine (look into the Doom collectors edition) . At the time the original was released these graphics 
 were the latest in technology so don't go disrespecting them.
  
  The sound effects are gratitious but the music score is far from epic. On most levels the music 
 is little more than a 20 second loop, it's done so it sounds like a rock band but it's all midi. 
 It fits the theme but some people think it was a missed opportunity. The sound effects are pretty 
 good though, the enemy grunts are well done and the guns sound pretty cool.
  
  If there is any FPS I would want to take to the ends of hell it would be Doom, so whats yours. 
 The Ultimate Doom is an updated version and it's available in a collectors edition that is compatible 
 with Windows XP. It even comes with Doom 2, and the infamous Final Doom. It's not a bad purchase, 
 Doom still has kickass gameplay, you'd do well to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushidoboi1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that got me hooked on the fps genre. The gameplay is what keeps this game alive 
 in today's gaming industry. I cannot bear to bad mouth it so I give it a 10/10. Grapics, judging 
 on today's standerds, a 5/10. the graphics are oldschool, so thats what saved it from a zero! sound 
 was exelent in some ways. I just love the hanger level music...7/10. value, let's just say if you 
 don't at least download the demo, you will never be a true gamer, 10/10. and for tilt, 10/10 (duh!) . 
 As a gamer and a fire arm freak, I highly recogmend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Doom is one of those games that sticks in your mind, even through the great graphics of 
 Half-life 2 and FEAR, asnd through the insanity of Halo and Far Cry. This game is probably the 
 greatest FPS of all time!
  
  It only takes the first level to realize what an awesome game its gonna be. The music gets you 
 ready for the action and atmosphere and the stroty moves along pretty well. The one moment that 
 sticks in my mind is the final level of Knee Deep in the Dead ---Phobos Anomaly, when you get done 
 blasting through the hordes of pinkies and finaly get to the two hell knights! the music there 
 is the best!!!1
  
  I and many others have spent many sleepless nights blasting away the forces of hell and we will 
 continue to do so as long as gaming is still here
  
  DOOM WILL NEVER DIE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  One word to u my friend this is the best title ever.
  This is the Michael Jackson of gaming no other game will succeed as it did or influence others 
 as it did (just like Michael)
  To its fans it is the king (and it really is)
  To others it was something important in the past. Now they do not want to listen to its music. 
 Sad isnt it?
  It is the most influencing title.
  
  Blood death demons hellish environments 
  The very definition of weapons started here 
  The 
 death matching sickness started here
  The imps first appeared here 
  The ponds of poison
  The red scary skies
  The screams of monsters
  The grunts of imps 
  The blood all over 
 
  That beautiful face (in the lower middle of your screen)
  The doom guy the icon 
  What more can I say..
  
  Please check my Doom  Doom2 -& Doom3 reviews
  This one is short 
 because I have expressed my thoughts in Doom  Doom2 reviews 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game when I was only 5 years old... You can quote me to Jack Thompson if 
 you like, because this game is pretty bloody and is not for the faint of heart. 
  
  You play as a Marine in a Mars base, and your base is attacked by demons from Hell. The demons 
 start killing everyone in the base, and you're the only one left. YOUR MISSION: kill everything 
 in sight. But, you will need weapons in order to do that, right? Well, good news. The weapons in 
 this game are excellent, and there's plenty of items to help you. There are LOADS of enemies to 
 deal with in the game, and because of this, the game not only is loads of fun, but it makes you 
 think hard to get past that cyberdemon or whatever. 
  
  If you have a DOS emulator, or better yet, a windows source port (as well as the original game) , 
 you should definately get Doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauler89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The Ultimate Doom is a new release of Doom, the classic shooter that revolutionized the gaming 
 industry. While Doom was not the first FPS, it did things that had never been accomplished in gaming 
 until that time. Until Doom came out, the player was restricted by 2 axes of movement. With the 
 release of Doom, gamers could now ascend and descend staircases and elevators; in other words, 
 the player was able to move in 3 dimensions. Doom was actually based in 2.5-D (see Wikipedia for 
 further details) but is commonly referred to as the father of 3D gaming. The game also introduced 
 numerous power-ups, such as the berserker pack (which powered your fists up to the point of being 
 able to kill lesser enemies with 1 to 3 punches) , radiation suit (necessary to safely cross puddles 
 of radioactive ooze) , and automap. Also, Doom invented the sensation that we now know as multiplayer.
 
  
  One thing about Doom is sure: it was not a raving success because of its story. You play as a space 
 marine sent to Mars to monitor the Union Aerospace Corporation after you assault your commanding 
 officer who ordered your platoon to open fire on civilians. Sometime after you arrive on Mars, 
 a teleporter-like Gate that the UAC has been monitoring starts to spew out demons, which overrun 
 the base on Phobos. At the same time, Deimos vanishes completely. With almost everyone else either 
 dead or zombified, you must fight your way through hordes of demons using a wide variety of weapons. 
 More of the story is unfolded by text messages after the completion of each of the games episodes.
 
  
  What really sells Doom is the gameplay. You are placed in a demon-infested level that you are to 
 clear by entering an exit room and hitting a switch. Along the way, you will need to press some 
 switches to open hidden areas, hunt for keycards to enter restricted areas, and mow down enemies 
 like there is no tomorrow. While this may sound extremely boring, the experience is in truth highly 
 addictive.
  
  Being an FPS, half of Dooms appeal is its arsenal. You start each episode with a pistol and your 
 fists. Eventually, you will acquire some beauties, such as the shotgun, chaingun, rocket launcher, 
 plasma rifle, chainsaw, and BFG 9000. Every weapon has a distinct, powerful sound. A couple of 
 the weapons may feel a little overpowered, but are balanced out with some penalty or another.
 
  
  Dooms sound is a bit of a mixed bag. As mentioned before, there is not a single weapon that sounds 
 in the least underpowered. The countless howls cries of demons found in Doom sound perfect. The 
 bawl/roar of a Baron of Hells unique alarm call can make the players blood run cold. The music, 
 on the other hand, is a little questionable. The music of Doom consists of MIDI files that may 
 sound a little primitive when compared to what is used in modern gaming, but is still good. The 
 games soundtrack features a wide variety of music ranging from raging electric guitar pieces, 
 to soothing yet disturbing vocals.
  
  One of the things that I personally find interesting about Doom is how it creates an increasingly 
 hostile atmosphere. As you progress through each of the games episodes, the textures used in the 
 maps become much more hellish. The sky also undergoes a similar change, from picturesque mountain 
 scenery to a blood red sky. New enemies are thrown into the mix, such as the perpetually smiling, 
 floating, and fireball belching Cacodemon. Despite the fact that Dooms graphics are very old, 
 they still make your surroundings unbelievably convincing. The only problem is that enemies can 
 become pixilated when viewed from a distance, but since most of Doom's fighting takes place in 
 pretty confined areas, it's more of a potential problem than an actual concern.
  
  Doom has aged remarkably well, but there are many factors in the game that tend to make it a little 
 easy. For starters, the enemy AI is not that bright. If a demon is in the room you are in, it will 
 let out a cry after either hearing your gun fire or seeing you. After this, the enemy will lurch 
 in your general direction, move left or right about a few degrees, and stop to take a shot at you. 
 Coupled with the fact that monster placement does not vary, any veteran of Doom can blaze through 
 the game while hardly breaking a sweat. To counter this, the player can increase the difficulty 
 level at the start of a new game, but this just throws more monsters at you or simply upgrades 
 some of the existing ones. 
  
  Once you hit the next to highest level of difficulty, the increase in expectations necessary to 
 survive jumps astronomically. While playing on Nightmare difficulty, you face off against the same 
 monster set found in the previous level. However, these monsters will respawn after a few minutes 
 of being dead. This tips the difficulty of the game to the other end of the scale, making it not 
 even remotely fair.
  
  One things for sure, you wont want to jump into the extra episode of The Ultimate Doom on one 
 of the higher skill levels. The Ultimate Doom contains the original Doom episodes, but hurls a 
 new episode at you that is difficult enough for a Doom veteran on the default skill level. Anyone 
 that was just able to stumble through the first three level sets wont stand much of a chance. 
 
  
  Difficulty is not the only uncharacteristic thing about the new set of levels; the entire episode 
 just feels like it wasnt even made by the same company somehow. The architecture of the new level 
 set doesnt help define its location. In the original Doom, you fought your way through a tech 
 base, a tech base that has been remodeled some by the demons, and Hell itself. In each case, the 
 textures used in the game really made you think that you were in those locations. Thy Flesh Consumed 
 claims to be set on Earth, but looks hardly looks like it. Most of your time, youll be battling 
 through castle-like environments constructed from hellish-green marble. The coup-de grace is the 
 sad choice of the designers to use silly names for the levels and the episode that give no clue 
 as to where you might be, such as Sever the Wicked, And All Hell Followed, and Unto The Cruel. 
 The ending text is also filled with such high and mighty phrases in its description of you as a 
 true hero that brought forth eternal damnation and suffering upon the horde that make you think 
 it may have been written by a clergyman. The episode is still a good play, but it just is not nearly 
 as good as the original 3. 
  
  The Ultimate Doom is a classic game that no gamer at all should be without. Even if you arent 
 a fan of the FPS genre or PC games, you should try to find a copy of the game that started it all. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  When I picked up my collector's edition of Doom 3, I knew that the original Doom and Doom 2 were 
 included as bonuses. I had a feeling those bonuses were some of the best I've ever seen in a special 
 edition of a game, and I was right. I use to watch my dad play the original Doom in the mid 1990s 
 and remember how it looked, now, I can enjoy it in all of it's cheezyness on my Xbox. Everything 
 you love about the original Doom is here, the cheezy graphics, the awesome guns, the dude in the 
 middle of the screen who grins when you pick up the shotgun... it's all here. The actual shooting 
 is fun and satisfying for those who've played Doom 3 and don't want to get freaked out. It's the 
 classic gameplay on a new system and it's all good.
  
  Gameplay: It's all of the old-school shooting action you could ask for, and it's bundled for free 
 with yout collectors edition of Doom 3 on Xbox. 
  
  Graphics: They're old-school, but they were great at the time...
  
  Sound: ... ditto....
  
 
  Value: The collector's edition costs the same as the original version now, so how can you go wrong?
 
  
  Final Thoughts: This is a classic shooter that helped make the franchise one of the greatest of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  The Ultimate Doom is a great multiplayer game. Me and my friend always play this game when we have 
 free time after school sometimes. It is really fun and usually we have tournaments with other friends 
 and i won the tournament by beating my friend when i had a great statgery that went perfectly. 
 The music needs to be change because it is a bit crapy and classic but they need like rock music 
 or rap music for this than the music would be great. So i rate this game with great multiplayer 
 and it is real fun. The gameplay is good not excellent if you know what i mean and it is really 
 fun with multiplayer. You should try it out if you are interested in it. The Ulimate Doom has the 
 Ultmate mutliplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machoman10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome! I played this game 'till I thought it was real. this game was the best multi 
 player game around where I live. I thought that the game could have been a little bit better with 
 the music. who ever didn't play this game had some issues. could it be what started multi player 
 games?
  or was there another game that started it all. I am really not sure but, I loved this game alot. 
 I have a little brother that watches me play. he nearly peed his pants. ha ha ha. I would have 
 seen this game to be a ten but, it wasn't after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The problem today is 1. nintendo should bring back the yoshis to mario games ( especially the special 
 ones) 2. noone likes a game for its gameplay anymore
  
  Yes, its true, my brother plays doom 3, half-life 2, thats OK, but it doesnt mean he has to make 
 fun of me for liking doom "yea? well what graphics does it have" "it has gameplay" "yea, gameplay 
 that sucks ***" "what sucks about it?" "you cant look up or down" "hence the fact that it was made 
 in 1993" why am i talking about this? just illustrating the average gamer today. DDoom had great 
 gameplay, a wide variety of monsters, attractive boss fights, and the awesome easter-egg hunt for 
 secrets that is only in no games today. but if my brother finds a crappy game with great graphics, 
 he spends too much time staring at the enemies then feeling the suck of it. "look, a headcrab, 
 so high-def!, look! a tank! so high-def!, liik a shot gun barrel, so...." owned. look, if you need 
 your graphics so bad, get jdoom, just google it. im outa here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ok, ok I know Wolfenstein was the 1st. But Doom was the game that rocked the world. 
  
  I remember when I 1st played the sharware levels (remember those days?) . I had a 386 SX 25. This 
 was the game that started mine and milions of others quest to upgrade, and that quest hasn't ended 
 yet.
  
  This game was the 1st to make me physically jump, when I turned in the game to find an Imp baring 
 down on me.
  
  This game was the 1st i played over the phone against another person.
  
  The graphics were ahead of there time, even if the were sprites the gave the impression of 3D.
 
  
  Doom was and still is a game that evokes so many memories from that era. I recommend Doom because 
 it is the game that set the standards we now all expect.
  
  The Daddy of them all. GET IT... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krensauce
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Doom is a classic. You can play it as it is or enhance it with the numerous 3d-accelerated engines 
 you can find on internet for free, which can make those square-shaped textures as smooth as actual 
 (well, not the latest) 3d games. But that doesn't really matter. It's an unique experience on its 
 own, no matter if the graphics are dated now and the sound is 8 bit, it's ok how it is. I played 
 Doom on my Amiga, running it at 320x200 and with average framerate of 13/14 fps, and now played 
 it on my powerful pc, at 1024x768x32 with a framerate of 60/85 fps (with Doomsday) , with a mod 
 that adds 3d models and objects, and I enjoyed playing it exactly the same way. A perfect game, 
 from gameplay to design.
  The only thing I don't really like so much is the music. It can sound good for someone, but I do 
 prefer hearing those mosters screaming in my ears, as those sounds are a classic as well as the 
 game is, and because this way the games looks more "realistic".
  I tried the "Ultimate" version only recently, just to find out that it got one more chapter. Well, 
 if you already got Doom I suggest not to try it. The new levels seems to be made from another person 
 or staff. The difficulty level is not well calibrated, so you may find some earlier levels more 
 difficult than later ones, and the design is incomparable to the original 3 chapters. Just a commercial 
 operation to sell some more copies of Doom, or to sell it again to Doom fans. Consider my vote 
 correct only if you haven't got Doom, but if you already have it my vote is 1, as you can find 
 much better levels on the net for free.
  My vote also considers the gameplay from a 2006 year's point of view, when you can play it with 
 the "wasd" key setup and a mouse, this way the game gets easier than the original Doom, as you 
 needed to keep a button pressed to strafe (if I remember well) those days. The graphics are considered 
 from those days point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingoworld
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is too easy and is not one of the best classics ever. THIS GAME STINKS in my view. i would 
 rather buy a sandwich than buy this game......
  After Doom 3 this game doesnt stand a chance in my hardrive again......
  there is more awesome 
 games than this! For players under 2 will think this game is scary because all it is is flash and 
 buttons.... The thing tht really caught my eye was that it doesnt matter if they are 5,0000 feet 
 away from you, you can get them still....... if they are in the screen. The chainsaw makes the game 
 violent in some ways but it doesnt really matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Doom 95 is the updated version of classic doom game. It has better graphics, sound than the original 
 one. There are total nine locations to play from and as the game progress you will find new weapons 
 and tougher enemies. If you dont think about its visuals and graphics it can be a great FPS game 
 and the sounds are pretty good as this game came out in the year 1995. It has the main thing  
 the excitement  adrenalin rush that many todays FPS games dont have. This game is hard and it 
 takes time to beat the game in higher difficulties. Many FPS followed this games step but it is 
 still shining like a star among thousands of games. Actually it is the father of all FPS games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Even today, Doom remains one of the most disturbing and bloody games of all time. It doesn't jump 
 at you like a japanese horror movie, with thier freaky little girls with long black hair. No. Doom's 
 atmosphere is Hellish to a degree that has never been rivaled. The blood, the constant fighting 
 and violence, it never ends. The disturbing ending of the game truly shows you why the game is 
 called Doom, as the main character can never stop fighting as long as he lives. 
  
  Doom's gameplay is simply addicting. Chroniclly addicting, even in this day and age. You dread 
 the next turn, you fear to push a button, afraid the lights will go out and enemies will spawn 
 into the area. You can't describe it, the only way to know is to play it.
  
  The graphics at the time were amazing. The lighting effects were a revolutionary step to creating 
 a powerful atmosphere, as the Doom engine allowed the ability to make lights flicker, as well as 
 create stretches of almost complete darkness. This was a first for games. The game also was the 
 first to use texture mapping, so walls can look like they're made of brick or cement, instead of 
 just one big color.
  
  Doom's sound was pretty good at the time, but now they're way outdated. But the music... it's classic. 
 Who can possibly forget the music from the first level in all of Doom? Nobody, that's who.
  
  Doom is not just a game, it's a cultural icon. It's the game that coined the phrase "Deathmatch", 
 and it created a community that is still very active today. It's sadistic nature and terrifying 
 atmosphere hop right off the monitor on into you head forever. Though you won't understand why 
 it's so terrifying until you get about halfway through the game. Doom doesn't come right out and 
 tell you it's disturbing, but the surreal yet hellish atmoshpere really get you when you try to 
 go to sleep.
  
  Long story short, Doom is a classic that is still highly recognized, and even featured in TV and 
 movies. Recently, it's made it's way to the game boy's and cell phones. Doom is everywhere. I even 
 saw a quick clip of Doom in the opening credits of a Family Guy episode. American culture has many 
 icons, and Doom is easily one of them, earning it's rightful place next to Star Wars in the halls 
 of cultural revolutions. It may be old and outdated, but it's heart continues to beat, making it 
 anything but doom-ed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elapointe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  If you've ever read the background story to Ultimate Doom in the instruction manual, you feel bad 
 for the guy. All his buddies are dead, and he's thousands of miles away from home on one of the 
 moons of Mars. Not only that, but there are thousands of monsters waiting to tear him apart. Excited 
 yet? Scared? That's what this classic, chilling, yet addictive shooter is all about. The music 
 is solid and the graphics, while sometimes leaving more to be desired, are generally suitable. 
 The gameplay, however, is incredible. With many different types of weapons to deal with many different 
 types of monsters, every journey through the hellish episodes of Doom is unique. A great value 
 and a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanog1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I'm going to base certain parts of this review (graphics, sound) off of the standards 
 of the time when Doom was released, but the rest, I will base on my past 12 years of playing.
 
  
  Doom is one of those games, which completely changes the market forever. It unleashed a new level 
 of violence, chaos, and immersive, insane, out of this world experiences.
  
  Doom is also one of those games, which, with the exception of the sequel, can never be matched 
 in greatness.
  
  The sheer number of enemies in a single stage still hasn't been matched, even into today's day 
 and age. The brutal feel of the game, is quite possibly my favorite feeling ever experienced. It's 
 extreme violent nature, and insane level and enemy designs still amaze me to this day.
  
  For back in 1993, Doom's graphics were simply amazing, everything from the weapons, to the enemies, 
 to the lighting were just amazing!
  
  The sound was pretty amazing too, although a little choppy at times, it still made the game even 
 more brutal and addicting.
  
  I paid, I believe around $20 for this game back in 1993, and I can honestly say, I have yet to 
 spend a better $20, and have yet to find any other game that can stay as addicting as day one, 
 after 12 years of play.
  
  So, after 12 years, Doom is still one of my greatest experiences ever, and I expect to be addicted 
 to it for at least 12 more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  You can look at anyone who plays the FPS genre, and trust me, they know about Ultimate Doom. They 
 may call it Doom One, or just Doom, but by those they mean Ultimate Doom. Anyhow, I got the shareware 
 of this game when I was like 5. I had one of the best computers around the time it came out. It 
 was a Pentium 2 330mhz, with 128mb RAM. But that's beside the point. Anyway I loved the game. I 
 beat it millions of times. Then later on, when I was 6 I got Doom II and did the same with that. 
 And then I'd play Ulimate Doom shareware and then play Doom II up until the, what I thought was, 
 unbeatable last level of Doom II. Then start over. I'd have breakfast and lunch at the computer 
 desk, playing away at Ultimate Doom Shareware and Doom II. And at that time when people looked 
 at the graphics they were like, "Oh my god, these are incredible!"
  
  Later on in life, last year, my dad brought home Doom Collectors Edition and I had finally played 
 the entire game of Ultimate Doom and I just have to tell you my side of this game. Onto the ratings...
 
  
  Gameplay: I loved, and still love, the run and gun type of gameplay. Like running around and shotting 
 these demons back to hell with a very little bit of thinking involed. Like getting the blue key 
 or whatever.
  
  Graphics: As I mentioned above, these were incredible in 1995, '96, and even in '97.
  
  Sound: 
 The music is so great, but beside that, the demons' sounds are actually pretty high quality and 
 scary at that time. You have to remember when this game came out.
  
  Value: It's a long game, and it'll keep you playing forever. Plus it has probably the best replay 
 value of all time.
  
  Tilt: This was the revolutionary step of gaming, right here. ID Software made FPS with Doom, along 
 with Quake, Wolf 3D, and Heretic. From then on FPS has been one of the favorite types of gaming 
 in the world, and of course the FPS rival, MMORPG.... Some people who play MMORPGs and D and D still 
 have played doom probably. This is as much of a revolutionary step as the next gen systems, and 
 Half Life 1 combined. This game made what people like the most. And you have to admit that no matter 
 what you like or hate. OuTbReAk525, out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario848
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Doom takes you into a world of challanges and gore. Everthing you do in doom makes you 
 fell like your lost and cannot find your way out until you beat all the chapters and defeat cybospiders 
 and hellknights and then go in harder difficulties and defeating the game in that mode but it does'nt 
 seem to have an end. It can go on for ever in my book I never get over the creatures and levels 
 it just seems like my favorite game of all time like I said it goes on forever with the violence 
 and gore and the creatures and the levels, its old school and theres nothing like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:44 am PT
Review:  For the past 13 years, Doom has always been there for me. An easy to pick up classic, but you'll 
 waste your life playing it, it's an addiction you just can't beat. The premise is simple enough- 
 you are hired as a guard for the Union Aerospace Corporation as community service after you beat 
 the hell out of your commanding officer. On Phobos, Mars, and Deimos, the UAC has been conducting 
 some expiriments made possible by the Phobos and Deimos "anamolies" the expirements start off simple 
 enough, things getting thrown back and forth between planets through a little gateway. Well, what 
 happens when this gateway is expanded, to a broader frequency? Apparently, hell lurks just beyond 
 this gate way. The gateway tears open and demons come pouring out, taking Deimos from the sky and 
 then totally destroying the phobos base. You get sent to the remains of the base only to be told 
 to stay outside in case something happens. Unfortunatly, no one is able to tell you if something 
 happens. You already know, cause everyones dead. You load your pistol and run in. Thus begins the 
 game. Doom is broken up into 4 episodes, Knee deep in the dead, the shores of hell, inferno, and 
 Thy flesh consumed. Each one harder than the last, the levels are long twisting corridors, sinsiter 
 traps, impossible mazes, switches, and pits where thousands of monsters await to take your life. 
 The difficulty is adjustable for many players- however, this only controls the monsters, items, 
 and how much damage you get. The levels will still get harder, and so will the monsters. But doubly 
 so on a greater skill level. The levels start off easy and straight forward, run into next room, 
 blow demons to bits, grab key, etc. Then the levels twist into levels that go like this- blow demons 
 to bits- grab key- get lost while blowing demons to bits- trigger trap, get smashed- if you survive, 
 go on, get lost, blow demons to bits- and finally the exit. Doom never fails to get you lost while 
 being forced tons of bites, fireballs, shotgun shells and more right down your throat. While it's 
 technology is dated and the levels may seem primitive in design, 13 years later, doom remains a 
 classic, 13 years later, the addiction hasn't broken, 13 years later, mods are still coming out, 
 13 years later, people are still deathmatching, 13 years later, my precious doom. wad is still preserved 
 on my harddrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanemonkey2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Ultimate DooM. What a game, what a game. A complete masterpiece. This is THE game that paved 
 the way for ALL First Person Shooters. 
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely awesome. Even though it is 2005, with Half Life and World of Warcraft out 
 there, Ultimate DooM still deserves a place among them. This game should go in the Video Game Hall 
 if Fame. Even though it is already I think, it should go in again. The game places you as a space 
 marine, for his mission to guard the scientists. But as the scientists of the UAC enable teleportation, 
 they open up a portal to hell and all hell breaks lose. You are the sole survivor, and must take 
 on the unholy invasion by yourself. You get 9 guns, (technically 7) . Your fists, chainsaw, pistol, 
 shotgun, chain gun, rocket launcher, plasma gun, and the awesome BFG-9000. (Big F***ing Gun) There 
 are four episodes to Ultimate DooM, Knee Deep in the Dead, The Shores of Hell, Inferno, and Thy 
 Flesh Consumed. Thy Flesh Consumed is the hardest episode. They are also five difficulties, Im 
 to young to die, Hey not to rough, Hurt me plenty, 
  Ultra-Violent, and NIGHTMARE. I give this category a 10/10.
  
  Graphics: Even though they graphics 
 are pixilated, there still rich and vibrant. 10/10
  
  Sound: So many sounds, so many screams, gun shots, explosions, (including demons and zombies, hehe) , 
 just so many sounds. They sound so good too. 10/10
  
  Value: This is a good game to have, so many people would love to play it. Im glad I found it. 
 I got DooM: Collectors Edition for PC. Only $20.00. Nice. 10/10
  
  Tilt: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 26, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Doom is perhaps the most influential game in the past 20 years. Forget Quake or Mario 64 -- the game 
 that started the 3D revolution in earnest was Doom (Wolfenstein 3-D wasn't quite the megahit that 
 was needed to get the ball rolling) , three years before either of those games. Doom was also the 
 game that turned small independent developer Id Software into one of the best-known game developers 
 in the world. Doom has sold on the order of 20 million copies during its nearly twelve-year history 
 (hard to believe it's been 12 years already!) and still has countless thousands of raving, devoted 
 fans today, With the advent of Doom source ports that allow high resolutions, colored lighting, 
 powerful scripting, etc., mods have been made for Doom that go so far beyond the scope of the original 
 game that they are massive works in their own right. Of course, if you want more Doom in the original 
 idiom, there are tens of thousands of customized levels on the internet.
  
  Even today, Doom is a good-looking game. Its textures, though limited in resolution, are stylish 
 and compellingly gritty in their appearance. A few areas of the original Doom games actually look 
 like they could exist in real life (a quality that does not appear in Doonm 3's levels) . Stylistically, 
 Doom's military-base levels abjure the curving metal and glowy bits aesthetic of current sci-fi 
 games for a more conventional look -- walls of concrete and sheetrock, flourescent lights, and weapons 
 that look a lot like modern weapons (the minigun and energy weapons are exceptions) . The hell levels 
 are satisfyingly grotesque and surreal, although one wonders if the design is not quite as twisted 
 and surreal as it should've been. Overall, Doom looks great and has a few moments in the first 
 episode where you feel like you could actually be standing there. Doom is also quite colorful, 
 with a rich and vibrant array of colors that shame even many modern games, which have a palette 
 of 4 trillion different shades (as opposed to Doom's 256) to work with but end up looking like 
 black and white movies.
  
  Doom has fantastic gameplay, fast-paced and vicious like all Id games. Despite the simplistic nature 
 of everything (kill-things-find  
 level) and the utter absence of plot, it has virtually infinite replay value. The story is simple: 
 You are a space marine sent to clear out a base on Phobos (a moon of Mars) that was overrun by 
 demon spawn from hell. Your buddies went in while you waited outside as a sentry, and they were 
 massacred.. Now you have to go in with your pistol, find some decent weapons, crack demon skulls, 
 and get out alive.
  
  Doom has multiplayer, though it is rather limited (it was made in 1993, remember?) . You have either 
 cooperative mode (you and your buddies fight through hell together) or deathmatch (you and your 
 buddies spawn in a level with no monsters and blow the bejesus out of each other) . Either way, 
 the game is limited to four players. The deathmatch especially is blindingly fast and fun and, 
 with multiplayer source ports such as Skulltag, can be played online with an in-game server list 
 like modern games, and in additional modes like capture the flag and team deathmatch with up to 
 32 players.
  
  The monsters in the game range from zombies to classical horned demons to flaming kamikaze skulls 
 to floating cyclops heads that shoot ball lightning at you. Although none of them are very bright, 
 they can be tough and are used en masse in many places. Nothing is more satisfying than blowing 
 through fifty imps in the course of a few seconds. Perhaps the most memorable monster is the cyberdemon, 
 the boss of the second episode. If you haven't played Doom, I won't spoil the surprise. It will 
 scare the hell out of you.
  
  The sounds are excellent, and include beefy, powerful-sounding gunshots, monster roars and screams, 
 and the like. They're all great, and will stick in your memory forever. The music is MIDI, and 
 it is all good. The songs range from nerve-fraying metal to dark and moody orchestral pieces. Each 
 one seems perfectly suited to the level it accompanies. A sound card with good MIDI drivers ia 
 must.
  
  Doom can be quite difficult for people unused to playing first-person shooters, but won't pose 
 too much of a challenge for people who have played FPS games before. The average gamer will beat 
 Doom in a few hours, but fanatical Doom gods can do it in twenty minutes. If you want a tougher 
 experience, play on Nightmare mode (demons shoot faster and come back to life a few seconds after 
 you kill them) , or play some of the endless variety of levels out on the Internet. Recommended 
 for total masochists is Deus Vult, a grueling four-hour monstrosity of a level that can pit you 
 against hundreds of man-eating creatures at a time.
  
  Overall, Doom is an unbelievably good game, quite possibly the best PC game ever. If you have not 
 played Doom before, go out and buy it. Right now. You won't be disappointed.
  
  What's Hot: Gameplay to die for, great graphics (especially considering the game's age) , amazing 
 sounds, great music
  What's Not: The Doom 95 source port included with Id's Doom Collector's Edition falls way short 
 of the free noncommercial ports available on the web
  Also Try: Wolfenstein 3-D, Doom II, Blake Stone/Planet Strike, Rise of the Triad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  As DOOM is probably the best game ever made, it follows that the Ultimate DOOM would certainly 
 be great as well. My review is based on my original go through on DOOM I and the extra episode. 
 
  Compared to the shooters out there today it can easily be said that DOOM is outdated (actually 
 that would be the biggest understatement of all time) . But, DOOM still is better than the majority 
 of games out there today and more fun can be had playing it then most of today's FPSes. The single 
 players first three episodes are full of action against enemies that still are cool, scary, and 
 fun to fight against. The levels are designed so that they are mentally challenging while at the 
 same time having not too many true puzzles. 
  Depending on your mode of play the game is either of average difficulty or next to impossible which 
 adds tons of replay value as well.
  The best part of the game, however, is the multiplayer. If you have access to a LAN then you likely 
 will loose many hours, or weekends, in deathmatches, or even in cooperative play through the main 
 campaign. Both easily beat out even many of today's most fun multiplayer games.
  The extra episode thrown in for this version is the only stain on this game. It is full of poorly 
 designed levels and clearly is just a rush job made to get another DOOM on the market. There is 
 no new boss at the end as well you just replay the one from DOOM's episode 3.
  The graphics are outdated of course but the sound is still used in movies and video games today.
 
  It has to be said that DOOM still remains at the top of the list for the best games of all time 
 (PC or console) and The Ultimate DOOM is a great buy for fans of videogames in general. Pick it 
 up in the Collector's Edition ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefaultGen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Doom is perfect. It is incredibly fun, probably the best Single Player experience on the PC until 
 Half-Life came along. If you somehow get a chance to have a Doom LAN party, it will be the time 
 of your life (Soon you'll be able to play Doom on XBox live with the collectors edition of Doom 
 3)
  
  Graphics - Ok, theyre not great now, but they were revolutionary. Doom is the first FPS with elevation. 
 Wolfenstien and other games just had flat, boxlike rooms. Doom's areas have shape and texture. 
 Even tho I never knew hell consisted of a lot of different brown hallways.
  
  Gameplay - Amazing. Blasting away demons to 16-bit metal music? What could be more fun? Enemies 
 of course live in closets and come outta no where
  
  Sound - The most addicting game music up until Zelda: OOT. This music will be stuck in your head 
 for years.
  
  Value - With WADs STILL being released occasionally for Doom and the 1000s that are out there, 
 there is infinite replay value. Replaying all the episodes has good enough replay value enough. 
 John Romero is the master of making fun levels.
  
  Tilt - Like I said, blasting away demons to metal. Until deathmatch multiplayer perfection comes 
 (UT2k4) or single player perfection comes (??? Still waiting) This was the best game ever and is 
 still incredible good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2004 1:54 pm PT
Review:  simply put DooM, at least in my mind, is the best of all time. In fact it should be noted that 
 were it not for Doom we may not be experiencing the fruits of the gaming world right now. Those 
 who doubt this i'd like to note i said may not.
  
  
  Gameplay : 10
  
  overwhelmingly easy, yet suitable for the game. At the time sure you couldnt jump, crouch or crawl, 
 you simply didn't need to. You were way too busy blasting enemies to care.
  
  Graphics : 10
  
  Hey, at the time, boy were they something ground-breaking. The first time 
 my dad brought in the original DooM, I remember seeing our computer lag like it had never lagged 
 before.
  
  Sound : 10
  
  Just like the graphics, brilliant. Countless times i remember hearing the moans and the grunts 
 of the demons. you could probably even have an accurate guess of where they were coming from. sooo, 
 particularly at the time, groundbreaking.
  
  Value : 10
  
  hmmmmm, best game of all time errrr.... yeh thats good enough reason to give value a 10.
  
 
  Tilt : 10
  
  grief did my skool work suffer lol. hours and hours of fun. Tho the levels were the same each time 
 you played, it still seemed like a completely new experience each time you played it. truly ..... 
 too much fun !!! 
  
  Overall :
  
  The game that got me forever hooked in the gaming world has never, nor will it ever, lose it's 
 charm. Its a timeless classic. Thanks ID for changing the gaming world forever !!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
