-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Witcher Enhanced Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/thewitcherenhancededition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Revised and expanded script vastly improves the storyline.
 Graphics enhanced across the board in comparison with the original game.
 Load times greatly improved.
 Lots of additional content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still a little buggy.
 Both new adventures are short and rather shallow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,718 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: CD Projekt Red
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 16, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Witcher: Enhanced Edition is what this role-playing game should have been when it made its debut 
 a year ago. 

  The Witcher: Enhanced Edition is a great role-playing game. Developer CD Projekt has corrected 
 almost all of the problems that made the original something of a flawed gem. Butchered English 
 dialogue has been rewritten and expanded upon, removing the nonsensical lines that made the plot 
 something of a guessing game last year. Engine performance has been dramatically improved across 
 the board, so the game runs smoother on moderate systems, and you no longer have time to read a 
 magazine while waiting for levels to load. Character models have been dramatically enhanced, removing 
 a fair number of the unrealistic features that made the original game come off as somewhat cartoonish 
 in spots. A pair of new stand-alone adventures has been added to bulk up gameplay outside of the 
 main storyline. Just about everything seems more solid and stable, from the smooth-as-glass combat 
 mechanics to the speedier interface. And, best of all, these gameplay enhancements are freely available 
 to download for those who purchased the original game last year.  

           Battles are now smoother and more dramatic, due to slicker combat animations and vivid 
 colors that spark up spell effects.      

  Core gameplay is more polished than revamped, so in some cases, you have to look pretty closely 
 to tell the difference between old and new. You still play the lank-haired Geralt of Rivia, a monster-killing 
 mercenary known as a witcher who travels a medieval fantasy kingdom in search of jobs. Basically, 
 you're a battlemage who can freely switch between using a pair of great big swords to slay fantasy-game 
 beasties and firing off spells with elemental magic signs. Basic melee attacks are handled through 
 the left mouse button, with you timing your clicks to string sword strokes together into big-damage 
 combos. If you run four such attacks together, Geralt becomes a whirling dervish capable of slicing 
 his foes to ribbons. Each sword can also be wielded in strong, quick, and group styles, allowing 
 you to tailor attacks depending on what sort of opponents you happen to be facing. Spells are cast 
 by mapping elemental signs to the right mouse button. Much of this magic is generic to fantasy 
 RPG gaming. For instance, you'll launch fireballs, you'll throw up a protective shield, and you 
 can charm enemies into doing your bidding. None of the spells are all that involved or time-intensive, 
 so you can readily hack and slash with one button and launch fireballs with the other.  

  Character development is equally clear-cut and carried over unchanged from the original Witcher. 
 Skills are purchased and buffed with bronze, silver, or gold talent coins earned every time you 
 level up. These abilities allow you to increase Geralt's basic chance to hit, damage done, along 
 with adding special effects, such as stunning opponents or causing them crippling pain. Nobody's 
 reinvented the wheel here, although there is a broad range of abilities to choose from that let 
 you specialize in various areas. You can roll all of your coins into spells and turn into kind 
 of a wannabe sorcerer. You can go for strong sword skills and become a melee brawler. Or you can 
 do the jack-of-all-trades thing and spread your abilities across the spectrum of choices. Geralt 
 remains a sword-twirling fighter first and foremost no matter what you do, although you can at 
 least tweak his talents to favor preferred combat methods.  

  Where this enhanced Witcher takes a welcome turn is with its story and presentation. Although the 
 plot of the first game was a remarkably mature tale that ditched traditional black-and-white RPG 
 morality for a gray universe, the story was sloppily adapted from its original Polish. In it, you 
 took the lesser-of-two-evils approach and found a common cause with rapists and murderers. A bizarre 
 decision to cut back the English dialogue preserved only chopped-up portions of the full script, 
 leaving plot points hard to understand and cut-off conversations in midstream. All those issues 
 have been corrected here. Thousands of lines of English dialogue have been rerecorded, fully fleshing 
 out the storyline and removing the awkwardness of the original game. The English translation has 
 been gone over with a fine-toothed comb to get rid of some jarring word choices from last year. 
 The game is still a lot more modern sounding than some would probably like, throwing around F-bombs 
 and curse words in ways that just don't seem to fit with swords and sorcery. But at least the script 
 has been smoothed out and given a unified voice. Any way you look at it, this is a huge improvement 
 over the first Witcher, which veered wildly between formal D&amp; D-speak and  New Jack City .  
 

           This enhanced Witcher may feature more visual detail and pack more punch in its color 
 palette, but Geralt's world is just as grim and gloomy as ever.      

  Visuals have also been renovated, albeit not as dramatically as the script. The original Witcher 
 looked pretty good in the first place, so there wasn't as much room for improvement here. The big 
 changes come with the color palette, which has been made more vibrant while keeping the game's 
 overall grim and gray atmosphere. Spell effects -- particularly the fire-based Igni sign ones -- practically 
 flow right off the screen now. Basic background colors for such things as foliage and clothing 
 have also been given more pop. Character art has been given an overhaul, while facial and body 
 features that didn't pass muster last year have been given a once-over with additional details. 
 Although some non-player character faces still appear almost mannequin-like, particularly common 
 village peasants and streetwalkers, major characters now have a more realistic range of expressions. 
 There are also more facial types, so you're not running into the same people over and over again. 
 Geralt was pretty nimble last year, but now he twirls his swords and jumps around like an acrobat. 
 Best of all, these improvements have no effect on game performance. This new Witcher actually runs 
 a lot faster than the old one. Loading times have been slashed, and there are no more combat slowdowns, 
 frame-rate hitches, or pauses to bring up the interface.  

  That said, the new visuals are not perfect. Clipping is still a minor issue at times. Background 
 scenery, such as shrubs and trees, still acts too much like walls. The game still pauses for a 
 couple of seconds after enemies are killed, making you wait a moment before being able to loot 
 a corpse. The camera now also tends to cut characters out of the frame during conversations, an 
 unintended side effect of having characters move around more while talking to liven up dialogue 
 scenes that were awfully static last year. So you're treated to gabfests where the speaker's head 
 is cut off, completely out of the picture off to the left, blocked by a door, or constantly moving 
 in and out of sight. Thankfully, these camera quirks aren't too common and are limited to talking 
 scenes where you don't need to see everyone's faces.  

  The Witcher: Enhanced Edition also doesn't get off to a very good start. A common problem with 
 Windows XP systems causes the game to crash on start-up due to conflicts with audio drivers. This 
 issue can generally be fixed in short order by turning down or shutting off sound acceleration 
 or by downloading new audio files to swap out the troublesome ones that came on the game disc. 
 But still, this is no way for a game to reintroduce itself. Technical issues with the initial release 
 of The Witcher led to this redone version being made in the first place, so it's more than a bit 
 disappointing to hit major crashes before you can even get the game up and running.  

           A painted storyboard conclusion is about the most interesting aspect of The Price of Neutrality, 
 one of two new short adventures included here.      

  Much of the brand new content also leaves a bit to be desired. The two new stand-alone Geralt adventures 
 purport to give a better look into the witcher's earlier career, but they're too inconsequential 
 to be all that engrossing and too reliant on familiar locations from the main storyline. Even rooms 
 are reused here. The Price of Neutrality gets off to a great start with a story about a princess 
 who may or may not be cursed, but then, it peters out and ends abruptly after about two hours. 
 Side Effects is merely a collection of mundane quests where Geralt has to run all over Vizima doing 
 odd jobs to raise 2,000 orens to pay off a debt owed to his bard pal Dandelion. There are enough 
 choices in the latter adventure to give it some moderate replay value, although you do little aside 
 from play errand boy. Other extra goodies are more worthwhile. The box includes a number of collectible 
 items, such as a game guide; a CD soundtrack of the game's fantastically atmospheric background 
 tunes, plus some "inspired by" tracks; a behind-the-scenes DVD; and a paper map, along with the 
 Djinni game editor for modders. Many of these extras are also available to download from the game's 
 official Website if you choose to get the Enhanced Edition digitally.  

  Barring the initial installation bugs, this is what The Witcher should have been last year. While 
 the original game was an undeniably very good RPG epic with one of the most authentically adult 
 storylines to ever grace the genre, this overhauled edition has turned that near-classic into a 
 near-masterpiece.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit, that at first when I played the demo for The Witcher, I was not that 
 impressed. The combat and camera angles was a little interesting to figure out and to get a solid 
 grasp onto. However, by the end of the demo, I was seeing real potential in the game to be enjoyable. 
 Once I actually got my hands on the game and started playing it I was surprised at how much I enjoyed 
 it. This game draws you into it as it's pretty lifelike in that it doesn't sugar coat a lot of 
 things. There is no clear right/wrong answer to something. You have to make choices that you won't 
 see the impact (or fallout) on until several hours later. Sometimes these choices can help, but 
 sometimes they throw a wrench into your plans. The point is, you don't always see the immediate 
 consequences to your actions in life, and this game mimicks that. It has a long story and keeps 
 you going up to the end. I thought the difficulty on this game was well balanced, and there was 
 only 1 fight, at the end of the 1st chapter that was really hard on me. I would definitely say 
 to check this out and give it a go. It's got some great elements and the things never really got 
 old for me, which is an awesome plus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  THis is an awsome game and I highly recommend it. A Grand story and some fun and refreshing new 
 things make this game a must play.
  
  What makes it so cool is the depth to it. A massive world filled with lots of quests and things 
 to do. A player to upgrade and tons of choices that really make a difference make this game a blast. THen 
 add in a new take on rpg combat and you've got one cool really refreshing title. You know that feeling 
 you get when you get a game and its like holy crap its got a few new and different things that 
 really make a big and fun impact on the gameplay, well this is one of those titles.
  
  The only real problem I had with the game was you don't make your character from scratch. Your just 
 this one guy, but that one guy can be upgraded in a lot of ways.
  
  If you are curious and need a new rpg then you should not let this gem pass you buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  So after hours upon hours of playing The Witcher, it's safe to say that I enjoyed every single 
 minute. While there are a couple of small but easy to overlook nips, all I can say that this game 
 is a real treat for any RPG fans out there.
  
  Story - 
  
  The game takes place in a very dark and twisted universe, in the lands of Tameria. The closest 
 to good one can be, is by becoming the lesser of two evils. The game starts with the main protagonist 
 running through a field, where you've been the last few years is unknown, and you're found by your 
 fellow Witchers, who then take you back to the safety of your home - Kaer Morhen.
  
  A Witcher is an elite monster hunter that recieves special training and have thier bodies modified 
 at a young age to provide them with supernatural abilities so they can battle the darkest and most 
 fearful of monsters and survive.
  
  After Kaer Morhen get's attacked by an unknown cult called the Salamandra, led by a dangerous mage, 
 the secrets to enhancing the body of a Witcher using alchemy, are stolen, and each Witcher must 
 part ways to find out who these attackers are, and what their intentions are with the secrets of 
 Kaer Morhen.
  
  The main protagonist in the game is Geralt of Rivia, who himself having received special training 
 and body enhancements, resembles somewhat the physical features of a wolf, such as the eyes, and 
 canine teeth, thus why he is also known as 'the White Wolf' throughout Tameria.
  
  Throughout the game you will come across many challenges, as well as explosive twists and turns, 
 betrayals and allegiances, which makes the game totally refreshing, fun, and keeps the interest 
 growing rapidly, and as well as completing the fantastic story - which is probably one of the games 
 strongest points - with the Enhanced Edition, comes two brand new storylines which are also based 
 on other stories written by Andrzej Sapkowski.
  
  Graphics -
  
  Great. Simply great. I had a few problems at the beginning of the game, such as bleeding light 
 effects through characters, and a small AF problem, but it was nothing a few tweaks on nHancer 
 couldn't handle! For a game that was released nearly 2 years ago, I must say that the visuals are 
 stunning. The art this game expresses just shines through, while maintaining so many gothic elements, 
 it really is a beautiful and lush world.
  
  The environments are filled to the brim with detail, and it's safe to say that they are great to 
 explore. Throughout the game you'll visit many sites, and although you could spend a hell of a 
 lot of time in one place, it won't get boring too quickly.
  
  As well as the environments, the many people/characters you'll come across throughout the game 
 look pretty good, although you could bump into the same bloke twice (it may seem) it's easy to 
 overlook. As well as that, I must say that there are somewhat a lack of facial expressions, which 
 make the conversations pretty dull to watch, although the great dialogue and voice-acting make 
 up for this little hiccup as well.
  
  Sound - 
  
  One thing about this game is the music. And wow. Buying the Enhanced Edition, it came with 2 CD's 
 full of soundtracks from the game, but also music inspired by it too. The music overall is fantastic, 
 and within the game it adds to the immersion. I also must add that it's probably in the top 5 of 
 my greatest game sountracks.
  
  As well as the music, the dialogue and voice acting are great. While at times the voice acting 
 can be only slightly shallow, it's not long before it once again immerses you into it's dark and 
 unforgiving world (in a good way) .
  
  Gameplay - 
  
  On higher difficulties, the game will focus alot more on alchemy, which certain potions you make 
 will enhance your combat efficiency significantly, as well as also restore lost sign energy (like 
 magic power) and other potions to restore health.
  
  There are loads of potions to make in the game, whether it be for healing, raising sign intensity, 
 or even making your reflexes go through the roof, which in some cases can come at a price. As well 
 as potions, you can make bombs, and also oils such as poisonous oils for blades, and some that 
 have great effect on certain enemies.
  
  As well as the alchemy, a blacksmith can also happily enhance your swords, to make them alot more 
 powerful. Pieces of meteorite or special stones can enhance your blades stats too. As well as blades, 
 the choice of maces, clubs and daggers are at hand too, but in my opinion, were pretty useless 
 considering i didn't feel the need to use any other weapon apart from my two blades at hand. There 
 is also a limited amount of armor in the game, so if your an equipment type of person, who likes 
 finding new armor or weapons, don't expect to find much in this game, not to say that theres no 
 good armor in it.
  
  The combat system is pretty simple as well. Like many RPG's, the cursor will change into a small 
 sword icon upon hovering it over an enemy. From there on it's just point and click, but there is 
 timing involved. Once Geralt has hit the target, the sword will then quickly become ingulfed in 
 flames, in which indicates the player should click again. This then leads on to another combo and 
 so on. 
  
  The higher level of skill in a certain blade, whether it be Fast Steel, Strong Steel or Fast Silver 
 and Group Silver, the more combos you unlock will make the combat alot faster, and alot more fun, 
 though one other reason for not using blunt weapons or daggers, is that they cannot be used with 
 other witcher styles, so if your basing your combat on weapons other than swords, the upgrades 
 will be pretty useless.
  
  The game has a vast talent tree, which is one of the many reasons the game has alot of replay value. 
 The talent tree is huge, as I said before, there are many, many types of Witcher combat stances, 
 in which are identified by a certain blade, and combat style i. e Strong Silver. These can be upgraded 
 to give more combos and make each swing more powerful. 
  
  Other upgrades can go towards signs. Signs are powerful magical spells, some of which can incinerate 
 enemies, others can create traps on the ground, and another can ever create a shield around you 
 for a certain amount of time. As I said, these can be upgraded to add special perks, as in the 
 fire sign can also have a chance to cast fear into certain enemies.
  
  All signs and combat styles are governed by a certain attribute. There are four stat types in the 
 game that can be upgraded, with talent trees of thier own, these are - Strength, Dexterity, Stamina 
 and Intelligence - The higher these attributes are, the more you can upgrade Signs, Silver blade 
 styles, Steel etc.
  
  Throughout the game, while travelling through the lush environments, you will come across many 
 characters. Some of which play a massive part within the storyline. It is up to you whether to 
 join them? Or join others. There is alot of mature content in the game, verbal profanities which 
 prove to be amusing, a lot of sex scenes, while not full on, are still surprisingly up front let's-get-it-on 
 kind of stuff.
  
  As well as swearing and sex, there is alot of racism between Elves, Dwarves and Men, and this is 
 what fuels the story to some extent. The choices you'll make in certain situations will have a 
 massive effect on you later in the game, such as certain vendors won't do business with you and 
 dialogue may change drastically with some characters. But if your not the descision making type, 
 you can always stay neutral.
  
  In other words, this is cause and consequence at it's best people. 
  
  Overall - 
  
  So 
 this is turning out to be a much longer review than I had expected. But for such an amazing game 
 to deliver an immersive and memorable experience - It is worthy of such writings. As said, a few 
 downers ruin this effect such as lousy facial emotions and some bad dialogue here and there, the 
 ironic jokes and humour that the story also delivers through it's interesting and memorable characters 
 makes up for it nicely. 
  
  As well as a great and compelling story, the very many side quests are also a treat to play. The 
 game has a lot of replay value, in which I will happily invest more hours into making different 
 choices and seeing the consequences of my actions take place having a noticeable effect.
  
  So overall, I take my hat off to CDProjekt, for making such a brilliant game, one that shouldn't 
 be missed by any RPG fan, as well as those new to the genre. I highly recommend this game to anyone 
 who feels they need a game with alot of immersion, storytelling, humour, and a world they can delve 
 into. A hands down (and hat off) 9.0/10.
  
  TPJ McGinnes
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  The good
  
  One of the biggest pluses to this game was the environment. It is created in such a way that you 
 feel the gloom and doom aspect of world. Another thing I liked about the envrionment is the weather. 
 When it is raining the npcs run for cover under overhangs and stuff and their responses change 
 with the weather and time of day. I also liked the combat system. Not only is it based on timing 
 but also tactics. There are 3 stances and 2 main swords, along with a few spells and hundreds of 
 potions. Oh, and the sex cards. The boss battles will challenge you! The leveling system is nice 
 because you can tailor the character to your fighting style. If you are someone who runs into battle 
 with sword drawn then you can put all your points into your sword styles, If you rely on your spells, 
 like i do, you can jack those up. The last thing that i at least found amusing is what the random 
 npcs say. There are some lines such as "I f***ed a she-elf once" and "my balls itch". If you dont 
 feel like monster slaying then it is sometimes fun to just walk around and hear what they have 
 to say.
  
  The bad
  
  A lot of laundry list quests, get me a flower... find me a ______. The combat with trash mobs becomes 
 blindingly repetitive. The next bad thing about the game is that there are only around 9 basic 
 skins for non-story npcs. This doesnt really affect gameplay but it is just annoying when you find 
 yourself saying "haven't i talked to you before in the last chapter or town". The difficulty makes 
 a HUGE leap between medium and hard. I started on medium and after the first boss battle with the 
 demon hound i restarted on hard, and let me tell you it is HARD.
  
  The ugly
  
  Load screens. Nuff said. They didnt really bother me much since i have a fast computer, they were 
 only an annoyance for me by breaking up the flow of the game. But one of my buddies who played 
 the game said he would spend upward of a minute or minute and a half looking at load screens every 
 time they go into a house or new area. There are also some glitches in the game, such as some shading 
 defects and stuck mobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  well well well... now that I finally finished the game, that was a great pleasure to play and a 
 very addictive one, I realize that they left room for a sequel... and I hope that there will be 
 one.
  about the game what can I say, no complaints, great story, great graphics, great gameplay.... and 
 the fact that the entire game is based on your decisions and the actions that u do in the game 
 world is fascinating because not all the rpg manage to realise that
  the one thing that the game lacks is the low variety of armours and weapons, or at least they could 
 have implemented a lot's more of unique items or forgeble items
  but maybe with the second coming of the witcher who knows.... thus is a game that I reccomend to 
 all the rpg lovers, and I adivise u that u play it on a high specifications system or on the low 
 settings u will miss most of the action...: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The beginning sucks. It is extremely boring, and it made me uninstall it and not try it again for 
 over a year. But, when I finally forced myself past it I found a morbidly fascinating fantasy world 
 full of some of the best open-ended gameplay I've ever experienced. And, the ending didn't suck.
 
  
  The graphics are okay, nothing amazing, nothing terrible. It feels like a typical RPG except that 
 the animation is exceptionally better. Geralt's animations are highly intriguing (as well as the 
 interface used to control them) and even though they are slightly repetitive, they tend to not 
 get old.
  
  The open ended gameplay is fantastic. There's nothing like coming to a point where you have to 
 make a decision, and you know if you pick option a, you are abandoning all hopes of normalcy and 
 acceptance, and if you pick option b you are forsaking friends and people like you (which the game 
 is amazingly able to make you want to side with) . The constant shades of gray a great change of 
 pace from the all too familiar black and white morals of most games, and the game is able to make 
 quite a few undertoned philosophical points without looking arrogant and snotty.
  
  The game actually made me buy the book, and all the book did was make me even more impressed with 
 the game. Adaptations typically don't go well. However, in this case I seriously wondered whether 
 the author of the book on which the game is based wrote every line of dialogue for the game and 
 watched over every single graphical detail, because the two (the book and the game) work seamlessly 
 together. The fact that there are several nods towards book characters in the game only raises 
 my respect towards the game more.
  
  The story is fantastic. It is detailed, constantly changing, and unlike many stories, you don't 
 know where it will end up. But, my favorite thing about the game was the ending. It is very rare 
 nowadays to run into a game that does an ending well, and a bad ending can spoil a game. When I 
 was playing through the middle of the game, totally addicted, I was thinking that the game was 
 probably in my top 20 of all time. However, after seeing the ending cutscene and for about a day 
 afterwords I couldn't get out of my head that the game should easily be within my top 5 of all 
 time. The ending was that good, and it really made the game for me. It's the first ending to a 
 game ever (that I can remember) to give me goosebumps and it can still do it today by merely thinking 
 about it.
  
  The game is a work of art and a must have for anyone who loves RPGs or a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  (Heres how my reviews work: Final Thoughts at the very end is a quick summary, so scroll down if 
 you want my paragraph about the game. I do part by part, details and examples from the game on 
 my way there so the choice is yours.)
  
  The Enhanced Edition of The Witcher was a free (well for those with the original version) upgrade/re-release 
 of the original game. This version really fixed a lot of performance issues, upgraded a lot of 
 visuals, cured a lot of bugs, tweaked some interfaces, rerecorded a lot of dialogue (which was 
 terribly voice acted in the original) and added a little more content to the story as well as rewriting 
 some sequences to the game.
  
  Lets see how the game has managed to change (or stay the same, which of course all of the very 
 good stuff from the original is still here)
  
  *Tutorials to... anything in the game* 4/10
  
  Honestly the tutorials, especially for the combat 
 system, are just down right useless. Honestly I point and click to attack... REALLY!!!??? I would 
 have never thought that. What about the rhythm and timing needed to pull off the sick combos and 
 killing strokes... oh lets not acknowledge those parts. Even alchemy is poorly introduced and I 
 just figured it out last night. Its actually very simple, but yet no tutorial tells you how to 
 do it. ERR so frustrating I can understand why this game got an 8.5 and not a 9-10 for its superb, 
 mature storyline.
  
  *Voice acting* - 8/10
  
  A glaring flaw that was highly addressed in the EE (Enhanced Edition) was the voice acting. Dialogue 
 options were very well written but the voice acting was done very terrible (in 40% of the game 
 roughly) . Now the EE rerecorded a lot of dialogue to fit the originally written dialogue VERY WELL. 
 It's still not in the tier of Mass Effect or KOTOR or a game like that, but its very good nonetheless. 
 Also characters will actually move and show some life. In the original characters were like stiffs.
 
  
  Character, Quest Menu - 10/10
  Inventory Menu - 7/10
  
  The interface for quests, identifying monsters is very simple, detailed, and straight to the point, 
 and very good to say the least. 
  
  In the original the inventory system is sooooo small and poorly detailed. The only way to look 
 at what you are carrying is to scroll over more than 60 items that have very tiny avatars representing 
 what they are and you have to read a very small dialogue briefing you on what they are. So trying 
 to find an item in your inventory is more than a pain in the a**.
  
  But in the EE they actually addressed these issues. Now its much easier to sort your inventory 
 by the click of a button so its much more organized. Also you can sort by a certain ingredient 
 or specific object making locating something very quick. The inventory system isnt incredibly detailed 
 or on the tier of an interface like Mass Effect or the Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion, but it gets the 
 job done.
  
  *NOW for the AMAZING stuff the Witcher has to offer.*
  
  First off the storyline. 10+++++++/10
  
  The story is by far one of my favorites and the more 
 I play the more its becoming my favorite. It is one of the most gritty, dark, and moral storylines 
 you will play. It acknowledges things like racism, bigotry, alcoholism, sexual relations, and many 
 more things. Its not a Knights of the Old Republic where it has great plot twists (although it 
 has a few but none of that magnitude) , or like KOTOR where you can make choices that make you either 
 bad or good. 
  
  This is where the Witcher separates itself from the RPG pack. There is no good or bad, or black 
 and white, in the Witcher. The Witcher really shows that "Gray Line" in decision making. One choice 
 in the game is this:
  
  Choice 1: Help the guilty people who rape women, kill their family members, and traffic children 
 to be slaves. All you have to do is kill an innocent outcast.... sounds easy right?
  
  or
  
  Choice 2: Help a persecuted female who is persecuted by the people mentioned above.... One problem. 
 Those are all well respected individuals and have many INNOCENT followers in their city.... So now 
 you have to slaughter the innocents too.... children, and women included...
  
  Jigsaw - "Live or die, make your choice... Oh yes... there will be blood..." (sorry movie reference)
 
  
  I really enjoy how the Witcher really makes you view the consequence and the choice at hand. The 
 bad guys won't like you more, nor will the good guys like you more. Someone gets hurt and someone 
 doesnt... very true to critical decisions in real life. The amount of mature humor in the game is 
 great too. For example you encounter a damsel in distress. A group of thugs are threatening to 
 mug her and rape her, and you can either say forget you my job is to hunt monsters or you can help 
 her home... and have sex with her... seeing the maturity? So because Witchers are sterile and infertile 
 (they can't have kids for all you that failed High School Health) (I'll get into Witcher infertility 
 later) the group of thugs make fun of you and start calling you a freak. So here is where the GREAT 
 dialogue comes in. You can either be a total p*ssy and say "okay my mistake" and leave, or you 
 can say "keep talking shorty and YOU are going to lose YOUR nuts."... seriously I couldn't stop 
 laughing. Geralt has some moments of great one-line insults.
  
  *Combat* 9/10
  
  The combat system isn't revolutionary, but it is very simple and hella cool if you can time it 
 right. You have to click at precise times in order to chain together combos. It eliminates mindless 
 button mashing clicking, and makes you pay more attention to what is going on around you. You have 
 a chance of stunning an opponent which leads to a very gruesome and awesome looking finishing/killing 
 stroke such as stabbing them in the gut then doing a 360 spin and decapitating them, sending their 
 head flying through the air.
  
  *Graphics* 9.5/10
  
  Probably just the tier down from Oblivion and other graphical powerhouse games, and Assassins Creed. 
 Nevertheless they look very good. The Witcher has some of the best character models i've ever seen. 
 Geralt's other Witcher friends look very realistic. In my opinion the Witcher models (just the 
 Witcher models well maybe 3 of them) look far better than those in Crysis... I know you're probably 
 laughing at me. Even though the Witcher starts off with some very basic looking environments you 
 get to see much better looking stuff as you progress through the game.
  
  *Those "Little Things"*
  
  The amount of detail in the game is awesome. The loading screens 
 (and loading times have been greatly reduced in the EE) are beautiful. The art work for them is 
 handpainted and the colors are vivid and beautiful. The screens will change with the time of day 
 showing you (on average) about 4 different great looking paintings for each location throughout 
 the time of day.
  
  The side quests are plentiful and pack a large variety ranging from a quick fetch of an item, a 
 dungeon exploration with some killing of monsters, some drug trafficking issues, bounty killings 
 of monsters (Witchers work!!!) , saving a damsel in distress and then getting laid! haha and many, 
 many more.
  
  The Witchers
  
  Not everyone is a Witcher. In order to become a Witcher you must take the three step program. Step 
 1: pass a series of strength, dexterity, and intelligence tests. Step 2: survive a series of combat 
 quests. Step 3: kinda funny only like 3 out of 10 people live through this one. Survive a series 
 of mutating drugs, such as steroids (ah ha infertility) , and other physical enhancements. Now you're 
 a genetically modified monster killing machine that doesn't have any fear of slaughtering monsters 
 for pay or impregnating a female. Sweet now you can slay the monster, and get laid... Isn't that 
 the life you've always wanted...?!!!
  
  *Final Thoughts*
  
  The Witcher is VERY UNIQUE and well worth playing. It starts off slow and feels very basic and 
 like any other basic RPG but starts to unravel into a true RPG great. The EE really fixed a lot 
 of the original's flaws and added more content to play through as well as some side stories that 
 dont involve the main story which takes a good 25+ hours to complete (without any side quests) .
 
  
  The amount of maturity in the game as well as the "gray line"/choice and consequence decision making 
 aspect of the game really makes the Witcher unlike any other RPG you'll ever play. It's storyline 
 takes the Witcher from being an OK 7.5-8/10 RPG game to something that deserves to be in the hall 
 of RPG greats.
  
  *Story* - 10+++++++++/10
  *Combat* - 9/10
  *Voice acting* - 8/10
  *Graphics* - 9.5/10
  *Characters, Quest Menu* - 10/10
  *Inventory Menu* - 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher Enhanced Edition is all the amazingness of the original with better dialog and hugely 
 improved load times. You play as Geralt of Rivia, who is in his own right a badass, and he loves 
 to show it. He sleeps with women, shows arrogance to people who don't like him and is just pretty 
 likable.
  
  A witcher is something of mutated monster-hunter who has the ability to fight monsters that normal 
 humans really cannot even dare to fight. They are outcasts for the most part and so Geralt can 
 relate to both humans and non-humans, which plays a pivotal role later in the game. 
  
  The game is played in a similar point and click combat that games like Guild Wars or WoW have. 
 I know it seems a little bad (or maybe not, I enjoy that control scheme) , but the game does more 
 things to make it vary. There are different strategies to fighting which will tell you which sword 
 to use, and which style to fight in. There are also signs, which are basically magic, and the one 
 that you will most likely use most is the fire sign.
  
  The way the game really shakes things up though is by having you make potions. Based on the difficulty 
 you choose, potions could either have no importance or be literally and figuratively life-savers. 
 They can do things like enhance your reflexes, increase your damage output, increase health regen, 
 allow you to see in the dark, etc. The trick about potions though, is that each one gives you a 
 little bit of toxicity. If you have too much toxicity in your system (shown by a bar) then Geralt 
 will start hallucinating and the screen becomes incredibly blurry, with all sorts of things happening 
 visually.
  
  The game is a game of choice, with distinctly different endings and game events based on choices 
 made by you. Ultimately, though, your goal is to kill the group Salamandra who attack you and the 
 other witchers (I am not giving anything away, its literally the first thing that happens) . How 
 you go about it is somewhat up to you.
  
  If you do get the game though, my recommendation is to play as much in each chapter of the game 
 as you can, excluding the first chapter. The first chapter is very straightfoward, but 2-5 are 
 extremely complex chapters set in a world where you make choices pretty freely and it is very easy 
 not to get to see all of the content in the game. You really should take advantage of every quest 
 possible, because the game is so much more fun that way. I made the mistake of speeding through 
 the game, thinking free time later. The problem with that idea is that free time in the game is 
 always, and there aren't really any time constraints on anything. It is similar to Oblivion in 
 that respect, but a little bit more restricted.
  
  Overall the game is an incredible experience. Pick up a copy because if you don't, you are missing 
 out on one of the most engaging RPG experiences of the last many years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Few games can boast a combination of gaming elements that are executed in a clean and satisfying 
 manner. The Witcher is one such product, using an engrossing story, a rich world, and a fun combat 
 system that will make you feel as if you've gotten your money's worth. Such features would normally 
 pave a clear road to perfection, if only a few more tweaking and fixes could have been implemented 
 before the release.
  
  From the beginning, you get a perspective on the type of game that will surely capture you for 
 hours on end. The story, which starts off as a blatant mystery, leaves plenty of room for alignment 
 play and a few plot holes that can act as a motivation towards your inevitable goal, whatever you 
 decide for it to be. While you don't necessary get to choose every single sentence Geralt says, 
 you do make the bigger decisions that will affect the overall picture. Accordingly, those who are 
 obssessed with custom-made characters may be disappointed, as the Hero (Or villain?) of this tale 
 is set in his physical appearance, his voice, and for the most part, his personality.
  
  Combat in The Witcher is well-executed and with the patches to date, realtively seamless. It requires 
 a bit of timing if you plan on playing the game at higher difficulties though on Easy and Normal, 
 a visual display will help you coordinate your combos against your enemies. Regardless, every strike 
 made by Geralt is a visual treat, with the occassional decapitation or brutal execution tossed 
 into the fray for good measure. There is also magic but it's obvious that the strength of a Witcher 
 is in his swords. Factor in potions, a critical component to any fight on anything above Easy, 
 and the system itself carries a layer of depth that is quite admirable. 
  
  Side-quests are often repetitive and boring in many games that use it simply as filler. This isn't 
 true for The Witcher. While you will have your typical fetch and kill quests, they are often masked 
 by the fact that many of the enemies you need to dispose of or resources you need to gather are 
 often en route or in the way of your true goal. It is a side of the game that is implemented well 
 and if you so choose, needn't even be apart of the experience.
  
  From a visual perspective, The Witcher can look quite beautiful. While it isn't near cutting edge, 
 with the settings on medium-high, you'll have more than your fair share of eye candy to keep you 
 within the experience. This boon is offset by a rather peculiar flaw made on behalf of the developers. 
 Many of the characters you will encounter will share the exact same appearance as another person 
 you may have met earlier in the game. This is true in nearly any game that boasts city's filled 
 with citizens but what makes it awkward is that some of these characters are key to the story. 
 Overall, it is a forgiving quirk but unfortunate nonetheless.
  
  The Witcher's music is fitting for most of its situations. They often compliment the surroundings 
 and add to the depth of a particular story cinematic. The same can be said for the voice work, 
 albeit with a few exceptions. While the talent of the voice actors themselves isn't necessarily 
 too bad, it seemed like a little more work could have been done to iron out some of the conversations. 
 Perhaps the script-work is at fault, since some of the things that will be said in the game won't 
 always make sense. Or will seem incomplete.
  
  Through all the good and bad, there are some things that can make or break a game. The Witcher 
 has had its share of glitches and bugs and you'd think that with the release of the Enhanced Edition, 
 most of these would be fixed. It's true, problems of the past may be no more but even bigger ones 
 have stepped in to replace them. Perhaps the largest gripe is in the random crashes. It isn't a 
 problem for everyone but there have been hundreds of reports of random crashes occuring with certain 
 systems. They may be as bad as happening every 2 - 10 minutes or as infrequent as 2 - 4 hours. 
 The fact remains that given the amount of time that this game has been out, for a bug of this magnititude 
 to still have no real resolution simply diminishes the value of an otherwise superb game.
  
  Ultimately, it's hard to say whether The Witcher is worth a purchase. From a gaming perspective, 
 it most certainly is. But from the technical side, it is quite the contrary. In time, perhaps this 
 review may stand to be corrected. Until then, true to the morally grey theme that this game is 
 known for, choose wisely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hooloovoo38
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Based on the world described in the fantasy books of Andrzej Sapkowski, you play Geralt of Rivia, 
 a Witcher who has lost his memory after he allegedly returned from the dead. You start off at the 
 castle of Kaer Morhen and pretty soon Geralt gets mixed up in another adventure to recover something 
 that was stolen. So far so good...
  
  I've had this game for several months but could never find the time to actually start playing. 
 Last friday I had a few hours free so I decided to install it. I immediately got immersed in the 
 storyline and started savouring this little delicacy only to discover later that it was a real 
 multilayered epic.
  
  The graphics are excellent and the characters have strong backgrounds while the combat system is 
 easy to get used to. Timing your clicks right will execute some pretty flashy combos which become 
 ever more complex as Geralt gains more experience.
  
  The dialogue is definitely one of it's high points and spans the full spectrum from dark and ominous 
 to lighthearted and funny, though most of the time it is brusque and sarcastic, which befits the 
 gloomy context. The music adds to the experience and blends well with the scenery and plot, as 
 does the voice-acting.
  
  Another interesting point is that, much like in Fable, the decisions you make at different points 
 in the game affect it's progress. The storyline is multithreaded and Geralt's actions have consequences 
 that will echo throughout the whole game.
  
  Fans of the Arthurian legends and the works of H. P. Lovecraft will find plenty of in-game references.
 
  
  Did I mention I thoroughly enjoyed it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carversth
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not, this game suck. Read the other bad reviews and its all true.
  
  I played 3 hours of this game, and 2 and a half hours was just LOADING SCREENS. And even when it 
 wasn't loading, it lagged like hell. And when I got tired and pissed off, and closed the game, 
 it lagged my system for 30 minutes.
  
  My computer is clean of viruses, spywares and such. I played Fallout 3 and Oblivion till the end 
 without lags and waiting times like this game given me.
  
  Overall gameplay, it's just like a MMO like WoW... kill 3 monsters and come back, gather 5 herbs 
 and come back kind of quest.
  I didn't even get to know the story, which everyone says that "ROCKS", because I almost suicided 
 in front of my monitor due to waiting 30 minutes to one map to load. Athlon x64 isn't too old.
 
  
  Don't buy it, look for something better.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jastaV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  The Witcher Enhanced Edition is an adult RPG mixing classic RPG elements, a complex and intriguing 
 story with an advanced graphic engine.
  
  I had chance to play The Witcher, (first version) on the same PC I'm using to play The Witcher 
 Enhanced Edition: Intel Core Duo Quad 6600, GeForce 8800 ULTRA, DDR-2 Super Talent 2Gb 800MHz.
 
  I noticed improvements in FR and game fluidity, possibly addressed to the game engine optimization 
 and to last NVidia drivers versions too.
  I'm getting a great graphic performance using game higher available settings.
  
  The graphic 
 engine of the game is amazing: the best landscape I ever experienced in a RPG game. The powerful 
 and bright visual effects encountered during game playing are gorgeous and do not negatively affect 
 FR. Game fluidity is high even in most overcrowded combats.
  
  Some Audio probles are known.
  I experienced some troubles with the EAX support when enabling 
 from the game setting menu. I had to disable it. 
  None the less, with my audio processor, (Sound Blaster X-Fi Xtreme Gamer  Fatality Professional 
 and a Creative GigaWorks 5.1 speakers system) I could get a very high audio performance. Background 
 sound in a 3D environment, dialogs, music soundtracks are the best ever experienced in a game.
 
  
  As evidenced in the official reviews upload times have been shortened and game stability largely 
 improved. After many hours spent playing The Witcher Enhanced Edition, I just experienced a couple 
 of fatal crashes to desktop.
  
  The Witcher is to be regarded in the category of the dangerous games keeping player awake for full 
 nights: the main story is rich, written over an intriguing plot. Major characters are performing 
 highly, dialogues offers great and clean language localizations. Tons of video sequences adds cinematic 
 detail to the narration. 
  Although a mess of secondary quests are available, The Witcher Enhanced Edition does not offer 
 the richness and flexibility of some classic RPG as Two Worlds or Oblivion. Player has not chance 
 to choose between different character profiles or races as typical of quoted RPG games. Players 
 will have anyway chance to influence over character attributes influencing then combat styles and 
 magic attacks.
  
  The Witcher is a RPG game addressed to an adult public for explicit sexual situations, the harsh 
 and rude language used by some characters, the realistic way violence is depicted, the cynic personality 
 of the player character. It is a game built over a solid story, well depicting adult addressed 
 situations but without being coarse . 
  
  The Witcher Enhanced Edition comes with two new "short" adventures and a mess of add-ons and bonus 
 material that make worth to buy it for The Witcher, (first version) buyers too. 
  But a detailed game guide, the two Audio CD with music from the game soundtracks are to be remembered. 
 
  The Witcher Enhanced Edition is so reach to be considered a good choice for a gift. For sure it 
 is a must for all RPG enthusiastic players that had not chance to try the first edition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAftHour
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:22 am PT
Review:  my oh my... a lot of games have passed through my computer... installed and uninstalled by hundreds... 
 but this one remiains even today... after 8 months i play it a little when i want to relax a bit. 
 to finish it i had to play it from the 15-th of july to the 8-th of september in full speed!!!! 
 the story is very interesting.. you are the master of your own fate... you get nlove... crash parties.. 
 kick villain ass.. hunt monsters... help a lot of people and bring down drug sellin bad guys. it 
 never gets boring or even plain. it keeps throwing new things over and over again in your face! 
 the meditation and potion brewing thing and all the alchemy involved and bomb making was extraordinary 
 to me.. amd very medieval and reallistic from this point of view... adn in the end you get to kick 
 everyone's but!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 8/10
  
  
  Sounds 9/10
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  more than 20 hours
  
  
  Difficulty
  just right
  
  
  Gamevalue 
 9/10
  
  Its one of the best Rpg game here! Quest are Great they Realy are.. Good story and u realy start 
 weling that u are in the game... this game eats u ;)
  
  if u love rpg games.. u realy need this one.. Who Daam need Stupid Old games like Diablo 1 or 2.. 
 when there is this Masterpiece!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotto08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing! The story line was awesome and you get to make choices in the game. Its 
 also a long game and takes awhile to beat. It is very addicting and I highly recommend The Witcher 
 because its probably the best RPG game I have ever played. You can do anything from drink booze 
 or gamble, to brew potions and slay monsters. This game also has great graphics. There are also 
 multiple paths in the game you can choose. You could either fight with the elves or go along with 
 the knights of the flaming rose.
  
  The game has great voice acting, the action stays throughout the whole game and never gets boring. 
 Its definately worth your time and money to get this game. You wont be dissatisfied with it one 
 bit! I got to say that I was pretty pissed when I beat the game because I finished it haha!!
  
  The only negative thing is that for some reason the game did crash alot on me and I don't know 
 why but it never really affected me much because I I either saved it or it automatically saved 
 it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humuhumu91
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  I've been playing role-playing games since 1979, so it's a pretty strong statement for me to make 
 that The Witcher could be the most immersive computer RPG I've ever played.
  
  Incredible, unique storyline, great voice acting, addictive gameplay, unique and compelling combat 
 system - this game really does have it all.
  
  It's definitely worth your time to pick this one up, especially if you've been complaining about 
 the 'sameness' of most RPGs in recent years. The Witcher is something different - it has an ineffable 
 quality to it that makes playing it almost like playing a pencil and paper RPG... yet it never bogs 
 down and the action stays fast and furious.
  
  The fact that it comes from a small studio instead of a giant conglomerate just adds to the reasons 
 to buy this game. And it's a bargain compared to other RPGs out there.
  
  While I still think Mass Effect has the best ending of any RPG I've played, from start to finish 
 The Witcher is the most compelling RPG I've played in decades.
  
  A classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Im 16 and well ive played a hell of alot of rpg's in my life time not long but alot, 
  
  When the reviews came out the critics were rather generous some not so generous, 
  
  Many reason 
 for this was the fact the load times were rather long and alot of bugs unsolved.
  
  But the enhanced edition is a whole different story it offers two new storys, over 200 new animations 
 and 5000 more lines of dialogue. The loads times have been shortend alot and some of the more tedious 
 bugs have been removed, but the game still is'nt perfect, no game is and if anyone says a game 
 is perfect they are lying.
  
  In my experience i would go through a door loads up game crashes, i go to a campfire sit down crashes, 
 the game is known for the terrible and annoying crashes. Sadly most people are not effcted as much, 
 but some have the same problems as me. And before anyone starts my computer can run this game 5x 
 over. 
  
  But for the positives the game can expand to over 100 hours which is incredible for a pc rpg. Which 
 means you will be in this game which has reach artistic detail, and an incredible soundtrack which 
 adds to the feel of the witcher.
  
  Some compare to fable in some ways which i can see but truthfully this is its succesor for many 
 reasons. Its more adult orientated. Such as humour, sex and drugs, the game is fun.
  
  The battle system in my opinion is a success, it is similar to the kotor, you can pause the game 
 in battle to decide what to do, you can choose which swords to use which will appear on the screen 
 and the spells you can cast. Which reminds me of an mmo, the way the toolbar is setup and is very 
 easy to control. 
  
  The graphics for the game is just marvelous, when you walk into the town and it has a magical yet 
 dark and rich world, you have the poor begging, the rich talking about how elves should be killed, 
 and the hookers asking for sex, it feels more life like than most games the cities dont feel right 
 for lets say oblivion the towns and cities are large and vast yet only 8-10 characters on screen 
 it doesnt feel alive yet the witcher manages to do so.
  The enemies look great on both high and medium settings though but sadly for low end gamers it 
 just doesnt quite work, if you dont mind items dropping in as you run and the textures to look 
 muddled then you wont mind i suppose. 
  
  The story is well represented and i have read the books of Andrzej Sapkowski and this game is a 
 great adaption, and the darkness from his books can be felt in the game. Just like most games today 
 consequences are used alot but the witcher makes you think, you can see where its going and its 
 hard to decide what choice to make. After you have decide what to do, you begin to think what is 
 going to happen hope it isnt bad ect. And i dont get that in many games im just not botherd yet 
 this makes me want to find out it pulls you. 
  
  If you are the sort of person who loves to customise outfits ect sadly this falls short, you are 
 limited to one style of outfit well sort of no spoilers promise. And the weapons range from, witcher 
 swords, to rune swords, knives, hammers, meteorite swords axes, katan's and much more but its the 
 same not much texture or detail, so shine like you would want to imagine. but it still is incredible 
 when doing spins and films with your katana so that makes up for it i suppose.
  
  So overall the game is fantastic, its blood thirsty and beautiful at the same time. If you like 
 rpg's and you want something to pass the time and want something more than what many console rpg's 
 offer then this is a must have. So what are you reading this for go and buy it. NOW
  
  Also this game is going to soon hopefully have a larger mod fan base. which is why pc rpgs triumph 
 these days.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Assassine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this is one of the best RPG-s I have ever played. Now I will start by 
 naming some of the good things in this game. The graphics in this game are very good indeed. The 
 makers of this game tryed to make the game graphisc more realistic, and with Witcher EE most of 
 the graphic bugs have been fixed so now players can really enjoy in this game to the max. Also the 
 story and the plotline is done very good. You take a role of Geralt of Rivia, a monster hunter and 
 a mercenary who wanders the medievil fantasy world in search of jobs. On your path, you will encounter 
 lots of different carracters with different problems. You will visit different areas (towns, villages 
 etc.) , and each one of them will have their own good and bad side, crime and corruption, and its up 
 to you to make the right decidions in every situation, becouse each decidion has its consequences. In 
 the game you can choose the middle part (wich is basicly to mind your own buisness, and not meddle 
 in politics or sociall afairs) , the path of the Flaming Rose (in wich you help humans in their fight 
 against nonhumans) or, the path of the nonhumans (in wich you help the nonhumans in their fight against 
 the Order of the Flaming Rose) . Wich ever side you pick it will have its consequences. The weapons 
 and fighting techniques are good too. The weapons very between swords, axes, maces, even thourches. You 
 can also use magic to fight your enemies tlepathy, fire, set traps etc. And as you proggres you can 
 boost up your characters fighting abilities, mental abilities, strainght etc., and you have a large 
 amount of those talents and a small amount of talent points, so choose wisely! The bad things about 
 this game (that I noticed) are textures of some characters, a couple of bugs in the game that keep 
 the game from shining. All in all a very good game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyfeld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:47 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with this game pretty quickly. The graphics were gorgeous, and the music did a wonderful 
 balancing act, setting the mood perfectly, but not overpowering the sounds of battle. CD Projekt 
 was even kind enough to include 2 audio discs with the game, that has all the beautiful game music, 
 and even songs inspired by the witcher sound track (which I have all downloaded on my MP3 player) .
 
  
  Immediately once you take control of Geralt, you get a taste of the battle system. It takes a bit 
 of getting used to at first, but after a while, timing your combo attacks becomes second nature. 
 Then later on, learning to integrate your Signs (what passes for magic in The Witcher) becomes 
 a second challenge, but is easily mastered. After getting a good feel of the battling system, it 
 was fun to make Geralt land a flurry of attacks on his enemies, and blast them with fire. Unfortunately, 
 it wasn't fun enough to cover up one of the biggest problems with this game. While chain attacks 
 and instant cast magic is there to make you feel like a fluid fighting machine, the fact that all 
 parries and dodges were rolled out by the RNG made the whole system feel a bit clunky... like the 
 second I took ahold of the character, he lost a lot of his fighting edge. I wanted to be able to 
 do a flourishing pirouette and strike my opponent's unprotected area, but anything aside from standing 
 in one spot, chaining attacks, feels forced and clunky.
  
  However, despite the problems with the battle system, this game still has an area that really shines: 
 the story and NPC interaction. The story persistent through this whole game is a series of twists 
 and turns, trying to force you to make decisions on who your friends are, and who you're going 
 to end up fighting. In several points in each chapter, your decisions alter Geralt's fate for the 
 following chapters, making your choices extremely important. But don't worry, you don't have to 
 worry about if you're going to become "good" or "bad." The choices you have to make are, 90% of 
 the time, so deep into the gray that you often want to choose both just to see what happens. And 
 not only are the choices intriguing and thought-provoking, but they drive forward a storyline that 
 keeps you guessing until the end.
  
  I feel obligated to mention, there are some bugs with the game, even after EE was launched. I had 
 a lot of issues with the game crashing after about 3-4 hours of continuous gameplay, and most of 
 the crashes occured during saves. I know not all players had this problem, but I did and I know 
 that many others have as well. If you decide to play, make sure to save often.
  
  So at the end of the day, if you're just looking for another hack-and-slash like Oblivion, or another 
 dungeon crawler like Neverwinter Nights, you should probably keep moving. But if you love a story-driven 
 RPG as much as I do, this is definitely a must-have for your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phampir3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  The Witcher Enhanced Edition is a refined version of the "The Witcher" this edition boasts several 
 improvements while enticing other who have not played the game to buy it! I've only experienced 
 the Enhanced Editiion so i'll review it plainly on my experience, so ill will not stress alot on 
 the improvements from the original witcher release. This is my first review and i have kept this 
 review spoiler free!
  
  The Witcher is based on a polish fantasy series by Andrzej Sapkowski who is well known for his 
 works (especially in Poland!) . You play as Geralt of Rivia, a Witcher and take on the role of a 
 monster slaying, potion brewing mutant in a dark and mature fantasy setting. A word of warning 
 this is a MATURE game, and is one of the few rpgs that both claim and deliver is this department 
 and is a key highlight in this game. 
  
  Story, Plot and Delivery 
  I was personally impressed by the storyline and how the game handles the delivery. The story is 
 complex and boasts good depth, drawing upon the rich source material from the books. The result 
 is a game that has a strong fantasy setting, with a dark and grim feel with enough detail to feel 
 believable. The story is friendly to those who are unfamiliar to the Sapkowski's fictional works 
 as Geralt suffers from amnesia at the very start of the game. I am aware that this setup has been 
 used many times, particularly in rpgs but it works extremely well in slowing introducing the aspects 
 of the story and setting. The story is filled with violence, corruption, racism, lust and moral 
 divides that achieves a intriguing and believable world. 
  
  Furthermore the game enables the player to make choices to impact the future. While some rpgs attempt 
 and fail miserable at this difficult feat The Witcher does a excellent job. The game features 3 
 endings and offers choices in all quests that can short term, long term effects. More impressive 
 is that fact that the world offers little distinction between what is right and wrong. Instead 
 the game allows the player to delve into morally gray areas and to make decisions. 
  
  Gameplay elements 
  The game mostly centers around primary quests and a large host of secondary 
 quests, which are separated into different acts (chapters) . Geralt can undertake quests from a 
 section of different npcs (all with some form of choice!) which can vary from fetch quest, slaying 
 quests along with some more unique quests. While completing these quests Geralt can harness his 
 superhuman Witcher abilities to kick monster butt and brew potent potions. Geralt accumulates experience 
 for completing quests which can upgrade his main attributes, sword groups (both steel and silver 
 have different trees) and all individual signs. Geralt can also unlock special bonuses in the above 
 trees to allow for permanent mutations brought about buy unique potions. Overall this gives the 
 player a large control over the development of Geralt's abilities. 
  
  Geralt Controls well using the wasd format and allowing 3 different camera angles to suit your 
 gaming preference, the first two are slightly different isometric perspectives while the third 
 is an over the shoulder perspective (my personal favorite) .
  
  Sword fighting is controlled by simply clicking on the target, instead of mindless mashing the 
 mouse button the combat is a rhythmic affair (reminds me of assassins creed) . The mouse button 
 (a sword) is surrounded by a flames when the next combo can be activated. This allows for a smooth 
 transition of sword techniques that requires timing and control. In my opinion it is a nice way 
 of handling melee combat and feels quite fresh in a combat heavy rpg. Geralt wields both a steel 
 and silver sword, silver for monsters and steel for the rest. Both combat techniques are different 
 as Geralt wields the silver sword with one hand and the steel with two. As a witcher you can pull 
 off combat moves from three different forms Strong, Fast and Group forms. Strong is for Heavily 
 armored foes, Fast is for more agile opponents and the Group form is when you are out numbered. 
 the Swords can also be enhanced temporarily by applying different items such as whetstones, runes 
 and potions to modify their effects on the enemy. 
  
  As a Witcher Geralt can use a form of magic known as Signs, endurance acts as the games mana and 
 the signs are accumulated over the course of the game, there are only 5 signs but can be upgraded 
 extensively and add another layer to the combat. Castings Signs are controlled by clicking the 
 right mouse button. 
  
  Potion making is a crucial element in The Witcher especially on the more challenging settings. 
 Potions imbue Geralt with different bonuses such as improved resistances, more endurance (to cast 
 signs) , increased vitality regeneration and night vision to name a few. The ingredients can be 
 found from a large selection of monster parts and plants. Potions can often determine the outcome 
 of a battle and its emphasis in battle feels just right. There are around 50 different potions 
 i think, all with their specific use, so start mixing! Potions cannot be abused, every time Geralt 
 brew or obtains a potion the description of a potion indicates its level o toxicity. Thus strong 
 potions or healing potions cannot be overused at high toxic levels have adverse effects on Geralt. 
 A nice balancing feature in my opinion and is well explained ingame. 
  
  The above three elements give the Witcher a unique gameplay experience rewarding timing, preparation 
 and tactics to determine the outcome of battles. In my opinion this is an excellent combination. 
 
  
  Lastly Geralt can occupy himself with other activities such as playing dice (think poker with dice) , 
 drinking with npcs and getting laid! 
  
  My only complaint with the gameplay is the saving system, quicksaving produces a new save every 
 time. At first this wasn't a problem but after accumulating over 200+ saves loading savegames took 
 much looooonger. I'd prefer it if one save was a dedicated save file which is overwritten every 
 quicksave. 
  
  Graphics 
  The Witcher runs on a modified version of the aurora engine (which was behind Never Winter Nights) 
 according to CD Projeckt Red only 10% of the original engine remains the rest has been completely 
 rewritten. All i can say it shows, the game is beautiful as it allows for a full night and day 
 cycle and it extremely detailed. Plants, buildings, npcs and monsters look really nice and if you 
 can run The Witcher at max settings SMOOTHLY (like i can) you really enjoy (and immerse) yourself 
 in the shoes of Geralt. The load times are fine, my only complaint would be minor clipping annoyances 
 hair and weapons come to mind. I must note that i experenced some stutter in cut-scenes due to 
 the "depth of view" setting which effects blurring, to my knowledge this has yet to be fixed but 
 disabling it will remove, if not improve stuttering in cutscenes. Please note to download the lastest 
 patches for the witcher to get the most out of it! 
  
  Overall 
  An excellent rpg, a true suprise coming from CD Projeckt Red, The Witcher is a detailed, engrossing 
 rpg with a real sense of choice and consequence. The gameplay is userfriendly (a good tutorial 
 no more confusing DD rules) and you can have a blast slaying monsters and brewing potions. In conclusion 
 The Witcher Enhanced Edition is the definitive version and is a must have for an rpg fan looking 
 for an indepth story, setting, combat and most importantly choices that matter! 
  
  Have fun and thanks for reading! =P 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_jacket
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I liked this character so much that I bought the book the game was based on. 
  Sometimes a dark character is best at bringing justice to evil forces. Sometimes a monster is best 
 for killing monsters.
  
  Geralt of Rivia is a monster. I don't like monsters, but he is likeable because what he was forced 
 to be wars constantly with who he wants to be... or should I say who I want him to be. It was fun 
 to be in the driver's seat and steer this hero. I've always liked the games that let you "discover" 
 who the character always was by letting you make decisions for them that reflect on their past.
 
  
  Honestly, the intro movie and final movie are almost worth the purchase price. I have never seen 
 animation done this well before. CD Projekt should couple with a movie making company and crank 
 out some full length films! Beautiful game with amazing animation and high quality scenery.
  
  The only negative thing I have to say about it is that it kept crashing on me. I have a fairly 
 new system with high powered graphics cards. I make sure I always have the latest drivers. This 
 game continued to dump me or freeze up. I had to save constantly and it reminded me of playing 
 way back in the 260/ 360 days. Those days did make me quick on the save buttons, but I thought 
 they were behind us.
  
  Without spoiling the game, all I can say is that I was so immersed in this character by the end 
 that the end-game video had me standing up, "air" sword fighting, and shadow boxing. 
  
  You are sure to have fun if you like consistent and deep characters with a moving and immersing 
 story-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  The Witcher, unlike other fantasy RPG games, is set in a much grimmer and mature universe; one 
 where there is no definite right or wrong. Indeed, the strength of TW rests in the storytelling 
 - it is so interesting, original and at the same time, surprisingly believable! 
  Furthermore, almost everything in the game seems to belong in the game and nowhere else.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  The combat system is a major step from previous RPGs as you time your attacks instead of button-mashing 
 your way through. The swords animations of the game are highly accurate and treats for the eyes.
 
  The alchemy system, too, is great and innovative.
  
  Storytelling:
  Without spoiling anything, it is safe to say that the plot is filled with twists and unexpected 
 moments.
  Moreover, the game boasts of a new choice/consequence system where all of the choices you make 
 heavily impact the game later on.
  One strong point of the game I especially liked was the fact that the characters seemed so believable 
 and throughout the entire game, they really evolve!
  
  Graphics:
  The GFX are stellar but to some people loading times, some minor bugs and optimisation issues plague 
 this otherwise perfect game. However, The Witcher: Enhanced Edition actually addresses those issues 
 and in the end, they go easily unnoticeable as you venture through beautiful, yet mysterious lands!
 
  
  To me, the developers were really aiming at pleasing the gamers while designing The Witcher: Enhanced 
 Edition... A definite must-buy! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bummed-out
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I played the original version of The Witcher and suffered through countless crashes and glitches. 
 I lived with one finger on the quicksave key. I dealt with robotic voice acting and terrible inventory 
 management and repetitive quests. 
  
  The Enhanced Edition fails hard to fix what was wrong with the first game in almost respect except 
 for voice-acting. And even that has it's drawbacks as some characters who were spot-on in the original 
 version received terrible makeovers. The devs lauded themselves on creating new "more human" motions 
 for the characters during speech. I didn't notice much of a difference, it was still robotic and 
 unnatural but at least the dialogue was a little easier to follow.
  
  My biggest issue was that the game STILL crashed far too much. I was reminded of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 to be honest and I think I'm done with small European developers for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grennterror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Deep story, Relly imersive, a must buy game. fast combat action. Good balance between magic, and 
 sword, good chalenge for all gamer. A good constructor set where we can built adventure on or own. 
 Ton of side quest. as we can roam the world and do the main quest as we are pleased to do. Can play 
 5 min or 5 hours whitout losing track. Can save anywhere. And one thing really positive when they 
 do the enhanced edition they give it to to all the gamer who buy the fist edition for free. Thats 
 a great mark of respect for the costomer who buy the game in the first place.
  
  why i dont give them a 10 out of 10.
  
  the inventory management is not the best. the fact 
 that we can only put one potion in quick slot. And this game rely on potion a lot. Its the worse 
 we have in this great game.
  
  This company as good start verry positive, not like electronic artsand bioware sitting on there 
 name. for mass effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  I so much expected this to be the Perfect Game TM! I read so much positive reviews that I created 
 some hyper ultra mega expectations that this game will blow my brains off. Well, The Witcher is 
 not perfect. It has flaws. However, when all the disappointment settled, I have to admit this is 
 one hell of an RPG.
  
  First off, I have to clarify that I am not reviewing the enhanced edition like some sort of a giant 
 update. By the time I got a chance to play the original game, the enhanced version was already 
 announced so I decided to wait. Now I am reviewing The Witcher without its quirks like missing 
 speech, etc.
  
  In this state, I have to say, the game is brutal! The story is a very interesting one with lots 
 of unexpected twists and the whole dark setting is very compelling. Voice acting is very well done 
 and regarding the music, it is nothing but outstanding! I recall that some renowned orchestra was 
 hired for the job and it pays back well.
  
  Side quests are also quite interesting and usually are not the average kill this/bring that cliches 
 (with the sole exception of witcher's contracts but somehow these manage to stay interesting as 
 well) . A lot of them have influence on main quests and other events as well which is a really nice 
 touch.
  
  Speaking of quests, there is one thing that puts The Witcher above other RPGs and that is the heavy 
 weight of the consequences of your actions. The game was advertised as set in a grey reality where 
 there is no good or evil, just actions and consequences. This is not entirely true. For the most 
 part, you can easily define who is good and who is evil, however it is often that in trying to 
 correct a wrongness, a greater evil occurs from your actions. What is more you don't realize that 
 immediately, but it becomes apparent much later in the game.
  
  *MAJOR SPOILER*
  
  For example, I aided the Scoia'tel in chapter one, giving them supplies because they used a strong 
 argument of dying comrades. However, they got well and bold because of that and in chapter 2, they 
 killed a key NPC which made my life a lot harder. I got pissed and decided I am not going to help 
 them next time, so I abandoned them to the Order of the Flaming Rose at the end of chapter two, 
 They got slaughtered senselessly so I felt sorry for them and when they broke into Vivaldi's bank 
 at the end of chapter 3, I decided to talk to them first before attacking. This revealed that they 
 are in the bank for Vivaldi's ownership documents and want to restore the bank to the dwarf. I 
 decided to help since the bank was appropriated illegally. This put me on the wrong side of the 
 Order and Siegfield declared me an outlaw - an otherwise pleasant and understanding fellow who 
 helped me in the beginning of chapter 2. He was also one of the few noble and honorable characters 
 in Vizima.
  
  In chapter 4, I again stood between the Order and the Scoia'tel. The elves did not want to fight 
 and so I decided to help them for the last time to sneak away. However, the Order surprise-attacked 
 them while I was trying to convince them to leave and I ended slaughtering the knights which put 
 me on the hunt in chapter 5 and ultimately I had to kill Siegfield - something I really wished 
 I could had avoided.
  
  The interesting part about decisions is that despite clearly good or evil, characters tend to have 
 additional, entirely human characteristics that may repulse or attract different players, regarding 
 on their moral state of mind. Like the abovementioned Siegfield, who is noble and honorable but 
 tends to be overly fanatic even when it becomes clear that the order is up to no good. The king 
 is also a likable fellow, however, his daughter comes from his own sister. Vincent is a decent 
 guard captain, but he turns into a werewolf at night and kills ruthlessly known criminals that 
 he cannot seem to convict legally. Triss seems to love you, but she hides something from you and 
 goes through your belongings when you are not looking. The list goes on.
  
  *END OF SPOILER*
  
  I know this was a bit too descriptive, but I wanted to convey exactly how 
 heavy moral choices in this game are.
  
  There is one more likeable feature of the game that deserves a honorable mention - Dice Poker. 
 This mini-game is so addictive, I bought real dice and now play it with friends.
  
  As good as The Witcher is, it still has many little details that remind you far too often that 
 you are playing a game and so it cannot get a perfect mark.
  
  One of the major such setbacks is the game graphics. It is far from bad, but still not as detailed 
 as most people would like. On the other hand, the game seems largely unoptimised to me and it tends 
 to experience major frame rate drops in some areas. Optimal system requirements also seem to be 
 too high for the given quality of the visuals.
  
  The whole presentation is also not as good as it could be. Areas seem to be somewhat limiting. 
 There is no freedom to get lost in the woods like in Gothic for example. Here dense foliage blocks 
 your way off the path everywhere. It's annoying.
  
  There are also too few NPC models and you will be conversing with completely identical characters 
 throughout the game. You will get to hate the Reverent in chapter 1 who is a key NPC in a way but 
 then you will see exactly the same non-interactive model, walking the streets of Vizima as a priest. 
 This is just one example of many.
  
  Character development is also botched. The witcher gains experience and levels-up as all self-respecting 
 RPG protagonists, but the only thing you get after a level-up is new talents (other stats might 
 also be increased but you get no indication of that) . These mainly improve spells or increase performance 
 with a certain weapon. The problem here is that you have to spend talents for each weapon in every 
 possible style in order to get the same upgrade. You have to have played the game to understand 
 this but you need to spend six talents in order to increase attack with 10% in all possible combinations. 
 Next upgrade provides additional 10% damage but again you need six talents for all combinations. 
 The same goes to special effects like chance to stun, chance to cause bleeding, etc. Not very imaginative...
 
  
  On the other hand, alchemy skills and affiliated skills and lore are great. Alchemy in this game 
 is a fine addition. It is very helpful and downright necessary on hard.
  
  Speaking of lore, there is a lot to read in this game and the good thing is that this lore is necessary 
 in several ways. For example, you cannot conduct alchemy without reading books as you cannot pick 
 up a certain herb if you have not read about it.
  
  There are other minor quirks like the overuse of modern slang. "Abso-f*****'-lutely beautiful" 
 is not something that will roll off anyone's tongue in the medieval ages.
  
  The game also tends to make a separate savegame file each time you press F5. Each of these files 
 is 23 MB in size and I ended the game having saved 850 times which equals almost 20 GB in savegames. 
 If you do not delete these files manually, it will slow down your game and may well block your 
 entire system as these files are saved in your system drive by default.
  
  The whole game ends with a somewhat bad and unconvincing ending which leaves many questions unanswered. 
 Furthermore, new adventures from the enhanced edition add no additional value whatsoever. They 
 are short and uninspired.
  
  To sum it up, The Witcher is one of the best RPG experiences of the year as well as last year as 
 it seems. This is a game well worth everyone's time and it is a fine distraction off of D&D's black 
 and white adventures. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Look. I am the biggest fan of PC RPG'S in the world.
  Honestly though aside from the video clips the witcher just blows to me. It is an action game. 
 How is this an RPG?
  I just do not understand what makes this game so popular.
  There are very little choices. The combat sux.
  I am sorry that I forked out the money for this 
 game.
  Baby it will grow on me but so far I am extremely unimpressed.
  I wish someone would put out another game like Morrowind.
  Yes I have Oblivion but it is just 
 not the same.
  Morrowind is a game that I will never never forget.
  I didn't play that game I lived in that world.
  Anyway here is hoping I can endure a little more 
 and let the Witcher grow on me. I really doubt it though. It may have to go back on my shelf. I 
 miss the old days when games were made to be fun not for a quick buck. On that note I am so sick 
 of hearing about this mmo and that mmo. I hate those things. I can't stand them.
  We need more REAL RPG's for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  So, this might be the very last game I'll buy and well , I was surprised because at the beginning, 
 things get mixed up a little bit too fast. There's alchemy, a ton of stats for your char, item 
 management is still confusing and well sometimes the voice acting is laughable. Not to mention 
 the horribly optimized Aurora engine, bleh, it lags on about every machine , even the extreme configurations. 
 Also, the NPC models are somehow not constant in quality, as I've seen some great modeling towards 
 the main characters but the usual NPCs are just so bland and boring that you'll want to sleep... 
 As for the mature aspect of the game, well, it's overused. Getting to see half-naked drawings of 
 humm... monsters and women are not really a turn-on. And , well the stripped ladies in their bed, 
 such as Triss and Shani, are really not in par with the whole medieval feeling. I also feel that 
 the scientific part of mutagens is um.... let's say a bit too much for what knowledge was in those 
 times. C'mon Geralt's doing alchemy when people are starting to use mutagens and the like to make 
 your body stronger and faster. That's a tad too much. But overall, I've had a lot of fun with this 
 game and its non-linear quest system (kudos to the developers on that one) and its feeling. The 
 music isn't memorable but it has its moments. Not as good as TES IV though. A well justified buy, 
 considering the additional content given. Throw in a couple of bonus CDs, music, making of and 
 additional quests, as well as a major patch and you've got the Enhanced edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurgowichLV
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Sand box type gamplay has become core of most RPGs. While free exploration and character creation 
 gives you more freedom about the way you play, it certainly takes away a lot of personality and 
 stories of games suffer from lack of logic and are never really deep. Take Oblivion as an example. 
 It has been considered onr of the best RPG of all times. In my opinon it had more cons than pros, 
 but that is another story. Oblivion went on with "live another life thing, but never really lived 
 up to those standarts. My be it is just me, but playing as an assasin never felt as bad ass as 
 it should. When i tried playing a thief it didnt take me long to understand that after playing 
 games like Thief, it felt really shallow, because you really need to focus on a certain character 
 type in order to make it feel right.
  
  And thats where Witcher really shines. From the start you know that you will be playing a monster 
 hunter for hire - and that is exactly how you feel from the go. Geralt really is a badass, and 
 he is really a believable character. He has sex, drinks too much (fighting while drunk is really 
 fun and unique expirience) , and and while on his quest for revenge, he just tries to m ake a living 
 in a post apocalyptic world. 
  
  And as for the setting, it is one of the best and most good looking in the history of gaming. The 
 world looks dirty, lived in and beautiful at the same time. The lighting, wheather effects all 
 serve for the purpose to highlight the dark tone in witch Vizma and the rest of the game world 
 is shown. They went on and on about the radiant AI in Oblivion, but in real life it did not turn 
 out to be something more some regular walking, sleeping, standing paterns. The very first when 
 I saw towns folk runing for cover as rain started to pour down, I understood that Witcher simply 
 rocks.
  
  As for the game it self - it is very good at getting you going abouts its non-linear plot, and 
 meanwhile giving you enough side-stuff to give you a reason to explore the world and grab some 
 loot, money, and sexcards (thanks god for having a version without censorship) + it is all really 
 fun. The way you see how your action refelect in the gameworld is superb. You may spend some hours 
 after an event and only then you will see what difference you did make. Its impact full to regret 
 a desision that you will never change.
  
  The combat is a blast. Yeah, you have less direct control over the acion than on Oblivon (the last 
 time I mention it, I promise) but it looks much cooler and you really feel deadly and dangerous 
 to be messed with. The fighting styles are all cool a let you adapt to each situation, I gives 
 you a chance to really unload on your foes. Boses are more challenging the other encounters, and 
 after slying a demon dog, you will really feel like the Witcher - the only one who can pull such 
 crazy sh*t off. You can also use magic, but these are more like secondary attacks to stun your 
 foes before feeding them steel or silver. For me slashing one head off will allways be more appelling 
 than throwing fireballs at him, so lack of magic deepth is fine by me. You can brew potions to 
 give you the edge in bad situations, but i felt it more optional than nececary in the game context. 
 The game leveling system has 2 exelent aspects: 1) you can screw up Geralt, you always will be 
 able to kick ass, but with a different style 2) you will never be forced in to a one style of play 
 as you can smoothly stop taking enemies on hardcore with a blade and start jumping around toying 
 with them until they all are dead. 
  
  All in all, ehile giving less sand box elements, Withcer has a strong, cinematic story with cool 
 characters and plenty of options to go about as you please, while feeling like Geralt the monster 
 slayer all the time. + It has inovative gameplay mechanics to back it all up. Some minor technical 
 issues prevents it from beeing a perfect 10, but still - there is no better RPG out there at the 
 moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Based on the short story by Andrzej Sapkowski, The Witcher is set in a medieval fantasy world of 
 betrayal and intrigue, heroes and villains. Witchers are monster hunters, hired like mercenaries 
 to kill beasts and ghouls. You play as a Witcher named Geralt. When he is nearly killed from removing 
 the curse of a monster Geralt loses his memory and he is taken back to his Witchers training ground 
 to recover. The facility is attacked by a mysterious group of bandits known as a Salamandra. After 
 the bandits steal the Witchers secrets it is up to you to track down the group and stop the evil 
 mages. 
  
  After last year's critical acclaim, CD Projeket decided to rerelease The Witcher with many new 
 additions, enhancements and goodies. Heavily inspired by Diablo, The Witcher begins with a convention 
 and clichd premise to start its adventure, but it quickly becomes apparent that this is a richly 
 detailed game and in spite of some technical problems; it is one of the more compelling RPG games 
 to be released for some time. Played from either an isometric perspective or across the shoulder, 
 you control Geralt and must talk to townsfolk in several cities to solve quests that will earn 
 you experience points and give you clues to the trail of Salamandra. Many of these quests are fetch 
 tasks in that they require you to either talk to someone else in the village, kill a monster, or 
 collect and return an item. You earn experience points by completing these quests and killing enemies, 
 which can then be distributed on skills such as improving your attack with your sword, your magic 
 signs or your defensive abilities such as parrying. 
  
  While this may sound highly generic  and some have criticised the world for being so  the attention 
 to detail in all of the environments, as well as the mostly excellent voice acting and writing, 
 create a fresh and compelling experience for the players. Each of the cities is detailed with far 
 more authenticity than what has been seen in other games such as The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 It is a much darker world, where peasants and beggars lie in the streets, whores stand outside 
 brothels coaxing you to come in and villagers complain about the miserable nature of their lives. 
 The insides of taverns are particularly special, with drunken buzzards, gamblers and organised 
 bare knuckled boxing matches you can take part in. 
  
  The use of a day and night cycle also adds authenticity to the world. Just as it would be in real 
 life, when it is dark peasants will go to sleep, and during the daytime you will find them outside 
 their houses sleeping floors and wandering around. Strangely they don't seem to mind when you come 
 into their houses at night though. There are weather effects as well, such as rain, which can hinder 
 how much you can see. It is also a great sight to see peasants running for shelter to avoid the 
 rainfall. This is a game that really has some considerable charm. Visually it is well on par with 
 the likes of Oblivion, with superb lighting and shadow effects and detailed textures throughout 
 all the environments. The character models in the cut scenes look good too and the game claims 
 that they are an improvement over the vanilla edition, with new animations. It is just a shame 
 that some of the lip synching is either poor or just non-existent with some of the characters. 
 
  
  Much of the story is told through cut scenes and its compelling nature is derived mainly from the 
 character of Geralt. His milk white hair and samurai like swordsmanship give a new twist to the 
 typical squared jawed badass of most video game heroes. His snappy lines and punch attitude and 
 frivolity towards women characterise him like a hardboiled medieval detective. The story itself 
 is filled with many twists and turns and it is about as convoluted as a Chandler novel. It can 
 be difficult to keep up with the intertwining relationships and characters, but thankfully your 
 journal can keep you up to date with quests and a list of characters and monsters. The games attitude 
 towards sex is questionable too especially with the tokens of naked women you can collect, but 
 jaded gamers are unlikely to mind. 
  
  The Witcher's swordplay and combat is reminiscent of point and click titles like Diablo, though 
 this feels like a much deeper experience. You have two main weapons, your Witcher sword and your 
 silver sword. Some opponents are more sensitive to one of these weapons. Most monsters are better 
 off attacked with the silver sword, though sometimes it pays to experimenting and see which works 
 best. You have three stances or styles for your swords: strong, fast and group. It is highly essential 
 that you choose the right stance to inflict the sufficient amount of damage into your enemies. 
 It is for example inadvisable to use a group stance  used for taking out multiple opponents  
 on a single enemy. You will inflict must less damage. You do not have to worry about blocking since 
 Geralt automatically dodges enemy attacks. When you click on an enemy your sword icon will turn 
 to a flaming sword and you must click this quickly to build up your combos. These do look quite 
 spectacular given that they were motion captured after a real master swordsman. As too do some 
 of the brutal finishing moves you can perform when you have stunned an enemy with your magic or 
 caused them to fall down. 
  
  The onscreen interface is superb, with the ability to either click on your sword styles on the 
 screen, or use the keyboard to maneuver Geralt and change stances on the fly. You can also store 
 a quick item such as a health potion to use immediately. It would have been nice though if Geralt 
 didn't put his sword away or that he took it out immediately before a battle. The game has the 
 tendency to drop you into conflicts after a dialogue sequence, so you have to keep on your toes. 
 You cannot save the game at all during combat and it presents a problem in some parts of the game. 
 At the end of the first chapter for example, you must enter a length dialogue sequence, make a 
 choice, watch a cut scene and then enter the combat and you can't save it before the battle. If 
 you die you have skip through this all over again. An autosave would have been highly preferable. 
 
  
  It is also unfortunate that as fun as the combat is, it is also highly frustrating at times. Geralt 
 seems to lose health points very quickly, even when it appears as though the enemy has not landed 
 a blow. There is either not enough animations or it is a serious glitch. Similarly, unless you 
 acquire some very expensive armour, Geralt will usually take a lot of damage after a heavy battle 
 and if players do not have health potions they can expect to wait up to five to ten minutes for 
 their health to regenerate. As enemies get tougher towards the end of the game it can be frustrating 
 when they inject "pain" into you  one of the games effects like stun  whereby you cannot move 
 during combat no matter how furiously you click and enemies are allowed to stand around performing 
 an old fashion medieval beat down on you. 
  
  The game is also marred by a series of technical problems that really should have been rectified 
 in this Enhanced Edition. Some frequent crashes to desktop late in the game are just unforgivable. 
 As is the lengthy delay for the save game menu to merely open when you have a lot of save games. 
 It can take well over a minute just to open, though at least this edition claims that individual 
 load times are up to eighty per cent faster. It is just as well because there are many load screens 
 throughout the game such as every time you enter a house or when you enter a new area across the 
 landscape. 
  
  The game has five chapters, a prologue and an epilogue and the campaign is likely to last most 
 players between thirty to forty hours. Some will find great satisfaction in going back through 
 the game and changing some of the moral decisions they made in the dialogue options. Unlike other 
 games, these choices you make do have an impact on how people see you in the game, your relationship 
 with them and sometimes whether they will come back to help or hinder you. The Witcher: Enhanced 
 Edition also comes with a game guide, a short story by Andrzej Sapkowski. If you do not already 
 have the game this is a superb and fun title that will last you for a very long time. In spite 
 of some technical issues The Witcher Enhanced Edition represents the very best tradition of the 
 RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfkhan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is sharp, smooth and fun to play. Being highly addictive, means one's chores are late 
 getting done. However, the game is full of surprises and has a highly intelligent, well written 
 script that keeps the action rolling along and you can take your time on some missions. There are 
 none of those time critical missions that can get very stressful to complete, so the game play 
 is original and well thought out, and has indications that the fan base has been paid full attention 
 to. The game is full of wisdom and great humour. At first glance this could easily pass as a game 
 for adults only too. The wise cracks and intelligent humour, all add up to a masterpiece of a game.
 
  
  This could have been what the first version last year should have been, as it is, this is one hell 
 of a game that deserves high marks for being fully well-rounded and mature, that has many hours 
 of joy filled time wasting in it.
  
  I seldom play action and adventure games, however, this one was just too tempting to pass up an 
 opportunity to play. Many thanks for a great game. This is a game that is well worth the money 
 spent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalAvenger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I did not play the original The Witcher but i wanted too and when i heard an Enhanced Version was 
 coming out i was excited.. and when i actually went around to playing it i was certainly not disappointed.
 
  
  The starting sequences was pretty cool and set the tone of the game from there, dark, gloomy and 
 full of surprises obviously.
  
  What i really enjoyed about the game was that the storyline is not fixed and there are alternate 
 ways to ending the game, making choices in between quests as too help your kind of the others.
 
  This really gave me a feeling of freedom and felt like i had a choice and say in the story instead 
 of just mindlessly questing to further the story.
  
  A few things that bugged me was that even though i was using a average PC that met the requirements 
 i was still unable to run the game at full settings without encountering massive lag in places 
 where there are many characters, hence i had to experience the game at a lower standard.
  
  Sound was fantastic, the background music really set the ambiance of the area and kept me on the 
 edge of my seat preparing for whats to come.
  
  The storyline itself was plentiful exciting and kept my captivated for many hours but i somehow 
 still yearn for more.. the ending did not satisfy me as all the best weapons/armour were gotten 
 at the last Act and i dont feel like it was worth all the trouble to get them just to use them 
 for 3 quests.
  
  Hopefully there will be a sequel and i pray the campaign will last EVEN longer and still be exciting. 
 40 hours is good but with the great storyline i felt it ended too early.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Story - 10/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Truth is, I never played the "un-enhanced" edition so I cannot really tell the difference from 
 its "ancestor".
  The game is generally well set, nice story and very nice gameplay. It should take a lot of effort 
 to finish, timewise.
  Although being an RPG, it didnt remind me any of the classic ones.
  Atari and CD Projekt Red made a very good job on creating something original, following though 
 the patterns of Quests/LVL up.
  I loved the alchemy and the role it played during the game.. and the meditation idea was terrific.
 
  I have to say it got a bit tiring during some periods of the game, due to the running etc but 
 generally it was quite satisfying.
  The graphics were realy astonishing at some point and it is playable even at the most "crapiest" 
 home PCs.
  +1 for Atari, although these modifications should have been made without another launch but just 
 a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  What is this game really... it says action role-plaing here?!
  Well to be honest there isn't much of role playing and the action is mostly limited to specific 
 quests (or night runarounds) . I really don't see where is that "one of the best role playing games" 
 moment?
  Decent story, decent visuals, average action, bad character control/development with cheap and 
 shallow approach to role playing...
  This review is written as a simple reaction to many great scores for this game EVERYWHERE.
  It 
 is decent, but nowhere near "one of the best..."
  
  This game (and the hype around it) undoubtedly reminds me of FABLE, that "great role playing game" 
 which obviously turned around the "great" score on the console-style RPG's... SAD BUT TRUE
  D&D titles (like old Bioware's, Baldurs Gate etc.) are real RPG's, and this one is too lazy and 
 brainless to be called RPG.
  
  Suggestion for editors: let's put MEMBER AGE category under reviews... I feel a bit "misunderstood" 
 because there are so many GREAT reviews for TOO MANY new "console-type" games... and they are, 
 as we all know mostly played (and liked) by youngsters.
  
  I really hope that Dragon Age will be the REAL ONE! It's about time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  I once thought all point and click are thrash but this game entirely changed my opinion. Ofcourse, play 
 in the easiest mode it can be boring, playing at the hardest can be quite challenging. The storyline 
 flows smoothly and every one will experience a slightly different storyline, for what you choose 
 will affect your future. There are many mysteries in the game and is a worthy sequel of the book, The 
 Last Wish. Worthy of the money or the time to download. Involves new NPC gestures and looks, the unenchanced 
 version would look like as though there are identical twins walking about. However, with new NPC 
 clothes and all, people would look different. The chemistry thing is brilliant as it will give you 
 a edge in the battlefield. In short, awesome. A must have for any RPG lovers. This is solid proof that 
 click and point isn't rubbish and can be epic and action packed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbowe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Instant classic, have stopped playing all other games to concentrate on this one until Diablo 3 
 arrives.
  
  The Combat system takes time to get used to, but i found playing Ch1 on easy the ramping up to 
 difficult helped me get used to reacting to sound rather than visual queues.
  
  The potion system I have found to be easy to learn and use, however the recipes are difficult to 
 learn if you are just exploring and not sticking to the storyline.
  
  Graphics are okay, but a bit more attention could have been paid to how hands move in real life 
 (some cut scene have Geralts hands at crazy angles) also some time could have been taken to ensure 
 hair and cloth interact with weapons and belts in a more relaistic manner ( say hello the priests 
 beard that can go into and out of hs chest..)
  
  Overall a great game I have reccomended to several friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salakutt
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Most enjoyable game, what I have ever played. In this game I got everything, what I wanted. I wanted 
 to have fun and I got it, I wanted to have easy sword fight, not some hard gun fight. I wanted 
 to make my own choices and I got this too. This game is going to give you everything what you need. 
 At least this game gave everything, what I wanted, to me!
  
  I wanted to have easy fight, not some hard fight, clicking and clicking. No, there you must wait 
 moment, to click once, to make faster, stronger and better movements, and not click after a click.
 
  
  You make your own choices. Everything is UP TO YOU, how you going to end this game. You can build 
 up your own character. You make choices, what is playing big role in game, like who is going to 
 be your allies, or you going to be neutral forever and ever?
  
  This game is most enjoyable game, really. I got everything I really wanted. This game has own needing, 
 but I got that. You must not panic, if something happens, because that may happen in game and you 
 need to think too, what you going to do in this situation. You must think a lot, how you going 
 to defeat someone, or how to finish this quest.
  
  Only thing, what may be really annoying, is auto save. Auto save sucks in game. It saves SOMETIMES, 
 when you enter some kind of building, and even that is not sure, and when game crashes, and last 
 auto save is like somewhere old place and you have to do ALL THIS again. This is really annoying. 
 But if you don't die, and your computer won't crash, this bug is no problem.
  
  Now, remember, if you going to play this game, take your time, play side quest and enjoy, because 
 game is very long, and if you have finished this game, you don't want to play this game again very 
 soon, not because you hate this game, because you have played everything, what this game has offer, 
 and you have played yourself full. But I am sure, that one day you want to play this game again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icefist187
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Crash to desktop!! 
  This is main feature of the game... and while I know some people may think that sounds fun, I got 
 bored fairly quick. However, if you get your settings stable and start playing the game, you will 
 run into gameplay issues. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Kill a monster bring me its' head, go there and then come back, bring me an herb, etc. 
  To be 
 fair, many games have shallow quests that primarily consist of errand boy favors to deliver/return 
 "x" object, that said, The Witcher pushes the line here. This game has you running back and forth 
 to the SAME locations many, many times over. At least Diablo gave you town portal scrolls, but 
 no such luck here. Clumsy camera angles combined with sub-par movement animations make for some 
 less than enjoyable travels back and forth through the game.
  
  The Witcher doesn't stop the suckage train there, though. The inventory management is simply horrendous. 
 Remember those monster heads you need to lug around for quests? You can only carry ONE (1) at a 
 time. Wanna pick up some extra weapons for some spare gold? Sorry, you can only carry four weapons 
 and two slots are taken at all times by your primary (silver and steel) blades.
  
  Visual:
  The visuals are decent, but it does get old speaking to the exact same character model 
 90% of the time. The only real unique distinction in character models is the females you can be 
 intimate with.
  I had mixed opinions about the whole female card collection. It is nice to see a game that doesn't 
 shy away from violence and nudity and I'm not a prude, but after around the fifth woman I was hooking 
 up with the game felt more like Leisure Suit Larry than a roleplaying game. 
  Overall, the intimate scenes with most of the females seemed like a weak ploy by the devs to distract 
 players from the steaming sack of hot garbage that the game is.
  
  Sound:
  The ambient sound and music was the only good point in the game. The twitter of bugs in swamps 
 and distant chatter of people in towns. The voice acting, on the other hand, was... strange? The 
 main character sounded like he was reading his lines through a monotone microphone. No expression. 
 I had to click through most of the dialogue because I got tired of listening to Mr. Depression 
 Guy halfway deliver a line.
  
  Bottom line: 
  If you like things that suck, you will love this game. Personally, I'd rather visit the dentist.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_spartan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Last year, when the first time I played The Witcher, I was so disappointed.
  Not coz ITS GRAPHIC... not coz ITS GAMEPLAY... and not coz ITS STORYLINE.
  But coz there're many 
 BUGS and ERRORS. And the main thing that made me so disappointed
  iz loading time is TOO SLOW!!!... That' SO ANNOYING!!!
  But now, CDProjekt succeded to fix all 
 of those problems. That's A TRULY ENHANCED EDITION!!!
  There're NO BUGS, NO ERRORS, and especially there's NO LONGER SLOW LOADING TIME...
  I was satisfyed. 
 With the same system requirement, CDEProjekt can create enhancement in many thing. Such as, graphic 
 is more detail than the old one, there're 2 additional
  missions outside the main adventure and many more.
  That reasons make me interested to beat this 
 game for the second time..!!!
  I recomended this game for gamers who was disappointed with THE OLD ONE EDITION!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Much has been made of the revamp of the game to correct the problems in the original release, improving 
 language translation, story-line, graphic repetitiveness for NPC's, and other issues. While any 
 "professional" review has to be taken with a [large] grain of salt (due to the influence of advertisement 
 dollars) , for the most part the various reviews hit their mark on the improvements to the game. 
 However, as too commonly happens, it is clear that the "professional" reviewers did not play the 
 game to the end.
  
  On reaching chapters 4 and 5 of the game, it becomes clear that the team doing the game revamp 
 probably started getting short on funds and/or time to complete the game upgrade. The story-line 
 gets fractured and the plot becomes confusing.
  
  While this detracts from what otherwise was a marvelous effort to improve upon the game in Chapters 
 1 through 3, it should not preclude anyone from trying the game. It is still a high quality game 
 and, for RPG enthusiasts, quite enjoyable. It is one of those few RPG's that are difficult to stop 
 playing once you've started.
  
  There are still a few flaws in the game. The infamous crash-to-desktop with no warning that has 
 always been present with BioWare's Aurora engine still exists; but CDProjekt can not be held accountable 
 for that. Thankfully, it is rare enough that it doesn't detract from gameplay too much. In addition, 
 there are a few scripting bugs that pop up; for each of those I encountered, there were solutions 
 on the game's forums posted by other players. While player-found work-arounds to bugs do not remove 
 game-company responsiblity for the bugs, it is useful to know that breaks in plot logic can be 
 bypassed without necessarily having to reload a saved game -- and not knowing how far back in time 
 you have to go for the reload. I personally hate having to replay a game segment I have already 
 completed.
  
  There are a few boss-fights that are rather ridiculous in their difficulty, such that you -- quite 
 frankly -- have to get lucky to win. Unfortunately, that problem seems to cut across the whole 
 genre. Designers too often don't know the difference between "challenge" and "luck". Personally, 
 I dislike having to die - reload - die - reload in order to figure out the "trick" to win a fight; 
 find the "illegal location" from which to fight that the designers failed to find that allows me 
 to hit an NPC without it hitting me back; determine the "gimmick" that causes the script logic 
 to bypass a key part of the code; or -- WHATEVER!! -- I prefer to actually win a fight fairly. 
 But, those boss-fights are few enough that they don't detract from the story.
  
  Similar to BioWare games, this CDProjekt game (and I presume they were advised by BioWare because 
 of the similarities in game design) follows the mold of dialog, dialog, dialog, dialog, dialog 
 -- Ooops! a fight broke out! -- dialog, dialog, dialog -- and that does get annoying to those gamers 
 like me that prefer to play the game and not have "the game play me". But, unlike BioWare games, 
 this CDProjekt is decidedly less linear. The number of choices a player must make throughout the 
 game, that clearly impact the storyline, is obvious -- and, sometimes, the bard that accompanies 
 the player through the plot makes a point of obnoxiously pounding that into your head -- and ALMOST 
 makes me want to play the game through from the beginning to the end again ... something I rarely 
 do (and never have done with BioWare's games, as a point of comparison, since they are usually 
 held up as the standard for RPG eliteness) .
  
  The game plays well; the graphics are exceptional; the music is exceptional and very fitting to 
 the settings; the adult themes are not for everyone (and I, for one, spent way too much time trying 
 to figure out who my avatar was going to "bang" next -- which makes the presence of the "love story" 
 amusing, since the main character is so lecherous) , but don't really detract from the story (although 
 they really don't add to it, either) ; and the story has many twists and turns. It will engross 
 you, especially if you are willing to overlook the fracturing of the plot that exists in the last 
 two chapters.
  
  I hope to see more games by CDProjekt in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofflame
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I finished playing the original Witcher which launch year ago, to be honest, before buying 
 the original, i bought the pirated dvd which cost about RM10 (Malaysia Ringgit which about USD2.5) , 
 and it is freaking buggy and i need to restart the whole game whenever it loads the game, it just 
 stuck there after load and do nothing, and AMAZINGLY i can take those until the third chapter (imagine 
 just to go inside and come out from the hairy bear inn will takes me around 10 minutes) ,when it 
 really can't do anything after it loads (before fighting the giant kikimore) , that time the original 
 version haven't out in Malaysia yet, and i was so desperate to play and after 2 weeks of wait, 
 i grabbed one copy and finally, the game really glued me to my PC, i finished the game twice, 1st 
 on medium and 2nd on hard and i still craving for more due to the buggy graphics and gameplay. 
 Until lately they announced this and I already got another original copy for the enhanced edition 
 to show my support to CD Projekt. 
  
  Anyone that likes RPG u can't miss this, buy it and I thank CD Projekt for this wonderful game 
 and the enhanced edition.
  
  PS: Imagine the load time and the buggy loading screen that screws up my gameplay and I still can 
 go on until it reaches it limits, then I guess u know how addictive it is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  2007 was probably the best year video games have ever had so far. Every conceivable genre was represented 
 well that year, and RPGs were no exception. In a year full of fantastic games, The Witcher managed 
 to stand out as not just one of the best RPGs of the year, but as one of the best games of the 
 year, period.
  
  PROS
  
  The first and most obvious thing The Witcher does well is that it has a fantastic story. While 
 at first glance there isn't a whole lot differentiating the world of The Witcher with other fantasies, 
 the Witcher is actually quite different. Sure, there are elves, dwarves, and various monster races; 
 however, unlike in many fantasies, these races (even the traditionally "good" ones) don't all get 
 along. This is one of many things here that go against traditional fantasy stories, and it is done 
 extremely well. In addition, there are numerous twists and turns to the story which are done rather 
 effectively.
  
  While many RPGs have a degree of moral depth to them, few have as much as the Witcher does. You 
 often find yourself forced to choose between a greater evil and a lesser one, and while you are 
 usually given the option of standing back and doing nothing, this in itself can carry consequences: 
 for by doing nothing you are often essentially choosing to support the greater evil. Almost every 
 decision in the game (even minor ones) carry some sort of consequence that affects the story down 
 the road in ways that the player cannot foresee. Sometimes the consequence is huge, sometimes not; 
 but there is usually some sort of consequence, regardless. The ad campaign for BioWare's Mass Effect 
 recently made a big deal about choices and consequences for that game, but the reality (of that 
 aspect of the game) fell far short of the promise. This, on the other hand, is the real deal.
 
  
  The combat system, while not the best I've ever seen in a game, is simple, yet fun. It involves 
 choosing a combat style (fast, strong, or group) against any given enemy and clicking on on-screen 
 prompts in an attempt to get specific timing. It's much better than the turn-based system of many 
 RPGs, which I despise, though not as good as the simple yet deep combat system of something like 
 Jade Empire.
  
  CONS
  
  There aren't many. The voice acting, while not awful, isn't always great. That said, it's never 
 bad - it's merely average. It only seems like a con because the rest of the game is so great. The 
 sex "minigame" (partially censored in the North American version) is juvenile and immature, and 
 feels out of place with everything else in the world. It seems as if it were inserted to appeal 
 to teenage boys in the middle of puberty, which is somewhat strange, considering the game deserves 
 its M-rating, and how grown-up and complex the rest of the game is.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  The Witcher is a game that all RPG fans should play, as well as anyone who appreciates a good story 
 or likes fantasy. It's the rare RPG that manages to be complex and yet easy to dive into with little 
 or no knowledge of how to play beforehand. Upon finishing it I went out and read the books it was 
 based on (technically a sequel to) by Andrezj Sapkowski, and that is the greatest testament to 
 the game: it makes you want to discover and experience more of the world it has introduced you 
 to. It also manages to do a rare thing: finish its story yet leave you wanting more. Personally, 
 I can't wait for The Witcher 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  *Note: this is a review for the enhanced PC version
  
  Witcher, at first glance, isn't really much. It's just a typical RPG that doesn't look particularly 
 flashy or shiny. I'm referring to the DMC4 or Crysis glitter. However, to say this is just a typical 
 game, is FAR from the truth.
  
  Witcher grows on you, and it grows on you fast. Excellent voice acting and smart scripting, in 
 combination with an enveloping REALISTIC world with HARD choices that you have to make as the character 
 that seem awfully heavy, but realistic. Your future allies, the fate of matters, the identity of 
 your character, are all in your hands depending on what you have to say. Don't let this fool you, 
 this game has on par or even MORE choice factor that even Fable, despite the absence of aging or 
 character creation. Despite the fact that you use only Geralt, his personality is yours to mold 
 due to his amnesia.
  
  The storyline is very well told and the pacing is steady. The battle system is by far the most 
 surprising. Enough babble about 'boring one click' syndrome; this game has a FUN battle system. 
 Battles are constantly engaging because you must constantly be clicking at the 'right time'. To 
 mess up such timing patterns would drastically decrease your damage and leave you vulnerable.
 
  
  All this is not to say Witcher doesn't have its problems. It's load times are not super and it 
 crashes every once in a while. In addition, there were a few periods where I felt that the difficulty 
 curve would weed out less hardcore gamers, though noted these moments were not frequent. 
  
  These shortcomings, however, are easily forgiven because of the huge and convincing world Witcher 
 creates for you. It easily holds your attention because of how plot driven the game is. In terms 
 of content, I may even argue it has a bit too much, but that's probably biased because I had to 
 take care of a new-baby puppy. If I was in my hardcore mode of gaming, I would've eaten this game 
 right up in its entirety.
  
  In short, this is an RPG must-not-miss. It's one of those games that looks worse off than it is. 
 It seems only about average, but it may be only slightly worse than Oblivion, and arguably on par. 
 The level system, alchemy system, battle system, storyline. All of it, makes an excellent game 
 not to be underestimated or forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nooblet69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game just blew me away. I got it thinking it would just be another generic wrpg but boy 
 was I wrong. It reminds me of baldurs gate with its amazing story telling and voice acting but 
 also of elder scrolls with its awesome loot system, free roaming and deciding which path to take. 
 But it combines many different aspects from older wrpg's along with new ones to create an amazing 
 unique adventure.
  
  Gameplay : The combat is very fun hack and slash with different techniques and fighting styles 
 with magic mixed in. You enhance your skills with alchemy and use different weapons for different 
 enemies. The atmosphere is beautiful and very immersive with villagers cutting wood, children running 
 around playing, poor people begging and it just has a real living feel to it.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are very beautiful with rich textures, amazing art style, and a real dark 
 rpg feel to it. It really makes you feel like your in a medieval land.
  
  Sound / Music : The sounds make you feel like your really bashing that monsters brains in or wading 
 through a swamp. The music also adds to the overall feel of the game and gives it more flavor.
 
  
  Story : This is the best part of the game. There are just so many things you can do to effect the 
 story. Every quest you do has different paths to choose and your overall outcome depends on how 
 you choose. It is very open ended and I have played a good 35-40 hours and am only on chapter 2 
 so far out of 5 chapters. Wish I had more time !
  
  I cant find myself rating this any lower than a 9.5 because of its great value for the price and 
 it is just a downright amazing rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This is what rpgs should be in this modern age. The creators have used computer technology like 
 the artist of the classical age used paint brushes to create divine like masterpieces.
  
  Gameplay is excellent and surprisingly quite lively considering how much detail is in every aspect 
 of the game. From creating alchemy potions to different combat styles with some being more effective 
 on certain enemies there is layers of buetiful complexity one can experiment with or just leave 
 alone.
  
  Environments are stunning. I was in a dazed state of enchantment more times then i can count as 
 my eyes beheld the grand artistry of the many varied landscapes before my eyes. Unlike in OBLIVION 
 where castle walls looked like grey cardboard cutouts in THE WITCHER i actually felt like i was 
 gazing upon a real castle fortress with stunning intricacy as i explored its many secrets while 
 enjoying the realistic layout.
  
  Enemies are many and varied all acting in a realistic manner one would expect if such things actually 
 existed. 
  
  Poker Dice is a hoot to play and reminds me of the fun card game Arcomage in the old MIGHT AND 
 MAGIC series.
  
  Load times are excellent and many times the level transitions were so quick there really was no 
 load time just a quick fade in fade out blink of an eye.
  
  Story and atmosphere are the best i have seen since the classic PLANES OF TORMENT rpg. Very adult 
 and just what we need now in this age of watered down series like The Elder Scrolls which used 
 to be very adult in the old days.
  
  Music is masterfully done blending in harmony with what is going on in the gameworld. Hauntingly 
 epic.
  
  Camera views are very comfortable and there is no clumsiness when moving it about even during combat.
 
  
  On my 2.5 dual core with 2 gigs of memory and a Radeon HD 3870 at mostly max settings and medium 
 shadows i suffered no loss of fps. Not once did i suffer from any lag with the Enhanced Edition 
 of THE WITCHER. The dedication shown in fixing the problems of the previous version shines like 
 the mightiest blade held high caressed by the sun's bright light.
  
  The king of rpgs which would have knashed and grind into powdered dog meat THE ELDER SCROLLS OBLIVION 
 if they had came out at the same time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedifisto
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought the original release of the witch which was great but it was very slow and buggy. But 
 after the enhanced version was released I downloaded the necessary patches to update my version. 
 It took a little while and i was anxious to play. When it was finally finished and i played, it 
 was amazing. The Game was totally renewed in most manners and looked sharp.
  
  
  The New:
  In the Enhanced version of the game they added new voice dialogue for some characters, 
 wider variety of voice acting, faster loading, better graphics, smooth running, side story/quest 
 options, and editing on the storyline. These add-on's were well laid out and extremely well done. 
 Everything moved so smooth and more engagingly, i had fun still playing it over again
  
  So in the end the enhanced version is way better that the original version and totally worth your 
 time!
  
  -Jedifisto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barabajagal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Story: 10. This is one of the few games I've purchased where I know I'll play to the end without 
 walk throughs and cheats. The characters are well developed and you have a genuine like for the 
 Witchers. The Witchers are kind of like relics from the past, much like oldwest gunfighters at 
 the end of the 19th Century. As the times changed, society progressed so the Witchers were viewed 
 as oddities even disdained by some. Witchers are no longer relevant so to speak except when evil 
 comes-a-calling. Its fun to play as a Witcher who has been persecuted, looked down upon, cast out, 
 and nearly forgotten by society. So obviously I want to the Witchers to succeed and complete their 
 quest and maybe recapture some of their former glories.
  
  Gameplay: 9. At first, I found the combat rhythm scheme frustrating. My spastic mouse clicks during 
 a fight were about as rhythmic as Seinfeld's Elaine Benes dance gyrations. But the longer I played, 
 I quickly got the timing thing down and really began to enjoy that aspect of the gameplay. One 
 aspect I don't care much for is there is simply too much running back and forth to different locations. 
 It seems your character is constantly on the move from one end of the map to the other then back 
 again then back once or twice more to complete a quest. A warp portal would have been nice or maybe 
 a medieval Cash Cab mini-game to pass the time! The use of alchemy is easy and straight forward, 
 the way I like it. Alchemy is not overly emphasised on the easier settings so it doesn't detract 
 from the game at all.
  
  Graphics: 7. The game falls down here a little. The characters look and animate more like the characters 
 from the No One Lives Forever 2 game from 2002. The same can be said for the graphics in general. 
 Great for 2002 but not so great for 2008. 
  
  Sound & Music: 8. I use on-board sound so its not really fair for me to judge the game's sound 
 quality. The voice work and dialog is generally good and genuinely funny in spots. The actor's 
 voices aren't buried in the background ambient sounds either. In fact I can hear the characters 
 quite clearly but that can be a curse too, pardon the word play, especially when a character drops 
 an F bomb out of nowhere. So I have to play later at night or with head phones. The music is quite 
 good and adds a great deal to the suspense when exploring dark and dangerous places.
  
  Misc: 9. Playing as a red blooded Witcher, I liked tracking and sexin' down the ladies and then 
 collecting their nudie cards. RPGs, by their very nature (think Oblivion IV) , can get pretty dry 
 when you spend the bulk of your time hacking foes, leveling up and resting so you can tangle with 
 the big boss without getting your tail kicked. The sex is a nice RPG diversion and prospect of 
 "getting some" can make running from one end of the map to the other end a little more worthwhile. 
 Besides the fair damsel who is putting out doesn't have to know the flowers you gave her were picked 
 next to a corpse laying along a fence row. Yes that's in the game!
  
  As far as game stability goes, I'm impressed. I play the Enhanced Import version and have only 
 experienced one unexpected crash. The game will auto-save but you can save as much as you like 
 which is what I would recommend. 
  
  My tilt: 10. There are a ton of elements in this game, some I've touched upon and some I've missed, 
 that make it a blast to play. I've played a whole raft of computer games, most I've never finished 
 because the game just doesn't hold my interest long enough for me to care to finish it. The Witcher 
 is a one-of-kind game I find compelling on many different levels. I look forward to seeing it through 
 to the end and can easily recommend the game to any adult. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquaintus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Note: Minor Spoilers. I may be using actual dialogue comparisons between the Witcher and Witcher 
 Enhanced version to make a point.
  
  A quick analogy for you. Anyone remember Ferris Bueller's Day Off? Remember the Teacher saying 
 "Bueller? Bueller? Bueller" in a bland monotone voice? Well that is how the Enhanced voice acting 
 stacks up to the original.
  
  I liked the Witcher original and thought it was an amazing RPG. I believe this game is great too, 
 but the dialogue from the voice acting has become very bland and boring compared to the original. 
 For example, when talking to many characters they had heavier accents, and they pronounced syllables 
 of words with more emphasize and emotion in the original. Whats this mean?
  
  Well when you hear "Run!" at the beginning of Act 1 it does not sound at all believable that there 
 is a real threat; that Alvin should run immediately. That is the enhanced version. In The Witcher 
 original, emphasized and made it more believable there was a real threat to run.
  
  Across the entire board of all dialogue it has become more bland and dull. Here is where I take 
 real issue with the changed version.
  
  When Geralt first speaks to the mad Alchemist, he now says "I guess I'm losing respect... Alchemists 
 that is" Something to this effect. Ok this line is supposed to come off as a joke, while Geralt 
 is being bold and witty. In the original Witcher, it comes out just right. He says "I'm quickly 
 losing respect for Alchemists" Now what sounds more like Geralt, the "Uh I guess" with bland syllable 
 pronunciation or a strong and cunning response "I'm quickly losing respect of Alchemists"? The 
 original I laughed at, the enhanced version left a bitter taste in my mouth as too just what the 
 voice actor was trying to get at. 
  
  Enhanced has done some improvements to the game, most noteworthy is the inventory where it is now 
 easier to find the right ingredients to mix potions. The second noteworthy improvement was a brand 
 new cut scene in between the prologue and Act 1.
  
  Many fans complained about the slashed and cut dialogue from the Polish version that should have 
 been ported over right to the Original Witcher. However, I have seen nothing but bland and boring 
 dialogue in the Enhanced. What happened to all the emotion, the stronger accents, and the emphasized 
 pronunciation of words?
  
  This sounds like stage rehearsal voice acting. So my advice would be to Buy the original Witcher 
 first. Experience the superior voice acting game, and later if you want to learn more about the 
 story download the enhanced.
  
  I rated the original higher than 8.5. I believe the enhanced is still a great game to play. But, 
 for those of you who are really into entertainment with engrossing story and emotion and decent 
 voice acting, you cant go wrong with the original version of Witcher. You can then download the 
 enhanced version since it is free. In my book that is a win/win.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryans273
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing game if you like RPG's this is the ultimate is say i love. Great gameplay, 
 looks amazing. It has really goood story to it i think it really stands out to being the best RPG 
 i have played so far, you get to choose how you speak to people and and how people see they have 
 sorted out the inventory in the enhanced edition which is good cause it is laid out better and 
 nice and easy to use...... this is my first review soz if it sounds like i was just rabbling on.
 
  
  I think even if you are not into RPGs this will still intrested you caus the fighting is great.
 
  
  It also has 2 really great camera angles you can have a over the shoulder look up close and personal 
 with your enemy or like any RPG over the top type camer angle, me i prefered the over the top view, 
 but that is the good thing you get to choose what you prefer and if you want to quickly change 
 it is a button press away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfpt1ster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  I love the graphics and the ability to decapitate NPC's. The hardest part of this game so far is 
 trying to beat Salamanda. His spells keep killing me every time I fight him. Any suggestions?
 
  
  Checking out all the detailed graphics was really sweet.
  You can actually see the texture of the characters hair in this game which I have not seen before.
 
  
  I play another game Neverwinter Nights 2 and the other modules that go with it. This game is far 
 better than NWN2. This game might need some walkthroughs here soon. This game can be quite challenging.
 
  
  I am looking forward to some players putting out some walkthroughs and other hints on this game. 
 I recommend hitting the "ESC" key if you have already seen the preview to the game when you start 
 the game. I find it very helpful to save right before some of the hardest scenes on the game. Make 
 sure to save your swallow potion for the fight scene with Salamanda.
  
  Sincerely,
  Parker Thomas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is so beautiful.. s hrlig och bra..
  I love it from the start to end.. and I wasn't even a fan about RPG before and this really impress 
 me very much..
  It's such a amazing game with great graphic, great plot, decent open world (well actually it isn't 
 very big.. as you only explore new area after you finish new plot..) , cool combat control (Actually 
 you don't need much skill on that to be like a cool swordfighter)
  It's also a bit maturer.. than the ordinary game which in a way I like.
  And its plot will have 
 3 kinds of endings depending on your choices. (I finished once with siding the elves)
  The bads for the game is that it always-CRASHES!!!!!! I really don't know why the hell a ultra-high 
 end PC could still crash so many times in my total gameplay! It run really smooth but about 2-3 
 hours crash for once. And continue to be fine and crash after 2 hours and vice-versa.
  It really annoying... just reminding to save all the time in case of it suddenly crash and lost 
 everything you strived for last 20 minutes..
  This problem prevent me from giving it for a score over 9.. sad. 
  Graphic-9/10
  Gameplay-9.5/10
 
  Presenation:8/10
  Sound:9.5/10
  Value::9/10
  
  Overall, it worths a score of 9/10.
  
  ***About killing the boss of salmandra as questioned by the latter review, well as a matter 
 of fact I aviod long contact with him.. when running low on health I get upstairs and let him chase 
 me, soon my health recover and I return to cut him a little.. and aard him and cut him again.. and 
 run away for a while and cute again.. Use Hit-and-run tactic, brother. It's time costing but could 
 make things much easier.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugboy75
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Awesome action / RPG. Great story, strong immersion, fun to play, very good graphics, passable 
 voice over work in English. Very intelligent and mature - in a good way. Also, well-paced and original 
 game. You won't feel like "I've been here, done that". Great environments and art design. Very 
 satisfying combat system and "magic". I bought it from Steam the day it came out and have not had 
 a single problem. Steam patches the game as fast as you could download a patch for the retail version.
 
  
  I am running the game with all settings maxed except AA at 1920 x 1200 with Vista 32-bit, Quad 
 6600 @ 2.4 GHz - stock, Intel P35 board - stock, 4 GB DDR2 800 MHz, and a Radeon 4850 card and 
 I get over 65 FPS with FRAPS. The game does crash every couple of hours (with ATI 8.9 CCC driver) , 
 so make sure you Quick Save frequently. I just upgraded from an nVidia 8800 GTS 320 MB and the 
 game crashed the same amount with that card, so I don't think it is video related. The game is 
 built on the Bioshock engine, yet it actually runs much smoother than Bioshock. The game is definitely 
 worth the small amount of aggravation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is 3 parts truly great RPG, 1 part bargain bin title.
  
  There, I said it.
  
  The Witcher, Enhanced Edition or no, is a mixed bag. 
  
  The profanity and casual sexual 
 encounters are titillating or gratuitous depending on your perspective. Whether you like that sort 
 of stuff or not, there are numerous design choices that will still leave you frustrated and scratching 
 your head. The much-improved translation is still, in some places, bizarre.
  
  But despite all that, it's the grown-up and rather subtle adult treatment of the story (and one 
 of the best endings ever in a modren RPG) that makes much of the Witcher stand on equal footing 
 with RPG classics.
  
  As for gameplay proper (i. e., the stuff you do when you aren't conversing with an NPC) , the best 
 thing it has going for it is the motion-capped fighting.
  
  What might appear at first blush to be a disappointing, rudimentary single-click combat system 
 reveals a beautiful simplicity once you begin to grow your skills and take on multiple enemies 
 using killer combinations of acrobatics and impossibly dexterous swordplay.
  
  Oh, and the alchemy system is pretty cool, too.
  
  A few things must be admitted, however. 
 The game drags things out and is unnecessarily long for it; and on top of that, the Witcher really 
 demands a second playthrough if you want to get the most out of character building, as well as 
 a clear understanding of the story as a whole. 
  
  So be prepared to spend some time.
  
  Discriminating hardcore RPGers mature enough to have patience with The Witcher's technical 
 and design flaws will end up being very happy with the overall gaming experience they uncover. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarz007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Good Game. With the Enhanced Edition is so good (i mean on loading) . I play the first one but the 
 loading eat my time. Now is good. I expect a sequal or a RPG just like this one. 
  
  
  "The Elves, while territorially sheltered from other races in park reserves, will unceremoniously 
 shadow and ambush any party of humans that makes the mistake of entering, approaching, or even 
 living near Elvin forests. Dwarves, meanwhile, have locked and barricaded themselves from the world 
 in urban ghettos or mountain strongholds. Similarly, Gnomes do not have it easy, either  and this 
 is not simply on account of their height - because none of them will put their heads on the line 
 in case they lose it, when they are denounced as "non-human" scum. As for humans, not much has 
 changed. They are egoistical and self-centered to a man, each awaiting or creating opportunities 
 for themselves in order to exploit and profit from someone else's misfortune. The inhabitants of 
 the Northern Kingdoms, still intoxicated from their later Pyrrhic victories, have dissolved back 
 into their initial sorry state of bickering among territories, consigning recent alliances to oblivion. 
 In the face of a regrouped and revived Nilfgaard, however, this might not appear as the best of 
 ideas. Yet humans never really comprehended the logic behind learning from one's mistakes.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duanermc
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? I was really looking forward to this release. I decided to play game in medium 
 setting because I wanted to play around with Alchemy. BIG mistake and didn't realize it until way 
 too late. Game plays very easy at this setting until the first big boss fight, killing the demon 
 dog thing. ITS WAY TOO HARD. I haven't been able to complete it yet. Ive started part way over 
 to get a better sword and potions so we'll see if I can knock this dog down.
  
  The problem is the balance between the regular mobs and the boss. If the regular mobs would have 
 been harder I would have had an indication that I probably wouldn't be able to handle the bosses. 
 Then I could have started over without waisting soooo much time. But the regular mobs are super 
 push-overs (Yes I know the bosses are to be a lot harder. But this is ridiculous) . As it is now 
 if I cant pass through this section I'll shelve the game.
  
  Just one piece of advice... START THE GAME ON THE EASIEST SETTING!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emdis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the game is actually a little bit weird as there fights right after the introduction. 
 The combat system is original and works pretty well, it's dynamic and clear once you know the basics. 
 The enemies are not too strong at the beginning but they improve with time.
  Very good game that comes with 5 discs (the game itself, game soundtracks, music inspired by the 
 game, making up and adventure editor) .
  What I also like in this game is that there is no good guys Versus Bad guys. You can choose to 
 help whoever you want to and you'll then face the consequences.
  It reminds me somehow Ultima 9 with far better graphics of course. The game runs perfectly with 
 a Radeon 4850 or a Nvidia 9600GT.
  You can play this game like any Hack n' Slash game but you can also rely on magic.
  Overall this 
 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjorren
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I was very into the story and setting of this game but I could not even play it for more than an 
 hour because of how horrific the games controls are. You basically get 2 choices, and isometric 
 view or an OTS camera and they are both terrible. You can adjust these two camera methods but even 
 fine tuning them makes you feel like you have no real control as you click on various targets and 
 watch your character run around like a rag doll. There is almost no point to using the wasd keys 
 for movement since you are basically either clicking to move or your using the OTS camera which 
 is hyper sensitive. Would loved to have played this one more but the the controls are so broken. 
 I really don't think giving this game a 5 is at all unjustified because it doesn't matter how great 
 a game is if the controls are so bad that it's not even fun for someone to play. It's probably 
 worth mentioning that this game was created using Bioware's engine which is based on the same one 
 used for Neverwinter Nights 2 which also had terrible controls so if you did not like that game 
 definitely stay away from this one. I am sure the story is great but to all the people who are 
 giving this game 9's and 10's try having an objective opinion for once. This game is nothing but 
 a rehash of others in the same genre and the game play is just as repetitive. If it's the story 
 that is prompting you to be to impressed then consider reading a book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijaynine
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I installed the new Enhanced Edition the day it was released and... wow... what a great job the 
 team at CDProjekt have done! The enhancements are not just some new gameplay bits, but it feels 
 like every detail, either in the programming or on the artistic side, have been carefully retouched 
 and enhanced.
  
  THIS is the game I was hoping for, and it delivers. Everything from the opening cinematic (now 
 feeling very epic, almost cinematic in quality) to the more fluid combat animation feels clean 
 and polished.
  
  If you enjoyed games such as Gothic 2/3, or Oblivion, you will not be disappointed, and may in 
 fact like The Witcher more than either of those. It's a mature, rich game world, breaking from 
 the mold of many fantasy RPGs.
  
  Still with minor glitches with graphics and sounds it 
  is a great one.
  
  Great new polished look and more enhancements made it more interesting than 
 the one before.
  
  Sure it really amazes you .
  
  Go Get the game its will really immerse you in a dark fantasy world. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I own the original version of The Witcher, but my disk was left in the sun by someone and got ruined, 
 so I couldn't wait for the enhanced edition.
  
  In my opinion, the devs should have had this optimised to begin with, but people like to rush things 
 to get them out on time and don't bother sometimes. This was my only gripe with the original.
 
  
  The EE really helps the game. I only have a laptop that's gettin' up in age and now I can run The 
 Witcher with hardly any issus on medium-high settings. 
  
  The combat feels a lot smoother this go around, and the extra character animations actually do 
 stick out. I notice them being more random and not as repetative as before which makes the people 
 seem a bit more believeable. The voice acting... has... it's moments. It's not as good as the original, 
 but extra dialogue is nice. The cities feel more alive now.
  
  Over all, The Witcher has become my favorite RPG. The characters feel real, the enviorments are 
 believeable and real feeling, the combat is fun. (Don't listen to the naysayers. The combat can 
 get challenging and does involve a bit of stragedy at times.) I recommend it for anyone looking 
 for a great RPG and an amazing story.
  
  And buy the book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainamoin3n
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  In the first place, reviewing the Enhanced Edition separately is quite dubious for the reason that 
 CDProjekt have chosen to repair the major faults of the initial version and spice up the game with 
 some interface redesign (the enthusiast alchemists should be quite happy now) , better graphics 
 and animation, more variation of the NPCs and some extra content.
  Although there are still some bugs, the game runs with more smoothness from all the points of view 
 and the new adventures are interesting - if a tad too short. Voice acting got seriously improved, 
 the game is more balanced and all.
  The only downside is that if you've already played the original game there's little reason to redo 
 the original "campaign" as it gets boring... that is, unless you're obsessed with it. So after 
 seven hours or so dedicated to playing the new content, you'll be left with very little to do.
 
  Maybe The Witcher should have featured all that the Enhanced Edition brings straight from the 
 beginning, but it's quite refreshing to see the developers dedicating a lot of time and a part 
 of the income brought by the game to improve their masterpiece and give all that freely to the 
 owners of the previous version. That while other producers stop making patches to correct major 
 glitches only a month after the launch. They sell it and forget about it.
  
  Therefore, I think CDProjekt gave an excellent example to follow and showed that they really do 
 care about the games they make and about their fans.
  
  A BIG A+ not so much for Enhanced Edition but for CDProjekt in general! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoku1976
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  With the enhanced edition comes the new soul of The Witcher. Main bugs are corrected now, we can 
 focus only on having fun with this game. And there's a lots of fun!
  World of The Wicher is just beautiful. Sometimes, when you are playing a quest, you stop for a 
 moment just to take a delight in world that surrounds you. My favourite moment is always a dawn. 
 When the sun emerges and the shadow of the night disappears the world shines in beautiful colours...
 
  
  I would like to encourage everyone to read at least one novel from A. Sapkowski great book masterpieces. 
 I you do The Witcher will become something more to you that just a game... what will become? You 
 will see by yourself! It's really worth trying!
  
  Now with D'jinni - the adventure editor you can make an adventure just straight from your dreams. 
 I'm very curious what new quests soon will appear, what's on the gamer's mind... Don't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  In few words 
  
  GOOD
  - The Beautiful and interesting fantasy world of the Witcher becomes even better and more detailed
 
  - Deep gameplay and as simple as possible
  - Very nice game story
  - Excellent dialogue and sounds
  - New quests added !!
  
  BAD
  - Some annoying bugs still 
 left from the original
  
  CONCLUSION
  This game version makes the Witcher as one of the best RPGs of the latest years.
  Only some bugs 
 that still remain from the original version ruins a little the experience
  
  If you are a RPG fan do not miss it.
  The developers of the game have made a fantastic work in 
 this title i have to say
  
  Only some bugs that still remain from the original version ruins a little the experience but the 
 game is surely a diamond even with them
  
  The game deserves a big score !!
  
  An Excellent all around RPG game no question about that.
  SCORE 9.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  As for my tastes, graphics are important to my game experience. They don't make a crappy game good, 
 but they can make a good game great. Plus, well... I beleive in the concept that each generation 
 should have a minimum level of acceptable graphics. The Witcher isn't Mass Effect quality, but 
 it is well above the minimum acceptable level. Plus, well... it puts a lot of detail in things 
 that you don't see in Mass Effect, so the looks of the game go a long way.
  
  The sound... there's a lot of things to tackle here. Music... it's just groovey to hear some of 
 the different musical sounds. I think my favorite is the battle music with the dijeridoo (sp?) 
 Plus, the main theme is epicly sick - in a good way! The sound effects are exactly as they should 
 be. If you are at the point in the game where you pay no attention whatsoever to the sound effects 
 - that means the sound effects can't get much better.
  
  The voice acting is where people start to complain. Look, it's true. Some of the English Voice 
 Acting is a little.... off. And when I say some... I mean like... out of every 30 NPC's you come 
 into contact with, 1 will be of lesser quality Voice Acting. A few of the major characters will 
 say a line with a little unwarranted enthusiasm.
  
  Bottom line is, this should be the last thing you worry about - since if you think about it... 
 they didn't have to put it in the game in the first place. Last time I checked, the only people 
 who even attempt putting full VA into their RPG with this much dialogue is Bioware and Bethesda, 
 and half the time Bethesda's characters don't even speak the proper gender, much less the proper 
 tone.
  
  The gameplay... you run around doing quests and other tasks you may want to get into. I'll admit, 
 the level of complexity in the main story line, coupled with the side quests which usually have 
 something to do with the main story arc anyway, has me spoiled. I don't even think Bioware has 
 managed to intertwine itself with Lore the way CDProjekt has with The Witcher. It is truely the 
 cream of the crop here folks.
  
  Combat is a multi-tiered endeavor. It's not just clicking away at your monster. It's deciding how 
 to defeat said monster. If you look at it as only a sword fight, then that's all you'll get out 
 of it. You have many tools at your disposal to vanquish your enemy: potions, oils, bombs, and magic, 
 along with the swords (although, to be fair, the extra weaponry is a bit useless.)
  
  For once in an RPG, preparing for a battle means the difference between an easier fight and a tough 
 fight. Not enough can be said how important it is to have the right things prepared before you 
 go out to the battlefield. It is unfortunate that people overlook this outstanding element of the 
 gameplay. It's just another one of those things that have spoiled me.
  
  The setting of The Witcher is just amazing. This is the fantasy setting I've always wanted to see 
 brought to a game. It is very complex, yet in it's own way simple. For example, things like werewolves, 
 vampires, and other monsters in the game, are things that are uncommon enough to be feared by the 
 folk who inhabit the realm, but common enough to warrant the necessity of a sect of people specifically 
 trained to protect humans against said foes - the Witchers. This is one example of how a deep concept 
 is created and designed into simple terms. A lot of gameplay elements can be explained by just 
 looking at this one peice of lore.
  
  The setting and lore of the game lends itself to the way a game should be designed - design broad, 
 but develop simple. What does that mean?
  
  Basically, that means that you should have as many outlets of in-game activities as possible, but 
 neither element should be complex enough to warrant your attention to be solely placed on it's 
 development - else other aspects will be found lacking. The Witcher employs this beautifully, and 
 is the sole reason why I like this game so much.
  
  I give this game a 
  
  Graphics 8.5 - The game does stutter, for reasons unknown. The Engine isn't exactly pressing the 
 envelope.
  
  Sound 8.8 - There are some truely remarkable scores for the music, and every now and again, the 
 tone of the characters speaking is perfectly captured for the mood of the moment. However, there 
 are some few instances of poor Voice acting.
  
  Gameplay 9.8 - Let's be real here folks... RPG's have never been about lots of complicated combat, 
 and conversation always goes the same way. The Witcher doesn't do anything revolutionary with conversation, 
 but the shere amount of depth that goes into combat makes the gameplay something to be highly appreciated.
 
  
  Value 10 - The developers put a lot of heart and soul into this game, and it shows. What's even 
 better, is they are a developer that came out of nowhere, with funding maybe a fraction of what 
 other well known developers have, and they still made a product that could be one of the best games 
 in the past two years.
  
  Reviewers Tilt 10 - In case you haven't noticed, I like this game a lot. I appreciate the hard 
 work that went into it, and I appreciate that smaller details, mostly weren't passed over for money 
 and time restraints. And I expecially appreciate that the developers released a definitive version 
 of the game, fixing most of the details they overlooked, all the while giving that content freely 
 to people who bought the original. Call me shallow, but I consider that a bribe, and I like bribes!
 
  
  Overall 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Last October, CD Projekt released The Witcher, a dark medieval fantasy role playing game. What, 
 you say, ANOTHER dark medieval fantasy RPG?! They are a dime-a-dozen these days and this one pretty 
 much much squeezes out every last idea not used in the genre into this game. It's gonna take a 
 large amount of effort to shake things up if developers want to keep the genre alive. Unfortunately, 
 the game was ridden with bugs and technical issues, and while the story, combat, and graphics were 
 great, it just took a large amount of patience to play. CD Projekt heard our calls and a year later, 
 The Witcher Enhanced Edition is now in stores. After spending 3 weeks playing it, this game is 
 definitely a masterpiece that I sadly couldn't finish due to a bug, though I was 95% done (more 
 on that later) . The Witcher (based upon the Polish novels by Andrzej Sapkowski) tells the story 
 of white-haired Geralt of Rivia, who is a witcher, genetically enhanced humans who work as professional 
 monster slayers. After watching one of the most well-directed introduction sequences ever, we're 
 dumped into the land of Temeria where Geralt has suddenly lost all his memories and must rebuild 
 his relationships with the people he once knew and discover a conspiracy that involves the famed 
 witcher mutagens and world domination. The story is a masterpiece that starts off a little slow 
 because it uses the worn "amnesiac hero" device but by mid-Chapter 1, it really picks up and you'll 
 be hard pressed to not stop playing. Like Mass Effect, The Witcher deals with many facets of human 
 nature and the moral gray area in which we live. It involves very adult and mature themes of racism, 
 political intrigue, choice, and trying to fit into a world when everyone hates and fears you. To 
 cite an example, at the end of Chapter 1, you find out that you have to kill a monster called "The 
 Beast," brought about the villagers evil misdeeds (evil indeed, a wealthy man murders his brother, 
 who was a knight, a merchant deals with terrorists, and a guard rapes an innocent young woman) . 
 The witch who lives nearby knew all of this and yet did nothing. You're given a choice, you kill 
 the witch or you spare her but face the wrath of the entire village. This game will make you think 
 long and hard about what you are about to do and the consequences don't show up until hours later 
 into the game. So what did your dear reviewer choose? I picked the lesser of 2 evils: I spared 
 the witch and decided to burn the entire village to the ground. I mean, would you let a village 
 full of bigots, racists, murderers, and rapists live? I wouldn't, so I killed all of them. Later 
 on, you're given a more important choice that effects the game's ending. There are actually 3 endings: 
 Neutral, Order, and Scoia'tael. The Scoia'tael are actually a group of elves and dwarfs fighting 
 for equal rights, but they way they go about it is through terrorist activities. The Order keeps 
 the peace but are a group of racists who force non humans to live in the poorest distracts. So 
 who did I side with? I picked the Scoia'tael because I wasn't going to side with a group who would 
 murder people in the name of keeping a few thousand elves and dwarfs down. Yes, they were terrorists 
 who burned entire villages to reach their goal, but to me it was a noble goal and it was unfortunate 
 that everyone resorted to violence to get what they want, because this game shows how the violence 
 is so unnecessary yet people still engage in it. As you can see, you'll face a lot of choices in 
 The Witcher and you'll just have to play it to experience it. As for the graphics, the game uses 
 the aging Aurora Engine from BioWare, though heavily modified to render detailed environments with 
 clear skies and grassy plains. You'll need pretty modern PC to get it run at max but thankfully, 
 they're not Crysis' system requirements. Sound was much criticized in the original where many people 
 saw that dialogue was heavily edited or truncated to save production costs. This time the dialogue 
 is completely overhauled which makes the story much more engaging and easier to understand. The 
 combat system is different too, with you timing your button presses to pull off devastating combos. 
 You'll also have to make your own potions as you cannot purchase them and you can gather ingredients 
 and mix and match to create new potion formulas. Despite all these improvements, the game is still 
 a little buggy. Out of the box, the game doesn't start due to an error with the audio files and 
 you can either turn off sound acceleration or get the audio files from Patch 1.3 from the friendly 
 Official Witcher forums. It also crashes if you play for a long time, like maybe 4 hours+ and at 
 the end of the game, there was a scripting error with the endgame quest that couldn't allow me 
 to pass, so I just decided to uninstall and read the ending online. Like I said, 95% of the game 
 was complete anyway but it did cause me a little frustration. Hopefully, CD Projekt displays the 
 same level of commitment and release a FINAL, smaller patch to mop up any bugs. The Witcher is 
 one of the best dark medieval fantasy role playing games I've ever played and despite not reading 
 the novels, I know the developers respected the source material in the amount of detail and choice 
 lavished into the story. The enhanced edition also includes a making of DVD, soundtrack, strategy 
 guide, a lavishly painted map of Temeria, and the original Witcher short story. It's still a bit 
 buggy but everyone should play this game. Oh yea, one more thing, you can also sleep with most 
 of the major female characters in the game. Definitely a plus!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cygnus_Turk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  I was so bored of loading times. This version has resolved this problem and now everything is perfect. 
 Now I get the joy completely. Also combat system is pretty enhanced. But the most important one 
 was the load times. There were lots of "coffee breaks" while playing :PP Nice update!.............
 
  I was so bored of loading times. This version has resolved this problem and now everything is 
 perfect. Now I get the joy completely. Also combat system is pretty enhanced. But the most important 
 one was the load times. There were lots of "coffee breaks" while playing :PP Nice update!.............
 
  I was so bored of loading times. This version has resolved this problem and now everything is 
 perfect. Now I get the joy completely. Also combat system is pretty enhanced. But the most important 
 one was the load times. There were lots of "coffee breaks" while playing :PP Nice update!............. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mundos253
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is still amazing.. and way better then the original.. I agree, this is the game that they 
 should have released a year ago.. but think about it guys.. do u really think u would have waited 
 another year for this title?? I know for a fact I wouldn't have.. I mean I would have moved on.. 
 and I would have been pissed at the creators for delaying the game for that long... this game is 
 just as amazing as the original, if u cant get the enhanced version.. its alright.. just get the 
 original ur not missing anything.. u cant download of their website.. but if u have a choice between 
 the 2 get the Enhanced version... the load times and Graphics are greatly updated, and there is 
 2 new adventures... this game is by far the best and most original RPG to come out in the past 
 3-4 years.. I hope they are working on the follow up to this game.. because I cant wait... have 
 fun guys.. take care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanKingNYC
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing how some people give the game the absolute worst rating because they don't like the 
 fighting or lack the patience to learn the combat system. The Witcher is not a bad game if you 
 give it a chance. It ain't Diablo or Titan Quest where you can click your self to death. I applaud 
 CDPROJEKT for thinking outside the box and trying something new. The few of you who are giving 
 it 1's and 2's obviously lack the patience needed to enjoy the game. If you read the user reviews 
 and media reviews, it's pretty obvious that the game has been received well and that scoring it 
 a 1.0 because your eyes are not in sync with your mouse is just unfair. The game isn't perfect, 
 no game is. There are a few graphical bugs and some of the dialog is outright silly, this isn't 
 a deal breaker though. 
  
  KING NYC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I had been slowly playing through the original release of The Witcher, and very much enjoying it. 
 It did have lots of rough edges -- odd animation glitches, sometimes jerky combat, and bits of 
 laughably or bizarrely unfinished dialog. (English edition...)
  
  I installed the new Enhanced Edition the day it was released and... wow... what a great job the 
 team at CDProjekt have done! The enhancements are not just some new gameplay bits, but it feels 
 like every detail, either in the programming or on the artistic side, have been carefully retouched 
 and enhanced.
  
  THIS is the game I was hoping for, and it delivers. Everything from the opening cinematic (now 
 feeling very epic, almost cinematic in quality) to the more fluid combat animation feels clean 
 and polished. 
  
  If you enjoyed games such as Gothic 2/3, or Oblivion, you will not be disappointed, and may in 
 fact like The Witcher more than either of those. It's a mature, rich game world, breaking from 
 the mold of many fantasy RPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerX1992
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Game play: The game play is pretty good as usual like its predecessor lot of hiccups have been removed 
 thus making it more of a fun again. You wont regret playing it again.
  
  Sound & Graphics:
  This game has very good graphics as well as superb in-game movies. The sound 
 & voice overs are pretty good too, but i think the voice over could have used some more work because 
 it didn't have a lot of emphasis on words sometimes where it was needed.
  
  Hardware Usage: Well it doesn't uses a lot of resources i ran it on several PC's its not hardware 
 intensive. From GeForce 5500 to 8800GTS... from a low-end duel core/AMD duel core to Intel quad core. I 
 wasn't disappointed with the performance of the game.
  
  Will you stop playing it after a few days???
  Well no its a highly addictive game... ADDICTIVE 
 automatically means it is fun to play that is why its addictive.
  
  Worth playing: Definitely 10/10 from me & I am sure from the 95% people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostaddict1993
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  While I'm sure many people will say that I'm wrong and I couldn't know anyways since I've only 
 spent around 5 hours on this game but as my classification said... this game truly is hard to describe. 
 The combat is visceral, fast paced, and intense which is something that Oblivion can not brag about. 
 The graphics are engaging and intense and the loading times have been vastly improved. It's not 
 as glitchy and it runs like a dream on a GeForce 7 series card with a minimum of 256 video ram. 
 I have a GeForce 7300GS with 256 on board, only one gig of ram, and a pentium d 2.8 GHz processor 
 and it runs beautifully. I personally opted out of the graphical flash for the performance and 
 it still runs perfectly on my somewhat low amount of RAM and video ram. GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME 
 RIGHT NOW! You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mineeme10101
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I loved the original game, I've played it through multiple times, even tried my hand at writing 
 some mods for it, but this enhanced edition kills everything they worked so hard to achieve.
  
  The main fault: The New Voice Acting.
  I now refuse to carry on playing the new version of 
 the game. The new voices are terrible. Because of them, it now infuriates me to play this game.
 
  Lambert from the prologue for example, has gone from a wise cracking young witcher who teases 
 another main character, to a wooden testosterone filled wanna be yank, who delivers his lines parrot 
 fashion. n=No longer does he tease, now he just insults, due to no feeling or emotion in his lines.
 
  Leo, another character from the prologue, is now overacted. As are most new background characters, 
 and if they're not overacted they're underacted.
  Now comes the final straw in my eyes, Zoltan Chivay, a gruff old dwarf and one of the more memorable 
 characters from the original game has now also been ruined by a wooden new voice over actor.
  Hell, even us British have been insulted by this game, by some of the worst implementation of bad 
 cockney & south western accents I have ever heard in my life.
  
  The new features put into the game, eg the new inventory system & shorter load times, do nothing 
 to recover the lost ground from the disastrous new voice overs, just for a couple of new lines 
 of dialogue.
  
  No longer is this an immersive, juggernaut of a game. it is but a mockery of its past self.
  
 By all means if you have never played the origional play this version. But if you know and love 
 the original, steer well clear of this 'enhanced edition'. It'll only ruin your past experiences 
 of the game, like the unique harry potter universe you created in your head was ruined by the films. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluemoon420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has kept me busy for hours! I love it! I usually don't game, but I can't help getting 
 into this RPG. There is acctually a story line. There are some intence graphix to keep you intertained 
 for hours! 
  
  Now just because this game only retails for about 40 dollars doesn't mean that it is a poor game. 
 It came out about 5 days ago and I am hooked! Nice job Atari/BioWare. 
  
  It is one of the only games on its platform that uses 64 bit technology. Gives my system a run 
 for it's money, but runs great on Vista Home Premium 64 bit. I have a quad core (2.6GHz a core) 
 with 4 gigs of ram. Running a 8800 GT video card. Gets a little hot, but thats how it goes! Runs 
 great on mine, but you can turn down graphix for lower end systems.
  
  If you are new to RPG games this is a must try, along with the advanced gammers. There are 3 levels 
 of game play..............
  
  The Game also comes with many other goodies! Buy it and see for yourself! I give this game a full 
 9.5 on my rating scale people. Thats that and this is it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
