-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Weakest Link
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/weakestlink/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 5.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 1, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Only those who like collecting anything to do with a show that probably won't last more than a season 
 or two in the States should seriously consider The Weakest Link. 

  What is it about Anne Robinson, host of the British-import quiz show  The Weakest Link , that makes 
 her appealing? Her flowing trench coat and constant sneer immediately conjure images of Orwell's 
  1984 , and the wittiness of the insults she directs at losing contestants is dulled by their harshness. 
 While her show is a hit in the UK, it's not doing quite as well here in the States as NBC execs 
 had hoped. The recent rash of celebrity players instead of common contestants is a sure sign that 
 someone at the top knows the show needs a shot in the arm. Activision's PC game adaptation of the 
 show could have also benefited from some more attention. It doesn't take someone with a master's 
 degree in marketing to know that people who don't like the show won't buy the game. But the truth 
 is that so little has been done to jazz up the game's presentation that only those who long to 
 hear more abuse spew from Anne Robinson's curled lips will find enough here to justify spending 
 20 bucks.
 
 Things get off to a shaky start with the introduction, a hiss-filled FMV sequence that concludes 
 with a truly scary image of Robinson's face filling the monitor as she spits out, "I will tell 
 the world you are... the weakest link !" This is the first of seemingly dozens of times you'll 
 hear that phrase during a game session. You have the option to tweak a few game parameters: You 
 can assume total responsibility for banking winnings, adjust how often questions from each of the 
 five categories appear, and choose whether or not you want to see an especially abusive video clip 
 from Anne Robinson should you be chosen as the weakest link. Incidentally, all the FMV clips are 
 just as hiss-filled as the intro.
 
 Whether you choose a single game or the championship mode (in which you must win four consecutive 
 shows in a bid to "win" $50 million) , you compete against six computer-controlled opponents out 
 of a pool of two dozen. Each specializes in several of the categories and reacts in accordance 
 with his or her bio, which given in the manual. For instance, the computer programmer says nerdy 
 programmer types of things like, "His download time appears to be far too long," and, "She must 
 have suffered a system crash during that round." Such embarrassingly unfunny lines don't do much 
 to help the game.
 
 Though the manual says The Weakest Link computer game "plays exactly as the television show," that's 
 simply not possible. Even the harshest critic wouldn't expect Robinson to actually record 100,000 
 different questions (the game box claims 100,000 questions are included) , and of course there's 
 the issue of how the software would recognize the specific answers generated by the user. Instead, 
 each question is displayed onscreen as Robinson repeats several generic lines such as, "In nature, 
 which one of these is correct?" or "Select the correct answer." You're then given a choice of four 
 answers with only the first letter (sometimes first two letters) of each displayed. Your choices 
 of actions are the same as in the show: You can bank any team winnings to a safe repository before 
 answering, attempt to answer the question correctly and increase the value of the next question, 
 or pass on the question. Pass is a rather worthless option, since it causes any money that hasn't 
 been banked to be lost -- the same result as answering incorrectly.
 
 While isn't  exactly  the same as the show, it's awfully close -- and there's the rub. Watching a 
 TV show is a passive experience, a quality you don't want in an interactive game. Waiting for your 
 question is boring enough, especially at the start of a game, when there are six other players, 
 but the real kicker is the dead time  between  the six rounds. Between two and two-and-a-half minutes 
 are spent on voting off the weakest player. These sequences are filled with player remarks and 
 Robinson's barbs, and there's not a thing you can do to speed up the process. You can pound the 
 space bar and jab the Esc key all you like, but if you want to finish that game, you'll have to 
 sit through this stuff between every round. In short, you spend more time watching than playing -- never 
 a good quality in a PC game.
 
 As for the alleged inclusion of 100,000 different questions, you'll likely find that hard to believe. 
 We not only experienced question repeats within just three games, but we also saw different questions 
 about the same topic during the same round of questions -- two  King Kong  questions within 30 seconds.
 
 
 In all, the single-player game can be interesting for several hours, unless you're an Anne Robinson 
 maniac who doesn't mind hearing the same remarks over and over after that. The multiplayer mode 
 should give the game some replay value, but it's limited because only hot-seat play is supported -- there's 
 no way to play online, over a network, or via modem. Multiplayer is also a bit clunky because only 
 programmable gamepads can be used for both selecting and answering questions. You can use the D-pad 
 to select one of the answers and have a friend hit the space bar for you, however.
 
 But the biggest drawback to hot-seat multiplayer in The Weakest Link is obvious: This isn't the 
 sort of game you want to play with friends. It's one thing to gang up with others to vote out a 
 weak player on a game show where you could walk out rich (or watch strangers doing that as you 
 relax in your living room) , but doing it with friends simply isn't very rewarding. In short, it 
 just doesn't have the same social appeal as more conventional competitive quiz games like Trivial 
 Pursuit or You Don't Know Jack.
 
 The Weakest Link's $19.95 retail price could have been tempting if you were able to play the game 
 online, because online play is the only feature that could have made the game more than a novelty. 
 In the end, only those who like collecting anything to do with a show that probably won't last 
 more than a season or two in the States should seriously consider The Weakest Link. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RaveNevRMoR3
Rating: 2.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Good: Stays true to its gameshow roots.
  
  Bad: Everything, the graphics are horrendous, the sound is terrible and there is a complete lack 
 of replay value.
  
  The Gameplay stays true to the gameshow from which it came. There are a few bright spots with customization 
 of which questions are asked and the multiple characters, the game does not seem all that bad. 
 However, there are too many bad spots to consider this game as a must have. Its claims to have 
 thousands of questions, but I found myself asking the same question over and over, Wasnt this 
 question asked last time I played? The voting system is dry, no matter what happens, whether I 
 am the weakest link, strongest link or somewhere in the middle, people always more often than not 
 vote for me as the weakest link. There is no method to this, it is completely random. The graphics, 
 are flat our terrible. You cannot expect Grade A graphics for games based on gameshows, but still 
 you have a right to expect some form of decent graphics. Which this game clearly lacks, the graphics 
 are just horrendous to look at. They have the light sequences, which gets old after a while. The 
 graphics, never change, the characters all look pretty much the same, only difference is the color 
 and their face. There is no difference in body type. The graphics need some major improvement before 
 this game could be considered playable.
  
  The sound is repetitive and is annoying. The questions are not read out to you and the only thing 
 that you hear when you answer a question is Good or Wrong Answer and when you bank, you hear 
 Banked. There is no difference in what is said during the rounds. Between the rounds you hear 
 the same thing every time, You only managed ____, the weakest links are presumably gone, but you 
 still managed to do terrible. Then it goes into voting, and the same thing is repeated there everytime, 
 the only difference is the names change. The game is dull and if anyone is going to enjoy this 
 game, the sound needs to create a realistic gameshow feeling, which the Weakest Link, has not.
 
  
  What replay value? The questions hardly ever change, the same things are said, and nothing ever 
 changes. This game is at most, a one time play. After an hour of playing this game, I wanted to 
 break it in half and never look at it again. The game is just too glitchy and too repetitive. There 
 is barley any hope for this game, and this proves once again, why games should not be based on 
 Television shows, it just doesnt work.
  
  In conclusion, The Weakest Link is flat out, a terrible game. This game was a rip-off at $1.50; 
 it would still be a rip-off if I got it for a quarter. Unless you are getting this game for free, 
 dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quietthings430
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Adaptations of game shows are probably the worst form of gaming ever. We learned that from Who 
 want to Be a Millionaire?, American Idol and the downright pitiful Survivor. However, Weakest Link 
 is a slightly impressive and worth playing if you were a fan of the show.
  
  The game starts off fairly strong with an eerie, live-action introduction with the one and only 
 Ann Robinson. The music in the background is nice and Robinson definitely puts the game on the 
 right path. While there are plenty of live-action sequences the graphics are pretty pitiful. With 
 that being said there are still some pros that make it worthwhile. There are many players to choose 
 from each have their own personality and reaction to the game. Probably the most appealing aspect 
 of the game is the laugh-line. Basically you can control the audiences laughter control making 
 the game a bit more realistic and like the show. You can use this cool gameplay device to make 
 the audience react to Robinson's jokes (which are stale compared to the gags in the actual show) 
 or to brutally laugh at the player as the pathetically whine their way down the walk of shame. 
 Ridiculing these virtual characters is a very fun aspect of the game. While there is multi-player 
 in this game it is not recommended, unless you want to discover that all of your friends are plotting 
 against you and vote you off despite the fact you banked the most money -- thus revealing your friends 
 actually hate your guts.
  
  With that being said however this is a game show video game that is worth playing and fairly fun. 
 Yet I am comparing this to Survivor and other pitiful game show adaptations. So if you enjoyed 
 the show, you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2003 6:35 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt this is the best version of a TV Quiz Show ever released for a PC. There are some 
 issue, firstly the graphics arent state of the art, but then I wouldn't expect a quiz game to feature 
 polygonal characters in the first place. The questions are not read out to you, but there are a 
 lot of them. The announcer can become annoying, VERY annoying. She might say "In Geography, select 
 the correct answer". This is repeated over and over again with the only thing changing being the 
 category. It wouldn't be so bad if you could turn her off, and you can, but if you do you will 
 miss the other speech which isnt annoying and creates the tv style presentation.
  
  I would never call it a must buy, but if you like the weakest link then this is as good as you 
 could have hoped. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
