-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Wheel of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/wheeloftime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 275 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Legend Ent.
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It is an extremely solid action game built on an excellent story and dressed up with stunning graphics. 
 

 When The Wheel of Time was first announced, gamers and Robert Jordan fans had reason to be both 
 excited and apprehensive. On the one hand, it would bring to life one of the most detailed and 
 fascinating fantasy worlds ever conceived. Wheel of Time promised a mix of first-person action, 
 role-playing, adventure, and strategy, which is a combination few games have ever effectively managed. 
 On the other hand, because the Wheel of Time novels are so deep, so intricate, and so well-loved 
 by legions of devoted Jordan fans, the game seemed destined to disappoint. But in the end, the 
 game's creators GT Interactive and Legend Entertainment succeeded through a combination of great 
 storytelling, spectacular graphics, and uniquely complex first-person action.  

 Set before the first book in the series, Wheel of Time follows the turbulent adventures of Elayna, 
 an Aes Sedai. Her sect holds a mystical seal, which is one of several seals used to jail the exceptionally 
 evil Dark One in an ethereal prison. After the seal is stolen, Elayna must set out on a quest to 
 recover the seal, thus setting in motion the events of the game.  

 Despite all the prerelease talk about Wheel of Time's incorporating several styles of gameplay in 
 a cohesive package, Wheel of Time is an easy game to categorize: It is a first-person shooter. 
 It is a complex and often extremely challenging shooter with some unique aspects of strategy and 
 a strong story tinged with adventure elements, but it is a shooter first and foremost. In fact, 
 it may be ten times the shooter that Unreal was. Even seasoned shooter veterans will be hard-pressed 
 to make it through some of the game's levels alive without numerous saves and reloads. Much of 
 the difficulty lies in the numerous and very tough creatures blocking your path, but part of the 
 challenge also lies in mastering Elayna's weaponry.  

 Instead of relying on her sisterhood's magical powers, Elayna uses mystical artifacts known as ter'angreal, 
 which are basically spell runes. You'll need all 40 of these ter'angreal to survive, and, luckily 
 for you, they are scattered liberally throughout the maps and levels. The ter'angreal are very 
 similar to the array of artifacts used in Raven's Heretic and Hexen games. However, in this case, 
 the artifacts do not complement a basic set of weapons - instead, the ter'angreal include offensive 
 weapons, defensive shields, a number of power-ups for healing, and more. Managing these items can 
 be quite a chore - especially since many of the hotkeys are used for more than one ter'angreal, 
 which means you must scroll through lists of things even in the heat of battle. Still, many of 
 the artifacts can be used in conjunction with each other, leading to a dizzying array of possibilities 
 during combat. The freeze ter'angreal makes a good precursor for the Balefire attack, for example. 

 You'll often find that some of these objects are placed too deliberately. For example, the water, 
 air, and fire shields are almost always available only near an area where you absolutely must use 
 them. In fact, in one early level, you swim a long distance underwater while picking up additional 
 water shields so you don't go belly-up along the way. The shift, exchange places, and trap-detection 
 ter'angreal are also conveniently placed in this manner. The upshot of this hand-holding is that 
 many of the environmental puzzles and obstacles in Wheel of Time are very easy to figure out. There 
 are few, if any, areas that will leave an experienced gamer frustrated for long. But this is almost 
 a shame, as any excuse to spend more time wandering the spectacular levels would be welcome. Simply 
 put, Wheel of Time features the most staggeringly beautiful levels ever seen in a first-person 
 action game. Areas like the White Tower are exceptionally detailed with vaulted ceilings and realistic 
 architecture highlighted by very elaborate textures. Even the outdoor levels are well designed 
 and realistic, though it's the indoor levels where the game looks best. The Unreal engine has never 
 looked so good.  

 Unfortunately, you'll need a Voodoo3 card to experience this splendor at its fullest. Even on a 
 high-end Nvidia TNT2 Ultra card, the game looked pitifully bad in Direct3D mode. OpenGL was not 
 much better and was far less stable. To make matters worse, the game chugs along painfully on most 
 non-3dfx systems. Granted, a very fast machine with a TNT2 Ultra or GeForce 256 card and the latest 
 GLSetup drivers would be sufficient - but the game will still look and run better with a Voodoo3. 
 Still, if you have the right hardware, it's tough to beat Wheel of Time for sheer graphical beauty. 

 It's also tough to beat the game's story, which is nearly as complex as a Jordan novel. Told through 
 a series of elaborately animated cutscenes, the story very effectively sets up each level in the 
 game. Though the 3D character models leave a lot to be desired, the dialogue is well-written and 
 informative, and the story does an excellent job of absorbing you into the adventure overall.  
 

 Even the way in which the single-player game builds up to its unique final challenge is intriguing 
 and well-executed. You are led almost directly into the game's multiplayer citadel mode, so by 
 the time you complete the single-player levels, you are almost fully prepared to tackle Wheel of 
 Time in multiplayer mode. Though the play modes are not tightly integrated, it is refreshing to 
 see the two tied together in light of the traditional arms-length distancing of single and multiplayer 
 modes in first-person shooters.  

 Multiplayer support in Wheel of Time is excellent and features two distinct play modes. The first 
 is basically a deathmatch. However, because of the ter'angreal, this deathmatch is more akin to 
 Hexen than to the Quake or Unreal games. The complex artifact inventory system may prove too distracting 
 for some players, while multiplayer Hexen fans will probably not be fazed at all.  

 Citadel, the game's other multiplayer mode, is very similar to capture the flag, except you can 
 fortify your fortress (or citadel) with traps and computer-controlled guards. This is the mode 
 that is likely to win Wheel of Time a sizeable online following. Placing traps and guards is challenging, 
 but it's also a lot of fun and very satisfying when it works properly. You'll get a warm, fuzzy 
 feeling whenever a would-be invader steps on a spear trap just as he's about to reach your seal. 

 Although there are a few glitches and apparent design flaws in Wheel of Time, none of them seriously 
 hurt the game. For example, on one level in which Elayna must defend a dungeon from numerous waves 
 of attack, no enemies showed up even after a 20-minute wait. Restarting the level fixed the problem. 
 Other minor annoyances include enemy archers that fire their arrows at the speed of light and hit 
 you easily even when you move out from behind cover for only a split second. Also, the game could 
 use a better mode for practicing the multiplayer citadel mode, as the existing tutorial rushes 
 you into and out of the action. Of course, you can learn the game through online experience, but 
 there are those who would rather get their bearings straight before venturing onto the servers. 

 None of these small concerns significantly distract from the overall experience. It is an extremely 
 solid action game built on an excellent story and dressed up with stunning graphics. Is it all 
 that the prerelease hype may have led you to believe? No. Because the gameplay is essentially that 
 of a pure shooter, there are certain to be some Robert Jordan fans who aren't completely pleased 
 with the action-packed take on the Wheel of Time universe. But having said that, it is very difficult 
 to dislike a game that delivers such an absorbing and exciting fantasy adventure.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 10:42 pm PT
Review:  For the non-reader of books, The Wheel of Time is based on Robert Jordan's best-selling series, 
 soon to be completed by his wife, and a new writer now that the legendary author has passed away. 
 The books originally started out as a trilogy, but grew into something far greater, like a hydra 
 when it loses a head, it just grows two more. Fans began to wonder if the series would ever finish, 
 with so many plot threads and main characters it got beyond insane.
  
  So it is with no surprise that a game eventually developed. There are even several films planned, 
 though I don't see how these could be any good, or pack everything into it.
  
  But the game to which this review pertains does a phenomenal job. Set in a time well before the 
 events in the series, you control an Aes Sedai, one of the women that can channel the One Power, 
 or magic if you prefer. Unfortunately, but rather elegantly, you can't channel more than a trickle, 
 so you rely heavily on ter'angreal, or magic artifacts, to allow you to cast specific spells.
 
  
  The game starts with an event whereby an assassin attempts to steal a cuendellar seal from the 
 White Tower, the base of operations so to speak for the Aes Sedai. The seals are part of a spell 
 created in ages past to trap the Dark One (the devil) in a hole in the fabric of reality. Naturally 
 you don't want these falling into the wrong hands, so you embark on a quest to stop the assassin. 
 This leads to a whole plethora of excellently designed levels and goals that test your mettle as 
 an Aes Sedai, and at a game that feels like runs much like a first-person shooter, but all your 
 arsenal is made up of spells.
  
  Controls are pretty simple, and customisable. Basically the only actions you have to worry about 
 are run, jump, strafe and spells, which are assigned to numbers on your keyboard. When you press 
 F2, you can see a nifty little description of the spell you have selected, complete with picture, 
 what One Power it is made of, and a quote from one of the books, describing the spell in question, 
 in Jordan's own words.
  
  There is a nice array of critters from Jordan's novels, including the meaty trollocs, shifty myrdraal, 
 whitecloaks, machin shin and mashadar. There's even a Forsaken thrown in the mix.
  
  Locales have a nice variety, ranging from bushland to the Ways, from Shadar Logoth to the Blight, 
 and even the White Tower under siege. While all the characters are chunky and blocky looking, which 
 can be a turn off, the environments are remarkable to behold, especially with a high resolution. 
 Shadar Logoth and the White Tower - even the Ways are incredible. There are even some fireworks 
 you can set off, just for something different! But to be fair, it may take you a while to get your 
 settings perfected. Advanced settings are also accessible, but quite often I found movies and music 
 not playing, or the game would shut down. Your best bet is to copy the music and movies directly 
 to your hard disk, and just experiment until you get something that works and you are satisfied 
 with.
  
  Speaking of music, you're going to be blown away. If ever there was a soundtrack that complemented 
 the books, the era, and the otherworldly-ness, then this game wins, hands-down. If they don't use 
 this soundtrack as a basis for music in the movies, I'll be royally chuffed. Mayhap you think I'm 
 exaggerating, but wait till you hear it yourself. It's immersive beyond anything I've heard from 
 a first-person game yet!
  
  That just about covers the basics. Even if you've never read the books, get this game. It'll absorb 
 you, make you want to read the books. And while gaming is a great pastime, so is reading. The in-game 
 introduction will help smooth your troubled brow if you're new to WoT, but if you aren't new to 
 it, chances are this game will put a smile on your dial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 9
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9
  Actual score: 8.6
  
  The Wheel of Time series captivated many peoples imagination spanning for almost two decades 
 until the saddened bereavement of its author Robert Jordan. Being known for its deep, comprehensive 
 and complete world, its hard not to take notice when the video game was announced back in 
 the late nineties that officially formed part of the Wheel of Time series. Using the latest and 
 arguably the most advanced gaming engine around (Unreal) and consulting the author for ideas, the 
 game was released at the worst possible time (Oct 1999) hence didnt get the praise as it 
 should and failed to seize newer fans to this wonderful series.
  
  Set one hundred and fifty years before the events of the first novel, you play the alter ego of 
 Elayna Sedai; the Keeper of the Chronicles of the White Tower. Being only a channeller means that 
 she relies on collecting and using Ter'Angreals (physical artefacts that loosely resembling spell 
 casting) she immediately has a disadvantage as the vast majority of other spell casters draw their 
 energy via the Dark One (which requires just simple conjuration without the use of 
 Ter'Angreals) . The opening intro displays that to control the Dark One requires four Cuendillar 
 Seals for which Elaynas leader The Amyrlin has two within the White Tower. 
 An unknown assassin breaks into the tower in search of these seals only to take away a horn-shaped 
 TerAngreal. Your quest then begins to search for the assassin to recover this horned-shaped 
 TerAngreal.
  
  To the Wheel of Time purists, the opening sequences of events doesnt truly 
 hold the actual concepts derived from the novels (e. g. the clothing they wore, the channelling 
 etc) however I feel this didnt really break any rules as firstly the setting 
 is after all one hundred and fifty years before the first novel and secondly, considering there 
 are two different mediums being used (video gaming Vs reading) there will be elements that any 
 novels will exhibit superiority (using the power of the persons imagination and able to 
 illustrate any invents in explicit details) yet will have a difficult time representing action 
 sequences whilst gaming is all about action and less storytelling. That said there 
 will be changes made to the game that will not hold true to the actual story but 
 certainly nothing to detriment the novelistic world.
  
  Considering Elayna always needs Ter'Angreals to channel spells, the ammo count will 
 be considerably limited as the vast majority of spells have a minute maximum count (e. g. fireballs 
 thirty five; healing ten etc) therefore places the player to be more thoughtful when disposing 
 the enemies which is a massive contrast to the ever popular  
 approach. There will be times that forward thinking is a must; e. g. should I cast swap places 
 with that white cloak saving running through the courtyard or simply save it for later or use the 
 trap detect in the chamber as it looks too empty. This is a huge step in game play 
 as tactical thought is equally important as using brute force.
  
  The AI faired well in The Wheel of Time. Youll encounter that the trollics (orc looking 
 humanoid) will double strafe when dodging (a. k. a. UT1999) or the White Cloak soldiers go on a massive 
 witch hunt after you and using their shields to block incoming projectiles. Others like the archers 
 will be a fair distant away shooting their arrows or the dreaded Black Ajah utilising their entire 
 spells with absolute precision.
  
  When the game was released in 1999, nine novels were published hence the world already richly detailed 
 right down to the blade of grass. Now considering the game is the visual version 
 of the world, it will be a daunting task to meet the requirements of the many fans as they already 
 have some sort of image what things suppose to look like. Naturally this will be no easy task however 
 the developers Legend Entertainment already had experience in using the most advanced gaming engine 
 for its time (Unreal) therefore The Wheel of Time looked as vibrant as ever. Everything from the 
 landscapes to the wall textures right down to the characters themselves is superbly crafted. Internally, 
 beautiful lighting effects reflecting onto majestic hallways decorated with 16th century paintings 
 bring immersion and the vast outdoor landscapes with mountainous backdrops, imposing waterfalls 
 or just looking down from the top of the colossal White Tower urges you just to sit and stare and 
 momentarily and forget about the mission. However at times there will be some clipping issues that 
 can deter the visual effects like peering through walls if viewing at a certain angle or enemies 
 swiping through closed doors.
  
  To compliment the spectacular visuals are the quality of sounds. Every aspect from everyday occurrences 
 (e. g. footsteps, fire crackling, squeaky doors to name a few) are very convincing and at times 
 can play tricks on you as it do sound like the real thing. The sounds from the spells are also 
 impressive indeed; e. g. when the victim is caught in the decay spell you can hear the crunching 
 of bones whilst the victim withers in pain or the reflective clang when using the 
 reflect spell. The voice acting is on par and very believable as you can at times feel the characters 
 emotions (e. g. betrayal, jealously, concerned etc) which certainly brings all of the cut-scenes 
 to life. Yet the only part that somehow is misplaced is the musical scores. Theyre all by 
 means perfectly composed with a mixture of folk infused with modern guitar rifts yet the scores 
 seems to be out-of-place for the game itself. If the scores eased down the modern 
 form of music and kept the traditional folk/string quartets then this will be a match made in heaven.
 
  
  Wheel of time is a lengthy game as far as a typical FPS goes. In the single player 
 storyline are in total thirteen chapters which can easily take an hour each. Add to this close 
 to sixty minutes of cinema-like cut-scenes youll have close to fifteen hours of game play 
 time. Yet the action doesnt stop there as once completing the single player the game there's 
 a comprehensive multiplayer option. In the multiplayer mode, there's death match game called Arena 
 where the players will be using the Ter'Angreals therefore places a new factor to that otherwise 
 shoot-everything-that-moves concept as you can have up to forty Ter'Angreals to choose from (if 
 they are all available of course) .
  
  Yet a new multiplayer mode called Citadel is the ala crme for online playing. To 
 win is to steal the seals from each of the two to four nominated citadels and place them on your 
 citadels alter. Yet the beauty of Citadel is that in the beginning you can 
 allocate traps and foes to your liking so each citadel will certainly not be the same. Go ahead 
 place a sliding step trap that ends to a spiked pit or place a wooden wall aligned with hidden 
 spikes to slow your enemies so you can say the defence is only as good as your imagination. Yet 
 dont despair about the learning curve as the single player storyline will introduce all 
 of the Ter'Angreals and foes and the last chapter is dedicated to playing the Citadel 
 campaign. You can say that the single player storyline is one big training module, preparing yourself 
 for online matches.
  
  The Wheel of Time is a comprehensive product to say the least. Living up to the standards of Robert 
 Jordans terrific fantasy world is no easy task. Thankfully Legend Entertainment had previous 
 experiences in using one of the most advanced gaming engine available, coupled with wonderful cut 
 scenes and voice acting will make you wonder why the poor sales. I feel the main reason for this 
 was the time of release, many gaming fans are blinded with the big announcements of Quake III, 
 Unreal Tournament, AoE 2, HL Opposing Force (and the list goes on) and unfortunately so (and ironically) 
 it was bad timing to release this game when it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Although I never read any of Robert Jordans novels, a former coworker was kind enough to synopsize 
 the Wheel of Time saga for me (at least from The Eye of the World up through A Crown of Swords, 
 which was far in the series as hed read at the time) as I weighed the benefits of buying this 
 title. Although my coworker did a very good job of selling Jordans stories of the Aes Sedai, Black 
 Sisterhood, and the One Power without making them sound like mere Tolkien fantasy retreads, my 
 decision was still hung up on one essential question: Though it looks like a first-person shooter, 
 does it really play like one? None of the screenshots I found here at GameSpot or the developers 
 site included a weapon of any sort visible at the bottom of the screen, an essential element (in 
 my mind) of an FPS. Notions of a Myst-like puzzle quest set in a fully-animated environment carried 
 their own appeal, but not for the purposes of the $30 that were burning a hole in my pocket. The 
 final decision essentially came down to a coin toss, and Im glad to report that the winning flip 
 landed Trolloc Tails-up. Later that evening, I was following a trail of dead gypsies to the remarkably 
 spooky ghost town of Shadar Logoth and enjoying every minute.
  The art design found in both the scenery and characters was especially interesting. Ruined sections 
 of the gameworld (like Shadar Logoth and the abandoned highway in The Ways) were suitably crumbly, 
 mossy, and littered with unidentifiable bones. The darkest elements of Dark Ages-style fantasy 
 were apparent everywhere: the Trollocs meal of spitted jester meat; the wailing cloud of spirits 
 that formed the Black Wind; the beastial meat-puppet that served as a corporeal headquarters for 
 the evil Legion. Even the polished and orderly Fortress of the Light conveyed a certain menace 
 that stemmed from the Whitecloaks penchant for sanctimonious persecution.
  
  Notable Feature: I really enjoyed playing through WoT on the Hard setting, where the TerAngreal 
 ammunition was very scarce and the enemies could withstand a bit more abuse. Careful resource 
 management was so much more essential that I often found myself facing off against two or three 
 Trollocs and a Myrddraal with little more than a handful of Darts and some Explosive Wardsprecisely 
 the kind of odds I like (You guys, I would tell my attackers as I readied my last Decay spell, 
 are gonna need more Trollocs.) .
  
  Favorite Weapon: Once all the fancy footwork and strategic spellcasting was over and done, a quick-and-agonizing 
 Balefire burst (the spiritual cousin to Quake 2s Railgun, another all-time favorite) really helped 
 to put those Black Ajahs in their place.
  
  Favorite Enemy: All of the above, and any that I didnt mention: the Trollocs required careful 
 aim and patience (the better to deal with their annoying side-step shuffle that was the extent 
 of their battle AI) ; the Myrddraal phased in and out of existence, confounding my seeker spells; 
 the Black Ajah Sisters were tough as bricks and capable of rotting my precious TerAngreal right 
 out of my hands. Pressed for only one favorite, Id say that the Minions that haunted Shadar Logoth 
  with their glowing eyes and teasing, squawking chuckle  were the most interesting creatures 
 in the game, even if they werent the toughest.
  
  Favorite Level: Spooky Shadar Logoth. The fact that it appeared toward the beginning of the game 
 was regrettable since some of the levels that followed were boring (read: not haunted) by comparison, 
 with the exception of The Ways.
  
  The Wheel of Time is entertaining as both a shoot-em-up and a fantasy quest. The joys and challenges 
 of the former are more than enough to inspire most FPS fans to relish Elaynas tale, with or without 
 the benefit of firsthand knowledge of Jordans novels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizra
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  It has got to be an awesome game. It is based in the universe Robert Jordan created. It can only 
 be described as indiscirbable. I am going to go buy it now and have fun playing it.  
 thirtynine, forty, fortyone, fortytwo, fortythree, fortyfour, fortyfive, fortysix, fortyseven, 
 fortyeight, fortynine, fifty. you are probably wondering what I am doing, reviews have to be at 
 least one hundred words so I am wasting space. seventythree, seventyfour, seventyfive, seventysix, 
 seventyseven, seventyeight, seventynine, eighty. Only a few more words to go. Oh I am pumped. ninetytwo, 
 ninetythree, ninetyfour, ninetyfive, ninetysix, ninetyseven, ninetyeight, ninetynine. Drum Roll 
 Plaease. one hundred. sweet I did it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
